CHAPTER I.

Take sound advice, proceeding from the heart
Sincerely yours, and free from fraudful art.

Dryden.

rPHE cathedral town of Bannerton was 
acted nearly in the centre of Coalshire.
On one side of the town, and stretching for
miles in that direction, nothing was to be seen
but scored earth, tall chimneys, huge, ungainly
buildings used as founders and manufactories,
and gaping pit-mouths surrounded by complicated
machinery ; while at night a constant
lurid glare pervaded the whole region. This
VOL. I. B

was the new side of the town, for not more
than twenty years had passed since coal had
been discovered in the immediate vicinity of
Bannerton, but that period had been amply
long enough to convert the peaceful, somewhat
sleepy cathedral city into one of the most bustling
manufacturing centres of England. But
the old, or cathedral side of the city had remained
in appearance very much as it was
before ; there was a curiously distinct line to be
perceived by the observant between the old
town and the new. Old Bannerton was a grey
old town with tiled roofs beautified with
weather-stains and lichens, while many of the
better class of the inhabitants lived in large
houses standing back from the street, and surrounded
by fine, old-fashioned gardens where
fruit and flowers grew in harmony together,
and the " bedding out " system was a thing, if
not absolutely unknown, still regarded as an
innovation, and as a weak following of the
fashions of the staring villas which had risen
with mushroom-like rapidity on the new side of
the town.

New Bannerton bad been run tip as required
with all the rapidity and the stereotyped ugliness
of modern builders. Staring rows of redbrick
houses presented a marked contrast to
the dark grey stone of the old town, and the
pretentious villas, whether single or semi-detached,
were but poor substitutes for the
substantial and comfortable houses at which
the new-comers sneered as old-fashioned. Old
Bannerton, with its fine cathedral and two
churches, had known but little of dissent,
though one modest chapel had always existed.
In New Bannerton dissent was rampant, and
chapels of all sorts of denominations sprang up
in every direction.

The social division was to the full as strongly
accentuated as the material. The old inhabitants
were inclined to ignore the new, and to
regard such of their body as entered into social
relations with them as in some sort traitors to
their order. The new-comers, chiefly wealthy
manufacturers, laughed at the quiet, old-world
ways of the earlier inhabitants, but they were
secretly nettled at finding themselves quietly

b2

ostracised, and would have given a very great
deal to have been received by the cathedral and
county set. Barracks had been built when the
city began to assume such large proportions,
for an outbreak among some colliers on strike
had once required to be quelled by the military,
and ever after a cavalry regiment had been
quartered there. The officers formed an occasional
link between the old town and the new.
Some of them were sure to be acquainted with,
or to have introductions to, the county gentry
or the magnates of the Close, while they were
by no means disposed to decline the hospitality
eagerly offered by the rich inhabitants of the
fine new villas; and so, when they gave their
winter balls or their summer picnics, lawn-tennis
or strawberry-parties, the representatives
of the two divisions of Bannerton were sure to
meet on neutral ground.

The country on the cathedral side of Banner-ton
was as widely different from that on the
other side as were the two divisions of the town
from each other. The northern side belonged
almost entirely to the Earl of Beechmont, who,

being already very rich, was, strange to relate,
by no means anxious to become richer, and
turned a deaf ear to all the tempting proposals
to double his income by the royalties offered
for the privilege of working coal-mines on his
estate, while he equally refused to grant building
leases. His agent and his lawyers were in
despair ; it seemed to them little short of flying
in the face of a beneficent Providence to refuse
such magnificent offers as were being constantly
made to him ; more especially as the earl lived
almost entirely in London and at another seat,
Pinefield, in Firshire, and rarely, if ever, visited
his Coalshire property of Beechmont. It could
not therefore signify to him, in an aesthetic
point of view, whether the northern side of
Bannerton became as scarred with coal-shafts
and as murky with smoke as was the southern,
and this was constantly represented to him by
his men of business ; but he stood firm, and his
advisers shook their heads and agreed that, on
this point at least, their ordinarily shrewd and
clear-headed employer was " quite daft."

Those who lived in the town thanked him

cordially. The northern portion of Coalshire
was exceedingly pretty, and it would, they
thought, have been a sad pity to shroud it in
smoke like the southern division. The river
Banner, a beautiful, silvery stream edged with
bulrushes and flags, and starred with water-lilies
above the town, became, below it, a dingy,
murky ditch, with banks of clay and slag, and
with dirty wharves, alongside which lay innumerable
coal-barges. Pursuing the course
of the river upwards, the scenery, at first somewhat
tame though very rich and fertile, became
more and more picturesque, till the fountainhead
was reached among the beautiful Rockshire
hills. About three miles above the town
the Banner flowed through the fine grounds of
Beechmont, which, when the family was away,
as was generally the case, were thrown open to
the townsfolk, under certain restrictions, on two
days in every week.

Just opposite the great gates, which were
situated about two miles from Bannerton, there
stood by the side of the road a small, grey,
stone house, known as the Gate House. From

the road its appearance was not very prepossessing.
The door opened on to the road,
as if the house had stood in a street, and the
lower windows were of frosted glass, to evade
the possible curiosity of the casual passers-by.
It looked as if it had been intended for the
residence of the Beechraont agent, and the
former occupant of that position had at one
time resided there; but the present agent had
a wife and daughter, who considered the Gate
House dull and too far from the society of
Bannerton ; he therefore occupied one of the
earl's houses in the old part of the town, and
the Gate House, after remaining empty for a
considerable time, was now let to a widow lady,
Mrs. Pleydell. Uninviting as the aspect of the
house might be on the side towards the road,
the scene was quite changed when, the square
hall with its oak well staircase passed, the visitor
issued through a short passage on to the terrace
on the other side. The house stood high
enough above the river to allow of three terraces,
from the lowest of which some fine turf
sloped gently to the stream. Fine shrubs dotted

the lawn, rhododendrons and azaleas grew
in profusion, and the walls of the house and
those between the terraces were so covered
with creepers that at no season of the year
were they absolutely devoid of beauty. The
view from the windows was pretty ; the garden
in the foreground, and then the winding of the
river among the Beechmont woods, with rich
meadows and fine trees, the whole backed by
the beautiful Rockshire hills. The interior of
the house was somewhat old-fashioned. 
windows were furnished with broad,
low seats, which formed such charming lounges
as almost to repay the inmates for the loss
of light consequent on the great thickness of
the walls ; and all the rooms were panelled and
ceiled with dark oak, which in the drawing and
dining-rooms w r as very elaborately carved,, the
chimney-pieces in particular being extremely
beautiful. Altogether the house seemed far too
good for an agent's residence, and it was always
said that it had been intended for the Dower
House of the Countesses of Beechmont, but
that, two or three of those ladies having preferred

the possession of the family mansion in
St. James's Square instead, the Gate House had
been diverted from its original purpose.

Its present occupant, Mrs. Pleydell, had been
twice a widow. The daughter of the Hon.
Terence O'Shane, a son of Lord Terence, she
had in her youth been a very great beauty.
She had been brought out very young in Dublin,
and had married there, when little more
than eighteen, Captain Netherleigh, who was
aide-de-camp to the Lord-lieutenant. The
marriage was vehemently opposed by the
families on both sides, for Captain Netherleigh's
fortune was small, and Miss O'Shane had none
whatsoever. But the young people were
obstinate, and at length a reluctant consent
was obtained, interest was used by which a
staff appointment in India was found for Captain
Netherleigh, and all the letters received
from the young couple proclaimed their excessive
happiness. But it did not last very long.
After about six years in India, Captain Nether-leigh
died of cholera, and his widow returned
to England with her only surviving child. Iris,

then about two years old. Captain Nether-leigh
had saved every shilling that was possible,
and had left everything to his wife, but her
means were still very narrow, and she did not
find herself enthusiastically welcomed either by
her own family or by his. Her father and
mother were dead, her two sisters, both younger
than herself, had married far from brilliantly,
and were too absorbed in their own difficulties
to think much of the sister they had almost
forgotten; and her brother, poor and with a
large family, dreaded lest she should apply to
him for assistance.

If the little Iris had been a boy, Mrs. Arthur
Xetherleigh would at once have found herself a
person of great importance in her husband's
family, as his elder brother had died only a few
weeks after him, and her son would have been
the heir. But her two boys had died in India,
the succession passed to the third brother,
Charles Netherleigh, and Mrs. Arthur found
herself uncared for by any of the family, excepting
an old aunt, her husband's godmother,
who took a fancy to the "poor, pretty young

thing, " and showed her unvarying kindness.


It was while paying a visit to old Miss
Rachel Netherleigh at Warwick, that Mrs. Arthur
Netherleigh made acquaintance with Mr.
Pleydell. He was a quiet, elderly man, of very
retiring manners, the sleeping partner in a
large business house, and reputed to be very
well off. He was at once attracted by the
pretty young widow, and when, with many
tears at having to give him pain, she told him
that she could never love again, he went boldly
to Miss Rachel and implored her to plead his
cause. Under ordinary circumstances the old
lady's class prejudices, which were excessively
strong, would have caused her to disapprove
vehemently of the union of anyone connected
with the Netherleighs with a man in trade. But
she rather* liked Mr. Pleydell ; he was quiet
and gentlemanlike, and always deferential to
her. Then "poor little Grace," as she called
her niece, was evidently a gentle, helpless creature,
who required to be taken care of and
petted, and not left to make her own way in

the world on slender means ; it would be an
excellent thing for her to many this steady,
respectable man, who could make her so comfortable.
So she graciously promised Mr. Pleyel
her assistance, and between the two Mrs.
Arthur's resistance was overcome, and she at
length gave a somewhat reluctant consent;
stipulating that Mr. Pleydell must distinctly
understand that, though she respected and liked
him extremely, she had really no love to give.
He replied that he perfectly understood her, that
he was quite satisfied, and that he would trust
to time to produce a warmer feeling.

At the first announcement of the engagement
the Netherleigh family rose in arms, and addressed
some very impertinent remonstrances
to Mrs. Arthur. Miss Eachel, who had regarded
her niece as a pretty, soft, yielding creature,
incapable of taking care of herself, was astonished
and delighted at the spirit which she displayed.


I really do not see," said Grace, as she read
-one of Lady Netherleigh's angry letters, in which
she was peremptorily bidden to cancel her

iC deplorable engagement, which would disgrace
the whole family." " I do not see that I owe
any allegiance to the Netherleighs, excepting
to you, dear Aunt Rachel. When I came home
sad and lonely they took no notice of me, they
never asked me to Netherleigh, though they
might have guessed how I should have liked to
see the home of which my darling Arthur was
so fond; and though they did ask me to
luncheon once in London, Lady Netherleigh
never came to see me, though you would have-thought
Arthur's mother would have cared to
see his child."

-' Lady Netherleigh never cared for anyone
but herself," said her sister-in-law r .

And now, when some one has learnt to care
for me, is anxious to make me happy, and shield
me and my child from care, these people w r ho
have never cared to see or be kind to me, even
for my darling Arthur's sake, write to command
me to reject what is offered me. Aunt Rachel,
you do not think I am bound to obey V"

Obey ! My dear Grace, if you thought of
doing so I  you would not be the woman I

take you for. Go your own way, dear, make a
worthy man happy, as you cannot fail to do,
and forget that Lady Netherleigh exists. The
world is wide enough for you both, and your
paths need never clash."

Grace took Miss Netherleigh's advice. She
wrote firmly but very respectfully to Lady
Netherleigh,, announcing her adherence to her
intention of marrying Mr. Pleydell so soon as
two years should have elapsed since her husband's
death. To this epistle no reply was
vouchsafed, but Lady Netherleigh wrote very
violently to Miss Rachel, wondering how she
could encourage anything so scandalous, so
derogatory to the family dignity, and saying
that of course Mrs. Arthur must clearly understand
that, if she persisted in her intention, the
family could take no further notice of her  she
must expect to be dropped entirely.

"I should have thought one must have been
taken up before one could be dropped' said
Grace, when she read the letter; and Aunt
Rachel was so delighted with the idea that she
could not resist repeating it in her answer to

her sister-in-law, thereby greatly inflaming
Lady Netherleigh's wrath. To be disobeyed
was bad enough, for a Netherleigh to become
the step-daughter of a " tradesman " (as she
chose to call Mr. Pleydell) was worse, but that
the threat of being dropped and ever hereafter
ignored should be received with calmness, nay,
even with mirth, was absolutely intolerable.
After that sentence in Aunt Rachel's letter had
been read, there was no hope of Mrs. Arthur
Netherleigh's being ever forgiven by her
mother-in-law.

After the expiration of her two years of
widowhood, Mrs. Arthur Netherleigh was quietly
married to Mr. Pleydell from Aunt Rachel's
little house at Warwick, and, after a wedding
tour in Switzerland, during which Iris, then a
child of four, was left with her great aunt, they
settled in Mr. Pley dell's house in Eaton Place.
Though she could not feel for him the love
which she had lavished on her first husband,
and which no woman can experience more than
once, Grace soon grew extremely attached to
Mr. Pleydell. If she had not she would indeed

have been hard to please, for he absolutely
worshipped lev, and was almost as fond of Iris
as of the child born the year after their marriage
and christened Eve. Year after year passed
without a cloud, until one evening, when they
had been married about seven years, Mr. Pleyel
returned home just before dinner in a
manifest state of perturbation. Miss Rachel
Netherleigh and his youngest brother Ralph
Pleydell dined with them that night, and during
the meal he rarely spoke and ate absolutely
nothing, though his wife observed that he
drank considerably more wine than usual.

As soon as the servants had left the room he
turned to his wife.

Grace, listen to me, and do not forget what
I am about to say. If I live it is my fixed intention
to withdraw my whole fortune from the
business and to invest it in the funds. In my
will I have left every shilling I possess to you.
If I die before I have time to do this, I lay my
commands upon you to carry out my wishes.
Do you understand ?"

But, my dear Henry, why "

"Never mind why," in an excited manner
very unusual with him; "promise to do as I
say."

Yes, yes, Henry, of course I will."

"I have made you my executor," continued
Mr. Pleydell, turning to his brother, and speaking
rapidly and in a curiously thick, indistinct
voice. " You have heard what I have said to
Grace, remember that my wishes are carried
out."

Of course, of course, Henry, but, bless me r
why "

"Never mind, I tell you !" still more excitedly.
" Miss Pleydell, I beg pardon for speaking*
about business before you, but you are a witness
to what I have said."

"Certainly, Mr. Pleydell; I am sure everyone
will be anxious to carry out your wishes. But
you seem tired to-night ; don't you think you
ought to rest !"

"Yes, Henry," said his wife, rising and going
round to him ; " I am sure you are not well.
Do come upstairs and lie on the sofa."

Dear Grace, dearest wife !" he said, in a

VOL. I. C

&

curiously muffled, far-off-soundiug voice, putting
his hand lovingly on her arm; and then,
striving to rise, he fell back in his chair stricken
by paralysis. Medical aid was immediately
summoned, but it was of no avail ; Mr. Pleydell
lingered for only two days, and died without
recovering the power of speech. The doctors
pronounced him to be perfectly unconscious,
but this his wife did not believe : she was sure
he knew quite well when she was beside him,
and never left his side till all was over.

When, after the funeral, business matters
came to be discussed, Mr. William Pleydell, the
head of the firm, was furious at the bare suggestion
of the money belonging to his late
brother being withdrawn from the business. It
was fortunate for the widow that her husband's
instructions had not been confided to her alone,
or she might have been overpowered and have
experienced considerable difficulty in obeying
them. Even as it was it gave her great
pain ; she wished very cordially that her husband
had not laid his commands upon her, but,
having promised, she felt that she was powerless;

his wishes must be carried out. Aunt
Rachel was privately very thankful. In her
secret heart she believed that, on the day of his
seizure, Mr. Pleydell had made some discovery
respecting his brother's mode of conducting
business, and that this had led to the excitement
which caused his death. It was dishonesty,
or at any rate sharp practice that she
suspected rather than impending bankruptcy.
If that had been what he feared, and it had
proceeded from misfortune and not from fraud,
his first thought would not have been to save
his own fortune, but to save the firm. However,
she kept these thoughts to herself, and only
used her influence to prevent Grace feeling too
unhappy at her brother-in-law's annoyance.

Finding that remonstrance was of no avail,
Mr. William Pleydell at length submitted with
a bad grace. His lawyer carried out the arrangements,
and Miss Netherleigh always suspected
that that fact, and Ralph Pleydell's
ignorance of business matters, accounted for
Mr. Pleydell's fortune being so much less than
she had supposed it to be. However, all seemed

right; Mrs. Pleydell was very well off, and
Aunt Each el did not consider it her duty to
arouse any suspicions in her mind.

After her affairs were settled, Mrs. Pleydell
determined to sell the house in Eaton Place,
and live in the country  at any rate, for the
present. She had fairly well enjoyed London
life, and had entered a great deal into society,
but she felt that, even when her period of
mourning was over, going out alone would be
very different from what she had hitherto enjoyed.
Besides, Iris, who was now eleven, and tall of
her age, was somewhat delicate, and country
air would be good for her. So Mrs. Pleydell
decided on removal, and after many expeditions
to see country houses that appeared charming
in advertisements, and proved odious on inspection,
finally took a lease of the Gate House for
seven, fourteen, or twenty-one years. She did
all she could to persuade Aunt Rachel to come
and live with her, but Miss Netherleigh would
not hear of it.

No, my dear," she said ; " every woman
should be the mistress of her own house. If I

lived with you, I am so used to managing, and
you are so yielding, that it would be virtually
my house, and not yours, and that would be
bad both for you and the children. But the
lease of my cottage near Warwick expires next
year, and then, if you like, I will establish myself
near you in Bannerton. There are some
nice old-fashioned houses near the Close that
would suit me very well."

The old red brick house in Bannerton soon
became quite a feature in the society of the
place. Miss Netherleigh was a clever woman
and had seen a great deal of the world ; she
was not only a good talker herself, bat had the
still rarer gift of making others show themselves
at their best. All the dignitaries of the Close
held her in high esteem, and her Thursday
afternoons were pleasant objects for a drive for
many of the county neighbours.

But the person to whom the quaint house
was dearest was Miss Rachel's great-niece, Iris
Netherleigh. She loved her aunt very tenderly,
and knew by heart the history connected
with every one of her treasures, from the beautiful

old Chelsea figures and Plymouth dishes
to the Indian curiosities sent home by Arthur
Netherleigh on his first visit to India. Iris was
a quiet, thoughtful child, older than her age,
and in her way quite a companion to Miss
Rachel, who delighted in a visit from her.

Her half-sister, Eve, was very different from
Iris  a giddy, merry little fairy, who shirked
her lessons, got into every description of mischief,
and was as disobedient as she dared to
be. But Eve was not a permanent inmate of
the Gate House. When she was about ten
years old, Mr. and Mrs. William Pleydell lost
their little girl, who was to a day the same age.
It was Mrs. William Pleydell's only child  Mr.
Pleydell had a son by a former marriage  and
the loss so affected her health that her husband
wrote an urgent appeal to his sister-in-law,
imploring her to let Eve come to them, if only
for a short time. It was very seldom indeed
that Mrs. Pleydell acted contrary to Aunt
Rachel's advice, but on this occasion she did
so. She had always regretted that the necessity
of obeying her husband's last wishes had

obliged her to do what had evidently been extremely
distasteful to her brother-in-law, and
she hailed with satisfaction the opportunity of
doing anything to show her good will. Not an
idea of Miss Netherleigh's suspicions had ever
entered her rind ; she always saw the best
side of everyone's character, and liked both Mr.
and Mrs. Pleydell. Besides, the loss of an only
child appeared to her a misfortune of so appalling
a nature that she was eager to do anything
that might in however slight a manner alleviate
it.

"And you really mean to let the child go?"
asked Miss Netherleigh.

Indeed, Aunt Rachel, I do not see how I
could refuse."

Well, I should. You ought to think of the
child first, and she will be ruined there, spoilt
and indulged, and allowed to be as disobedient
as ever she pleases."

Dear Aunt Rachel, I assure you poor little
Maud was a very good child, and kept in excellent
order."

Then she was of a different disposition from

Eve. Now if it Lad been Iris, it would not behalf
so bad."

But, Aunt Rachel, after all, it is only a
visit. Surely no such very great harm will be
done in so short a time. Besides, how could I
refuse ? In the face of such a terrible misfortune,
surely one must sacrifice one's own feelings,
and deny oneself a little."

"Well, well, my dear, it sounds plausible,
but all the same I don't like it. 1 don't think
it is wise."

Mrs. Pleydell was much discomposed by Aunt
Rachel's utterances. She was so accustomed to
consult her in all things and to defer to her
judgment, that she felt ill at ease in thus acting
diametrically against her advice. Still she
could not bring herself to refuse, and took Eve,
who was enchanted at the idea of paying a
visit, to London two days after the request had
been made.

She had supposed that the child would return
in about a fortnight, but time passed, and still
Mrs. Pleydell begged to keep her a little longer.
She was ordered to the South of France for the

winter, and declared she could not go without
Eve. Her husband could only take her out and
must then return to his business ; she could not
spend the winter entirely alone. Mrs. Pleydell
consented not unwillingly ; Eve was subject to
severe colds in the winter, and doubtless a
warmer climate might prove beneficial. But
when the travellers returned, Mrs. William
Pleydell still declared it to be impossible to
part with Eve, and. after considerable hesitation,
the mother, rather against her better judgment
and in spite of Aunt Rachel's vehement
disapprobation, consented to allow the girl to
be adopted by her uncle and aunt.

At the time when this story commences Eve
had been for eight years in Hyde Park Gardens,,
and was a little more than eighteen, while
Iris, who had remained quietly at the Gate
House, was just twenty-two.

CHAPTER II.

In spite of all the fools that pride has made,

Tis not on man a useless burden laid ;

Pride has ennobled some, and some disgrac'd,

It hurts not in itself, but as 'tis plac'd ;

When right, its views know none but virtue's bound,

When wrong, it scarcely looks one inch around.

Stillingfleet.

TT was a very lovely morning late in May, and
* the garden of the Gate House was in extreme
beauty. Masses of rhododendrons, red,
lilac, and white, were in full flower, while among
them yellow and rich scarlet and orange
azaleas, with here and there a delicate, forces
kalmia, bloomed in profusion. The
terrace walls were richly garlanded with wistaria,
through the graceful lilac trails of which

peered a profusion of early roses. The delicate
green of the as yet not fully foliaged beeches
in the Beechmont woods, the vivid verdure of
the water meadows on the opposite side of the
river, with the red and white cattle standing
knee deep in the lush grass, the grey spire of
Baunerton Cathedral to the left of the landscape,
and the exquisite outlines of the blue Rockshire
hills in the far distance, made up a picture of
uncommon beauty. So Iris Netherleigh seemed
to think, for she paused in her flower-gathering
and leant on the balustrade of the lower
terrace, absorbed in admiration of the view
before her.

Iris, who had just celebrated her twenty-second
birthday, was a very beautiful girl.
She was tall, and had a magnificent figure, an
hereditary gift, as her Aunt Rachel always
informed her, in the Netherleigh family,  indeed
the old lady had every trace of having possessed
that distinction herself. A beautifully clear and
delicate complexion, a slightly aquiline nose,
an exquisitely sensitive mouth, and large, grey
eyes, combined to make Iris Netherleigh's face

one not easily to be forgotten. Her hair was
of a rich golden bronze, rippling back from the
broad, low brow which was unbidden by the
slightest fringe, and forming long, thick loops
at the back. Iris had an artist's eye, and knew
better than to hide the beauty of her smooth,
white brow.

She was rather a grave and stately damsel :
some of the young people in the neighbourhood
called her dull and stupid, but no such complaint
was ever made of Iris by anyone who
knew her well and had the capacity for appreciating
really intelligent conversation. For
inane jokes and silly "chaff" she had little
taste, and perhaps she sometimes showed her
disinclination a little too plainly. So at least
her mother thought, for Mrs. Pleydell was
essentially a gentle, yielding woman, and would
submit patiently to be bored for an hour rather
than make a movement that might suggest to
her tormentor that she was weary. Her love
for Iris was intense : she seemed to have concentrated
upon her all the devotion she had
felt for her first husband. But her love, deep

as it was, did not render her blind, perhaps, indeed,
it rather quickened her perception of the
girl's faults, and she knew well that the defect
in Iris's character was pride. She was gentle,
sweet-tempered, sunny, and unselfish, but she
was defiantly proud, and Mrs. Netherleigh
sighed over the fault she had vainly striven to
eradicate, and felt a sad presentiment that it
would mar her child's life. Aunt Rachel did
not agree with her: she regarded pride as part
of her niece's proper inheritance as a Nether-leigh,
and rather laughed at her sister-in-law's
concern.

At any rate, Grace, it is a fault on the right
side," she would say : " and I am sure in these
days it has the advantage of rarity. I do not
see much of it in any of the girls who come to
my house. It really often seems to me that
they are so anxious to attract the young
men, that they would be ready and willing topick
up their gloves for them ! I've no patience
with the manners of the day ! Give me Iris'
pride in preference ; it's always a safeguard for

Mrs. Netherleigk never argued, it was not in
her line, and besides she knew and respected
Miss Rachel's prejudices, but none the less did
she deplore what she considered her daughter's
one fault, and strive to overcome it. Iris struggled
herself, but it was against the grain ; pride
was so integral a part of her character, that it
might almost be said to be against her own judgment,
and merely in deference to her mother's
wishes, that she strove at all.

She was a very fair object to gaze on as she
leant on the 'grey balustrade with the basket
of gorgeous azalea blossoms lying beside her,
and the soft south-west breeze stirring the thick
rippling masses of her hair beneath her rustic
hat. Her eyes were fixed on the scene before
her, but it was evident that her thoughts were
far away. She was somewhat inclined to indulge
in day-dreams, and while building her
castles in the air was quite oblivious of where
she was.

She started at the sound of her mother's
voice calling her to breakfast, and ran hastily
up the steps, preceded by her beautiful little

Skye terrier Fuss, who danced before her, barking
and twirling with delight.

u You have been dreaming again, Iris," said
her mother, as she kissed her : " surely those
flowers were meant for the breakfast table f"

u They were," confessed Iris, sitting down and
beginning to pour out the coffee, " but, oh !
mother, it is such a heavenly morning, I am
sure even you might dream to-day."

Instead of which I must go into Bannerton
for the practical purpose of some household
shopping. I have ordered the pony carriage
at eleven, you shall drive me in."

Iris had arranged in her own mind that she
would spend the day in the Beechmont woods,
which were her favourite haunt in summer
weather. She loved to sit on the gnarled roots
of some giant beech, and look through the
aisles of straight stems and overhanging boughs
up to the Rockshire hills, dreaming the time
away to the accompaniment of the rippling of
the river and slumberous hum of the insects.
But at the intimation that her mother wanted
her, she silently gave up her project ; she was

always ready cheerfully to sacrifice her own
wishes to those of others.

The post is very late," she remarked, presently
: "it seems longer than usual since Eve
wrote'"

I don't fancy we shall hear to-day," said her
mother. "Mrs. William Pleydell's ball, you
know, was to be the night before last, and Eve
w 7 ould be too tired to write yesterday,"

' I don't think balls tire her, she enjoys them
too much."

ei But at home of course there is more fatigue.
Ah !" as the servant entered the room with the
letters, " there is one from Eve, and one from
Mrs. William too. This is more than I could
have expected."

Mrs. Pleydell opened her daughter's letter. It
was very short and she looked up in bewilderment.


What can the child mean l ? Listen, Iris :

' Darling Mummy,  Isn't this smash dreadful
and a horrid bore, just too at the beginning
of such a good season. Tom brings me down

and we shall be at Barmerton at 5.17.  Your
own Eve.' "

Smash ! what can it be !" said Iris.

u It must be something about the business,
perhaps this will tell us ;" and Mrs. Pleydell
hastily opened her sister-in-law's letter.

It was very incoherent, filled with exclamations
of self-commiseration, of anger against
her husband for " leaving her in such a desperate
position," of regret at being forced to part
with Eve, and sorrow that the latter would not
now have a chance of " following up her conquest,"
ending with a bitter observation, " of
course the issue shows how wise your husband
was in insisting on your withdrawing the
money, though it was that which was the beginning
of the trouble."

After reading the letter through several
times it became at length tolerably clear that
Mr. Pleydell had failed, and that he had disappeared
while his wife's ball was in progress.

How very shocking !" exclaimed Mrs. Pleyel,
u and you see, Iris, she says that the

VOL. I. D

withdrawal of ray money was the beginning of
their misfortunes ! I must go up to London to
see what can be done ! I would go to-day, if
Eve were not coming, but I can go tomorrow."

"Is it not very strange that Mr. Pleydell
should have gone away like that ?" said Tris.

I confess I don't understand it, dear, but
then I am not clever about such things. I
daresay he had very good reasons, or he would
never have left his wife alone, poor thing !
Perhaps Tom Pleydell will be able to enlighten
us when he comes."

So occupied had mother and daughter been
with their letters that they had never thought
of the papers, and drove into Bannerton without
even glancing at the Times. Even the
sight of "Failure in the City, Flight of the
Bankrupt," which stared them in the face in
huge letters in the news-sheets at the principal
stationer's door, failed to connect itself in their
minds with what they had that morning heard.
It was not till, their shopping over, they reached
Miss Rachel Nether eights drawing-room, that
they were enlightened.

Grace, I am surprised to see you ! I thought
you would of course be half-way to London to
fetch Eve."

Eve comes down this afternoon with Tom
Pleydell. But, Aunt Rachel, how do you know
anything about it ?"

Know anything ! My dear Grace, the Times
is full of it  two or three accounts and a leading
article. I always thought it was a suspicion
that something he did not think quite honest
was going on that made your husband so
determined to withdraw his money, and it
seems I was right."

Aunt Rachel, you never told me !"
Because I had no certainty, Grace, and
without it I had no right to make you suspicious
of your husband's relatives. Sit down
now and tell me what you have heard, and read
the paper."

Mrs. William Pleydell's letter elicited no
comment from Miss Netherleigh but an emphatic
" Umph ! " Over Eve's she muttered
half to herself, " Heartless little puss !"

Meanwhile Mrs. Pleydell was studying the

D2

Times, but it required some explanation from
Aunt Rachel before she quite comprehended
-what had occurred. The account began with a
short sketch of the rise of the house of Pleydell
Brothers, than which it was said none at one
time was more highly respected. Then the
elder brother withdrew from the business, and
became a mere sleeping partner, and from that
time Mr. William Pleydell, left uncontrolled,
had, in his haste to grow rich, not only embarked
in hazardous speculations, but had also
taken to courses not usually adopted by honourable
business men. It was the discovery of
this that had made the elder brother withdraw
his money from the concern, and the shock was
so terrible to him as to cause his death. The
youngest brother dying not long after, Mr.
William Pleydell was left as the sole representative
of the firm, and continued his dangerous
game uncontrolled. The result was a failure
of a most disastrous kind, the more so as some
very valuable securities were missing, and it
was found that a large sum had been settled
on his wife at the time of their marriage, as

well as the house in Hyde Park Gardens, and
was therefore unavailable for the creditors, who
it was greatly feared would get little more
than five shillings in the pound. Moreover, the
magnificent diamonds for which Mrs. William
Pleydell was famous, and which she was wearing
at her ball on the night of her husband's
flight, were, on being seized the next morning,
found to be only accurate copies in paste of the
real jewels, which it was strongly suspected
Mr. Pleydell had taken with him. His flight
had been most artistically managed, for he had
absolutely been present early in the evening at
the ball in Hyde Park Gardens, and hitherto it
had not been ascertained in which direction he
had gone. The police, however, were believed
to have a clue.

"How very shocking!" said Mrs. Pleydell,
looking up when she had come to the end.
Poor Mrs. William, I shall go up tomorrow
and see what I can do for her."

"My dear Grace, stay at home and do nothing
of the kind. For heaven's sake don t go
and mix yourself up with the matter."

But, Aunt Rachel, she will want help 
money, T mean. I cannot do very much, but it
will be of some use; and don't you see in her
letter she says it was the withdrawal of my
money that was the beginning of their misfortunes.
I must help."

"Now, Grace, be reasonable. You have just
read that it was in consequence of ivhat lie found
to be going on which he considered wrong that
your husband, who was one of the most strictly
honourable men 1 ever met, charged you to
withdraw the money. The mischief and the
wild speculation had begun then, and Mr
William Pleydell would have been equally
ruined if he had had the opportunity of losing
your money as well as his own. Then as to
his wife requiring help : do you not see that a
large sum of money and the London house are
settled upon her? She will be very well
off."

"Aunt Rachel, you don't mean to say you
think for one moment she will keep it! She
could not. Of course she will give it all up to
the creditors."

I doubt it, Grace. If she does, I will not
say a word against your helping her ; but you
will hear soon enough. Don't rush up to
London into business that would be very disagreeable
to you, and that you wouldn't in the
least understand."

"It seems so cold and unfeeling to stay
quietly here and only write," said Mrs. Pleydell.
It is wiser ; and really, Grace, you should
think of your daughters. Does it not strike
you what a very disgraceful business it is ? And
that as Mrs. William Pleydell is certainly not in
want, and is evidently w T ell able to take care of
herself, you had much better have as little todo
with her as possible for the future !"

I was going to ask her to come to us for a
little."

Then don't do anything of the sort."
But she has been so good to Eve."
She wanted Eve for her own pleasure."
"Isn't it rather hard to say that, Aunt
Rachel r

"It sounds hard to you, my dear Grace, because
you are so amiable yourself that the idea

of self-seeking never occurs to you, and you
cannot realize that it does to other people.
What was the plea used to persuade you to let
Eve stay with her aunt ? Nothing for the good
of the child, but merely that Mrs. William
couldn't live without her,' or c would droop and
die if Eve was taken away,' or nonsense of that
kind."

You see she felt her only child's death so
terribly, and Eve was just the same age."

Other people lose only children, and have
to bear it as best they may. I see, Grace, you
think me very hard, but indeed I am not. I
only want you to see matters clearly and not
sentimentally, and to realize that it is Mrs.
William Pleydell who is under a debt of obligation
as regards Eve, not you. You have waived
your claim to your own child for eight years to
soothe her morbid feelings; she has naturally
enough been kind, and I should fear far too
indulgent to the toy you generously provided
for her. It is not difficult to see the balance of
the scale of obligation "

Not as you put it, Aunt Rachel."

"As I put it! Now, Grace, is it not the
simple fact?"

Yes, yes, it is," said Mrs. Pleydell, hurriedly ;
but still she has loved my child and been kind
to her, I cannot strike what you call a strict
balance between us. There is only one good
thing in this sorrow, I shall have my Eve
back."

I am afraid she will be very sorry to come."

Dear child, it is natural at her age that she
should regret all the gaiety and pleasure. We
must try and not let her find the Gate House
very dull just at first."

It is no worse for her than for Iris."

M Ah ! but then Iris has lived there so long,"
and the mother turned to look lovingly at her
beautiful daughter. ' ; You know I have often
wanted to take Iris to London, but she has
always begged to put it off."

We are so happy as we are," said Iris.

Well, at any rate, you need not think of it
this year' said Miss Netherleigh. " With this
disgraceful business, a nine days' wonder, it
would hardly be pleasant for you. Now, Grace,

you have quite abandoned your project of rushing
up to London tomorrow?"

Yes, as you think it best, Aunt Rachel."
But Mrs. Pleydell reserved to herself the
power of writing, and a most warmly sympathetic
letter was indited as soon as she returned
home. She said nothing of her certainty
that her sister-in-law would at once renounce
the provision made for her ; this seemed to
her a simple matter of course, and she wondered
how Miss Netherleigh could for a moment have
doubted that it would be done. She offered help
in the most generous manner, stating how much
she could do, and offering it in a way that left
no possible doubt of her sincerity.

While she was writing Iris had been busy upstairs
seeing that everything was in readiness
for Eve's arrival. She tried to feel glad that
her little sister was coming home, to tell herself
how pleased their mother would be to have her
back again. But Iris, who was essentially
candid-minded, could not persuade herself that
it was to herself a source of rejoicing. She
and her mother had been so happy and comfortable

together, knew each other so well, and
suited so perfectly, that it was difficult to her
to believe that any change would not be for the
worse. But the thought had hardly arisen
before she reproached herself for it. How
shocking that she should, even for a moment,
regret the return home of her own sister, which
would naturally give her mother so much
pleasure ! And, followed by Fuss, Iris ran
down to the garden to gather flowers for the
embellishment of Eve's room.

The two girls had seen very little of each
other. Mrs. William Pleydell had always
some excellent reason for not being able to
spare Eve whenever her sister-in-law wanted
her, really fearing that if she went to stay at
the Gate House, her mother would never again
be able to reconcile herself to a separation.
Mrs. Pleydell's visits to London had been few
and far between, and until Iris grew up she had
generally paid them alone. When the girl
came out she had intended taking a house in
London, and introducing her into society, but
this Iris had hitherto successfully resisted. Her

chief reason was that she knew her mother
would cordially dislike it.

With her husband to support her, Mrs. Pleyel
had enjoyed London society very much,
and had entered into it freely, but she was
rather a nervous, timid woman, and dreaded
taking any step for herself; and the years that
she had spent at the Gate House, only mixing
in the county society, which was of course
limited, had rendered her shyer and less inclined
for social exertion than had formerly
been the case. But, besides her dislike to the
idea of her mother being distressed by doing
anything irksome to her for her sake, Ins had
a private reason for objecting to undergo the
ordeal of a London season. She loved society,
was exceedingly fond of dancing, was generally
popular in any society she entered, but she
had read foolish allusions to the London season
as " the great marriage market," and sneers
at the " husband-hunting mothers and daughters
of Belgravia," and her pride made her feel
that she would rather do anything than expose
herself to be classed in the same category.

She hardly knew enough of the world to understand
what nonsense the clap-trap articles she
had read really were, or to realize that the
deprecated pursuits were as energetically carried
on in the country as in town, if not, indeed,
more so ; but her imagination had been struck
and her pride roused, and she steadfastly resisted
all proposals of a London season, thereby
incurring her Aunt Rachel's considerable displeasure.


Perhaps, although Iris herself was really
unaware of it, and would have been vehemently
and honestly indignant if the idea had been
suggested to her, the fact that young Mr.
Furnivall of Rookwood particularly disliked
London, and was always in the country during
the summer, had more to do with her contentment
at the Gate House than it would at all
have suited her pride to allow. To the best of
her belief, Iris's heart was as yet in her own
keeping, but she could hardly be unaware that
Laurence Carnival paid her infinitely more attention
than he did any other young lady in
the neighbourhood, and she allowed to herself

that he was very pleasant, and that she liked
him better than anyone she had ever seen.

Now, as she moved about the garden gathering
sprays of azalea and kalmia for Eve's room,
the thought of what Aunt Rachel had said
respecting the disgrace attendant on Mr. William
Pley dell's bankruptcy and flight began to occur
to Iris. Was it possible, as her aunt had half
hinted, that some of the odium might fall on
her darling mother, owing to her having, unfortunately,
the same name ? It seemed too
hard, too unjust; and yet Iris had an immense
respect for Aunt Rachel's worldly wisdom, and
knew that she was not a person to speak
unadvisedly. Could it be that they should be
looked down upon for their connection with the
culprit? and Iris held up her head defiantly,
and her colour rose as she thought what a hard
thing it was for a Netherleigh to bear ! But
even if there were so unjust a feeling at first,
it surely must soon die away. Why, even the
Times had borne testimony to the fact that her
mother's husband had been most honourable
and straightforward, and that it was entirely

owing to his disapproval of his brother's proceedings
that he had withdrawn his money
from the firm. Oh ! yes, of course everyone
must "understand it. Still she wished her mother's
name were not Pleydell ; and, her flowers
being gathered, Iris went indoors.

I almost wish now I had gone to meet her,"
said Mrs. Pleydell, as she came in.

Mrs. Pleydell was rather inclined to wish she
had done things when the time was past.

You did quite enough this morning, mamma,
and nothing can happen to Eve between
the station and this"'

Happen ! No. But it might have seemed
kinder. They must soon be here now. Poor
Tom Pleydell ! This will be a sad blow for
him. ? '

Yes, I suppose so," said Iris, who at that
moment did not feel very cordially towards the
Pleydell family. " Do you think he will stay
long?"

Oh, no ! I should think he would go by
the first train tomorrow. There must be a
great deal of business to do. I wish Aunt

Eachel hadn't made such a point of my not
asking Mrs. William here. Somehow, when
I wrote, it seemed so cold and heartless not
to finish by asking her to come and stay as
long as was convenient to her, but I did not
like to go against Aunt Rachel. Ah ! Iris,,
there are wheels. Yes  it is stopping  it is
Eve."

CHAPTER III.

Unknit that threat'ning, unkind brow ;

It blots thy beauty, as frosts bite the meads.

Taming of the Shrew.  Act v., Sc. 2.

Before Mrs. Pleydell or Iris could reach
M the door, Eve came flying into the room
in a sort of whirlwind of kisses and exclamations.


Dear mummy, how nice to see you ! But
isn't it horrid to have to leave London I
There was to be such a lovely ball tonight
! It makes me cry to think of it."

iC We will try to amuse you here, my
pet."

"Ah! but it won't be the same thing;

VOL. I. E

nothing ever can. But Aunt Louisa says I
must try to bear it for a little while."

Then suddenly observing Fuss, who was sniffing
suspiciously round her, she exclaimed,

Oh, you must send away that dog ! He
will frighten Mousse."

Nonsense, my dear," said her mother, laughing.
" Fuss is a respected member of the family,
and not to be dismissed summarily. Who is
Mousse ? And where is he?"

I left him in the fly with Tom and Toinette.
He is my Maltese, and he can't bear
other dogs'"

He must learn to bear with Fuss."

"But he is such an ugly creature! Can't he
go to the stable, or Mousse will be miserable.
Where can Tom be that he does not bring him
in, or Toinette? She knows I am never happy
without him."

A diversion was made by the entrance of Mr.
Tom Pleydell with a little ball of white wool in
his arms representing Mousse, who was at once
seized upon by his mistress, rapturously hugged
and embraced, and assured that the nasty dog

shouldn't hurt him and should be sent away.
Whenever Fuss became visible Mousse snarled
violently, and when Iris attempted to pat him
-and make friends, snapped at her most determinedly.


Meanwhile Mrs. Pleydell was greeting her
nephew, for whom she felt the sincerest compassion.
It was not only that the whole course
of his life was changed, that from being the
only son of a wealthy and prosperous merchant
he was now almost penniless and would have to
begin life as he had never expected to have to do
in a subordinate position, but that he must feel
acutely the charges of dishonesty so freely
made against his father. It was plain indeed
that he was suffering : he looked hopelessly
depressed, very unlike the cheerful, perhaps
somewhat oppressively merry Tom Pleydell,
whom his aunt had been accustomed to see in
her visits to Hyde Park Gardens. She would
say nothing about business now, though she
felt she must have a long talk with him before
he left, which he said he must do early the
ensuing morning : she would have her talk with

e2

him alone, not before the girls; there might be
many things he would prefer saying to her
only.

Tom Pleydell was not a handsome man. He
was about six and twenty, not tall, but sturdy
and thick set, with black hair and a somewhat
swarthy skin. His eyes were black and piercing,
and his countenance was unprepossessing
until he smiled, when people almost wondered
that they had at first thought him plain, but
returned to their former opinion when the smile
departed. He took his part in the general talk
going on with evident effort, and had an air of
settled melancholy that went to his aunt's
heart.

For the moment, however, her thoughts were
rather occupied by Toinette, who turned out to
be Eve's maid, and was a somewhat embarrassing
importation. It had never occurred to Mrs.
Pleydell that her daughter would bring a maid
of her own, concluding that she had been attended
to by her aunt's maid, and no preparation
had consequently been made. It appeared
too on inquiry that Mademoiselle Toinette was

not easily satisfied ; being inconsolable at leaving
London she found fault with everything,
and absolutely refused to occupy the same
room as Rogers, Mrs. Pleydell's maid. Happily
Mrs. Pleydell was very decided in domestic
matters. She at once told the woman that her
services would be no longer required, that she
would pay her the next morning, and that if
she did not choose to occupy the room offered
her she could sit up all night, as no other would
be got ready.

The result was that, a few minutes after
they went up to dress for dinner, Eve came
flying into her mother's room.

"Mummy, mummy, say it isn't true! It
must be a mistake !"

What, my pet V

That you have given Toinette warning. 1
can't do without her ! She shan't go !"

'hush, Eve, you forget what you are
saying."

No, I don't. She is my maid. No one has
any right to send her away but me !"

Eve, my dear, go to your room. When you

think for a moment, you will be sorry for having-spoken
so improperly."

"Antoinette is the only person who ever
could dress me properly, or who understands
my fringe. I cant and won't do without her."

"You will have to, my dear," said her
mother, quietly; and Eve flung herself out of
the room in a tempest of passionate tears.

Mrs. Pleydell, as she prepared for dinner, felt
positive dismay at the revelation. How terribly
Eve must have been spoilt for it to be
possible for her to speak and act as she just had
done ! After all, perhaps Aunt Rachel had been
right all along, and she had done wrong in
giving up her child to the care of another. She
had done it with the best of motives, but perhaps
she had been mistaken and had done
wrong. Well, it was too late to think of that
now. All she could do was to strive to the
utmost to undo the mischief that had been
done, and in doing so she must take every care
to remember that the fault lay with herself, not
with Eve : she must be firm with the girl, but
not harsh.

It was rather a surprise to see Eve come into
the drawing-room before dinner, looking as
radiant as if nothing had occurred to disturb
her. Mrs. Pleydell felt relieved ; perhaps, after
all, the ebullition had been mere childish petulance
; at any rate, it was a comfort to find that
the girl had not that most trying of all things,
a sulky temper. Very pretty Eve looked in her
dress of pale blue gauze trimmed with cream
lace, far too elaborate for a home dinner-party,
but eminently becoming to her. She was a
tiny little creature, with a figure of fairy-like
proportions. Her skin was dazzlingly fair, with
a faint rose-blush on the cheeks ; her hair, of a
pale gold, was arranged in an elaborate mass
of curls falling over her forehead ; her eyes
were brown and velvety, with dark lashes and
delicately pencilled eyebrows. She was a
dazzling little figure, but both Mrs. Pleydell
and Iris observed with dismayed disapproval
how very low her dress was cut, and that she
had practically no sleeves, her soft round white
arms being merely veiled with the thinnest
gossamer.

Eve took possession of the conversation, and
chattered without intermission during the whole
of dinner, only occasionally waiting for an answer
from her cousin Tom, when her statements
required verification. Her talk was exclusively
of herself  of her own pleasures in London, and
of her unspeakable sorrow at leaving it. Iris
essayed more than once to talk a little to Tom
Pleydell, but Eve always ruthlessly broke into
their conversation, and claimed his attention
for herself.

As soon as they left the dining-room, she
twined her fingers round her sister's arm, and
implored her to come out for a few moments on
the terrace, where the full moon was making
everything look so lovely, and, after a brief
pause to obtain the shawls on which their mother
insisted, they stepped out into the garden,
and were lost to sight among the groups of
azaleas, which were loading the air with their
fragrance.

Mrs. Pleydell was not sorry to be left alone
for a little ; she wanted to think, to consider
what manner of child it was that had been returned

to her. Her mind misgave her terribly.
Eve's frivolous and egotistical chatter might be
only the effervescence of extreme youth, but she
felt a sad prevision that it was the outcome of
a thoroughly selfish nature. Jf such proved to
be the case, how should she ever forgive herself
for having allowed her child to spend the eight
years most important in the formation of character
away from her ? She began, now that it
was too late, to doubt whether Mrs. William
Pleydell was a woman well qualified to bring
a young girl in the wisest manner. It
seemed to her as if she had never thought of
this before, that her great and exceeding pity
for the mother bereaved of her only child had
caused her to think only of what might soothe
her grief, and not of the moral welfare of her
own little one. Everything seemed to present
itself in a new light to her to-night, probably
because she had been so startled by Eve's passionate
utterances respecting Toinette, and also
owing to her astonishment that her sister-in-law
could ever have allowed the girl to wear
such a dress. Mrs. Pleydell felt quite hurt at the

thought that even Tom, a cousin, should have
seen her in it.

She had not been alone very long before Tom
Pleydell entered, and seated himself opposite
to her. After a few casual observations, she
said,

My dear Tom, I want to talk to you a little
about  about this sad business. It must have
been a terrible shock to you all."

"Yes; I had felt for some time that something
was wrong, Aunt Grace. Still I had no
idea how bad it was."

Neither, I suppose, had your father?"

Tom paused and flushed scarlet.

"Aunt Grace, you are the only person to
whom I would say it, but  I am afraid my
father had known it for a long time, and had
been preparing for it. You see, there is a good
deal of money missing. He converted the
securities into money gradually, and, as far as
appears, has taken it with him."

How very shocking !  how I do feel for you
and for his wife ! Tom, tell me truly, was it
the withdrawal of my money? I could not

help it, you know  my husband laid his dying
commands upon me  was it that which gave
the first shake to the firm V

No, certainly not. What should make you
think so ?"

11 Mrs. William hinted it in her letter."

She had no right to do so. She never
knew anything of the business, and, if she had,
she would have known such was not the case.
But she was nearly frantic at first  you must
not mind anything she said."

My dear Tom, I do not. But I own it is a
relief to me to know that I was not the unwilling
and innocent means of commencing the
ruin. Do you know where your father is ?"

u No, I have not an idea, 1 am thankful to
say."

Thankful r

"Yes. Don't you know," flushing hotly,
that it is a case of B gross fraud,' and that in
these days of extradition treaties he would not
be safe if it were known where he had gone V*

I had not thought of that. Does not his
wife know?"

88 No. He left a note on her dressing-table
telling her not to be uneasy about him, but that
he could not communicate with her till the first
excitement had a little blown over ; and that he
had her diamonds quite safe."

"Her diamonds ! Why, the paper said they
had been found to be paste !"

88 Yes. It is a bad business altogether, Aunt
Grace. I could talk of it to no one but you ; I
was so fond, so proud of my father, and to
think that he of all men should have fallen like
this. He had the diamonds all copied a year
ago, and the originals taken out of their
settings."

"Tom!"

It is so, indeed."

81 1 can't say how sorry I am for you and
her."

She feels it very much ; but in a different
way from what  you would."

88 Do you think she would like to come and
stay here ? I wrote to her to-day offering todo
what I could in the way of money  it is not
so very much, but it would, at any rate, be

something  and she could stay here as long as
she chose."

It is very good of you, Aunt Grace ; but  I
don't know, of course  I can't say  but I doubt
if it would suit her. But as to money, I don't
think you quite know how matters stand. She
is very well off indeed  considerably better than
you arec

Tom ! You don't mean to say you think for
one moment that she would keep the money
settled upon her while there was a single creditor
unpaid ! It is not as if she had children to-consider,
that would make all the difference."

She means to do so. She absolutely refuses
to give up a shilling of it."

Through Mrs. Pleydell's mind there darted
the thought, " Aunt Rachel said it would be so.
Aunt Rachel is always right. She blamed me
for letting Eve go . away from me. Heaven
grant that in disregarding her advice I may not
have ruined my child's disposition !"

Surely she will change ! That was only a
hasty determination," she said, presently.

"I fear not. She put it in writing, and sentit

to the meeting of the creditors. Of course,
you know, she is only acting on her legal
rights."

i( Perhaps. I could not have believed it. It
seems to me distinctly dishonest!"

Tom did not answer. He sat with his head
leaning on his hand, looking the picture of
dejection.

And for yourself, Tom," said his aunt, at
length : " what are you thinking of doing ?
Happily, you are independent, for there is your
mother's fortune, which is, of course, yours,
though it is but a small one."

"I gave it up to the creditors," said Tom,
quietly.

My dear boy ! I honour you for it, but
surely it was rather Quixotic. There could be
no question of the honesty, of the legitimacy of
that settlement. It was made in your grandfather's
time, before your father had any power
in the firm, before there was even a thought of
difficulty or failure. You need not have done
it, Tom!"

I was not obliged to, I know, Aunt Grace ;

but  it was all I could do, and  I could not
do otherwise."

And what do you mean to do V

I shall try for a clerk's place. It is all I am
fit for, and I know I can do the work thoroughly
well."

Tom, you must promise me one thing."

What, Aunt Grace !"

That until you are independent you will let
me make you an allowance, just what the interest
of your fortune was."

Tom came across to her and wrung her
hand ; then, going back to his chair, he
said, in a husky and somewhat unsteady
voice,

Aunt Grace, I don't know what to say.
You are more than kind to make such an
offer, and I love you for it. Still I'd rather not
take it, only I know that you really do mean
it, and that you'll feel hurt and sorry if I
don't."

Ci That I certainly shall."

But before I can say anything more about it,
there is something of much more consequence I

have to say to you, Aunt Grace," and here he rose,
and, walking to the window, looked out into
the moonlight, keeping his face turned from
her. "Don't think me very presumptuous, I
oughtn't to say anything about it now, but I
can't feel honest if I don't tell you. I  1 love
Eve."

Eve !" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell, in astonishment.
ri Why, my dear Tom, she is a mere
child !"

She is past eighteen," he said, quietly,
and she was out all last season ; that is to
say, she went out at night, for as far as anything
else goes she never has been 'in She is
anything but a child."

She is so young, and she looks a mere
baby," said her mother, musingly.

Of course, I know I have no right even to
think of her now, after what has happened,"
said poor Tom, ruefully.

Mrs. Pleydell turned to him quickly.

"Tom, don't for a moment imagine that I
was thinking of that. Eve will have enough of
her own without my troubling myself about

her husband's fortune. But  there are other
things."

Yes, I know  the disgrace," said Tom,
quietly.

The disgrace does not attach to you beyond
the mere fact of the name, and that is ours already,"
replied his aunt. " No. I was thinking
that she is far too young to marry or
even to know her own mind ; and then," she
paused, and then added quickly, u you are
cousins."

She has seemed to know her own mind
pretty well once or twice already," said Tom,
gravely.

Tom ! you don't mean to say anyone has
ever proposed to the child already, and that I
have never heard of it?"

"Two people have to my knowledge  one of
them my step-mother approved of very much,
and was very vexed with Eve for refusing, but
she thought him old and dull, and would have
nothing to say to him. Of course, I never knew
whether you were told or not."

I never heard a syllable. Somehow I never

VOL. I. F

seem to have realized till to-night that she is
grown up."

There was a long pause, and then Mrs. Pleyel
said,

And what are Eve's feelings in the
matter ?"

"I wish I knew. Sometimes I fancy she
cares for me, then again she seems different.
But yet till this trouble came I was full of
hope."

If she cares for you, that could make no
difference. Then you have not spoken to her ?"

No, I have always been afraid. As long as
I had not spoken, as she had not rejected me, I
could hope. In fact I feared my fate too
much."

But you believe she cares for you ?"

Sometimes I do. She is very variable in
her moods, but still I hope."

I still doubt her being old enough to know
her own mind. I should not say so, for I was
married as young myself, but her looks and
ways are so childish."

She has been living in the world, except the

mere fact of going to balls, ever since she was
twelve years old."

And then there is the relationship. That,
Tom is, I confess, to me a terrible drawback."

But you will not withhold your consent on
that account only, Aunt Grace?"

M Not if Eve is really in love with you."

May I ask her !"

No, not at present. I must judge for myself
on that point. I don't know, but I fear the
child is of a frivolous disposition, and I must be
very sure that she is quite in earnest before I
waive what is really a very serious objection."

"And when "

When may you speak ? I will let you
know. I must have time to observe and to
know the child thoroughly, but I promise you
shall know honestly what I think."

I may not speak to her myself?"

Not yet at all events. Don't look so downcast,
my dear Tom. Surely you can trust to
my telling you honestly whether I think there
is any chance for you ?"

"I am sure anything you told me would be

f2

what you honestly thought ; but  I don't think
it is quite the same thing."

You don't imagine surely that I am going
to propose to her in your stead? No' with a
soft laugh, " I quite agree with you that would
not be the same thing. I only want to lavender
quietly to myself for a little. I shall soon
know whether she is fancy free."

You would rather find her so," he said,
with a lamentable attempt at a smile.

Frankly, yes  because of the cousinship, and
also because she seems to me so childish and
unformed. But rely upon it, I will tell you
what I think unreservedly, whether it is in accordance
with my views or yours."

Thank you, Aunt Grace, I can trust you."

Tom," cried Eve at the window, " how can
you sit stifling in there, this lovely night. Come
out and look at the moon."

He rose, and as he passed Mrs, Pleydell he
said, in a low voice, ' f You may trust me. I
shall say nothing to her."

He joined the girls on the terrace, and very
soon after Iris came in.

11 Are you tired, dear ?" asked her mother.

Oh, no ! but Eve asked me in the most
innocent way if I had ever heard a saying about
two being company and three the reverse."

She does not care a bit about him," was
Mrs. PleydelPs immediate reflection ; " if she
did, she would be shy and reticent'' Then she
said, " And what have you been talking about
all this time!"

I have hardly opened my lips," answered
Iris, laughing ; u Eve has been more than eloquent,
imploring me to intercede with you and
prevent the departure of Toinette. She declares
that she shall be perfectly miserable,
absolutely hideous, and obliged to stay in bed
if you do not relent."

iC Ridiculous child! I hope you gave her no
hopes !"

'' Certainly not, but I think she talked too
fast to hear, or at any rate to realise, what I
said. In fact, I believe she has talked herself
into the persuasion that I have promised that
Toinette shall be reinstated

wish it were not necessary to thwart the

child the moment she comes home, but it is impossible
to think of keeping the woman ; she
was intolerably insolent."

'' Fm sure if she made that gown "

My dear, don't talk of it. I have been feeling
all the evening that Aunt Rachel was right,
as she always is, and that I have been very
wrong to part with Eve."

ie Now, mother," said Iris, bending down and
kissing her, " I will not have you distressing
and blaming yourself. You know quite well
what you did was done with the kindest and
best of intentions at a great sacrifice of your
own wishes and feelings. Even if it does not
turn out to have been for the best after all, yon
have nothing to blame yourself with."

(t I am afraid, from what you say, Eve will be
very vexed."

Well, yes, I think she will."

Well, it can't be helped. Ah ! Eve," as the
girl and her cousin passed the window, "you
have been out long enough. Come in and sit
quiet a little."

Eve came in and curled herself up in the

corner of the sofa, but in a very few minutes
she got up again, wandered a little about the
room, and, passing close to Iris, whispered in
her ear,

u Have you said anything ? Have you managed
it r

Eve dear, don't whisper, it is not polite,"
said her mother.

Oh ! I was only asking Iris something."

Yes, Eve," said Iris, " I told mother what
you said."

11 Do you mean about Toinette ?" said Mrs.
Pleydell, quietly ; Ci my dear Eve, you will soon
find that when I once say a thing I mean it. I
gave Toinette warning, as you heard, and she
will go tomorrow."

Eve threw herself on the sofa in a perfect
storm of sobs and lamentations, crossly repelling
Iris, who tried to soothe her.

"Get away, you haven't done what you
promised, you said you would make it all right,
and you haven't. How am I ever to look
nice without Toinette? No one else understands
my hair,"

Mrs. Pleydell signed to Iris to leave her sister
to herself; and addressed some indifferent
questions to Tom, to which he responded, seconding
her efforts to keep up a conversation.
Eve sobbed passionately for some minutes, then
finding herself completely unnoticed, which
evidently surprised her not a little, she rose
sulkily and left the room, slamming the door
behind her. Mrs. Pleydell dropped her work
and looked at Tom.

How can you try to persuade me she is
anything but a child ?"

I know it looks like it, but she has been
spoilt, I know. If she cried for a moment in
Hyde Park Gardens, the whole house was upset.
She is so sweet-tempered, and amiable, and
sunny, it is only a thunder-shower sometimes."

Well, I hope your simile is correct, and that
it clears the air," said Mrs. Pleydell ; but she
went to bed feeling far from happy about her
youngest daughter.

CHAPTER IV.

Ladies of fashion starve their happiness to feed their
vanity, and their love to feed their pride.

Coltox.

Light minds are like bladders blown up with anything.

Leighton.

npHE next morning when Mrs. Pleydell, Iris,
* and Tom were seated at breakfast, Eve
made her appearance in an elaborate blue cashmere
dressing-gown trimmed with lace, and
her hair streaming loose over her shoulders.

Eve !" exclaimed her mother, in dismay,
go upstairs again this moment ! How could
you think for a moment of coming down without
dressing?"

u I am as much dressed as I am likely to be,"

said Eve, seating herself coolly. " Toinette is
gone, and I can't dress without her."

I sent Rogers to you."

An old frump came, but she hadn't an idea
what to do with my hair, or how to put on my
jersey, so I came down as I am."

44 Go upstairs at once," said Mrs. PI ey dell, iC I
will send up your breakfast. Don't hesitate,
Eve, do as you are told."

Tom," said Eve, turning to him, (i if I'm to
be imprisoned upstairs till I'm fit to be seen, I
shan't see you again. Tell Aunt Louisa how
miserable I am, and that I hope she'll send forme
very soon."

Surely the child does not fancy she is going
back," said Mrs. Pleydell, when Eve had
left the room.

"There was something said about it, I
know."

Of course it is not to be thought of. Indeed,
Tom, I fear Eve has been terribly
spoilt."

You have only seen the worst of her. She
is so bright, so loving, so affectionate."

"What perfectly lovely hair!" said Iris, Ci it
is like gold-coloured floss silk."

"whatever shall we do about the maid?"
said Mrs. Pleydell. " Rogers says she cannot undertake
you both, and yet it is out of the question
that the child should have a maid to herself."

' We had better have a girl to work under
Rogers and let her learn to do Eve's hair,"
said Iris ; " Aunt Rachel said the other day
that Ruth Barnet wanted such a place."

Thus it was finally settled, and Eve, finding
that her mother was quite in earnest, and would
not allow her to appear unless properly dressed,
thought sitting in her own room very dull, and
speedily discovered a means of making herself
presentable, though she looked very sulky, and
made herself and Mousse as disagreeable as
was possible to Fuss, who, however, was a
sweet-tempered dog, and bore it beautifully.
But the Toinette episode had one very good
effect ; it showed Eve that her mother meant
what she said, and was not to be turned from it
by either tears or sulks : it was a great point to
have established.

Mrs. William Pleydelfs answer to her sister-in-law's
generous offer fully confirmed Tom's
description of her intentions. She " thanked
her dear Grace more than she could express,
she was more than kind and generous," but she
went on to explain that, iC happily dear William's
foresight had rendered her quite independent
of any assistance, though of course she
felt very bitterly in what a different style she
must live from that to which she had so long
been accustomed. She should sell the house in
Hyde Park Gardens, and take a smaller one,
though in a better situation, Belgravia in all
probability, and hoped, when the first blush of
the present disagreeableness had blown over,
to make her new home as pleasant to Eve as
the old one. She thought for the present she
should go abroad, as of course it would be impossible
to go out any more that season,
while this unpleasant business was a nine days'
wonder."

Aunt Rachel is right again," said Mrs.
Pleydell, as she gave Iris the letter to read.
<; Well, I need not answer it, but one thing

is very clear: Eve shall never go back."

That afternoon, finding herself alone with
her youngest daughter, Mrs. Pleydell proceeded
to interrogate her as to her life in London, and
elicited that, as Torn had said, she had always
been out, except as to the actual fact of being
taken to dinners and balls. Even of these she
had had some experience in juvenile dances*
Then the year before she had come out regularly,
and had gone out every night.

Oh ! it was too heavenly !" cried Eve,
throwing herself back among the sofa-cushions,
and it was all beginning again this year, and
then to be stopped in the middle and sent
down to this wretched place ! It is too, too
hard !"

"You forget this is your home, Eve. You
might be glad, I should think, to be with me
again."

"Oh! yes, of course, mummy dear, I know,"
and Eve nestled up to her mother, and rubbed
her cheek against hers in a most caressing
manner ; " but then, don't you see, I could have
come and paid you a visit in August, before we

went to Trouville, and then I shouldn't have
lost all my fun, and it would have done quite
as well for you."

Scarcely, Eve. I am very glad to have
you at home for good."

For good I" with a violent start ; " but
Aunt Louisa said she should have me back very
soon."

I shall not let you go, Eve."

But you don't surely mean "  Eve sat up
and spoke with the energy of despair  " you
cant mean to bury me here !"

' It is no more being buried for you than it
is for Iris."

Oh ! but Iris is quite old  she is past two
and twenty  of course it does not matter for
her."

What a silly child you are !" said her mother,
laughing. " In a day or two we must find you
some employment, and pay some attention to
the education which I fear must have been
terribly neglected while you have been amusing
yourself so much."

"Aunt Louisa said I knew quite enough,"

said Eve. " She said it was a great mistake
for a girl to know too much, that men didn't
like it."

I don't see that their not liking it makes
any difference."

"Why, mamma, what else can possibly
signify 1"

Eve looked so thoroughly surprised that it
was evident that this view had been carefully
inculcated upon her. Mrs. Pleydell did not
speak for a minute, and the girl went on 

Aunt Louisa said 1 knew everything that
was requisite ; I dance better than most people,
and 1 can sing little French songs, and I know
how to accompany all the songs out of the
comic operas and burlesques, and I know French
well, and can talk to the dressmakers, and
write a clear hand for notes. What more can
anyone want f"

A steady course of reading with me and
Iris will do you no harm, child."

I read novels a good deal to Aunt Louisa.
She liked exciting ones, like Ouida's, and so
did I."

I mean something very different from
novels," said Mrs. Pleydell, hastily, dismayed at
the direction her daughter's studies had taken ;
then, thinking she might as well take this
opportunity of commencing her observations as
to Tom Pleydell's chance with Eve, she observed,
" Tom was sorry to go away without
wishing you really good-bye this morning."

Poor old Tom !" said Eve, carelessly.
Well, it doesn't much matter ; he's sure to
be down here again very soon."

Why should you think so ? He said nothing
about it'*

Oh ! but he couldn't keep away, I know."

"What do you mean?" said her mother,
thinking that, in spite of himself, Tom must
have said something to enlighten her as to his
feelings.

Oh ! because "  with a laugh  " he's such
awful spoons upon me !"

Eve, I really must forbid your talking
slang ; it is most unladylike. If you mean
that you think that your cousin cares for
you "

Think, mummy ! why, it's plain enough. I
could do just whatever I chose with him'

4i And do you care for him ?"

Mrs. Pleydell thought that, as her daughter
appeared inclined to be so very outspoken, she
might as well make herself au fait of the situation
at once.

Well, in a way, of course. Oh, yes ; I'm
very fond of poor old Tom. If he had proposed
to me a week ago, I verily believe I
should have said yes, though of course I ought
to do much better, as Aunt Louisa always said.
Still he was very rich, and he'd never have
prevented my doing what 1 liked. I'm sure
I should have said yes. How lucky he didn't !
because of course it would be all off now."

"Why?"

Poor Mrs. Pleydell, one of the most unworldly
of women, one who regarded love
as a sacred and undying sentiment, was fairly
aghast at her daughter's coolness.

"Why, mamma, how can you ask? Uncle
William is ruined, and, as if that wasn't bad
enough, Tom has been so silly. He has given

VOL. I. G

up his mother's, fortune  which no one had
any claim upon  and says he is going to work
as a clerk."

"Very noble and honourable of him, my
dear. And do you mean you would have
given him up for that?"

Why, mamma," with an expression of extreme
surprise, " what else could I have done ?
I shouldn't have had a carriage, or a pretty
house, or been able to go out, or to entertain.
Where would have been the sense of my
marrying f

As long as you see things in such a
light, Eve, I devoutly hope you may never
marry !" exclaimed her mother.

Mummy !"  in an accent of horror  " surely
you wouldn't like me to be a horrid old maid,
like like old Miss Netherleigh ?"

Eve, I wish I could hope to see you as
good, as kind, and as happy as Aunt Rachel.
A horrid old maid indeed ! My dear, you area
silly little girl, and don't know in the very
least what you are talking about. You will
see Aunt Rachel tomorrow  it is her day 

and then you will see that no married woman
could be more considered than she is in Ban-merton
and the neighbourhood."

u Her day ! Is it a party !" cried Eve,
eagerly ; then the look of excitement dying
out of her face. " After all, I suppose, there'll
be nobody there to talk to  only the bishop
and the dean, and a lot of frumpish clergymen's
wives."

You will see," said Mrs. Pleydell, who felt
that her interview with her daughter had been
almost too much for her, divulging as it had
done so many unwelcome traits in the girl's
character. She wanted to be alone to think,
to consider what course it would be wisest
to pursue.

Meanwhile Eve had risen, and was wandering
listlessly about the room.

Have you no books, mummy !" she said,
at last. "I want something to read, and I
can see nothing but stupid travels, and memoirs,
and things. Where are the novels ?"

"I don't think we had any in the last box.
Neither Iris nor I care for them much. But

g2

there are some standard ones on that shelf.
You can choose one, if you like."

Eve selected "The Mill on the Floss," and
began to read it, half lying on the sofa ina
most negligee attitude. Her mother begged
her to sit up properly, and with a very ill
grace she did so, but she had not read for
ten minutes before she put down her book,
yawned, began to stroll about the room, fidgeting
with all the ornaments on the tables,
and disturbing the flower-vases by taking out
any flower that pleased her fancy to make
into a bouquet for the front of her dress.
Then she seated herself at the piano, and
began to sing snatches of French songs, but,
as her mother observed, she never finished
anyone of them. In a very short time this
amusement too apparently palled. She rose
from the piano and sauntered to the window.


Where is Iris ?" she asked, at length.
Where is she hiding herself?"

She has gone to see three or four poor

District-visiting !" exclaimed Eve, with a
toss of her head. "I didn't think she was
quite old enough even jet to be obliged to take
to that."

u What has age got to do with it ! I hope
you will go and see the poor people, too.
Iris has done so ever since she was twelve
years old."

I, mummy ! I go into frowsy, dirty cottages
! Why, I should dirty my pretty dresses,
and catch fevers and things."

"Iris does not. And, my dear Eve, you
mustn't imagine that you are to go on fidgeting
about the room doing nothing as you
have done this morning. You would drive me
wild. Have you no work ?"

Work ? Oh, no, mummy, it is such a
bore."

What did you do in the morning in Hyde
Park Gardens ?"

Oh ! I don't know. We breakfasted about
half-past ten, and then we went out shopping,
or some one came in to talk, and we sat in
the park ; or perhaps two or three men used

to drop in, and we practised jolly songs ; and
luncheon always seemed to come the minute
breakfast was over ; and whenever we were
alone, there were all the new novels ; but
there is never anything to do in the country"
with a desperate yawn. " Will Iris be out
all day ?"

No ; she will soon be in, but she will
hardly help you to idle. She reads in her own
room till luncheon."

Novels ?" asked Eve, with a ray of hope.

"No, certainly not. To-day is her day for
German, and she is reading Goethe."

"How dull! She might as well be at
school," said Eve ; " and after all, as Aunt
Louisa says, c what possible good can it do a
girl V Oh, mummy, the happiest time of my
life till I came out really, was when Prince's
was in full swing ; I used to skate there nearly
all day."

I wish you had been learning your lessons
instead."

"That wouldn't have taught me to know
people, or how to manage men."

Mrs. Pleydell was silent. She really hardly
knew how to begin to make her child understand
the very different standard by which she
herself judged things, and by which she hoped
to teach her to guide her conduct. She knew
that Aunt Rachel's counsel would be invaluable,
but at the same time felt certain that she
would gravely disapprove of Eve and her
ways.

When Iris appeared at luncheon, Eve was
unspeakably astonished at the way in which
she spoke of her morning's occupation.

"Really, Iris, to hear you," she said, when
they went out into the garden afterwards, u one
would think you enjoyed poking about dirty
cottages."

They are not dirty' said Iris ; " and, as to
enjoying it, who would not like to bring a little
brightness, comfort, and sunshine into hard
lives !"

"You talk just like a good little book," said
Eve, laughing. " Tell me, is the curate very
charming V

The curate ?" said Iris, with a look of surprise.

" We have no curate here, and I am
sure we do not want one. Mrs. Lewis does
twice as much in the way of parish work as
any curate could do, and Mr. Lewis is very
active."

A married clergyman, and yet you go to
the cottages ! What would Aunt Louisa
say? She always says girls only go to
see poor people that they may flirt with the
curates."

I suppose even your aunt may be mistaken
sometimes," said Iris, rather coldly.

Her pride rebelled at the mere suggestion of
going anywhere for the sake of meeting any
man.

What are we to do this afternoon ?" asked
Eve presently.

I don't know anything, unless you would
like a walk."

Ah ! we might go into Bannerton."

It is too far for a walk. If you like, we can
have the pony-carriage, and go to the afternoon
service."

I don't care much about church on a weekday.

Do many people go? Shall we see
anyone to talk to afterwards?"

"That is a mere chance  we may or may
not."

"Well"  with a portentous yawn,  "let us
go. It must be better than this, at any rate.
Even the sight of a street will be a relief from
stupid trees and flowers."

M I will order the pony-carriage ; be ready in
half an hour."

Eve occupied the time in donning a most
becoming toilette, and, though she moaned all
the way over the dismissal of Toinette and the
consequent impossibility of her hair being
decently done," she certainly looked excessively
pretty. She attracted a good deal of
attention in the streets of Bannerton, of which
she was fully aware, and even in the cathedral
she was quite conscious that many eyes were
turned upon her. There happened to be an
unusually large congregation, and after the
service many people came up to speak to Iris.
Eve felt quite elated at the number of acquaintances
to whom her sister introduced her, and

observed to her surprise that they were not, as
she had conceived must be the case in a cathedral
city, exclusively old and dowdy. The
choir at Bannerton was famous, and the anthem
formed the object for a drive for many of the
country neighbours, as well as an attraction to
the officers quartered at the barracks. Several
of the latter were introduced to Eve, and the
sight of them considerably modified her views
as to the prospective dulness of her life at the
Gate House.

I don't think Bannerton seems as if it
would be quite such a dead-alive place as I
expected," she said, when they were once more
seated in the pony-carriage. " Does anyone
ever give anything amusing  dances or anything
of that sort V

There are a good many balls in the winter,"
said Iris. " The public ones in the town depend
on the parties that people bring, because the
townspeople come, and they are  well, not
very nice; we don't know any of them, of
course. Even the dances at the barracks are
rather spoilt by them ; but they are very civil

to the officers, and of course they are obliged
to ask them."

But will there be nothing before winter ?
It is a long way off," said Eve, dolefully.

There are Aunt Rachel's Thursdays  they
are always pleasant ; we are going to one tomorrow.
Then there is a small dance at the
barracks on Monday  very small, Captain
Allardyce said, and they have the athletic
sports' on Wednesday; and Mr. Sargent said
to-day they were going to get up a picnic in
the Beechmont woods. Mrs. Furnivall told me
to-day she was going to have a garden-party
the week after next, and that perhaps there
would be dancing afterwards ; so, you see,
Eve, you have plenty of dissipation in
prospect."

"Plenty, do you call it?" said Eve, with a
groan; "just enough to prevent one from going
to sleep comfortably and forgetting one's
miseries."

Eve," said Iris, earnestly, (i do not say
things like that before mamma. Of course I
know you do not mean them, but it would hurt

her to hear you speak as if you were sorry to
come home."

But I am. Iris, when were the Beechmonts
here last !"

Four years ago."

Do you know them V 3

Oh, yes. I saw a good deal of Lady Imogene
; she draws most beautifully''

She is very plain ; the one who came outlast
year is awfully pretty."

Lady Hildegarde ?"

Yes. Have you heard anything of their
coming this year ? She and I were rather
pals."

Pals ! Eve, don't talk such slang ! Neither
mamma nor Aunt Rachel can bear it."

"Old Miss Netherleigh has nothing to do
with me."

She is so kind you can't help being fond of
her."

She is your aunt, not mine, I am glad to
say. She always made mummy cross to me
when I was a child. But you haven't told me
about the Beechmonts."

I have heard nothing, but I do not think it
is very likely. Lord Beechmont cannot bear
the place because of the population the collieries
have brought."

I know. He likes Firshire better, but they
don't  the girls, I mean, and Lord Rooted."

"What is he like?"

"Very handsome, but very stiff and solemn
and dull. I'm sure he'd be a man after Miss
Netherleigh's own heart."

Dear me, Eve, you look quite excited."

"Well, it does make me angry to think of
him. He had the impertinence to find fault
with me last year."

What about ?"

"It was at a water-party at Maidenhead; of
course, you know, one hardly goes to a thing
of that sort to sit prosing by one's chaperon
all day, and Aunt Louisa never expected me todo
it. But Lord Rootley chose to think I
ought, and was quite disagreeable because I
went on the water alone with George Millington."


But, Eve, surely you should not."

"There was no harm, and it was no business
of his. By-the-by, Iris, do you row f "

No."

I do capitally. I must get mummy to let
me have a canoe : it'll be something to do,
and if Hildegarde Becher only comes we can
have races."

I think mother would be frightened."

Tell me," said Eve, abruptly changing the
subject, " what do you do at Miss Netherleigh's
afternoons?"

Have tea and talk."

"Is it indoors or in the garden?"

"In the garden, if it is fine."

Then there is lawn-tennis ?"

Sometimes. I don't think many people care
for it."

"Do you play?"

No ; somehow it always seems to me so
undignified to go rushing about till one gets hot
and red."

Eve did not reply. When they got home
Iris was astonished to hear what a sparkling
account her sister gave of their afternoon. She

bad bad no idea that Eve bad observed so much
of the different people as it was evident from
ber remarks that sbe bad done, and sbe cheerfully
allowed to herself that she could not have
made half so amusing a story out of their expedition
as Eve did. It was true that ber observations
were seldom kind, and sometimes very
much the reverse, still it was impossible not to
laugh both at the matter and the manner of her
speech, though Mrs. Pleydell interposed occasionally
to deprecate unkind jests and harsh
judgments.

When Eve appeared with her mother and
Iris at Miss Netherleigh's on the ensuing afternoon,
she looked so pretty and her manner was
so fascinating, that she took the company by
storm. Mrs. Pleydell, watching her, and looking
at her innocent, childish face and almost
kittenish ways, could hardly believe that she
bad heard from her lips only the day before
sentiments of such cold, worldly wisdom.
Surely she thought the child must have caught
them up like a parrot, and merely repeated her
aunt's opinions without in the least realising

what they meant. This was a great comfort :
she began to breathe more freely, and to watch
with pleasure her pretty child's evident success.


The garden behind Miss Netherleigh's house
had not a great many flowers, what there were
being confined to old-fashioned borders round
the square enclosure. In the centre of the
broad expanse of velvet turf was a stately
cedar, and under it the tea equipage and the
majority of the chairs were disposed. The old
red brick house looked well, its weather-stains
partly hidden by the wistaria and the Gloire de
Dijon roses that almost covered it. There
was a tolerably large gathering, considering
that, it being the end of May, several of the
neighbouring families were in town; but Miss
Netherleigh's Thursdays were always popular.
Eve soon persuaded some of the party to getup
a set of lawn-tennis, and Iris, as she watched
her graceful movements, could not help
thinking that there was no danger of her growing
so unbecomingly hot and so desperately
red as the majority of the Bannerton young

ladies. After the tennis was over, it was not
very long before the sounds of music were
heard from the house, and on investigation it
proved that Eve, having discovered that some
of the girls and of the officers could sing, had
seated herself at the piano, and was superintending
a sort of amateur rehearsal of "H.M.S.
Pinafore"' Gradually all the company grouped
themselves round the window to listen : it was
quite a new idea, and was very taking. The
Bannerton young ladies generally sang sentimental
songs of a somewhat dreary character,
and this was a most refreshing variety. Even
the bishop condescended to pronounce it a
success, and was heard more than once to hum
the refrain of " Buttercup " during the afternoon.
Mrs. Pleydell had looked anxiously at
Miss Xetherleigh, doubtful as to how she might
regard such an innovation ; but it had been such
an unequivocal success that Aunt Rachel was
decidedly pleased, and even thanked Eve
when she was leaving for having started the
idea.

Eve chattered incessantly the whole evening
VOL. I. H

about the different incidents of the afternoon,
but it was not till they went np to bed that she
followed her sister into her room.

Iris, who was that handsome man who put
you into the carriage f "

That ? Oh, Mr. Furnivall of Rookwood."

Do you know him well I"

Oh, yes, very well indeed !"

Do you like him ?"

Oh, yes ! I think everyone does."

Iris, you are very cold. Why, it's as clear
as daylight that he's awful spoons on you."

CHAPTER V.

Home-keeping youths have ever homely wits.

Two Gentlemen of Verona  Act i, Sc. 1.

I am not what I was : since yesterday

My food forsakes me, and my needful rest ;

I pine, I languish, love to be alone ;

Think much, speak little, and in speaking sigh.

When I see Correspond, I am unquiet,

And when I see him not, I am in pain.

Spanish Friar. Drtdex.-

LAURENCE FURNIVALL fully merited Eve's
description of a very handsome man. He
was between seven and eight and twenty, tall,
with broad shoulders, and a look of great
strength, fair, though much sunburnt, and with
close, curling, wavy hair. A physiognomist
might perhaps have demurred somewhat to the

H 2

full, rather self-indulgent looking lips and the
slightly receding chin, and might have thought
that the high forehead would have been improved
by an accession of breadth ; but the
defects were slight, such as hardly to strike
any but a very thoughtful observer, and, as
such are rare, Laurence Furnivall was universally
pronounced eminently handsome. He was
popular too, despite a shade of hauteur in his
manner, which gave the impression that he
wished people to remember that the master of
Rookwood was a personage of considerable
importance. He certainly was so in his own
estimation. His father had died when he was
a year old, and his mother, who had been a
distant cousin of her husband's, of an extremely
impoverished branch of the family, was so impressed
with the grandeur of Rookwood, that
she brought up her son to believe it to be one
of the finest places in England, and himself one
of the most important of the county magnates.
Of course she recognized Lord Beechmont's
pre-eminence, but he so seldom visited Coal-shire
that his existence was, socially, almost

forgotten, and Laurence Furnivall had few
rivals. Rookwood was undoubtedly a very fine
place. It was an old Elizabethan house filled
with richly-carved oak, old family portraits, old
armour, and priceless china, and Venetian
glass. It had a picture-gallery which was one
of the sights of the county, and a music-room
with a magnificent organ. And the grounds
were worthy of the house ; from the stiff, formal
garden with cut yew hedges, and the terraces
where the peacocks sunned themselves on the
balustrades, to the " pleasance " where old-fashioned
flowers grew in lavish profusion, and the
oak-glades of the park where the deer browsed
among the brake, and glimpses were obtained
of the Banner which skirted the domain and of
the distant Rockshire hills.

Mrs. Furnivall might easily be pardoned for
her pride in the place, bat her son shared it to
a perhaps almost unfortunate degree. He seldom
left Coalshire. In London, where he would
have found his level, and learnt that, though he
might be a rich man and the proprietor of a
fine old place, there were plenty of other people

in equally, if not even more fortunate circumstances,
he was not at his ease. He was accustomed
to being a person of such great importance
in his own sphere, that he was not happy
where he was only a mere unit in a social
crowd, and liable at any moment to find himself
neglected for some one of greater consequence
than himself. Of course he did not allow to
himself that this was the real reason for his
dislike of London life, indeed very probably he
was hardly aware that such was the case. He
called it both to himself and others a love of
home, a dislike to the " frivolity " of a town
life, though certainly his days at Rookwood
were hardly remarkable for any great intellectual
activity.

He fancied he read the papers, though he
really merely skimmed the smaller paragraphs
in them, excepting in the Field, over which he
fell asleep with praiseworthy regularity every
Sunday afternoon. He was a Conservative
because his father had been one  because he
regarded it as the " gentlemanlike " side ; but
if questioned as to his political faith, he would

have been very sorely puzzled to give an account
of it. He was a kind landlord, but left
all the management of the estate to his agent,
and interested himself principally, if not entirely,
in seeing that his tenants preserved foxes,
and sternly repressed poaching proclivities in
their labourers. In the winter he never missed
a meet of the Coalshire hounds, and was looked
to as the certain successor of the present master
when failing health should finally compel him
to resign. He prided himself on the slaughter
at the Lockwood battues being greater
than at any others in the county ; he preserved
the portion of the river on his property
with the utmost strictness, and fished a good
deal when there was nothing else to kill. Perhaps
he was a little apt to talk too exclusively
of his exploits with rod and gun, of the
races he had ridden, and the feathered fowls he
had slaughtered. But then it must be remembered
that he was absolutely destitute of other
topics of conversation. It may be safely asserted
that he had not opened a book since he
left Oxford, where he had by no means distinguished

himself. His method of reading the
papers has been already described, and he
neither knew nor cared anything about art,
and only knew enough of music to enable him
to dance in time. He was an accomplished cricketer,
an adept at lawn-tennis, a first-rate shot,
a splendid rider, and excellent dancer ; in short,
he was a capital specimen of a healthy and
hearty young Englishman, but not a particularly
intellectual companion. He had a very
good temper when nothing put him out, but he
had been too much accustomed all his life to
being the first object with everyone around him,
to bear the inevitable small troubles of the
world very patiently. He was generous, though
it was apt, perhaps, to be rather too much after
the manner of a beneficent sovereign dispensing
favours.

In short, it was Laurence Furnivall's misfortune
that his life was somewhat out of focus,
he and his concerns looming so large as to
overpower and dwarf some even of the weightier
affairs of the world. The best thing for him
would have been to have lived a good deal in

the world, to have mixed freely with his equals,
and to have learnt that, although his position
was a great and an important one, there were
plenty of other people who were of infinitely
greater consequence than he. He might even
have learnt that in some London circles people
were welcomed for what they could add to the
pleasure and amusement of the company, and
not for either their wealth or social importance.
It was a lesson that it would have taken him
some time to learn, and he never gave himself
the opportunity of acquiring it. His first experience
of London had been distasteful because
he did not there find himself a person of preeminent
importance, as he was at Rookwood,
and he never made another attempt to enter
it.

For this his mother was both sorry and glad.
Mrs. Furnivall was a very proud woman, and
all the affection she possessed was concentrated
on her only child. During his minority she had
had complete control of the estate, and though,
when he came of age, she relinquished all interference,
she still felt herself every inch the

mistress of Rookwood. Theoretically, she was
extremely anxious that her son should marry ;
she really believed herself that such was her
greatest desire ; practically she disliked and
distrusted any girl to whom he ever said a civil
word. To her view no one was worthy of him.
She had considerable ambition, and would have
liked him to marry a woman of the highest
rank ; yet, if he had done so, she would have
been troubled by an uneasy suspicion that the
lady so honoured perhaps did not realise how
unspeakably fortunate she was  might even 
dreadful thought !  conceive that the condescension
was on her side. Mrs. Furnivall's
views were even more hopelessly out of perspective
than were her son's : Eton and Oxford
had given him certain vague ideas that there
were others in the world as great as he ; she
had lived at Rookwood, and thought of its
glories till she believed it to be the centre
of the universe. Hitherto he had given her
but little anxiety: once or twice he had admired
some unusually good rider to hounds ina
way that had caused her to subject the

young lady in question to considerable scrutiny
when they next met, but nothing had ever
come of it. He had lost sight of the damsel
in the summer, and by the next hunting season
he had forgotten her existence, and was ready
to admire and make his mother uneasy about
somebody else.

Besides her heartfelt belief that no one was
worthy of her son, Mrs. Furnivall would have
sorely disliked to give up her own position as
mistress of Rookwood. Before her marriage
she had been nobody, only the youngest
daughter of a poor and struggling doctor, a
member of a distant branch of the family,
and, like all those who have never in their
youth been accustomed to importance, she
valued it all the more highly from being unused
to it. She would not have admitted it
even to herself, but the day when her son's
wife took her place at Rookwood, and she
was compelled to subside to the lower level
of the Dower House, would be a bitter one
for her. And yet she conscientiously believed
that she wished above all things that Laurence

should marry  if he chose a wife who was
suitable according to her views.

Hitherto she had had no suspicions of his
feelings for Iris, indeed he was by no means
certain of them himself. He admired her more
than anyone he had ever seen ; he liked her
stately manners better than those of any of
the young ladies with whom he was acquainted,
indeed it was perhaps her proud bearing that
attracted him, so different was it from the sort
of homage and worship to which he was only
too well accustomed. Perhaps most men are
inclined to imagine themselves Sultans, able
to throw the handkerchief where they please ;
but it was hardly wonderful that Laurence
Furnivall, who had had his own importance
impressed upon him from his cradle, and
since he grew up had found himself universally
courted and flattered by mothers and
daughters, should be thoroughly imbued with
the belief that he had only to ask, and have.
Iris was always pleasant to talk to, but she
never seemed to hang upon his utterances
as others did, and he never observed that

her eyes followed him wherever he moved,
as he was perfectly aware that those of many
other young ladies were in the habit of doing.
He was far more in love with her than he
was at all aware of, and it only required
some incident that would disturb the ordinary
current of their intercourse to open his eyes.

On her side, Iris was nearly as unconscious.
It may seem strange that a well-informed
and intelligent girl such as she was, interested
in literature, art, and all such subjects,
which were to him a sealed book, should have
fallen in love with anyone so deficient in
powers of conversation, excepting on his own
especial topics, as was Laurence Furnivall.
But women who have no mankind of then-own
at home, are apt to be somewhat unduly
impressed by the manliness of anyone preeminent
in field sports and athletic exercises.
It is such a contrast to anything that they
are accustomed to in their home circle, that
they are very likely to attach an undue and
factitious importance to achievements they can
never hope to emulate, and indeed barely

understand. Then, too, Iris only met
Laurence in society, or when he called at
the Gate House, which was but seldom, for
morning visiting was not, as he would have
said, " at all in his line," and by no means
fathomed that the topics on which he exclusively
discoursed were the only ones of
which he had the slightest knowledge. That
anyone could live absolutely without books
had never even dawned on her comprehension,
and when Laurence showed himself curiously
ignorant of some political fact or remarkable
occurrence, she always imagined that his plea
of " having really no time to read the papers
thoroughly," implied that all his time and
attention were given to the management of
his estate, for he really persuaded himself
that he did everything, which was in fact
the work of his very excellent agent.

And so she had gone on, growing gradually
and quite unconsciously to care more and more
for him, though not understanding why any
ball or other gathering from which he happened
to be absent seemed so very dull, until Eve's

unceremonious announcement, "Mr. Furnivall
is awful spoons on you !" seemed to rend the
scales from her eyes. Mechanically she exclaimed
that Eve was talking ridiculous nonsense,
but that damsel nodded her head sagaciously,
and observed that she could not help
having eyes. Then Iris fell back on an entreaty
to her sister to curb her inclination for talking
slang, representing anew how both their mother
and Aunt Rachel disliked it. But when Eve,
who was not fond of being found fault with,
had taken her departure, Iris sat down to consider
what she had said.

Eve would have been astonished and incredulous
if she could have seen the condition of her
sister's mind. To her the idea of anyone being
in love with her would have brought no such
consternation as it did to Iris ; indeed she
regarded it rather as the normal state of affairs,
and was quite prepared to make the most of
the humorous side of it.

Iris was some time before she could collect
her thoughts. The words had revealed to her
the state of her own heart, and she could not

have told which perturbed her most, the knowledge
that she cared for Laurence, or the wonder
whether Eve could possibly be right 
whether indeed it was true he cared for her.
She went over every incident of their meetings ;
startled, now that her consciousness had once
been aroused, to find how accurately she remembered
every word and look, but she told
herself that she could by no means come to a
decision. Really, so deep in her heart as to be
unacknowledged, lay the conviction that Eve
was right, that Laurence Furnivall's manner to
her was different, how she could not tell, from
what it was to others. Her cheeks crimsoned
as she wondered whether it were possible that
she too could have been different to him,
whether she had given any involuntary sign
of the love of which till that night she had
been unconscious.

The thought was distressing, and poor Iris
had little rest, for whenever sleep seemed about
to visit her eyes, some fresh phase of the problem
presented itself to her. And at the end
she was no nearer a solution than when she

began. All she could determine was that, now
that her eyes had been opened, she would keep
the strictest possible watch over herself, and
allow no symptom of her feelings to escape
her.

Eve was much disappointed to find that
Iris could not by any means be provoked into
talking of Laurence. To her view a love-affair
was very little M fun " if it was not talked
about ; and she said crossly that her sister was
very disagreeable. But Iris simply could not
talk ; her heart was throbbing with her newly-awakened
hopes, and it would have seemed
sacrilege to her to jest about the matter as Eve
would so gladly have done.

It was also a dreadful blow to Eve to find
that her mother by no means intended her to
idle about doing nothing, which, in default of
more exciting amusement, she would have
liked to do. Certainly Mrs. Pleydell found the
prosecution of her younger daughter's education
a task of Herculean difficulty. Eve had a
way of disappearing when wanted, and of declaring
innocently, when captured, that she had

VOL. I. l

only gone into the garden, "just for one
minute, to get dear mummy a rose," that was
intensely aggravating ; and when securely
planted in a chair, and given a book to read
aloud, she would stop, often in the middle of a
sentence, and make some remark so foreign to
the subject as to show that, if her eyes had
been on the page before her, her thoughts had
been far away. Mrs. Pleydell had a sweet
temper and infinite patience, but she often felt
inclined to despair. She tried making Eve
read the same chapter over and over again till
she could answer questions on it, but the result
of the plan was not encouraging. It was all
the same to Eve whether she read straight
through the book or never progressed beyond
the first chapter ; all was equally uninteresting
to her, and she hoped that by obstinately refusing
to learn she might tire her mother
out.

She was much more seriously disturbed by
the interference in her toilette. Mrs. Pleydell
insisted on alterations being made in her ball-dress
before the officers' dance, and w T hen Eve

protested with tears against "being made a
dowdy of, her dresses came from Madame
Lathe and were exactly right, just what
everyone wore' she was told quietly but decidedly
that she would either wear a dress
which her mother considered decent or stay at
home ; she might do which she pleased. Of
course Eve went ; but she pouted and lamented
herself, and was utterly intractable during the
whole of the day before. She revived wonderfully,
however, when she was once in the ballroom
under the universal admiration which she
excited. Mrs. Pleydell, who thought that Iris's
beauty was of a far higher type and admired
her infinitely more, was astonished to see what
a fureur Eve created. She did not sufficiently
take into consideration the difference of the
two girls. Iris was proud and stately, and was
rather apt to prefer the partners who could
really talk (with the exception of course of
Laurence) to those who could only dance, and
the latter were somewhat inclined to resent
her preference. There was not a shadow of
difficulty in talking to Eve : she only cared fori

2

trifles, was exceptionally ready to be amused,
and talked the fashionable argot that gave her
partners a comfortable feeling of camaraderie.
Before she had been in the room half an hour
she had promised more dances than she could
have got through in a week, and there wa
certainly no question that she was a social
success.

Laurence Furnivall valued with her and acknowledged
that she danced like a fairy, but
she did not please him, for she laughed at him
twice and did not seem to be impressed by his
importance. His mother, watching with anxiety
what his opinion might be of the new beauty
suddenly raised to such a pinnacle of popularity,
felt much re-assured when he confided
to her that Miss Pleydell was a pretty little
thing, but not at all his style, very pert and
conceited. Of danger from Iris Mrs. Furnivall
never dreamed ; her son had been acquainted
with her now for four years, and if anything
were to have come of it, it would have done so
ere this. Besides, Iris neither rode to hounds,
nor played lawn-tennis, and those were the two

things that Laurence always admired in girls,
and Mrs. Furnivall, who was not addicted to
psychological problems, never considered that
contrast is to the full as often productive of
love as similarity of views.

Mrs. Pleydell was surprised, and not a little
dismayed, to find that after this dance there
was seldom a day that two or more of the
officers did not find their way to the Gate
House. What could it be, she wondered, that
made Eve so attractive? Her conversation
when she heard it  which was, however, but
seldom, for Eve had a wonderful knack of
quietly withdrawing her special cavalier to some
distance for a tete-astute  was of the most trifling
description and terribly interspersed with slang.
Mrs. Pleydell had lived for so many years at
Bannerton out of the reach of the fashionable
world that she was not at all au fait of the
manners of the day, nor aware how very few
ideas, eked out with exclamations from burlesques
and comic operas, can be made to suffice
for a whole afternoon's conversation. The
visitor who was talking to her and Iris often

cast longing glances towards the distant sofa
whence issued peals of laughter, and would
evidently have exchanged places with his
comrade with infinite satisfaction.

All through the summer the neighbourhood
of Bannerton was unusually gay. Mrs. Pleydell
called it positive dissipation, but she was not
sorry that things should so have happened.
She realized that Coalshire must be a great
change to Eve after the gay life she had led in
Hyde Park Gardens, and hoped that country
gaieties might gradually acclimatise her, so
that in a short time she might not find the
atmosphere of home dull.

After deliberating for some time as to whether
she should write to Tom Pleydell or not, Mrs.
Pleydell had made up her mind to do so, and
had sent to her nephew the substance of what
Eve had said of her views as to matrimony and
money. In return she had a reply, sorrowful
yet hopeful :

Eve always does make the worst of herself,"
wrote Tom : " to hear her sometimes you would
think she was a mercenary old woman of sixty

instead of the soft, sweet, loving little creature
she is. I cannot, I will not, give up hope, and
yet I fear it may be a vain one, for years must
elapse before I shall be in a position to ask her,
and how can I be so presumptuous as to hope
she will wait for me ? Still even the hope is
something, and I cannot relinquish it till I am
absolutely forced to do so."

Mrs. Pleydell sighed as she read the letter.
Much as she wished to see Eve's character in
the most favourable light she could not take
Tom's view of it. Fascinating and sweet she
certainly could and often did appear, but beneath
it all her mother feared lay a hard stratum
of worldliness and love of wealth. She could
only hope that Tom might prove more right
than she.

CHAPTER VI.

Out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety.
Henry IV. Part 1, Act iii, Sc. 3.

An assignation sweetly made
With gentle whispers in the dark.

Francis.

rjlHE summer was an unusually fine one, and,
-*- as we have said, there were more dances,
garden-parties, and picnics than was at all
usual in the neighbourhood of Bannerton. But
nevertheless Eve Pleydell was dismally discontented,
and bitterly contrasted this summer
with the delights of the last which she had
spent in Hyde Park Gardens. She soon determined,
however, that it was of no use to complain
: her mother gave her but scant sympathy,

telling her that she might think herself fortunate
to make her first acquaintance with Coalshire
when it was so unusually gay ; while Iris wondered
openly how she could possibly want anymore
dissipation. Evidently lamentation was
of no avail, though Eve thought her case a
grievous one that fully deserved it ; but she
was in some ways of an eminently practical
turn of mind and not at all disposed to waste
her power. Finding that complaints of dulness
were of no avail, she took up the caressing line,
and played her part so well that Mrs. Pleydell
was soon persuaded that she was becoming
quite reconciled to the life at the Gate House,
and especially devoted to herself. It did not
strike her as possible, indeed it never occurred
to her, that a child like Eve would be capable
of acting a part and professing affection and
contentment so as eventually to gain her own
ends.

Eve fully intended to weave the web of her
coaxing ways so closely round her mother as
to enable her to obtain whatever she required.
Already she had had some little success. She

had begged so earnestly to be allowed to have
a canoe that, after much demur, and after
having received from Mrs. William Pleydell an
assurance that Eve was quite accustomed to
rowing and was considered a first-rate oars-woman,
Mrs. Pleydell consented ; not, indeed, to
a canoe, but to a light boat, in which the girl
spent a great deal of her time. It was not very
lively, she said to herself, still it was better
than sitting in the drawing-room and having to
read dull books, or than going to see the poor
people as Iris was made to do. Nothing could
persuade Eve that Iris felt any pleasure in such
visits : they would have been odiously disagreeable
to her, therefore she judged that they
must of course be so to everyone else. She
was greatly disappointed at being able to
extract no " fun " out of the relations between
Iris and Laurence Furnivall. Of his sentiments
she had no doubt, and she longed to tease him,
but she seemed to Laurence hardly conscious
enough of his importance, and he talked to her
less than to anyone else, while Iris merely met
any observations on the subject with the

remark that " Eve was a silly child, and talked
of things she did not understand."

As to one thing that was required of her, Eve
absolutely rebelled; she would not go out to
dinner.

I didn't care for it much even in London,"
she said, piteously ; " though there, of course
people are reasonable, and don't ask a girl
without a young man to match her. But hero
it is too awful to be borne. I have dined out
three times, and each time I have been sent
down with an old clergyman ; the first talked
to me about the bishop's charge till I asked him
how much powder there was in it, and then he
looked as if he thought I was mad, and never
spoke to me again ; the second could talk of
nothing but 'Gregorian' and all sorts of
chants, and always went back to them, no
matter what I tried to talk about; and the
third talked geology, and bored me worse than
any of them. No, mummy darling, don't ask
me to go through it again. Iris is an angel, I
suppose, and doesn't mind dulness. I'd rather
go to bed."

And so, when Iris and her mother went to
dinner-parties, of which, as is usual in cathedral
towns, there were a good many, Eve stayed at
home, and generally spent the evening on the
river. Innocently enough at first, but it was
not very long before she had an adventure.

From the moment the boat had made its
appearance, Mrs. Pleydell had issued a decree
that Eve was never, under any circumstances,
to go down the river in the direction of the
town. This was rather a grievance, for Eve
thought that in that direction she might encounter
some of the officers, who were rather
fond of boating, but seldom got so far up the
river as the Gate House. Though by the road
Bannerton was only three miles off, the manifold
windings of the river caused the distance
by water to be more than ten. Still the order
was not disobeyed, and Eve tried to console
herself for the dulness of her enforced solitude
by the thought that all this quiet practice would
enable her to shine doubly whenever she was
again fortunate enough to have an audience.

On the evening in question Mrs. Pleydell and

Iris had gone to dine at the Palace, and shortly
after their departure Eve set off in her boat.
It was a lovely evening in the first week in
August, but its beauty was completely lost
upon her. Excepting that she delighted in
warmth, and was glad it did not rain, because
it would have kept her at home, neither beauty
of weather nor of scenery had the slightest
effect upon her. She hardly saw the thickets
of golden iris or delicate arrowhead which
fringed the banks, and looked with perfect indifference
at the silvery water-lilies which
studded the quiet reaches of the river as she
got within the shade of the woods of Beechmont.


Iris would have been enchanted with the
lovely beech glades, the golden August evening
sun throwing dark shades across them, and
touching the silvery boles with a mysterious
radiance. Eve saw nothing of it ; she was practising
what she called " spurts," rowing as hard
as she possibly could. She felt unusually energetic
that evening, and, almost without perceiving
it, went considerably farther up the

river than she had ever done before. As was
often the case in her solitary expeditions, she
had begun to dream, not exactly the romantic
dreams common to young girls, but of the time
when she might go back to Mrs. William
Pleydell, and begin to live again. Eve hardly
understood that her mother really meant that
she was never to go back to her aunt; she
thought that her happiness was only under a
temporary eclipse. And thus dreaming of the
delights of a return to London, of all she would
do, and how she would enjoy herself, she
neglected to observe where she was going, and
ran full speed into an intricate thicket of flags.
It seemed as if it would be very easy to get
out again, but such was not the case ; in fact,
the boat was fast on the mud, and the impetus
of the pace at which Eve had been going had
fixed it there firmly.

Here was a dilemma ! There was not a human
being in sight ; at that time in the evening
a passer-by was hardly to be hoped for ; indeed
that part of the river being very lonely, days
might pass without anyone coming in sight.

To wade to shore was impossible : the place
where she was fixed was a small eyot in the
middle of the river ; there was deep water
between it and the shore, and she could not
swim. Whatever should she do 1 Every endeavour
to get the boat off seemed only to
imbued it the more firmly. It seemed a desperate
case, and Eve felt that not only was it very
disagreeable, but that it would make her
mother nervous and very probably induce her
to forbid any more boating. The idea made
her desperate, and, forlorn as the hope seemed
of anyone hearing her, she shouted as loudly as
she could,

"Help! help!"

At first there was no reply, but when she once
more raised her voice she fancied she heard a
shout in answer. She tried again, and now there
was no doubt that she was answered, and that
the voice was drawing nearer. After a very few
minutes, though they seemed to Eve an hour, a
figure appeared on the nearest bank. The sun
had set, and, though the moon had risen, the
light was not so clear as to show Eve distinctly

what manner of man he was. Still he was a
man, and that at the moment was all she cared
for.

What is the matter ?" he called out.

; I am stuck in the mind, and can't get my
boat off."

"Wait a minute and I'll come to you," and
he disappeared.

It seemed an age, but it really was only
about ten minutes till he re-appeared in a large
boat close to her.

We must make this boat fast to yours," he
said, suiting the action to the word, " and you
had better get into my boat to lighten yours as
much as possible."

Eve complied, and he assisted her into his
boat. Now that they were at close quarters
she could see that he had the appearance of a
gentleman. He was very tall and dark, and
wore a sort of yachting suit of serge. More
she had not time to observe before she was fully
occupied in watching his endeavours to get her
boat off. The mud must have been very holding,
for it was a matter of considerable difficulty

; but at length it was accomplished, and
the little boat once more floated free upon the
river.

Oh ! thank you so very, very much," said
Eve : "it is so very good of you ! What should
I have done if you had not been near?"

u You would have passed the night on the
mud most assuredly. I hope you have not far
to go ; it is rather late for you to be in so lonely
a part of the river."

Oh ! I can row a great pace, and it is all
down stream. I live at the Gate House, close
to Beechmont."

"You have a long row before you. May I
accompany you part of the way, to make sure
you have no further adventures I"

M Let us race ! " exclaimed Eve, with delight
: " it will make the way seem so much
shorter. I beg your pardon, though, " she
continued, suddenly remembering that this
was an utter stranger. " I have no business
to trouble you any more. I can get back quite
safe."

At least let me have the pleasure of .

I. K

ing you a little way' said the stranger, assisting
her into her boat.

It was a most lovely, still, moonlight night,
but Eve thought very little of the silvery landscape
and the dark shadows of the trees which
would have delighted Iris. She was far more
interested in the encomiums lavished by the
stranger on her rowing, and was soon chattering
away to him as if he were an old acquaintance.
Swift rowing and the rapid stream
brought them near the Gate House sooner than
Eve could have believed possible. Then she
paused.

"Don't mind, but please I'd rather you didn't
come any further," she said. iC I aren't say
anything about an adventure, or I shall never
be allowed to go out again, and it's almost the
only thing that keeps me alive in this dull
place."

I understand. But surely you will not
forsake the upper reaches of the river ? May I
not hope that you will visit them again I"

I daresay I shall. I shall want to see what
that eyot looks like in broad daylight."

Then I shall be on the watch. Good night,
Miss Pleydell."

How do you know my name ?" cried Eve in
astonishment.

1 sometimes go to Bannerton, and few who
do could help knowing the lovely Miss Pleydell
by sight. Do not be afraid, however, I am, I
assure you, discretion itself, and I shall not
give the slightest intimation of having seen you
before when next we meets''

iC Oh, thank you so much !" cried Eve, u and
you know I've never said half enough, but I'm
quite awfully obliged to you for your help.
Good-bye !"

"No, aw revoir" and he took off his straw
hat as Eve once more made her boat move rapidly
through the water.

It was not till she was seated in the drawing-room
awaiting her mother's and sister's return,
that she remembered that the stranger had the
advantage of her, he knew her name and she
had never once thought of asking his. Well !
that omission could be remedied when they
next met, he had said he would be on the watch

k2

for her when she visited the spot. The proposed
concealment of her adventure gave Eve not
the slightest uneasiness. She had not a particularly
tender conscience, and considered that she,
and not her mother, was the proper arbiter of
her actions. Such a rencontre and the prospect
of future meetings gave her quite a pleasing
feeling of excitement. The stagnation, as she
chose to call it, of her life was broken, there
was absolutely an event to look forward to.
Certainly the stranger had been very agreeable ;
Eve by no means objected to decided compliments,
and had found the approval expressed of
her rowing very pleasant. She was indulging
in dreams of future meetings, to which their
secrecy gave a decided piquancy, when Mrs.
PI ey dell and Iris returned.

Well, Eve, you missed a very pleasant
evening. You would not have complained of
being bored with old clergymen ; there were
three of the officers."

Which?"

Captain Barton, Mr. Freeman, and Mr.
Moreton."

Who took you in, Iris V

"Mr. Furnivall."

<f Oh !" and Eve gave her sister a look which
made Iris colour, 'well, I amused myself very
nicely ; the evening was lovely, and the river
delicious."

I am really glad," said Mrs. Pleydell to Iris,
as the latter lingered her room before wishing
her good night, iC really glad that I was persuaded
to allow Eve to have that boat. She seems too
experienced for there to be the danger I feared,
and really it is the only country pursuit she
appears to enjoy. If she can appreciate a
lovely evening like this more than talking to
those boys from the barracks who always hang
about her so, she can hardly be so frivolous as
she sometimes seems."

Iris did not answer. Eve was a problem she
could not understand. She was loth to
acknowledge, even to herself, that she distrusted
her sister; and yet there was always something
about Eve that gave her the impression
of not being honest and straightforward. After
she was undressed she sat pondering over

Laurence Furnivall's utterances that evening till
she was suddenly disturbed by the apparition of
Eve in her white dressing-gown, 'with her pale
golden hair hanging like a mantle around her.

Now, Iris, tell me who was there and all the
fun'

1 don't know about fun, Eve, I can tell you
who was there," and Iris enumerated the names
of about twenty people.

I can exactly see it. Captain Barton took
Mrs. Delamere, and they talked of her brother
in India, who was at school with him, they
always do,  how often they must say the same
things ! Mr. Freeman took Miss Fancy, and
talked about how 4 we ' mean to play polo at
Buckingham when ' we ' go to Hounslow next
year. I'm sure I wish they'd do it here and
enliven us a little! And Mr. Moreton said to
you, 'Your thither not here to-night, With
Netherleigh, how with that ? Do let me take you
in to dinner ;' and then when Mr. Furnivall was
told off to you, he looked unutterable things,
and murmured something about < liommc propose
hotel ditlipoflu "

You are right about him certainly," said
Iris, laughing, " as to what the others talked of
I cannot gratify your curiosity."

And was Mr. Furnivall very devoted ?"

Eve, I do wish you would not talk such
nonsense ! It is entirely a silly idea of your
own, and you talk of it as a reality till you
make me feel quite uncomfortable."

Is that why you have been so cold to him
lately f" said Eve, quickly.

Cold 1 What do you mean ? I have been
exactly as usual."

Iris spoke calmly, but she was very far from
feeling composed. She knew that her manner
had never been the same since Eve had first
awakened her consciousness of her own feelings.
She had striven her very hardest to seem just
as usual, bat was conscious that she had
failed. Laurence's manner to-night had been
more empresse than usual  she was far from
realizing that her proud, cold bearing was to
him an irresistible attraction  and she was
already tormenting herself with doubts whether
she had not repulsed him almost with rudeness.

If she had it was all owing to Eve's nonsense,
and she cordially wished that her sister had
refrained from commenting on her affairs, and
opening her eyes to the state of her own
heart. Determined to change the subject, she
said,

I forgot to tell you the news  the Beech-months
are coming down next week for the
autumn."

That is something like news' cried Eve,
eagerly. " Now there will be some one to talk
to, for they are sure to have the house full of
London people."

I don't know about that," said Iris, doubtfully.
"I don't want to damp your hopes, Eve,
but Lady Beechmont has been ill, and they are
said to be coming down for quiet."

They couldn't come to a better place, I'm
sure. But I don't think much of that. Lady
Beechmont's almost always fancying that she's
ill, and going somewhere for quiet, but it never
makes any difference."

Poor thing ! that seems hard upon her."

Iris, I wonder if you are really stupid, or

-whether it is that you won't understand! Lady
Beechmont is as well as I am, but she always
makes what Aunt Louisa called a plaything of her
health, and when she says she is ill it generally
only means she is bored. She would die here
without the house full."

Well, Eve, we can talk about it tomorrow.
I am very sleepy, and you ought to have been
in bed an hour ago."

u Good night," and the sisters parted.

Eve sat and reflected on the news which Iris
had just communicated. She was delighted to
think that Beechmont would be inhabited ; she
had seen a good deal of Lady Hildegarde
Becher during the previous season, and knew
that a great many of her own especial friends
were pretty sure to stay at Beechmont during
the time that the family spent there. If only
they would stay the whole winter! How
delightful it would be to see people again to
whom it would be possible to talk of something
interesting and amusing, and not to be expected
to discuss dull books as Iris really seemed to
enjoy doing ! Of course, she and Hildegarde

should be a great deal together, and Lady
Imogene, who was quiet and prosy and did not
understand fun, would amuse herself with Iris 
they would suit admirably.

On the whole she rather hoped that Lord
Kootley would not accompany his family. On
their first acquaintance he had paid her great
attention, so much indeed that Mrs. William
Pleydell had been considerably elated and had
pointed out to her niece what an extremely
advantageous alliance it would be for her. Eve
had willingly acquiesced in the idea,  not
that she really cared for him in the very slightest
degree, but because the thought of being a
rich young viscountess, and able, by reason of
being married, to go where she pleased and do
what she liked, seemed to her quite too delightful.
But when, as their intimacy grew, Lord
Kootley presumed to find fault with some of
her associates, and even to express his disapproval
of some of her own proceedings, her
indifference began to take the form of active
dislike. Accustomed ever since she had lived
with her aunt to be fed on the sugar-plums of

praise and flattery, Eve resented the very mildest
expression of disapprobation, and considered
Lord Rootley both cross and impertinent.
She did fast things because she knew that he
objected to them with the sole object of annoying
him, but she had such firm faith in the
power of her own fascinations that, in spite of
her aunt's warnings, she never believed that he
would be able to break his chains. In spite of
all his disapproval he would propose to her 
she would accept him, and when they were
married she would soon show him that she meant
to go her own way, and not his. But all her
calculations were upset by Lord Rootley's conduct.


After the fruitless remonstrance as to her
conduct at Maidenhead,, of which she had
spoken to Iris, he had completely ceased to be
her slave and shadow ; he still spoke to her
every day, and occasionally danced with her,
and even called once or twice in Hyde Park
Gardens, but by his manner he made it abundantly
clear that Eve was no longer his attraction.
Mrs. William Pleydell was terribly disappointed,

Eve herself unspeakably mortified, the
more so as she had done all she could to lure
him back, but without result. And now she did
not at all look forward with pleasure to his
probable presence in Coalshire. Though she
told herself, and indeed believed, that she did
not care in the very slightest degree for his
opinion, still she was uneasily conscious that
his eyes fixed upon her when she was doing
anything which he disapproved, made her very
uncomfortable. Besides she was sure that he
would in some way or other spoil her amusement,
perhaps might even in some way interfere
with her interviews with the mysterious
stranger of the river.

If a turn had not been given to her thoughts
by Iris' " news respecting the Beechmonts," Eve
would probably have dwelt far more upon her
evening's adventure than was actually the case.
Her principal interest in it had been the prospect
of a break in what she chose to consider
the deadly monotony of life at the Gate House,
and the prospect of a house full of London acquaintances
deprived it of much of its charm.

Still Beecbmont was not yet inhabited, sometime
might still elapse before the family arrived
and the guests assembled : during that interval,
at any rate, the stranger might prove a source
of amusement. Eve always enjoyed a secret,
and, though the primary reason of her silence
was the dread of her boating excursions being
prohibited, she yet felt that her acquaintance
was all the pleasant and more exciting from
being a mystery. She felt sure that the hero
of her adventure was a gentleman ; she had seen
enough of him in the moonlight to induce a suspicion
that he was very handsome, he had made
himself very agreeable, and, sure passport to
Eve's good graces, he had paid her a compliment
by speaking of her as the beautiful Miss Pleydell.
Yes, there was decidedly some enjoyment to begot
out of the accidental acquaintance, and Eve
began almost to hope that Hildegarde Becher's
keenness about rowing might somewhat have
subsided ; she would prefer for the present having
the upper reaches of the river to herself.

It was long before Eve went to sleep, so
occupied was she with arranging all the enjoyment

she was to have at Beechmont, and also
the details of her meetings with the stranger.
When at length she did so it was to dream of
boats entangled in thickets of flags and bulrushes,
and of assistance offered by handsome
strangers, who, however, on nearer inspection
had a tantalizing way of turning into Lord
Rootley.

CHAPTER VII.

How far your eyes may pierce, I cannot tell,
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.

King Lear.  Act i, Sc. 4.

Know when to speak ; for many times it brings
Danger, to give the best advice to kings.

Aphorism 254. Herrick.

in YE was restless the next morning, longing
*-* to set forth in her boat, and yet not liking
to start too early. Never had the two hours
of steady reading, or the hour's practising which
her mother insisted upon, seemed so irksome,
and she welcomed luncheon-time with unusual
relief. After that she would be free. But such
was not to be the case. Mrs. Pleydell announced
at luncheon that she was going to drive to

Allanton, a place about seven miles off, to call
on a newly-married couple, a Mr. and Mrs.
Vaughan who bad arrived there, and that she
wished both girls to accompany her. Eve's
countenance fell.

"You'll let me off, mummy, w 7 on't you?" she
said, in her most coaxing and persuasive manner
; " it is such a lovely day for the river."

My dear child, you really must not ride
your pet hobby quite to death. No, you had
the whole evening on the river yesterday, and
will be all the better for a rest to-day."

"It will be so hot and dusty driving," said
Eve, pouting.

"Not so hot as it would be on the river in
this blazing sun ; I declare it would be enough
to give you sunstroke ! No, w r e shall go principally
through the forest, and it will be delightfully
shady. I don't think you have ever been
that road, and it is very pretty."

I don't want to go. You and Iris will be
quite enough ; why can't you let me enjoy myself
in peace V'

Eve," said her mother, gravely, " that is nota

proper way to speak. I wish you to drive
with me to-day, and I don't choose that you
should upset the arrangements I have made.
Go and get ready at once, and do not let me
have to say any more about it."

Eve's sulkiness showed itself in the slowness
with which she made her toilette. She knew
her mother disliked the carriage to be kept
waiting, and dawdled until the horses had been
standing in the shade of the great walnut-tree
fully half an hour, in the hope that Mrs. Pleyel
would become impatient and not wait for
her.

But such was not the case. Her mother
came to her room, and waited with a determined
patience till she was at length ready and
there was no further hope of escape. It was
with a very bad grace and sulky countenance
that Eve took her place in the barouche.

The drive was a lovely one, leading as it did
through a portion of the forest that on one
side stretched to within a few miles of Banner-ton.
But beautiful as it was, grateful as was
the thick shade of the fine old oaks on this

VOL. I. L

blazing August afternoon, Eve refused to
admire anything.

She did not care for trees,  there was no
air away from the river," was all she would say,
and at length Mrs. Pleydell signed to Iris to
leave her alone, and the mother and daughter
whose thoughts and tastes were in unison, addressed
their conversation to each other. This
was a fresh offence to Eve, who disapproved of
being ignored, and when she followed her
mother and Iris into the drawing-room at
Allanton her face was like a thunder-cloud. But
it cleared as if by magic, for there were several
visitors there before them, among them two or
three of the officers from Bannerton, and Eve
had no idea of allowing her bad temper to be
suspected out of her own family circle. In a
moment she was as brilliant and as fascinating
as usual, and Iris looking at her in astonishment,
almost wondered if this animated dimpling
little face could possibly be the one which
had looked so sulky opposite to her in the
carriage.

Mrs. Vaughan soon proposed an adjournment

to the garden ; two or three more guests arrived,
among them Laurence Furnivall and his mother,
and when Mrs. Pleydell at length took her
leave. Eve was loth to go, having greatly enjoyed
a flirtation with Captain Deverell conducted
under colour of gathering and eating nectarines.
She had quite forgotten her disappointment
about the boat; she had been flattered and
admired, and that was always enough to
raise her to a pinnacle of satisfaction. She was
chatting away gaily as they drove home, when
suddenly, emerging from one of the glades of
the forest, appeared the hero of her boating
adventure, mounted on a very handsome bay
mare. If either Mrs. Pleydell or Iris had been
looking at Eve they must have perceived that
she blushed and looked embarrassed ; but they
were too occupied with wondering who the
stranger could be to observe her.

What a good-looking man and what a lovely
horse !" said Iris.

"It is no one belonging to the neighbourhood.
I wonder who he is?" said her mother.

Perhaps some one taking a riding tour."

L 2

u Perhaps. Well, at any rate it is nothing tous."


The stranger had let the carriage pass without
the faintest sign of recognition, but when
it was safely past, and he could only be seen by
Eve, who was seated with her back to the
horses, he took off his hat and made her a low
sweeping bow. Of course she could not return
it, and he evidently did not expect her to do
so, for the instant he had given his salutation,
he turned his horse and disappeared. So after
all he had not expected and waited for her on
the river ! Eve was sensible of a decided feeling
of mortification. All through her sulky
drive to Allanton she had been drawing mental
pictures, highly flattering to herself, of the
impatience with which he was doubtless awaiting
her possible appearance, and it was too
disappointing to have incontrovertible proof
that he had not expected her at all. Eve felt
positively disgusted, and almost registered a
vow that she would not pursue her adventure
by revisiting the eyot. The recollection of the
afternoon spent under the nectarine-trees at

Allanton was more flattering to her vanity, and
she quickly reverted to the contemplation of
it.

Something in Laurence Furnivall's manner to
Iris had for the first time struck his mother ;
and, as they drove back to Rookwood in his
mail-phaeton, she was unusually silent, considering
what course it would be best for her to
pursue. As we have said, while theoretically
desiring that he should marry, firmly believing
indeed that such was her fondest wish, she yet
never saw him pay any girl the slightest attention
without at once discovering that she was
the very last person that he ought to marry.
So it was in the present case. Iris would have
appeared to most people a most unexceptionable
girl for a young man to fix his affections upon :
beautiful, of excellent family, well-bred and
refined, it would have been difficult to imagine
what more a mother could desire; but Mrs.
Furnivall, full of what she really believed to be
maternal anxiety for her son's welfare, but in
reality jealous of any threatening of the downfall
of her supremacy at Rookwood, thought

otherwise. There was really no objection that
she could formulate against Iris herself, excepting
the vague and intangible one that she
was quite sure she would not in the least suit
Laurence," why, she would have been sorely
puzzled to define ; so she fell back on the
dreadful disgrace " of Mrs. Pleyclell's connection
with her bankrupt brother-in-law, and
quite persuaded herself that it formed an insuperable
obstacle between Iris and her son, and
that it was her duty to point this out to him
before matters went any farther." But this
required to be done with infinite caution.
Laurence w r as decidedly self-w r filled, and opposition
to any of his wishes was very apt to
confirm him in his determination to have his
own way.

She began with some diplomacy after dinner.

That little Eve Pleydell certainly is a very
pretty little thing."

Pretty ? Yes, I suppose so, but it isn't a
style I admire, and she is so pert, there is no
dignity about her."

She seems to have plenty of admirers."

Oh, yes, plenty. Lots of men like a girl
of that sort who takes all the trouble off their
hands."

(i Well, poor child, it is well she should be
popular, it is her best chance of marrying well,
though I am afraid that disgraceful bankruptcy
they call it fraudulent in the papers  will be
sorely against her."

That would be very hard. It was no fault
of hers."

No, of course not. But still, hard or not,
the fact remains that people are rather shy of
connecting themselves with a disgraced family.
1 am afraid Mrs. Pleydell and her daughters
will find it to be the case."

As she spoke she glanced furtively at her
son to see whether the slight accent she had
ventured to lay on the word " daughters " had
caught his ear. Apparently it had done so, for
he coloured slightly, remained silent for a few
moments, and then said,

"Even if it injured Miss Pleydell, which I
think would he very unfair, it cannot, at any
rate, affect Miss Netherleigh  she had nothing

whatever to do with this defaulting bankrupt,"


No-o  of course she has not actually, but
still it reflects upon her. Suppose for instance
that a man proposed to her, acquaintances who
asked about her, and heard that her mother was
a Mrs. Pleydell, would be very apt to forget
that she did not herself belong to the objectionable
family."

I can't see why they shouldn't be able to
remember her name just as well as the other."

Only somehow people always recollect what
it is desirable they should forget."

Well, I think any man would be a great
fool who let himself be put off from marrying a
girl he liked because of such a piece of fanciful
absurdity."

"Do you? Well, I don't know, it is always
disagreeable for a man to feel that there is a
possibility of his wife being looked coldly on."

A man marries to please himself, not a pack
of chattering idiots."

Ci Of course, for his own happiness chiefly and
primarily, still whenever he does mix with the

world, it makes things better for him that his
wife should be able to take her proper place."

I can't say I see that people have made the
slightest difference to Mrs. Pleydell or her
daughters since this business took place."

No, I don't think they have ; it says a great
deal for her popularity, I think, that such should
be the case. Miss Bedford did say the other day
that she thought it would have shown better
taste if she had refused invitations this summer
and stayed at home till the matter had been a
little forgotten ; but then, as she said, people
do see things so very differently. But asking
them out here where they are so well known
is one thing  it would be so awkward, you
see, to omit them  and marrying is quite
another."

Laurence sat silent for some minutes, and his
mother thought she had probably said quite
enough ; if she were to say more he might
begin to imagine she had been talking with an
object, and, if he once did that, all hope of her
influencing him would be at once destroyed, so
she changed the subject.

I heard to-day, Laurence, that the Beech-rants
arrive the middle of next week. What
do you say to having our garden-party and
dance the week afterwards?"

Laurence started out of a deep reverie.

I beg your pardon, mother, I didn't hear
what you said."

Mrs. Furnivall repeated her observation.

It will do capitally. I should like to get
it well over before the shooting begins. So the
Beechmonts are coming  is Rootley coming

too r

I don t know."

"I hope he is  he's a sensible fellow and perhaps
he'll get his father to hear reason about
exchanging some of the partridge ground. It's
too aggravating the way in which our land
dovetails in some places, and Bootley'll be more
likely to understand all about it than his father,
who never cared for sport, I believe, even in
his best days."

"Not caring about sports'' was a heinous
offence in Laurence's eyes. He proceeded to
talk so very earnestly about the hoped for exchange

of shooting, that his mother began to
think that she had alarmed herself unnecessarily,
and to congratulate herself that the reluctance
which he had exhibited to agreeing to her
proposition that Iris Netherleigh was tainted
by any shadow of the Pleydell disgrace, was
after all without any strong personal interest.
She felt it would be wise to drop the subject,
at any rate, for the present.

Mrs. Furnivall would have been considerably
disturbed if she could have seen the working of
her son's mind as he sat alone in the smoking-room
that night. Her remarks respecting Iris
were far indeed from having had the effect
which she hoped and intended. If she had said
nothing, it is very probable that he might have
gone on as he had done so long, calmly enjoying
and appropriating Iris' society, and almost
unconscious of how much he cared for her. But
his mother's observations, her assumption that
Iris must suffer from her connection with the
name of Pleydell, had roused him, had taught
him how very much she was to him. As he sat
alone that night he wondered how it was that

he had so long delayed the question that he felt
he had all along intended to ask, and determined
that it should be put without delay. When
should it be ? It seemed to him that there
would be a certain awkwardness in riding over
to the Gate House, demanding a private audience
of Iris and asking her to be his wife ; it
would surely appear abrupt after their long
acquaintance and bis frequent opportunities,
and yet it was what he would have preferred
doing. Now that his mind was fully awakened
to his own wishes, he would have liked to
settle the matter off hand. But, besides the
awkwardness which would he thought exist, he
had an infinity of engagements that would certainly
preclude the possibility of his meeting-iris
for several days. The next day he was to goto
the other side of the country to play in a
county cricket match, and would not return till
the ensuing week ; and then he had made an
appointment to go over to a small property of
his in Cheshire and meet his agent on business.
Then another day he had agreed to goto
Reckon to see a horse that sounded likely

to suit him as a hunter. No  there was no
chance of his seeing Iris for the next ten days.
It seemed really an eternity,  but the idea of
giving up one of the engagements, so as the
more quickly to decide his fate, never once
occurred to him.

Perhaps if he had at all doubted the answer
he would receive he might have been in greater
haste ; but such was not the case. Laurence
Furnivall had perhaps not a much higher
opinion of his own perfections than is common
to his sex, but he had, ever since he grew up,
been the object of so many attentions, and had
it made so plain to him in various quarters that
he had not only to ask and have, but would be
met more than half way so as to save him even
the trouble of asking, that it, is not perhaps
astonishing that he had even more than the
ordinary belief that he was a sultan privileged
to throw his handkerchief where he listed. It
was true that Iris had never given him any of
these flattering intimations, indeed it was her
proud and somewhat cold manner that had at
first been her chief attraction for him ; still it

never once occurred to him to contemplate the
possibility of a refusal. If he had done so he
would hardly have been so content to wait, ashe
at length decided to do, till the day of his
mother's garden-party and dance. Then he
reflected he should have ample opportunity;
after he had done his part in receiving the
guests he could stroll with Iris into the more
secluded portion of the grounds,  it would be
much better, and altogether more pleasant to
him than going on a special mission to the Gate
House. And so, while Mrs. Furnivall lulled
herself to sleep with the satisfactory belief that
she had nipped in the bud any nascent danger
of her precious son's " throwing himself away "
upon Miss Netherleigh, that son, aroused by
her words, was arranging to his own satisfaction
the time and place for the disappointment
of her hopes. Could she have seen his mind
she would hardly have slept so calmly.

Lord and Lady Beechmont and their daughters
duly arrived on the day appointed, and
Eve was pettish and discontented because herm
other would neither call the ensuing day nor

permit her to go up to the house to see Lady
Hildegarde.

But, mamma, we were such pals."

Such what, Eve !"

Oh, bother ! Mamma, you know quite well
I mean friends."

"It is always as well to say what you do
mean, Eve."

But why mayn't I go V 9

"Because, my dear, it would be a positive
impertinence to invade people the very instant
they arrive."

But you could call in the afternoon."

It would be as bad  I know Lady Beechmont
well, but that is no reason why I should
take a liberty. Besides, you know very well
that it is Aunt Rachel's day."

Surely we might get off for once."

Aunt Rachel expects us always, and nothing
would make me disappoint her. It is of no use,
Eve  you will not go to Beechmont till I think
proper."

Eve's fair face clouded  it was wonderful
how sulky she could look when displeased, and

would have been incredible to her many admirers
to whom she carefully exhibited a very
different countenance.

Twice during the days that had elapsed since
her adventure she had met the hero of it on the
river, and their acquaintance had made considerable
progress though she had not yet
learnt his name. He paid her the compliments
that her vanity loved, and from each interview
she had returned more intoxicated than she
had ever been before. It had not been without
effect on her temper ; she had been less
tolerant of control, more impatient of her
mother's requirements as to reading and music,
than she had been for some time, and poor Mrs.
Pleydell began to feel almost in despair. She
had hoped that, when once the girl grew a little
accustomed to the less exciting life which she
was now destined to lead, she would become
less discontented and prove herself a pleasant
inmate. Surely she must have been very different
in Hyde Park Gardens, or Tom Pleydell
could hardly have asserted so positively that
she was loving and amiable, and disposed to do

herself injustice by her occasional ebullitions of
temper. Mrs. Pleydell hardly fathomed even
yet that when Eve was pleased and excited,
and her vanity flattered, she could appear the
most amiable of mortals ; nor did she make
sufficient allowance for the fact that Tom was
desperately in love, and therefore hardly the
best judge of Eve's fascinations.

Tom kept up a correspondence with Eve, or,
more strictly speaking, he wrote to her pretty
regularly, and she  left his letters unanswered.
Occasion he wrote to Mrs. Pleydell, and from
these epistles she gathered that he was working
very hard in the unaccustomed and distasteful
sphere of a clerk, and had reason to hope that
he was giving satisfaction to his employers.
Eve never evinced the slightest interest in his
accounts of himself, beyond the observation
that he had been very foolish to give up his
own fortune when there was not the slightest
necessity for it. Mrs. Pleydell said very little
about Eve in her answers to Tom's epistles, but
that little was never calculated to encourage
the slightest hope. She trusted that gradually

VOL. I. M

she might induce him to believe that the girl
was absolutely indifferent to him.

Eve accorded a very different welcome to the
missives that reached her from Mrs. William
Pleydell. That lady had sold her house in Hyde
Park Gardens to excellent advantage, and had
betaken herself to a little known or frequented
German spa. It was dismally dull, she wrote,
but of course this year, while the catastrophe
was still fresh in people's minds, the only thing
for her was to efface herself. She hoped to
establish herself once more in London in the
winter, and if everything went well Eve would
of course return to her ; she feared she must be
terribly moped down in' Coalshire, but as matters
were at present she would find it quite as
dreary in Germany. Eve kept these letters
strictly to herself, and answered them at great
length ; but having one day, when annoyed at
some restriction which she considered vexatious,
given utterance to some observations as to the
happy time when she should go back to dear
Aunt Louisa, Mrs. Pleydell thought it better to
put an end to such expectations at once ; and

not only told Eve in the clearest manner that
she would not again return to her aunt, but
also wrote very distinctly on the subject to her
sister-in-law, stating that she did not think
London life with all its excitements was healthy
for a girl of Eve's frivolous temperament, and
begging that she would not disturb her mind
by suggestions of a return to it. Mrs. William
was very angry, declaring that her sister-in-law
had broken faith with her, that she had allowed
her to adopt Eve on the understanding that she
was to be hers for ever, and that, if she had ever
imagined she should be defrauded of her, the
girl should never have returned to Coalshire.
She had only allowed her to do so to save her
from some unpleasantness, which of course
were inseparable from her uncle's failure. She
wrote in the same strain to Eve, and made the
girl more discontented and fractious than she
would otherwise have been.

"Iris," said Eve. coming into her sister's
room after her mother had finally refused
to call at Beechmont that afternoon. "Can
you help me ? Mummy's so cross to-day ;

m2

she won't let me go and see Hildegarde."

"Eve, mamma is never cross."

"No, not to you  you can do just as you like
and there's never a word, but I may do nothing
I like."

Eve, you know quite well you are talking
nonsense. Mamma is most indulgent to both
of us. You know she likes us to employ ourselves
in the morning, and you will be sure to
see Lady Hildegarde in a day or two. I'm sure
it never occurred to me to rush off the first
moment they arrived to see Lady Imogene."

"That's not the same thing, you're ever so
much older, and besides you haven't seen her
for four years."

"All the more reason that I should want to
see her again. Now you've seen Lady Hides
within as many months."

Oh, Iris, how can you be so tiresome and
stupid ? What in the world could you and
Imogene have to say to each other ? Now
Hildegarde can tell me all about everything,
how much my friends missed me and who is
coming here to stay and all that."

u Well, but as mamma does not wish you to
go to-day there is nothing to be done."

I thought I could come out with you when
you go into the village at twelve. If I went
with you mamma wouldn't mind, and while
you were talking to your old women I could
just slip up to the house for a quarter of an
hour."

Do you really think," said Iris, looking at
her in astonishment ; Ci do you for one moment
suppose, Eve, that I would help you to deceive
and disobey mamma ? You surely cannot think
what you are saying !"

You are very cross and disagreeable !" said
Eve, bursting into tears ; " I wish, oh how I
wish that I were back with Aunt Louisa V

CHAPTER VIII.

Self-love never yet could look on truth,
But with blear'cl beams ; sleek flattery and she
Are twin-born sisters, and so mix their eyes,
As if you sever one the other dies.

Cynthia's Revels. Ben Jonson.

Thou who lov'st but what nothing loves,
And that's thyself.

Dryden.

TTWE had not very long to wait for a sight of
*-* her friend. The very next morning, while
with ostentatious inattention she was reading
Macaulay's History aloud to her mother  Mrs.
Pleydell had begun by allowing her to read to
herself, but had soon found that Eve either
concealed a novel in the book, or went calmly
to sleep, so victimised herself by making her

read aloud,  a ring was beard at the hall-door,
and in another moment Lady Hildegarde Becher
was announced. Eve threw the book to the
other end of the room, sprang up with an
exclamation of delight, and welcomed her
friend with an ecstatic hug.

It was soon made clear to Mrs. Pleydell that
Lady Hildegarde had come to see her daughter,
and thought her considerably in the way. She
just answered her hostess's questions, but immediately
turned again to Eve, and seemed to
think it quite a hardship to have to reply to
inquiries as to her mother's health. Eve having
talked of her as a great beauty, Mrs. Pleydell
was considerably disappointed. Her recollection
of the girl four years before had been of a
pretty child, but she could not admire the bold-looking,
loud-mannered young woman whose
fair hair had been changed to a dusky red, and
was as rough as if it had never made acquaintance
with a brush, whose eyebrows were undoubtedly
" assisted," and whose eyelids were
by no means innocent of kohl. She could not,
she thought, be a good friend for Eve, and

began to regret that Beechmont was to be
occupied that autumn.

At length, finding that her studious ignoring
of her hostess had no effect in causing the
latter to retire, Lady Hildegarde affected a
sudden admiration for the garden, and in a few
moments the two girls were on the lower
terrace.

I thought I was never going to have a word
with you!" exclaimed Lady Hildegarde, throwing
herself into a seat. " You don't always sit
doing goody in the drawing-room like that, doN
you?"

Mummy makes me read aloud : it's an awful
bore, but I can't help it," said Eve.

You poor innocent ! Why don't you strike ?
But now tell me all about everything. How
do you exist here ? Is there a creature to speak
to besides the stupid old things in the Close ? I
suppose there must be, or you would have
drowned yourself by this time."

Oh, yes, there are the officers," said Eve ;
and there is Mr. Furnivall of Rookwood, and
two or three others; and we have had some

dances, and garden-parties, and picnics and
things. But of course it is very dull after
London. Of course you'll have people staying
here."

Of course ; you don't think we are going to
vegetate by ourselves, though I believe Rootley
and Image would like it."

Oh ! then Lord Rootley is coming."

w Yes, more's the pity. We should have much
better fun without him. But we're going to
have an awfully jolly set down, and he can
hardly make head against them all ;" and Lady
Hildegarde proceeded to retail a list of names
that filled Eve's heart with delight, for among
them were many of her own special friends.
"And you're going to stay here the whole
autumn?"

Unless something happens, or it is too unbearably
dull, we shall stay till we go to London
in February."

Delightful ! How I hope I shall go back to
Aunt Louisa then ! Mummy says I shan't, but

I

should die here all the year round."
Well, it would be hard lines. I say, do you

keep up your rowing ? I've got such a jolly
new canoe coming down. Charley Palmer and
one or two more will bring theirs, and we can
have no end of fun."

Yes, I've got a boat," said Eve, not quite
sure that these aquatic projects suited her
views ; she thought she would prefer keeping
the upper reaches of the river to herself.

Well, I must be going. Tell me, is there
anything coming on  any fun, I mean?"

Eve mentioned one or two parties in prospect,
not forgetting the garden-party at Rook-wood
; and then Lady Hildegarde took her
departure without returning to the house.

Mrs. Pleydell looked up as Eve re-entered
the drawing-room, and, on perceiving that she
was alone, appeared somewhat surprised.

Is Lady Hildegarde gone ?"

Yes ; she couldn't stay any longer."

Not very good manners, I must say, not to
wish me good-bye."

Eve looked astonished.

But, mummy, she came to see me."

That is no reason, my dear, why she should

be discourteous to your mother. Lady Beech-most's
own manners are so good, I wonder she
has not trained her daughter better."

The subject not being pleasant, Eve at once
changed it.

Isn't she lovely, mamma ?"

"No, my dear, I can't say I think so. She
looks more like a fifth-rate actress than a
lady."

Eve looked astonished.

She's awfully admired."

<; It cannot be by anyone with a refined taste.
Her hair was a very pretty fair colour, now it is
hideous, and her eyes and eyebrows are painted.
What can her mother be thinking of!"

"Lord Rootley's always worrying her about
her hair and eyes."

He shows his good sense ; it is a pity she
does not attend to what he says."

Oh ! he is so fussy and tiresome. She
wishes so much he was not coming down this
autumn."

"Affectionate certainly towards her only
brother."

(C Oh, mamma, you don't know how tiresome
and particular he is."

Well, it does not seem to keep his sister in
order. Bat come, Eve, there is no reason you
should waste any more time. Go on with your
reading, you must take your practising in the
afternoon."

Oh, mummy' said Eve, as she reluctantly
picked up her book, " I want so much to go on
the river."

There will be ample time for that afterwards,"
said Mrs. Pleydell, decidedly, and Eve
re-commenced her reading in the voice that
irritated her mother almost beyond bearing,
showing plainly as it did that the girl was
obstinately determined that the sense of what
she read should not reach her mind if she could
help it.

It really seemed at times as if it were time
and trouble thrown away to endeavour to carry
on Eve's education. It was quite clear that, at
present, what she read did her no good, for she
simply read it like a parrot because she was
obliged to do so, and never had an idea of the

sense. Still Mrs. Pleydell was determined to
persevere; it was a certain discipline to make
Eve do as she was told, and at any rate three
hours were abstracted from the perusal of the
frivolous literature which was all she cared
for.

At lunch Eve chattered away very fast, detailing
all Lady Hildegarde had said respecting
the guests who were coming to stay at Beechmont,
and also about the canoes that were
expected.

We shall have quite a regatta," she exclaimed
; " oh, Iris, aren't you awfully sorry you're
out of it all? Why, you don't even care for
lawn-tennis, and two or three of the best players
in London are coming down. We shall
have no end of fun."

No indeed, Eve," said Iris, laughing; "lam
very glad you should have what you enjoy, but
I feel no wish either to row or to play lawn-tennis
more than I do at present. Looking on
suits me much better."

How odd !" said Eve, who, like most 
people, could not understand a

feeling which she did not herself experience ;
I suppose it's having lived in the country so
long that makes you so stupid."

For shame, Eve," said her mother ; " Iris is
by no means stupid."

Oh no, I know she's a dear old thing," said
Eve, carelessly giving her sister a kiss as she
passed her to get some cake.

I only wish you were ever likely to know
a quarter as much," continued Mrs. Pleydell.

I'm sure I should be very sorry," exclaimed
Eve ; " people would call me blue, and then men
would avoid me."

What was to be done with the child ? She
seemed incorrigible, and her mother gave a
sigh almost of despair, and wished, as she had
done so often in the last few months, that she
had followed Aunt Rachel's advice and kept
her daughter at home. Eve was in a great
hurry to get her hour's practising over. She
was less intractable on this score than on that
of the reading, still it required constant watchfulness
to make her practise steadily, instead of
merely playing odds and ends of different airs

that struck her fancy. The moment the hour
was over she sprang up.

Good-bye, mummy ! now I'm going to
enjoy myself," and in a very few minutes she
could be seen, equipped for the river, running
down the terrace steps.

Almost before she was out of sight the doorbell
rang, and Lady Beechmont and Lady
Imogene were announced.

Lady Beechmont was a tall, delicate, fragile-looking
woman, who thought a great deal
about her own health, and cared to talk of little
else. In reality she was far stronger than she
either looked or allowed herself to be considered
; indeed, if such had not been the case she
would have been quite incapable of enduring all
the fatigue which she went through cheerfully
in the pursuit of pleasure. She was always
well enough to do anything that amused her,
or that she liked, though if bored, or not sufficiently
entertained, she imagined herself ill and
fatigued at once. They had only been a day
and a half at Beechmont, and already the want
of society was beginning to tell upon her ; she

could not endure life alone with her family, it
was too devoid of excitement. She had quite
caught at the idea of calling on Mrs. Pleydell
when it was suggested by Lady Imogene ; it
must be confessed that until then she had
almost forgotten her existence.

So delighted to see you again* she said, as
she subsided gracefully into a low chair, "it
really seems an age ! We had quite meant to
come back last year, but my wretched health
always prevents everything. Dr. Summers insisted
on Homburg and Switzerland, and then
when we came back we went to Scotland, and
in the winter it was so cold we went to Cannes,
How well you look ! Ah, you don't know what
a trial it is never to know a day's health'

Indeed it must be," said Mrs. Pleydell,
sympathetically, " I am sorry to hear you are
such a sufferer. You will enjoy the perfect
quiet here;" quite forgetting for the moment
all Eve had said about a constant succession of
guests.

l( Quiet ! Oh, my dear Mrs. Pleydell, I could
not bear to be alone. My wretched nerves!

I get quite moped without society. We hope
to have a few people with us always ; some
come tomorrow. Will you and your girls dine
with us? Your pretty Eve is a great friend of
Hildegarde's."

Mrs. Pleydell accepted the invitation, and
then said,

"Lady Hildegarde was here this morning.
She is a good deal altered since you were here
last."

Ah, yes ! grown up, and become a beauty.
Ah, dear Mrs. Pleydell, I can't tell you the
fatigue of taking out a beauty in London ! It
was really almost too much for me !"

"Why did you do so much?" asked Mrs.
Pleydell, smiling.

Oh, you see, it is so necessary for a girl at
first to be seen at all the right places, so of
course I made an effort. And then Hildegarde
was wild to go everywhere, so different from
Imogene. But your Eve is just the same  it
must have been a terrible blow to her, leaving
London."

It was to come home," said Mrs. Pleydell,

VOL. I. N

with some emphasis ; " and really," she continued,
in a lighter tone, " the neighbourhood
has been unusually gay this year. Iris and I
feel quite dissipated, and Eve enjoys her boating
very much."

I hope we shall do something to enliven the
neighbourhood,aid Lady Beechmont. " I am
sure it will not be my fault if we do not, but
Lord Beechmont will talk as if the object of
being in the country was to bury yourself, and
see no one, and Rootley is just as bad."

"Is Lord Rootley with you?"

He comes to-night. Imogene dear, I think
we must go. I feel I require a little drive,
to revive me ; " and, rising with her usual
languid grace, Lady Beechmont took her departure.


I had not a word with Lady Imogene,"
said Mrs. Pleydell to Iris. "She, at any
rate, has not followed the same fashion asher
sister. She looks just as she did four
years ago."

She is just as pleasant," said Iris. " She
seemed to remember all we did together then,

and promised to show me her drawings.
Mamma, is Lady Beechmont really such a
great invalid? Eve declares there is nothing
the matter with her, but then she sometimes
talks fast."

"I think she is right in this instance' returned
her mother. u 1 fancy Lady Beechmont
has accustomed herself to be unable to live
without excitement, and is almost ill without
it, or, at any rate, so dull as to believe herself
so, but is always able to do anything that
amuses her. It is just the sort of character into
which I fancy Eve might grow hereafter. It
is for this reason I am so exceedingly anxious
to force some rational pursuits upon her."

u l am afraid you don't succeed very
well."

u No, indeed; and I am afraid Lady Hides
will not make matters easier. I don't
want pie child to think me very strict and
disagreeable, but 1 really cannot allow her
to be always running in and out of Beechmont
with such a fast set as I feel sure Lady
Hildegarde's friends will be."

n2

But they may not be all her friends."

She is considered the beauty  how anyone
can think so 1 cannot imagine. She really
looked quite disreputable  and she is sure to
have more weight with her mother than Lady
Imogene."

We shall see some of them tomorrow
night ; perhaps they will be better than you
expect. I am rather curious to see Lord Rootley.
Eve seems to dislike him."

"I fancy he is too sensible to suit his
younger sister. So Eve dislikes him ? Mrs.
William Pleydell hinted to me last year that
he was inclined to pay her a great deal of
attention. What did she say about him?"

He seems to have offended her by finding
fault with something she did at a water
party."

iC It would not be difficult to offend her that
way. Eve does not like being found fault
with."

No. She says her aunt never did so."

"No. She spoilt her terribly. Ah, Iris, I
see now how wrong I was ! I ought to have

listened to Aunt Rachel. What she advises
is always right."

"Dear mamma, I am sure you ought not to
blame yourself. You did what you thought
was right, and what was most kind. You
only did what you always do, thought of others
instead of yourself."

I thought so at the time, dear," said her
mother, laying her hand for a moment caressingly
on her daughter's; "still 1 see now that
I was wrong. I ought not to have delegated
my responsibility for my own child to another.
Whenever Eve is rebellious, or does what I do
not like, I feel as if it were harsh to blame her.
It is my own fault that she has ever had an
opportunity of learning such ways."

Dear mamma, don't make yourself unhappy.
She will quiet down when she has been with
you a little. Indeed, she is quieter now."

"She sees there are some things I will not
allow. Eve does not want for quickness.
What grieves me most about her is her want
of heart."

Iris was silent for a few moments ; she hardly

knew how to offer any consolation on this point,
for Eve's frank indifference to everything which
did not concern herself struck her perhaps even
more forcibly than it did her mother. At length
she said,

I don't think she means half she says ; she
has got into an exaggerated style of talking
that she thinks sounds well."

I wish I could think that was all," said
her mother, with a sigh, remembering Eve's
very distinct enunciation of her views of life
when she had spoken to her respecting Tom
Pleydell.

Poor Tom ! he wrote to her regularly, and,
though he never directly asked her if she
thought there was any hope for him, still it was
abundantly clear that his whole heart and
thoughts were centred upon Eve. In her
answers his aunt was most careful to say no
word that could by any possibility be construed
into encouragement. She hoped that Tom's
fancy for the girl, who to her appeared to be
still almost a child, might die out, and that he
might find some one more worthy of his simple,

loyal nature. There seemed little chance of
his changing at present; but then, as she reflected,
it was perhaps too soon for him to
realise that there really was no hope for him.
He had very evidently but a slight knowledge
of the girl's nature ; it was an ideal Eve  infinitely
superior, as Mrs. Pleydell reflected with a
sigh, to the real one  with whom he was in
love. She would have felt greatly relieved if
she could have hoped to open Tom's eyes to
Eve's imperfections ; but that at present seemed
very far indeed from being possible.

She wondered greatly whether the girl had
been very different during the time she had
spent in Hyde Park Gardens. It almost seemed
as if such must have been the case, else surely
Tom, who was both shrewd and sensible, and
who had known her in all the intimacy of home
life, could hardly have been so firmly imbued
as was evidently the case with the belief that
she was affectionate and loving, and only " did
herself injustice " occasionally by talking at
random and saying things which she did not
really mean.

Mrs. Pleydell hardly realised how Eve had
been petted in her uncle's house, how her will
had been law, and how she had lived at constant
high pressure of excitement and admiration.
Even when there was no one else there
was always the devoted Tom to keep her in
good-humour with his adoration, which, though
she really did not care for him in the least, Eve
infinitely preferred to none. Not comprehending
that in her sister-in-law's house there had
rarely, if ever, been any time unoccupied by
excitement of one sort or another, Mrs. Pleydell
imagined that Tom must have had ample opportunity
of studying Eve's disposition in the
quietude of the domestic circle, and making, as
she believed, all allowances for the different
view of things taken by a young man in love
and by an anxious mother, yet failed to understand
how he and she could judge Eve so
differently.

Sometimes she felt almost inclined to believe
that Tom, who had had so much greater
opportunities of knowing the girl, must be a
better judge of Eve than she could be. Frequently,

when Eve responded to a reproof or
some unpalatable advice with a coaxing caress,
she would repress the instinct which told her
that the girl was merely trying to evade what
was unpleasant, and to withdraw attention from
her misdemeanours, and, thinking of Tom's earnest
assurance that her disposition was most
affectionate, try to persuade herself that it
showed infinite sweetness of temper to accept
rebuke so gently. She strove hard to believe
this, to see Eve in her best light and not to
dwell too much on the shortcomings which
were doubtless only the fault of the education
to which she had herself abandoned her ; but,
struggle as she would, there were many times
when Eve's hard worldly sayings and mercenary
way of looking at things and her scantily-veiled
egotism and selfishness caused her heart
to fail, and made her think that Tom must be
blinded and mistaken.

She would have dearly liked to ask Iris and
Aunt Rachel exactly what they thought ; she
had often been on the point of doing so, but
had always refrained, why she hardly knew ;

but in reality because she dreaded to have her
own fears confirmed. Iris always said everything
that was kind about Eve, and even made
more allowances for her than Mrs. Pleydell herself
was always inclined to do ; but her mother
knew that, if she asked a point-blank question,
Iris would give her a perfectly distinct answer
as to what her private opinion was, and she
dreaded to hear that it coincided with her
own.

Aunt Rachel had never made any remark expressing
an opinion about Eve since her return
home, and from this, and the way in which she
occasionally watched her when she was amusing
herself at parties, Mrs. Pleydell felt uneasily
conscious that her aunt's judgment was not
favourable. Altogether, when Eve returned
just before dinner, radiant from her boating
excursion, her mother was in far from good
spirits respecting her.

It was delicious, 'mummy ! Such a lovely
afternoon !" she exclaimed, putting her arm
round her mother, and rubbing her cheek softly
against hers ; " I feel I've got on immensely in

my rowing. I shall be able to take the shine
out of Hildegarde."

Eve, how often must I tell you that I will
not allow you to talk slang?"

"Indeed, mummy, I do try, only it comes so
natural when one feels jolly."

Eve, you are really incorrigible."

Everyone does it. Hildegarde is ever so
much worse than I am."

That is no reason for your doing what I disapprove."


We have got a piece of news for you, Eve,"
said Iris, seeing that her sister's brow was beginning
to lower ; it did not take a great deal to
disturb Eve's equanimity: "Lady Beechmont
has been here, and has asked us to dinner tomorrow."


Hurrah !" cried Eve, her face brightening ;
M that is better than anything that has happened
since I left London."

u But I thought you insisted on refusing all
dinner invitations?" said her mother, inquiringly.
" Fm sure I understood you to say so ;
didn't you, Iris!"

You don't mean you've refused for me !"
cried Eve, looking very blank. "Why, at
Beechmont there'll be people one can talk to, not
only old fogies who bore one to death ! Oh !
mummy, I must go ! Iris has had all the
dinners lately, she must stay at home and let
me go ; Hildegarde and I are such friends."

"Lady Imogene is a much older friend of
Iris."

She's dull and prosy. I daresay she'd like
to dine in the Close, and talk about chants to
the dean. Oh, mummy, say I may go."

Mamma is only laughing at you, Eve," said
Iris, smiling at her sister's vehemence ; " she
accepted for us all'

Eve at once plunged into an elaborate analysis
of the members of the party in so far as
she had learnt their names from Lady Hides
She seemed to her mother to be on
terms of rather startling intimacy with all the
young men she mentioned, and she spoke of them
quite as a matter of course by their Christian or
their nicknames. It was the first time she had
said much about any of her London friends byname,

and Mrs. Pleydell, much as she disapproved
the style of her remarks, listened
attentively and in silence,, anxious to learn what
she could of the friends with whom her daughter
seemed destined to be once more brought in
contact.

CHAPTER IX.

But flattery never seems absurd ;

The flatter'd always takes your word.

Impossibilities seem just,

They take the strongest praise on trust ;

Hyperboles, tho' ne'er so great,

Will still come short of self-conceit.

Fable 18. Gay.

T17HILE Mrs. Pleydell and Iris had been
 " occupied with Lady Beechmont, Eve had
been enjoying herself very considerably on
the river. It was seldom that she failed to
meet the handsome stranger who had rescued
her from her dilemma on the eyot, and their
acquaintance had progressed with remarkable
celerity. No one who knew Eve could ever

accuse her of being shy, and she enjoyed the
mystery of these unacknowledged meetings
almost as much as the very decided compliments
with which her acquaintance plied her.

It had grown to be almost an understood
thing that when Eve passed the second glade
in the Beechmont woods, the last point at
which it was possible that anyone on the river
might be seen from the drive up to the house,
she should find the stranger in his boat awaiting
her. That afternoon she had been later
than usual, owing to the hour's detention for
the practising omitted in the morning, and presumedly
her friend had become impatient, for
she encountered him at the first bend of the
river, not more than two hundred yards from
the Gate House.

I thought you were never going to make
your appearance," he observed, turning his
canoe and paddling by her side.

Why in the world did you come so far
down ?" exclaimed Eve, looking round anxiously
to see if anyone was in sight.

He laughed at her evident uneasiness.

You needn't be afraid ; when did you ever
see anyone on the banks of the Banner? It
might be in the back-woods for any human
being that is ever visible."

"But there's no knowing now" said Eve,
somewhat relieved now that they had reached
the shelter of the woods ; ei it was all very well
while Beechmont was empty, but now they've
come down there's no knowing who may not
be about."

Then do you mean that our pleasant meetings
 pleasant to me, at any rate  must now
cease?"

As he spoke he looked at her in a way that
made Eve's heart flutter a little. It implied
unmistakable admiration, sorrow at the mere
thought of parting, and, she believed, love.
She gave a little laugh to conceal her momentary
emotion, which, however, her experienced
companion did not fail to perceive.

1 don't know about their ceasing, but we
must take care ; there would be such an awful

fuss if they knew at home that I met anyone.
It's for fear I should that I'm never allowed to
go down the river."

So much the better for meu

But now Hildegarde is come she'll be on the
river too, she told me she'd got a stunning new
canoe coming down, and Sir Henry Mossmau,
and Colonel Leybourne, and Captain Norton,
and Frank Ledmore are all going to bring
theirs. You see it won't be quite the same
thing."

"Very far from it. I'm awfully sorry."

So am I," said Eve, not by any means certain
that she really was so, but thinking it only
civil to say she was. The excitement of having
Beechmont filled with friends of her own and
Hildegarde's, would almost compensate for the
loss of her tete-a-tetes ; and, besides, doubtless
there would be "off days" when she could
enjoy them too. Her companion watched her
narrowly.

"It'll be all very well for you," he said at
length. " You'll be enjoying yourself queening

VOL. I.

it over all these fellows, but it'll be awfully hard
on me."

What a pity it is you don't know them,
then you could join us; it would be so nice,"
said Eve.

As you said yourself just now, it would not
be at all the same thing. As to knowing them
well, I do know all you have named."

You really do ?" cried Eve. " Oh ! then
why don't you call at Beechmont, and it would
be all right ?"

Because I don't choose to do so. To meet
you alone in the Waterlily is delightful, to talk
to you alone is happiness, but I don't care to
meet you among a crowd of others, to see you
smiling on other men. 1 may be very selfish,
but I never care for anything that isn't for myself
alone."

Eve felt a thrill of pride and delight ; it was
clear that her conquest was complete, if this
was the way in which he regarded her. After
a pause he said,

I want you to come up to-day a little higher

than you have been before, just a bit above the
eyot."

Will there be time !"

Plenty, if you do your best. Come, I will
race you to the eyot. You can think you're
rowing a match with Colonel Leybourne again,
as you did at Windsor."

What do you mean ?" cried Eve, in amazement
at reference being made to an escapade
of which she thought no one knew but herself.
The race in question had taken place by moonlight,
when she and her aunt had been staying,
the year before, with some friends for Ascot,
and she had till now believed that she and the
opponent who had dared her to the feat were
the sole depositories of the secret.

Did he tell you !" she asked, with an
ominous frown.

Her companion laughed.

Hardly ; but you who are so alarmed about
a possible spectator on this quiet stream might
surely remember that the banks of the Thames
are hardly so deserted as these."

o2

"Do you mean to say you saw me?" said
Eve. " Oh ! I thought it was so safe  that
nobody knew."

Of course you know it is quite safe with me,
but if you want to keep secrets you should be-more
cautious. Now row your hardest, and see
which will be at the eyot first."

He allowed her to win by half a length to her
infinite jubilation.

"Hurrah! I've beaten you!" she cried in
delight. " I'm sure I shall be able to beat Hides
and all of them ! That is the only use
of having had all these dull weeks."

Have they been so very dull t"

This was said with a meaning glance.

Well, not just lately," Eve said, with a confused
air and a bright blush.

"I am glad I have been able slightly to
ameliorate your sufferings."

This was said with a sort of sneer.

What is it you want me to see ?" asked
Eve, abruptly.

You must come up a little farther. There !"

as, after the passage of about another hundred
yards, they came to a thickly-wood part of the
river. " I want you to land and honour my
bower."

"But I can't  that is  I don't know. I
mustn't be late or mummy'll be angry," stammered
Eve.

It was one thing to row side by side with a
stranger who lost no opportunity of displaying
his admiration, but of whose very name she was
still ignorant ; but it was, she felt, quite another
to accept a species of invitation from him on
shore. It startled even her.

"It will not delay you many minutes, and
you really have ample time. Come, surely you
will not disappoint me. I have been looking
forward to this so much."

She who hesitates is lost, and Eve was no
exception to the rule.

It really seemed so difficult to say No,
to frame any excuse for refusing, and almost
before she knew what was happening
the Waterlily w T as fastened to the bank,

and she was stepping out assisted by the
stranger.

It was quite against Eve's habit to distress
herself about anything ; now that she was once
ashore she cast all her scruples to the winds
and prepared to enjoy whatever was before
her.

It was certainly a very pretty spot. A small
lawn-like clearing in the wood sloped gently to
the river, shaded by a splendid oak that stood
in the centre. At the point of the lawn furthest
from the bank was a small rustic summer-house,
a perfect bower of clematis and yellow roses ;
and evidently, Eve thought with a start of surprise,
she must have been expected, for moss
baskets filled with peaches and nectarines, and
a large glass jug of milk, were arranged upon
the table.

The view from the summer-house was very
pretty; on the side of the river where they
were the water was deep and the stream rapid,
but on the other there was a large expanse
covered with water lilies, and bordered with

bulrushes and yellow iris, beyond which, through
an opening in the trees, was a glimpse of the
Rockshire hills. All this beauty however was
wasted upon Eve, who cared not in the least for
scenery.

I hope you like my bower V said her companion,
when he joined her after securing both
boats. " You see I ventured to hope that my
persuasions would not be unavailing, and so
made some slight preparations."

Then you made sure that I should
come."

Eve hardly knew whether to be pleased or
affronted. Of course, it was very flattering
and showed how much he desired and appreciated
her society, but she was not sure that she
quite liked his assuming so positively that she
would do whatever he asked her. He noticed
the slight tone of offended dignity, and
answered,

I did not make sure,  it would be a bold
man id deed who ever did that with a woman,
but I hoped; I wished it so very much, and I

trusted that anyone so charming as yourself
could not be so cruel as to refuse."

But I very nearly did."

And yet  you did not. Let me give you
some fruit," and some beautiful nectarines were
piled upon her plate.

I can't tell you," he went on, as Eve, a
little embarrassed at the situation, and for her
wonderfully quiet, occupied herself with the
nectarines. " I am sure you cannot guess
what pleasure it gives me to see you here. And
yet I think you can hardly fail to know how
much I care for your society."

Eve blushed and looked extremely pretty,
but the speech did not absolutely require an
answer, and she was very glad to avoid giving
one. For almost the first time in her life she
was really shy, and there was also an unwonted
fluttering of her heart that she could by no
means account for.

Will you not speak to me ?" continued her
companion, drawing nearer to her on the rustic
bench they both occupied, "tell me at least

that you do not regret having landed at my
bower."

iC Oh, no, not at all, and these nectarines are
delicious," answered Eve, with a somewhat
forced laugh.

He came closer to her and took one of her
hands in his.

I want you to say something more than
that,  can you not guess f"

N  o" replied Eve, hesitatingly ; but colouring
very much.

"I should have thought you could. Eve,"
pressing her hand warmly, (i you must understand
me, you must know how I care for you,
how I have loved you ever since the day that
I found you on the eyot."

Eve was really hardly prepared for such a
declaration. She knew very well that her
companion admired her, she thought it more
than probable that he was falling in love with
her, but she by no means expected him to come
to the point so speedily. And she really hardly
knew what her own feelings were ; she had

never thought about them, and only knew that
her stolen interviews with the handsome stranger
had very materially alleviated the dulness of
Bannerton. Still she was aware that of late,
and this particular day above all, she had felt
as she had never done before, and suddenly the
thought occurred to her, " Could she be falling
in love?"

It was a new and startling notion. Eve
regarded it as quite a matter of course that
men should fall in love with her. She had
even had not inconsiderable experience of
being made love to. She had thought it
extremely pleasant, and " awful fun," but
hitherto it had never had the effect of quickening
her pulses, or of affecting her feelings,
save in the direction of gratified vanity. She
had always laughed immoderately at girls who
became " spoony," which, in the vocabulary of
her set, meant those who married according
to the dictates of their hearts, and cared for
the man himself rather than for his means or
position. Surely it could not be possible that

she, Eve Pleydell, who had scoffed so at others,
could really have lost her heart, and that, too,
to a stranger whose very name she did not
know, and of whose fortune she was absolutely
ignorant. No, such a thing could never be !
She must be dreaming even to think of such
folly !

All this passed through her mind in a moment.
It was clear she had better accept
the position as one of the ordinary love-making
she was accustomed to  so she allowed her
hand to remain in his, and answered, with a
slight laugh,

"You forget that I don't even know your
name."

u That is no answer, Eve," and as he spoke
his arm stole round her waist, and again she
felt overwhelmed with astonishment at the
throbbing of her heart. "If you cared forme
as I hoped, as I care for you, dear, you
would care for me, not for who I might
be."

But I don't know  it is so strange," stammered

Eve, thoroughly bewildered, and beginning
to lose her usual calm self-possession,
which had often stood her in good stead.
You  I  I don't understand."

You understand, don't you, dear, that I
love you? Surely you must do that, Eve.
I have not concealed my feelings, or must
I make it still more plain?" and, before she
quite realized his intention, he drew her to
him, and kissed her passionately.

You pretty little dissembler," he said, holding
her closely as she struggled in his embrace.
You dainty little bird, why do you beat
your wings? Eve, you cannot deny the truth,
you know you love me."

His cool determination staggered Eve. She
wanted to be very indignant, to declare that
he had insulted her, to vow she would never
speak to him again, but in face of his determined
assertions and cool appropriation, words,
for perhaps the first time in her life, failed
her. She felt that she would give worlds to
be safe back in the Waterlily, and yet that

it would cost her a pang to move from where
she was. Was he right f Did he know better
than she ? Was this love I All these thoughts
surged through her brain, and completely
deprived her of speech.

Am I never to hear your voice again,
pretty one?" he said, at length. "Come, Eve,
say c I love you.' "

"I  like you' said Eve, slowly, at length
finding her tongue.

Like ! that is a cold word. Eve ! Eve !
you are a little coquette ! You want to lead
me on to tell you over and over again how
I love you."

But  it is all so strange ! I haven't known
you long ! I don't even know who you are !"
protested poor, bewildered Eve.

He suddenly withdrew his arm, and gave a
short, harsh laugh.

Still harping on my name ! Well, if that
is such a great point in your eyes, you may
call me Claud, Claud Esmond. Now I hope
you are satisfied."

Eve never could bear that any of her admirers
should seem to be displeased with her.
At the first sign of their being so, she always
became conciliatory, not wishing to lose their
adoration. So, with a most bewitching little
pout, she exclaimed,

Indeed, I don't see why you should be angry
with me !"

Angry with you !" he exclaimed, sitting
down by her again, and again encircling her
waist with his arm. " Only tell me you love
me, Eve, and I'll never be angry with you as
long as I live."

Eve did not say anything, but she looked up
in his face.

You mean that I must take silence for
consent, you little shy thing, do you?" he
said, smiling. " Well, I will ;" and he proceeded
to suit the action to the word.

One thing I don't quite see," said Eve at
length, when the fast-lengthening shadows
began to give warning that it was quite
time for her to be making her way homewards.

"How am I to tell mamma? She
would be so dreadfully angry at my having
met you, and said nothing about it. Can't
you get introduced to me properly, somehow?
You say you know them at Beechmont.
It could surely be managed, and
then it would all seem to happen quite
naturally."

He gave a peculiar, short laugh, which Eve
did not at all understand.

a I am afraid it can hardly be managed in
that way, little fairy. You must trust me, Eve
you know how I love you ; but for the present
I can say nothing except to your own self.
You won't mind saying nothing about me just
yet, will you, my pet? We shall meet just as
usual, you know, and I have excellent reasons."

ie Oh, I don't mind at all," said Eve ; M but I
can't think, if you know them at Beechmont,
why you want to keep away. The house is to
be full, and they are to have dances and
charades and all sorts of fun."

All which I don't care for. What I care for

is you, Eve, and I like to have you all to myself
on the river or here in my bower. You will
come here again?"

Oh, yes. But, you know, as I tell you,
there will be people about now, and we shall all
be boating together."

I shall take very good care to keep out of
your way when you are not alone, you may be
sure," he said hastily, and with some temper ;
it would be no pleasure to me to see you surrounded
by a pack of brainless idiots."

Perhaps this speech did as much as anything
else to convince Eve that he really did care for
her. She was used to hearing the men who
were making love to her characterising any
other member of their species to whom she
might speak, as a fool.

Now you are cross again," she said, pouting
; " I am sure you must have a dreadful
temper. Now I must go  I shall be dreadfully
late."

You shall tell me you love me before you
go," he exclaimed, almost fiercely seizing her

in his arms ; and Eve, who had no desire to
incur displeasure about her boating at home,
and so be perhaps interdicted from going on
the river whenever she pleased, whispered, " I
love you," very low, and submitted passively
to his passionate caresses.

They started directly after almost in silence,
both too occupied with their own thoughts to
look back at the spot they had just left, or they
might have seen the boughs behind the summerhouse
parted, and a handsome gipsy face looking
scowlingly after them. There was but
small attempt at conversation before they
parted ; Eve's mind was quite in a whirl. She
hardly attempted to realise what were her feelings,
but she felt decidedly relieved that Claud
she called him Claud to herself, though the
name had not as yet passed her lips  did not
require her to tell her mother at once. Mum ray
would, she was sure, be so very angry ; she
made such a fuss about things that no one else
would mind.

And then if it were to be all settled at once,
VOL. I. P

and she were known to be engaged  for she
never doubted that she was so  there would
not be half the fun that she expected at Beechmont.
She was sure Claud would be jealous,
and would not like her to flirt and amuse herself.
But now, as it was, she could enjoy
herself with all her old friends at Beechmont,
and in the intervals would still have the excitement
of meeting her lover upon the river.
Yes, everything was arranging itself in the
most satisfactory manner, and Eve chattered
more and was gayer that evening than she
had ever been since her return to the Gate
House.

Lady Hildegarde made her appearance again
soon after breakfast the next morning, and her
manners were not more prepossessing to Mrs.
Pleydell than had been the case the day before.
There was a good deal of slang she could hear,
and a great deal of whispering and giggling on
the sofa, through which she caught several of
the nicknames of the young men of whom Eve
had talked the night before. When at last

Lady Hildegarde rose to go she addressed
her.

"My dear, it is very kind of you to come and
see Eve, but I must ask you not to do so again
in the morning ; I like her to read steadily and
practise a little, and of course she cannot do soif
you are here"'

"But she came out last year," said Lady
Hildegarde, staring in astonishment.

That is no reason she should not read something
sensible," said Mrs. Pleydell, smiling.
Surely you do not idle away your whole
time?"

Oh, no ; no one ever calls me idle," said
Lady Hildegarde. " I practise lawn-tennis a
lot, and I row and I ride. I'm going to school
my chestnut mare over the hurdles in the park
after lunch ; I never was idle in my life."

Do you never read?"

11 Oh, yes, if I can get hold of a really good
novel ; but most of them are so slow and goody
they send me to sleep."

Lady Imogene used to be fond of reading."

r 2

Oh, Image ! Yes, but then she's old, you
know, and fussy. She talks about improving
one's mind. I always tell her I'm quite contented
with mine as it is."

Do you really mean you have no desire for
information f "

Not a bit. Where's the use of knowing
a lot of things % Men only call you blue and
avoid you. I've always got any number of
partners, and Image sits still half the night."

Evidently we shan't agree," said Mrs. Pleyel,
quietly. " Still, as my views are very
different, I must ask you not to disturb Eve in
the morning. I hope you'll remember."

Oh ! yes, I won't forget. Ta-ta, you poor
victim!" with a careless kiss, to Eve. "we'll
enjoy ourselves to-night, at any rate."

Mummy," said Eve, with a tragic countenance
and an accent of despair, " are you going
to keep me in prison all my life ?"

Vexed as she was, Mrs. Pleydell could not
help laughing.

M My dear Eve, don't be so ridiculous. Keep

you in prison indeed ! Just think of the hours
sou are out in your boat ! But I must insist
on trying to put some kind of useful knowledge
into your empty little head, and 1 will not allow
your morning hours to be given up to gossip
and frivolity. I begin to wish the Beechmonts
had gone to Firshire as usual. 1 hardly think
Lady Hildegarde a very desirable companion
for you ; she is terribly bad style."

Mummy ! they are in the very best set in
London !"

That depends on what is called the best,
my dear. In the ' best ' set in my time young
ladies had some idea of good manners, Lady
Hildegarde has none whatever. But we have
wasted quite time enough. Get Macaulay and
begin your reading."

I'm sure," said Eve, pausing as she seated
herself, and looking at her mother with piteous
eyes  " I'm sure I might as well be talking and
amusing myself with Hildegarde as reading this
stupid book. I never know a single word I
have been reading."

That is not the fault of the book."
Well, I suppose I must do it," and Eve
began reading, in a way that aggravated her
mother almost beyond endurance, showing
plainly as it did that she was not even attempting
to think of what she was about. Indeed
Eve's thoughts were fully occupied with wondering
whether Colonel Leybourne, who Hides
had told her was to take her in to dinner
that night, would be as devoted as when they
last met, and also on what afternoon she should
be able to meet Claud again in safety.

CHAPTER X.

Do anything but love ! or, if thou lowest,
And art a woman, hide thy heart from him
"Whom thou dost worship : never let him know
How dear he is ; flit like a bird before him ;
Lead him from tree to tree, from flower to flower ;
But be not won ; or thou wilt, like that bird,
When caught and caged, be left to pine neglected,
And perish in forgetfulness.

L. E. London.

rpHE dinner-party at Beechmont was very
pleasant to Iris and Eve, though Mrs. Pleyel
can be hardly said to have derived from it
any very lively satisfaction. She and Lady
Beechmont had never very much in common,
though they were very good friends ; and the
few elderly ladies among the guests seemed to

care only to talk of their own acquaintances
and amusements, and to think that any topic
started by a lady who lived all the year round
in the country must be necessarily dull. The
men, with hardly an exception, were all quite
young, and Mrs. Pley dell's escort, after a few
preliminary observations on the weather, devoted
himself entirely to a pretty girl on the
other side of him, and never again addressed
the lady whom he had taken in.

Mrs. Pleydell was glad to find herself on Lord
Beechmont's left hand : he w r as a gentleman
who had not so completely adopted modern
notions as his wife and youngest daughter had
done, and exerted himself to be courteous to
everyone who came within his reach. He was
not specially clever or amusing, but his companion
was by no means exacting, and quite
contented with his conversation. She looked
down the long table to see what had become of
her daughters.

Iris was engaged in an animated and, her
mother felt sure, a very interesting conversation

with Lord Rootley, who had taken her in to
dinner. That the subject was an intellectual
one Mrs. Pleydell felt tolerably sure ; it was not
Iris's way to grow so animated or look so eager
over the ordinary topics of dinner-table conversation.
Eve, who sat further off, was leaning back
in her chair, looking up in a manner of which
her mother greatly disapproved into the eyes of
her neighbour, a blase but good-looking guardsman,
whose manner was rather empresse, and
yet gave Mrs. Pleydell the idea of not being
particularly respectful.

When the move to the drawing-room was
made, it appeared that the young people
meant to keep entirely to themselves. Only
Iris and Lady Imogene remained in the
saloon ; Lady Hildegarde and the other girls,
with one or two of the younger matrons, went
to the billiard-room, which was separated from
the saloon by a small ante-room, and screams
of laughter were soon heard issuing from
it.

They seem very merry, " Mrs. Pleydell

said to her hostess. " Shall you not join
them?"

But Lady Beechmont opened her eyes in surprise,
and said, languidly,

"Join them! Oh! no; that is the young-people's
room, they do not want us. Now I
want you to tell me something. If I am able to
go to Miss Netherleigh's tomorrow  you know
my health is so wretchedly uncertain I can
never feel sure of being able to do anything 
would she let me bring some of my friends, do
you think ? It is always so difficult to know
how to amuse people in the country."

Hardly here with your beautiful place and
lovely gardens, surely," said Mrs. Pleydell ;
but I am sure my aunt would be most happy
to see any friends you might like to take with

you."

Thank you, that will be very nice. I
suppose young people don't go much, do
they?"

"Yes, indeed, all the young people in the
neighbourhood."

u You don't say so ! Hildegarde understood
from Eve that it was dull, and that there was
no good tennis."

There is some tennis ; but Eve does not
seem to think any of the young people here
very good players."

Well, she can keep up her playing here.
Hildegarde means to have a meeting once a
week, and a tournament ; Eve must come and
practise every morning."

* Not in the morning, dear Lady Beechmont ;
I told Lady Hildegarde to-day I hoped she
would not come to see us again in the morning.
I have no objection to Eve's having all the
amusement she can in the afternoon, but she
must have some time for solid reading in the
morning."

Solid reading?" Lady Beechmont repeated,
in amazement.

Mrs. Pleydell was about to explain when the
gentlemen appeared, and Lord Beechmont came
and sat down by her, the conversation drifting
into other channels. All the young men at

once disappeared into the billiard-room with
the exception of Lord Rootley, who, after talking
for a little to one or two of the elder ladies,
seated himself by Iris, who was looking over
Lady Imogene's portfolio.

Do you prefer drawings to billiards, Miss
Netherleigh ?" he asked.

i( I prefer drawings which are worth looking
at to most things," said Iris. " Besides, I cannot
play billiards."

Would you like to go and look on V asked
Lady Imogene. " Perhaps it would be more
amusing to you, and you can see these sketches
at any time."

"Unless you wish it I would rather stay
here," said Iris, as a perfect shout of laughter
was heard in the other room.

You may be sure Imogene much prefers
being here," said Lord Rootley ; " she always
likes the quietest place she can find." And
then he began talking of the scenery of Coal-shire,
where he had not been for seven or eight
years, and comparing it with Firshire, where

the family usually spent the autumn, and of
which there were many sketches in Lady Imogene's
portfolio.

You will quite have to make acquaintance
again with Beechmont/' said Iris. " Some of
the glades in the beech woods near the river
are most beautiful, and when you go a little
farther the drives in the forest are really
lovely."

I am glad we have come here this year ;
it seems a pity not to know such a pretty
country ; but my father dislikes the idea of the
neighbourhood of Bannerton."

Of course the country would be much prettier
without it," said Iris ; <; but, so long as Lord
Beechmont will not let them do anything on
this side of the town, it cannot do us much
harm, except indeed when there is a south-east
wind to bring us the smoke."

Well, it is very certain my father will never
do anything to spread the town or works on
this side. Well' as an unusually loud burst of
merriment was heard in the billiard-room, " they

seem to be amusing themselves ! I think I
shall go and see what it is all about."

I heard Eve's voice," said Iris.

Your sister generally is foremost whenever
there is any fun going on. She has wonderful
spirits."

"Sometimes. I am afraid she finds it very
very dull here; at least, so she says, though
we have had an exceptionally gay summer.
Her delight was great when she heard Beechmont
was to be inhabited this autumn."

She and Hildegarde struck up a great
friendship," said Lady Imogene.

Lord Rootley looked as if he were about to
speak, but he evidently thought better of it and
walked off to the billiard-room.

It was with infinite reluctance, and with
many exclamations as to its being inhumanly
early, that Eve prepared for departure when
summoned by her mother.

"Then you'll be up here by eleven' Iris
heard Lady Hildegarde say ; and Eve answered,


Yes, if I can."

"I am afraid you can't, Eve," said Iris,
gently ; and then, turning to Lady Hildegarde,
she continued : " Mamma will not allow Eve to
be disturbed in the morning."

"It's no business of yours  you needn't
meddle !" exclaimed Eve, angrily.

u I thought you had forgotten, or you would
not have engaged yourself when you know
mamma will not hear of it," said Iris, quietly.

I'd see all the books in Christendom in the
river before I'd be tied down for the whole
morning," said Lady Hildegarde ; " if you've an
ounce of spirit, Eve, you'll show you won't be
put upon."

But Eve had by this time arrived at a tolerably
clear understanding that her mother meant
what she said, and that, if she attempted any
such insubordination as her friend would have
advised, she might perhaps be punished by not
being allowed to go to Beechmont at all. Of
course it was dreadfully hard ; how was she
ever to attain sufficient proficiency to shine in

the tournament, if she might not practise tennis
all the morning instead of reading publishing
Still it would be infinitely worse if
mummy got angry  she was such a cross old
thing!  and kept her away from her friends in
the afternoon also. What a lucky girl Hides
was to have a mother who never interfered
with anything she wished to do !

So she dared not, as she dearly longed to do,
set her mother at defiance, though she coaxed,,
implored, wept, promised untold industry when
Beechmont was again empty, and exhausted all
her ingenuity in the endeavour to persuade her
mother to let her do as she wished. But Mrs.
Pleydell was firm. It was not the value to
Eve's mind of what she read  indeed she
shrewdly suspected that its meaning never
reached her brain,  but it was a certain element
of restraint, a form of discipline, and as
such she had no intention of dispensing with
it.

So to all Eve's coaxing and blandishments
she turned a deaf ear, and would have been

considerably shocked and astonished if she
could have known how cordially the girl hated
her in consequence.

Eve had little affection and less reverence.
She liked to do whatever seemed good in her
own eyes, and detested every obstacle that
stood in her way. She was more aggrieved
than ever when she found that her mother
meant also to insist on her going to Aunt
Rachel's in the afternoon.

u I thought if I was miserable and wretched
in the morning you would let me enjoy
myself in the afternoon'' she said, in tragic
tones, and Mrs. Pleydell laughed and told her
that Aunt Rachel's Thursdays were always so
pleasant that she need not affect to consider
herself a martyr.

They were all very well when there was
nothing else," said Eve, dismally; "but now  "

,( Xo\v, Eve"' said her mother, gravely, "you
had better understand at once that I cannot
allow the mere fact that the Beechmonts are at
home, and have friends staying with them, to

VOL. I. Q

upset our whole lives. I shall expect you todo
everything just as usual, though, if any
pleasure or amusement that I consider unobjectionable
comes in your way, you shall enjoy it.
But I cannot allow you to live at Beechmont,
as you seem to want to do, or to give up everything
else to run after Lady Hildegarde ; you
will see quite enough of her. Do you understand
V

"Yes," said Eve, with a deep sigh; and it
was with the air of a victim that she came
down bewitchingly dressed to go to Miss
Netherleigh's party. But the first thing that
caught her eye as they passed on to the lawn
through the drawing-room window was the
whole of the party from Beechmont, and in a
very short time she was engaged in a game of
tennis with Hildegarde, Colonel Leybourne,
and Mr. Ledmore. She had no eyes, apparently,
for any of her old friends, and one or two
of the officers who were her great adorers were
much disturbed, and betook themselves to Iris
for consolation.

But you must remember these are old
friends of my sister's," said Iris, in response to
one of these Jeremiads ; " there was quite a
chorus of greetings when we dined at Beechmont
last night."

Last night ! Then I am afraid we shall not
meet there to-night."

But it seemed that such was to be the case.
Lady Beechmont was renewing her acquaintance
with all her neighbours, and begging
them to "just look in to-night at half-past nine
for a little dancing," and of course Mrs. Pleyel
was not omitted.

Isn't it delicious, Iris ?" said Eve, joining*
her sister for a moment between the games, to
make quite sure that her mother had consented
; il but oh ! you must make mummy let me
go up every morning and practise ! I didn't
know how rusty I'd grown till I got among
real good players again. What chance should
I have in the tournament ? And they're going
to give such lovely prizes  a gold bracelet and
an enamel chatelaine !"

Q2

I'm afraid you don't seem to think much of
our powers as tennis-players, Miss Pleydell,"
said Captain Deverell, in a rather offended
tone. He was exceedingly proud of his playing,
and during the afternoon at Allanton,
when he and Eve had eaten so many of Mrs.
Vaughan's nectarines in company, and got
through a not inconsiderable amount of flirtation,
she had made many gracious speeches to
him on the subject. She had not observed that
he was within hearing when she spoke, but
promptly answered :

I don't think there are any of the ladies
here who can play at all, Captain Deverell.
There are one or two good players among the
gentlemen  yon, and Mr. Furnivall, and 
really I don't know who else. But if there is
always one bad player in a set, it spoils the
play."

Yes, and certainly none of our ladies play
anything like so well as you do, Miss Pleydell,"
returned Captain Deverell, quite mollified by
her diplomatic answer. " Is there any hope of

a game with you to-day? Lady Hildegarde
seems a wonderful player."

Oh, yes, I'm sure we can have you," and
very soon Captain Deverell and Lady Hides
were playing against Eve and Colonel
Ley bourne.

Iris would not for worlds have allowed to
herself that she found the afternoon dull ; still
less would she have admitted the reason, which
was that Laurence Furnivall was not present.
But she heard Lady Beechmont ask Mrs. Furnivall
to the dance that evening, and when
that lady replied that she would come with
pleasure, if her son returned home in time to
accompany her, she became conscious of a
greater interest in the entertainment than she
had before felt.

Mrs. Furnivall had hardly seen Iris since the
day at Allanton, when her suspicions that there
was " something" between her and her precious
Laurence had first dawned upon her mind, and
had caused her to make those remarks to her
son respecting the effect of Mr. William Pleyel's

defalcations on the consideration rendered
to his relatives, which had so greatly relieved
her anxiety. Still she felt a lingering uneasiness,
and watched the girl with all the jealousy
of an instinctive antagonism.

She would have been sorely puzzled to give
a reason for her belief that Iris would " never
suit Laurence ;" in fact she had none, excepting
her unconscious distaste to the idea of his
marrying anyone. It argued, however, she
thought, that she must have been mistaken in
what she had fancied she saw at Allanton, that
her son should have gone away the next day
and not have come back for ten days. If he
had cared much it was not likely that he should
have absented himself so long.

The next day was their garden-party and
dance, and the next was the 1st of September,
after which there was but little likelihood that
anything but the partridges would occupy his
attention for some time.

But still she watched Iris very narrowly.
She would dearly have liked to be able to say

quietly to Laurence, as they drove that evening
to Beechmont, that she supposed there was
"something" between Iris Netherleigh and 
anyone, that " no doubt they should soon hear
an announcement' and much more to the same
effect.

But, watch as she might, Iris gave her no
opportunity of even persuading herself that she
was interested in anyone. She moved about
among the guests with her own special grace,
acting like a daughter of the house in such
particulars as bringing people together, seeing
that none of the girls felt neglected, and that
everyone was duly provided with tea, but there
was no special conversation with anyone that
she could possibly take hold of.

All the young men were willing enough to
talk to Iris, and she evidently enjoyed their
society, it was the manner that made it impossible
to connect even her most animated
conversation with the mere notion of flirtation.
As we have said before, Iris was by nature extremely
dignified, and could laugh, talk, and

thoroughly enjoy herself, without ever for a
moment becoming in the slightest degree familiar.
Favourite as she was, it must indeed
have been a bold man who ventured on the
slightest liberty with Iris Netherleigh.

How could she possibly be the mother of two
such curiously different daughters ? was a problem
that had occurred to Mrs. Pleydell often
since Eve ? s return home, but perhaps never
oftener than on this afternoon, as, seated under
the cedar-tree, she quietly watched them both.
She could not say that Eve really did anything
wrong, but she disliked her manner extremely,
and felt that, as manner generally is the indication
of what lies below the surface, it implied a
want of refinement, a coarseness of fibre in Eve
that she was very sorry to recognize.

Still she did not quite know what to do ; to
talk to Eve about manner was of little avail.
She quite knew that the girl would put on a
supremely innocent air, profess her readiness todo
anything " darling mummy " wished, if she
only knew what it was, and then  go on precisely

as before. It was not like anything
tangible that she could specify and forbid.
Eve would wilfully misunderstand, and no good
would be done by speaking. Still it annoyed
her terribly, and she wished most cordially that
the Beechmonts and their friends had stayed
away.

From what she saw of the set collected under
Lady Hildegarde's auspices it was not a good
school for Eve ; and yet without absolute rudeness,
and making the girl think herself cruelly
ill-used, she could not hold entirely aloof. If
Lady Imogene and Lord Rootley were the
only young members of the family ! They both
seemed sensible, well-mannered young people ;
but there was unfortunately the younger sister,
who was manifestly the ruling power in the
establishment. She almost began to revolve
plans in her head of going abroad for the winter
as a means of keeping Eve out of the unfortunate
intimacy.

They arrived at Beechmont somewhat late
that evening. Mrs. Pleydell was struck with

the peculiarity of Eve's coming down with her
cloak on, for she generally liked to contemplate
herself in the pier-glasses, and, perceiving
that the dress was one she had not worn
before, insisted on inspecting it ; and, finding
that it was quite as objectionable decollete as
those she had reformed, desired her to change
it.

"But it makes me so dowdy," remonstrated
Eve. " I'm sure last night I looked as
old as Iris, and quite different from anyone
else."

I will wait ten minutes, Eve, " answered
her mother, quietly ; " if you are not
properly dressed then, Iris and I shall go
alone."

And so certain was Eve that her mother
would do what she threatened, that she
obeyed sulkily, lamenting her own folly
in having come down before the carriage was
ready.

Almost the first people they saw were Mrs.

Furnivall and Laurence, and his mother watched
with disapproval the empressement with
which he made his way to Iris's side. Eagerly
as she watched, however, she could not
perceive that the girl's manner was in the
slightest degree warmer to him than it was
to anyone else.

As a matter of fact, it really was colder,
for ever since Iris had learnt to understand her
own feelings she had been in such terror of
in any way betraying them that she had
involuntarily been colder to Laurence than
to anyone else. Still her manner did not reassure
Mrs. Furnivall: it was not for a moment
to be supposed that any woman could
be found who would dream of refusing Laurence
if he asked her, much less a girl like
Iris Netherleigh, who lived a quiet life in the
country, knew intimately the beauties and
glories of Rookwood, and must be fully aware
of the magnificent position  Mrs. Furnivall
honestly believed it to be little inferior to

royalty itself  occupied by its mistress. No y
there naturally was no hope in that quarter.
If Laurence once made up his mind to ask
her, there could not be a doubt of the answer
he would receive.

In one of the pauses of the dance they
stopped just in front of her, and, straining her
ears to hear what they were saying, she found
Laurence in the midst of an animated description
of the cricket match in which he had
played on the winning side. All the details
were far from amusing to Iris, who barely
understood the game, but Laurence was possessed
of the not uncommon masculine belief
that whatever was interesting to him must
of necessity be so to everyone else, and he
pursued his tale remorselessly.

Mrs. Furnivall felt rather comforted. No
sentiment surely could possibly underlie a
detailed account of a cricket match. Perhaps,
after all, she was alarming herself unnecessarily,
still  she should feel happier and more at ease

when the next day was safely over. On their
-way home she could not refrain from a tentative
observation.

Iris Netherleigh looked well to-night."

Well ! she was far and away the handsomest
girl there !"

This was not encouraging.

She always seems rather inanimate."

Well, she isn't always all over the place,
like her sister, and she doesn't talk loud
slang, like that Lady Hildebrand,"  Hides
had grievously offended Laurence's
dignity by calmly throwing him over for
some one else ; he was not used to such
treatment, and resented it  "but for quiet,
sensible talk, ay, and plenty of fun, too, I
don't think I know her equal."

Worse and worse. Mrs. Furnivall gave an
uneasy laugh.

"Really, Laurence, you are quite enthusiastic."


u She is worth it," he said, very quietly.

He had it on his lips to tell his mother
his intentions for the morrow, but something,
what he hardly knew, made him refrain. It
certainly was no diffidence as to the answer
he should receive. It hardly occurred to Laurence
Furnivall, any more than to his mother,
that it was possible he could be refused. If
he had not felt this perfect security, he would
hardly have postponed his question so long,
or have gone away for ten days just as he
had made up his mind to ask it. He could
not himself have explained why he paused,
but he did do so, and in a few moments
they were at home, and the opportunity had
passed.

Mrs. Furnivall went slowly upstairs, to lie
awake great part of the night wondering what
Laurence's feelings really were, and devising
plans by which she could keep him apart from
Iris during the afternoon; and Laurence, accompanied
by various dogs, who had welcomed
him rapturously in the hall, went to the smoke

where he sat meditating on Iris's
perfections, and how well she would fill the
position of mistress of Rookwood.

CHAPTER XI.

Who hath not felt that breath in the air,

A perfume and freshness strange and rare,

A warmth in the light, and a bliss everywhere,

When young hearts yearn together ?

All sweets below, and all sunny above,

Oh ! there's nothing in life like making love,

Save making hay in fine weather.

Miss Kilmansegg. Hood.

Tow I hope it will be fine !" was the wish
-*"*- with which all the young people invited
to Rookwood went to bed on the night before
Mrs. Furnivall's garden-party.

The entertainments at Rookwood were always
greatly enjoyed and looked forward to.
Mrs. Furnivall was a model hostess, understanding

exactly when people liked to be left
to enjoy themselves in their own way, and
when a little assistance was invaluable. Perhaps
weather signified less at Rookwood than
anywhere else, for the house was very large,
and the picture-gallery and various other rooms
afforded ample space for everyone, besides providing
them with ample entertainment in the
examination of the pictures and other art-treasures.
Still the grounds and gardens were
so extensive and so very beautiful that it was
always considered a treat to explore them at
leisure, and a real misfortune when weather
caused the gathering to be confined to the
house.

When Iris, who was as anxious as anyone
about the weather, first looked out in the
morning, she knew that a lovely, but probably
very hot day was in prospect, from the silvery,
tremulous haze that hung over the landscape.
There had been something in Laurence's greeting
to her the night before that had made her
heart beat, and caused her to look forward

VOL. I. R

with unusual eagerness to the coming day's
festivity.

She had, ever since Eve opened her eyes,
done her best to think as little as was possible
of Laurence, had striven to occupy her mind
with other topics whenever her thoughts, as
they very frequently did, strayed in his direction
; but she had been quite unable to disguise
the fact from herself that she cared for him, and
that she hoped he cared for her. But the night
before was the first time that they had met
since his mother's observations on their return
from Allanton had decided Laurence to speak
directly, and she had at once realised a difference
that caused her heart to throb as she reflected
that she was about to pass many hours
absolutely under his roof.

But  and as she thought it she coloured to
the roots of her hair and hid her face in her
hands  she must be more than ever careful that
by no sign should anyone, least of all Laurence
himself, discover that he was in the slightest
degree more interesting to her than any of the

guests. She almost doubted whether she would
wear the dress she had intended, a delicate
mauve muslin with a profusion of lace, for she
remembered to have heard Laurence say it was
his favourite colour, and might he not think
that that was the reason she had selected it ?
Still as both her mother and Eve would wonder
if she changed her mind after ordering the
dress on purpose, and she could think of no
available excuse, she decided that it would
perhaps be better to wear it. If Eve's curiosity
were roused, she might ask tiresome questions,
sand make observations respecting Laurence
which would be very annoying.

Iris and her mother were on terms of more
affectionate confidence than is very usual between
mothers and daughters ; but Mrs. Pleyel
had never approached the subject of
Laurence, and naturally there was nothing that
Iris could say about it. She therefore had a
positive dread of any of Eve's foolish speeches
in her mother's hearing ; the latter would not
unnaturally imagine that she had taken her

ji 2

flighty little sister into a confidence which she
had withheld from herself.

All the agitated thoughts of the morning
brought an unwonted flush to her cheek, and,
when they drove up to the door at Rookwood,
Mrs. Pleydell remarked to herself that she had
hardly ever seen her look so beautiful.

It must not be supposed that Mrs. Pleydell
was entirely blind to what was going on between
Laurence Furnivall and Iris. She had
long since noted that he was decidedly attracted,
and was observant enough quite to realise
that Iris's proud and somewhat cold manner
had a fascination for anyone who had been
satiated as he had with smiles and flattery.

Of Iris's feelings she was by no means sure,
but she had implicit trust in the girl's sense and
dignity, and would not for worlds have intruded
upon her confidence. She knew perfectly
well that, when Iris had anything to tell which
she thought her mother ought to know, she
would make no delay. Meanwhile she did not
w T wish to suggest the idea of Laurence's attach-merit,

lest, as was very possible, it might prove
evanescent, in which case it would mortify Iris's
proud spirit to think that even her mother had
observed it.

Mrs. Pleydell had none of the anxiety impartially
attributed to all mothers to see her
daughters married. Believing as she firmly did
that married life was the happiest state for a
woman, she yet had seen quite enough of the
world to be aware that ill-assorted unions are
more frequent than thoroughly harmonious
ones, and she regarded unhappy marriage as
an infinitely more deplorable state than the
despised one of spinsterhood.

Both her girls were provided for ; Iris sufficiently,
Eve substantially ; there was not, therefore,
that reason for her to be anxious regarding
their future prospects ; and though she had
herself married at seventeen, and been happy
as a dream during her first term of married life,
she could not help feeling that a girl who had
seen a little of the world was more likely to
discriminate wisely and choose for her own

happiness than if she fell in love in all the
bustle and excitement of her first season. As
to urging any man upon her daughter's consideration,
Mrs. Pleydell would have considered ita
positive crime, though she would have pointed
out calmly and clearly any objections she saw
to an actual suitor.

Of course if Laurence proposed and Iris
accepted him, it would be an unexceptionable
match from a worldly point of view, and there
was no objection to be made to the young man
himself, who had always borne the highest
character. Still she hardly thought him worthy
of Iris : she was so cultivated and intellectual,
so far superior indeed to most girls, that it
seemed to her mother that it would be rather a
sacrifice for her to marry a man without an aim
or even an idea beyond athletic and field
sports.

Still this was a point entirely for her decision
; she must know certainly as much, probably
far more of Laurence's mental qualifications
and powers of conversation than her mother

did, and if she were satisfied that was all that
could be wished. Mrs. Pleydell had been turning
these things over in her mind for the hundredth
time during their drive, and, as she
noted Iris's unwonted flush as they drove up
the avenue, it struck her that perhaps the girl
expected something definite to take place that
day.

After her disturbed slumbers, Mrs. Furnivall
had had little time to make arrangements how
to keep her son and Iris apart. The guests
who were to stay in the house arrived at
intervals during the morning : they were for
the most part shooting friends of Laurence's,
and had therefore not been asked the day before
in case he might not be at home to receive
them. Some had brought wives, some sisters,
and Mrs. Furnivall was fully employed in
making acquaintance with some, welcoming
those already known to her, showing her
guests their rooms, and other duties of a
hostess.

Laurence, who did not particularly care for

the business of reception, and thought he should
have plenty of it during the afternoon, disappeared
"on business" directly after breakfast,
which meant that he talked for about five
minutes with the agent, and then amused himself
for the rest of the morning in the kennel,
talking over the dogs and shooting prospects
for the morrow with the keeper, and greeted
his guests en bloc at luncheon-time.

It was a most lovely day, "made on purpose
for a garden-party," as everyone said
very many times during the afternoon. Mrs.
Furnivall received her guests on the upper
terrace, on which the windows of the saloon
opened, and from which the view was certainly
most beautiful ; the vases on the terrace were
filled with masses of blooming geraniums, the
balustrades were wreathed with clematis of
every hue, from the dark Jackmanii to the
newest and palest shade of lavender ; the peacocks
sunned themselves among the creepers,
or paced majestically along the turf; below the
terraces lay the formal garden, with every bed

a mass of bloom, and beyond this stretched the
park, with its splendid oaks, beneath which the
deer were couched among the brake, and
glimpses could be caught of the Banner, the
whole backed by the exquisite outline of the
Rockshire hills. What was always said on such
occasions was certainly true  Rookwood was
an ideal place for a garden-party.

Laurence stood on the terrace a little way
from his mother, and welcomed the guests when
they had paid their devoirs to her. She was unspeakably
annoyed at being unable to observe
his greeting of Iris ; but at the moment Lady
Beechmont arrived, and before the necessary
introduction of her large party was satisfactorily
accomplished, Mrs. Pleydell and her
daughters passed on.

If Iris's cheeks had worn an unusual bloom
on her arrival, they flushed scarlet at the fervent
pressure of Laurence's hand. The thought
of what he intended to do in a very short space
of time had excited him so much that he could
not repress this evidence of his feelings, and

hardly guessed himself the vehemence of his
pressure.

It must have been more than an hour after
this when, the arrivals having at length ceased,
Laurence was free to desert his post, and he
went in search of Iris. Mrs. Pleydell, Miss
Netherleigh, and two or three other ladies, were
sitting on the lower terrace, Eve was engrossed
in a game of tennis, and at a little distance Iris
and Lord Rootley were seated, talking apparently
with considerable interest. It was a
sight that did not please Laurence, why, he
hardly knew, for certainly the idea of being
jealous of Lord Rootley had not occurred to
him, but it rather jarred him to find Iris apparently
so pleasantly occupied ; he had a sort of
feeling that she should have had an intuition
of his intentions, and have kept herself disengaged
for the moment when he should be
free to claim her.

He stood for a little watching the tennis,
but resisted all entreaties to take part in a fresh
game which was about to begin. Then sauntering

up to Iris with a very fair assumption of
indifference, though, if he had but known it, the
look in his eyes quite belied his manner, he
said,

Miss Netherleigh, I have been looking for
you ever so long. I want to show you the
great aloe in the pleasaunce; it has flowered
this year."

Dear me ! I should like to see it very
much. I never saw an aloe in flower," said
Iris, rising.

Her heart beat. Was he making an opportunity
to speak to her alone I If so, she was
quite willing to hear what he wished to say,
and, if not  w r ell, there was nothing to excite
the remark of the most captious in her walking
with her host, whom she knew so well, to
see so unusual a sight as an aloe in blossom.

It only flowers once in a hundred years,
you know, so it is one's only chance of seeing
it," said Laurence, as she rose.

I fancy that is now an exploded fallacy,"
said Lord Rootley, who was walking with them

in the direction of the pleasaunce in blissful
ignorance of how earnestly his companions
wished him elsewhere ; " it has been discovered
that an aloe flowers very much more frequently.
But you know the superstition, don't you,
Furnivall ? That the owner of an aloe will always
have the wish of his heart granted the
year that it flowers V

"I never heard that before," said Iris, for
Laurence did not reply. He was thinking that
the wish of his heart at that moment was that
Lord Rootley would leave them.

"I say, Rootley," he said, suddenly, " hasn't
your mother got a reddish dress with white
lace?"

Something of the sort. Why ?"

1 ' I think she must want you ; at least, she
is beckoning with her parasol, and I do not
think it can be to me."

"Til go and see, at any rate," said Lord
Rootley, and, as he left them, Laurence said,
with infinite satisfaction,

There ! that's all right."

The pleasaunce was a pretty, wild shrubbery,
gay in the spring with laburnum and
lilac, hawthorn, and the beautiful rose-coloured
Fidelia. Now it was in some places a wilderness
of roses, while in others great clumps
of hollyhocks or purple larkspur produced
magnificent effects of colour. There were no
formal beds, but the wanderer was ever stumbling
on some unexpected beauty : here a
rockery, sparkling with glittering spar, and
covered with a rich wealth of rock-plants,
there a spot of smooth turf with a stately
cedar affording delightful shade, now a dell
converted into a fernery, with a tiny stream
tinkling and sparkling through beds of Osmunda
and forget-me-not, and sprinkling with
its bright drops the rare ferns that grew so
well, and that were the pride of Mrs. Furnivall's
heart, then a trellis-walk, arched with
roses, ending in a summer-house covered with
honeysuckle and clematis, and again a deep,
still pool with water lilies floating on it and
a tiny fountain playing in the midst.

And everywhere the eye could turn there
were flowers, not the geraniums and cancellaria,
the lobelia and echeverias that ornamented
the terrace gardens, but great bunches of the
old English blush, and the York and Lancaster
rose, Anne Boleyn and pheasant's eye
pinks, clove carnations, clumps of the purple
and the bronze iris, Canterbury bells, Marvel
of Peru, lark spurs, lupins, and mignonette, all
growing in the greatest luxuriance, and looking
as if never curbed or restrained by the
hand of art. Certainly the pleasaunce at Rook-wood
was far from being the least beautiful
part of it.

Where the aloe might be situated Iris did
not know, but, when Laurence led her down
the arcade of roses into the honeysuckle covered
summer-house, she realized it was not to
show it to her that he had brought her away
from her companions. For a moment there
was silence. Now that it had come to the
point, Laurence did not find it so easy to
speak. The words he had so carefully prepared

were utterly forgotten, and he did not
know how to begin. At length, the silence
becoming oppressive and slightly ludicrous,
Iris broke it.

What a charming summer-house this is !"
she said, admiringly. "But, Mr. Furnivall, I
thought we came to see this wonderful aloe,
and I do not see any trace of it."

"Never mind the aloe  just now, I mean.
It was only I wanted to get you away from
the others, to speak to you alone."

"To speak to me?"

Yes. Look here," and Laurence rose and
stood before her, "I am not a good hand at
speaking ; you know that as well as I do.
We've known each other well now a longtime.
What I wanted to say to you is  I
love you  will you marry me?"

"Yes, I will," said Iris, after the pause of
an instant.

She was perfectly straightforward. She
knew, had known now for some time, that
she loved Laurence. He had just told her in

the plainest manner that he loved her. Why
should she affect a coyness that she did not
feel? If she had not been fully prepared to
accept the offer which she thought was going
to be made to her, she would not have been
sitting in that bower, or have allowed it to
be made.

Now that the momentous words were once
spoken, Laurence recovered his usual composure
and powers of speech. He had quite
persuaded himself that he had been desperately
in love with Iris ever since their first
meeting, and did not pause to ask himself
why, if such were the case, he had allowed
five years to elapse without telling her
so.

But Iris listened to him well pleased, and
did not ask herself the question either. It
was she who at length suggested that they
ought to return to the house.

We have been away too long as it is,"
she said ; " the host is sure to have been
missed."

"What does it matter? Everyone must
know."

But not to-day, Laurence."

Why not ? I want to tell everyone at once
what a lucky fellow I am."

But please wait till tomorrow. I haven't
told mamma yet, and she must know first.
And you must tell Mrs. Furnivall. Oh ! Laurence,
I hope she will like me, but "

"Like you! She must be difficult to please
if she doesn't. Why do you say ' but' ?"

Oh ! I don't know, only I don't suppose
she thinks there is anyone in the world worthy
of you."

That's absurd. Then you'd rather not announce
it to-night."

"Much, much rather ! I don't think I could
bear it. If I have the chance I shall tell
mamma."

Well, I shan't tell my mother till the morning.
I say, Iris, you won't mind, will you, my
not coming over tomorrow to the Gate House
to see you and Mrs. Pleydell ! You see it's the

VOL. I. S

First, and I've got a lot of men here for the
shooting, and "

"I quite understand, Laurence, and so will
mamma," but, as she spoke a half unconscious
feeling of disappointment came over Iris. To
drive it away she rose, though Laurence's arm
was still round her.

We must go now, indeed," she said. " It
is getting quite late, and you must show me
the aloe which we came to see. We are sure to
be asked about it."

They went accordingly, and, to Iris's not
inconsiderable amusement, the aloe turned out
to be a very fine yucca.

"Oh! Laurence," she exclaimed, laughing,
fancy your not knowing your own possessions.
Why, that yucca has been one of the sights of
Rookwood for years !"

You don't say so ! Well, when I came
upon it this morning, I made sure it was
an aloe. I'm positive I never saw it before."


You must, though. But I'm afraid it won't
bring the good luck Lord Kootley predicted
from the aloe."

"Never mind, darling," said Laurence, putting
his arm round her waist and kissing her
fondly. " It was the wish of my heart the aloe
was to give me, and I've got it without, so it
will do just as well."

Iris had rather dreaded walking alone with
Laurence into the whole party, assembled as
they were pretty sure now to be on the upper
terrace, as it was drawing on towards the time
when the ladies would go in to re-arrange their
toilettes previous to the collation and subsequent
dance.

But as they walked on through the pleasaunce,
and then into the Italian garden,
they fell in with various groups all sauntering
towards the house, and Iris took the opportunity
quietly to detach herself from Laurence
and to join some friends.

He had said to her just before,

s 2

You will give me the first dance?"

No, Laurence, the third."

Why, pray V with a slightly offended
air.

Because it is your duty to dance first with
Lady Imogene and Lady Iiildegarde."

But after what has happened, Iris."

It makes no difference to your duty as a
host. Besides, you know you promised to say
nothing to-night, and you might as well tell
everyone at once."

Well, I suppose it must be as you like," and
then they joined one group after another, and
Mrs. Furnivall, anxious beyond measure at her
son's lengthened disappearance, and expecting
to see her worst fears realized by his coming
back alone with Iris Netherleigh, was re-assured
by seeing him come slowly up the steps engaged
in a bantering war of words with Miss
Calton, a young lady who had caused her very
considerable uneasiness two winters before, but
whose very existence Laurence seemed since to
have forgotten ; whilst Iris made her appearance

some time after, walking with Lady Imogene
and Sir Henry Mossman.

For a few moments Iris and her mother were
alone in the room to which they had been
shown.

Mamma," she said, putting her arm round
her waist, and laying her head on her shoulder
" mamma, Mr.Furnivall  Laurence  has asked
me to marry him, and I have said yes."

"My darling! God grant you may be
happy \"

"I am sure of it," and Iris's violet eyes
shone like stars as she raised her head and
looked at her mother. " And, mamma, I
begged him to say nothing to-night; he
wanted to tell everyone, and I  I felt I couldn't
bear it."

It is far better not, darling. But his
mother?"

He said he would tell her tomorrow. Oh !
mamma, I hope she will like me."

; She must be hard to please, dear, if she
does not."

How funny ! Those are the very words-laurence
said."

Les beaux esprits se rencontre ! I suppose,
darling, you don't mind my telling Aunt
Rachel?"

Oh ! no, dear Aunt Rachel of course.
But, mamma, no one else, please  not even
Eve."

My dear ! I might as well tell the town-crier
at once ; she is such a chatterton !"

'' And, mamma, he said he hoped I shouldn't
mind, and that you wouldn't either, his not
being able to come over to the Gate House tomorrow
to see me  and you. Because, you
know, it's the 1st of September and he has
people here for shooting. I said I quite understood,
and that I was sure you would understand
too."

Of course, dear, if you are satisfied ;" but
Mrs. Pleydell's thoughts flew back to the time
of her first engagement, and she felt that
Arthur Netherleigh would have left his shooting,
even if the penalty had been that he

should never see a partridge again, rather than
have asked her to excuse him.

Was she exacting, or did this man to whom
her darling child had given the treasure of her
young affection really not care for her as he
ought? Would she with her warm heart, high
intellectual powers, and tender, loving ways be
only to him

Something better than his dog,
A little dearer than his horse " ?

If she believed it were possible ! But, even if
she did, Iris would not. Well, she was of
course foolish to trouble herself unnecessarily.
Of course his duties as a host did make a great
difference. And, at this moment Eve came
flying into the room, and between the assistance
she required and her unceasing chatter,
effectually put a stop to any more confidences.


But many times during the evening, as she
watched her beautiful, eldest daughter, Mrs.
Pleyel's doubts would recur to her, and they

were accentuated by the ominous " Humph !"
with which Miss Netherleigh received the
tiding's of Laurence's excuse.

CHAPTER XII.

But love in whispers lets us ken

That men were made for us and we for men.

The Gentle Shepherd. Ramsay.

But happy they, the happiest of their kind,
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend .

Stirring. Thomson.

rPHE dance at Rookwood was not over till
slate Mrs. Furnivall had watched her sou
during the evening, and had not been able to
make up her mind as to his demeanour towards
Iris. He had not danced with her often, for
Iris was resolute in her determination not to do
anything to enlighten the world as to what had
passed between them ; but certainly there was

something unusual in his manner towards her,
and he seemed on remarkably confidential
terms with Mrs. Pleydell : he had actually sat
out one whole quadrille talking earnestly to
her. Mrs. Furnivall did not understand it ; she
was uneasy, puzzled, tired, and decidedly cross,
and when, after all the guests had retired, her
son followed her to her dressing-room and
asked if she could spare him a few minutes, it
was with considerable impatience that she
asked if it was anything so important that it
could not wait till the morning.

I'd rather do it now," said Laurence, leaning
against the chimney-piece and looking
down at his mother, who, seated by the window,
was leisurely divesting herself of gloves, rings,
and bracelets ; " everyone will be late in the
morning, and I shall be in a hurry to get the
men off for the shooting. I shan't keep you
long ; I only want to tell you 1 am the happiest
fellow in the world."

Then the blow had really fallen ! A conviction
at once presented itself to Mrs. Furnivall

that Iris was not only, as she had before
thought, unsuited to Laurence, but the very
most unsuitable person he could have selected.
She was determined not to help him in his
announcement, and answered, quietly,

I am very glad to hear it, I am sure. I
suppose you found Lord Rootley sensible about
the exchange of shooting."

I never once thought about it. No, it is
something of much more consequence. Mother,
wish me joy  I am going to be married !"

I really cannot do that, Laurence, till I
know who the lady may be."

Do you mean to say you don't know?
"Well, mother, I thought you had better eyes.
Surely you must have seen that I have never
cared for anyone but Iris Netherleigh. Now
you can wish me joy."

I do not quite know about that. Do you
remember a conversation we had a little while
ago, in which I said what a disadvantage it
was to Miss Netherleigh to be connected with a
fraudulent bankrupt? Even if I thought her

suited to you, which I do not, it would give arne
infinite pain that you should connect yourself
with disgrace. You were aware of my feelings,
and if you have yet chosen to act in defiance
of them you can hardly expect me to be very
enthusiastic in my congratulations on what I
consider as a misfortune for you."

Laurence looked and felt disappointed.

I'm sorry you take it in that way, mother'
he said ; "I expected you would have been
delighted. Why, what more could you ask?
Birth, beauty, and the best and most charming
girl in the world ! As to her being unsuited tome
 well, that is my look-out, and I am quite
willing to take any risk of it there may be ;
and as to disgrace, why, my dear mother, that
is simple nonsense. Iris is not connected with
the bankrupt ; she does not bear his name  in
short, she has nothing whatsoever to do with
him. I can't think how you can make a mountain
out of such a ridiculous mole-hill."

Young people always imagine themselves
wiser than their elders, I believe," said Mrs.

Furnivall, coldly. "Well, Laurence, have you
any more to say? It is late, and I am
tired."

I want you to drive over to the Gate
House to-day. I made Mrs. Pleydell and Iris
understand why I couldn't go, but I promised
you would."

"You should not make engagements for me
without consulting me, Laurence. I have made
arrangements to drive Mrs. Vane and Mrs.
Dawson over to Windermere."

Well, mother, surely you can unmake them
you can go to Windermere equally well on
Monday. If you made an engagement to Mrs.
Ablest, I will send one of the grooms over with
a note ; only do not refuse me this, mother,
which I ask you with my whole heart. Go
over to the Gate House, and be as charming
as you know you can be to my darling
Iris. I have promised that you will love her
dearly."

"It is very bitter to me, Laurence  you,
who with your position had but to ask and

have, who might have married anybody !"
"And what, pray, could I do better than
marry the only woman for whom I have ever
cared, the most beautiful and perfect woman it
has ever been my lot to know ? I suppose,
mother, it is your affection for me that makes
you so difficult to please, and that I ought to
feel very much pleased and flattered, but I
can't. I am no child now not to know my own
mind, and no one should know that better than
you. Tell me at once  I shall not ask you
again  will you do what I ask 1 Will you goto
the Gate House and welcome the sweetest
girl in England as your daughter, or will you
not? I must have a decisive answer. It will
not make the slightest difference as to my determination,
but it may make some as to the
immediate course I shall pursue."
What do you mean f

Mrs. Furnivall said this as a temporizing
measure to gain a few moments' breathing
span. Hitherto Laurence's will had never
crossed hers, and she had hoped that a determined

show ot opposition would cause him to
hesitate and procrastinate. But there was
something in his tone and manner which, although
she had never before noticed it in him,
reminded her strongly of his father. Her husband,
like his son, had generally acquiesced
thoroughly in everything she wished, but on
the rare occasions when their opinions had
differed, it was always she who, much against
her will, had been forced to yield. And now
Laurence, whose disposition was, as she well
knew, the counterpart of his father's, was
standing before her, looking and speaking as
his father had been wont to do in his most
determined, or, as his wife called them, obstinate
moods. Mrs. Furnivall felt she must ultimately
give way, but she wanted a little time
to arrange her thoughts, and therefore she
asked,

"What do you mean?"

I mean that if you refuse to do what I ask,
what I have a right to ask of you, as the wife of
my choice is a lady utterly and in every way

unexceptionable, I shall go there this morning,
beg her to name the earliest possible day, next
week if it can be managed, and bring her home
here at once. Of course I don't want to do anything
so unusual, but, if you won't do what I
ask of you and receive her willingly, I must
show her that it makes no difference to me.
The Dower House can be got ready in a few
days."

You are very cruel, Laurence," said his
mother, bursting into tears.

It is not I that am cruel, but you that are
unreasonable. I bring you the sweetest
daughter-in-law heart could desire, a girl you
have known for years, and of whom there is
nothing but good to be known, and you affect
to be dissatisfied, and talk nonsense about her
being disgraced by the bankruptcy of her
mother's brother-in-law. It is arrant nonsense,
and you must know it is so. I had expected a
very different welcome for my news. You have
told me over and over again how much you
wished to see me married."

But I never expected this."

Well, I could hardly have done better. At
any rate, I have chosen and I shall not change.
Will you do what 1 ask of you !"

Yes' said Mrs. Furnivall, who knew her
son well enough to know that it was of no
use for her to struggle : " yes, I will go today."


"And you will be kind," he said, going upto
her and laying his hand on her shoulder ;
"you will not let her guess that for some
inscrutable reason she is unacceptable to
you."

"No, you may trust me," said his mother,
bitterly ; ' I will be as hypocritical as it is in
my power to be for your sake."

And indeed, having to confess herself worsted
by her son, Mrs. Furnivall had no thought of
continuing the struggle. Finding Laurence
determined, she had no wish to exhibit herself
as ignominiously defeated, as would of course
be the case if she suffered it to be apparent that
she disapproved his choice, and yet he, as

VOL. I. T

would evidently be the case, persisted in
it.

She had a passing thought of rousing Mrs.
Pley dell's pride by manifesting her distaste to
the marriage, but so highly did she esteem the
honour done to Iris in being solicited to
become the mistress of Rookwood, that she did
not believe any amount of offended pride
would induce either the girl or her mother tolet
such a chance slip away. So she made up
her mind to make the best of what she could
not help, and having made her excuses to the
two ladies whom she had promised to drive to
Windermere, and dashed the hopes of one or
two of the girls by the announcement of Laurence's
engagement, set off in solitary state on
her mission.

Mrs. Furnivall had a way of trying every
house she entered by the standard of Rook-wood,
a method manifestly unfair on less stately
mansions ; but even she could not fail to be
struck with the beauty of the Gate House

drawing-room when she was ushered into it.
Perhaps she had never been there at a moment
when the light was so perfect, or the garden
so beautiful, or perhaps, which is more probable,
she had never before looked at it so critically.


Be that as it may, she certainly was struck
as she had never been before. The exquisitely
carved oak was set off by curtains and cushions
in the deep window-seats of tawny embossed
plush, and the walls were adorned with one or
two quaint and handsome mirrors. Flowers
were everywhere, artistically arranged in bowls,
vases, and shallow dishes, while in one corner
stood an immensely tall vase filled with
bulrushes and yellow flags, the stem wreathed
with ivy and clematis. Passion-flowers and
yellow roses surrounded the windows, framing
the lovely view of the brilliant garden and
placid river, with the rich water-meadows beyond
dotted with clumps of trees and groups
of cattle, and bounded by the blue Rockshire

T 2

hills. Mrs. Pleydell in her grey dress, and Iris
in white with dark blue ribbons, looked well
framed in such a room.

Whatever Mrs. Furnivall undertook she
prided herself upon doing thoroughly, and
there was certainly no want of graciousness
in her manner.

"You expected to see me, of course," she
said, as she shook hands with Mrs. Pleydell,
and then, turning to Iris, she kissed her on
both cheeks. " Laurence told me as soon as
you were gone this morning," she said, when
they were seated. u I confess I was surprised*
I had noticed nothing yesterday."

Iris was shy, and couldn't bear that it
should be known last night." said Mrs. Pleyel.


Very natural. Well, my dear Laurence
tells me he has made his peace with you
about not coming here to-day. It was good
of you not to insist  it would have been awkward
for our guests."

Oh, yes, indeed, I quite understood."

Laurence is fortunate," said Mrs. Furnivall,
turning to Mrs. Pleydell ; " but you
will forgive a mother's partiality in thinking
that Iris is equally so."

"I am sure I am," said Iris, before her
mother could reply.

Dear child, of course you think so, but
indeed it is the case."

I am glad to have known your son so
long," said Mrs. Pleydell. " It will not seem
so hard as giving my child to a comparative
stranger."

"No, of course not," said Mrs. Furnivall,
who felt indignant at Mrs. Pleydell's insinuation
that it would be in any way u hard " to
give Iris to Laurence. Hard, forsooth ! As
if she and the girl had not been scheming
and plotting for this ever since Iris came
out ! She had no patience with such nonsense.
But she suppressed her indignation,
and said, " We want you and your daughters
to dine with us on Monday. Our friends will
still be with us."

We shall be very happy."

M Then I am afraid I must wish you goodbye.
I must not leave my guests longer
than I can help," and, with another kiss to
Iris, Mrs. Furnivall took her departure.

She does not like it at all ; she hates
the thought of his marrying and of her
having to leave Rookwood," thought Mrs.
Pleydell, as she sat musing after her visitor's
departure. " Still she is sensible enough to
know that he was tolerably sure to marry sometime,
and that he could not find anyone more
unexceptionable than Iris. She was civil, but
not cordial. I hope Iris did not perceive it  it
would pain her. She would fancy that the
objection was personal to her."

But it was clear that Iris had perceived
nothing.

"I am so glad that is over, mother," she
said, kneeling down by Mrs. Pleydell's chair,
and laying her head on her shoulder. " Somehow
I fancied that Mrs. Furnivall did not
like me, and would be sorry for what Laurence

had done, but, you see, nothing could
be kinder than she was."

It was only what you had a right to
expect, dearest."

But you can hardly have a right to be
liked, maria ; loving and liking do not come
of people's own will."

M Well, now you will have no objection to
everyone knowing it."

Oh, no, none  only somehow I felt I
could not bear it last night. Mamma, let us
go and see Aunt Rachel," and before long
the two ladies were seated in Miss Nether-leigh's
drawing-room, where the scent of the
roses and jessamine, the clematis and mignonette
in the garden struggled with the faint
odour of the pot-pourra in the tall china
jars.

Well, my dear," was Miss Netherleigh's
greeting, " I couldn't wish you joy last night,
but I felt for you none the less heartily."

I am quite sure of that, Aunt Rachel."

Well, young Laurence Furnivall is a lucky

man, luckier than, to roy mind, he deserves,
but you will not like me to say that."

No, Aunt Rachel, and you won't think it,
when you know him better."

Well, well, child, it is all right that you
should think him perfect. I could not wish it
otherwise."

Mrs. Furnivall has been over this afternoon,
and has been so kind."

i( She could not in decency be otherwise.
It will be a bitter day for her, though, when
she has to give up Rookwood, and comedown
to the Dower House."

Oh !" cried Iris, flushing, " I had never
thought of that. But surely she can go on
living at Rookwood just the same."

"Don't talk nonsense, child. There can't
be two Kings of Brentford, and no house ever
answered where there were two mistresses.
You needn't distress yourself in the least,
Mrs. Furnivall has an excellent jointure,
and a charming house all ready to step
into. So I hear Master Laurence had the

bad taste to prefer the partridges to you today."


It wasn't that, Aunt Rachel ; but, you see,
he had all his friends in the house for the shooting,
and it would have been so awkward for
him to desert them."

"Yes, yes, child, I know. What have you
done with Eve to-day V

She has gone up to Beechmont to practise
tennis for this tournament."

u What a fright that younger girl has made
of herself ! Don't let Eve see more of her than
you can help."

That is easier said than done, Aunt
Rachel."

I am going into the garden," said Iris.
Aunt Rachel, I may have some York and
Lancaster roses, may I not ! It is very odd no
amount of persuasion will make them grow with
us."

Are you satisfied and happy about it, Gracie
dear?" said Miss Netherleigh, as soon as Iris
was out of earshot.

Yes, Aunt Rachel, I think so. Iris would
never have accepted him if she did not really
care for him ; it really is not in her to think of
his wealth or position, and he has evidently
long admired her, it is no sudden fancy. So of
course it is fair to suppose he knows his own
mind."

"You are certainly not enthusiastic, Grace.
I wonder if anything would persuade Mrs.
Furnivall that you are not absolutely delirious
with joy at the successful issue of your machinations."


Aunt Rachel !"

I was watching her here on Thursday. She
hardly ever took her eyes off Iris.* I am positive
she was dying to tell Laurence that she
was flirting with some one."

Iris has no more idea of flirting than "

Than you ever had, Grace. Eve's talents
in that line must certainly have been inherited
from her father's side of the house."

"What puzzles me," said Mrs. Pleydell, musingly,
" is that Iris should have fallen in love

with Laurence Furnivall. I know there is nota
word to be said against him, and of course, ina
worldly point of view, it is an unexceptionable
match ; but  he is the last man in the
world I should have expected to fascinate her.
You know how intellectual she is, how fond of
art and literature, and everything of the kind.
Now I don't believe he would be able to tell the
best water-colour of the year from a chromo-lithographic,
or that he opens a book from one
year's end to another. What attracts her?
What can they possibly have in common? Of
course I know it is not a case for my interference
 Iris is not a child, and she has known
him quite long enough to be acquainted with
his tastes. But I own it completely puzzles
me."

My dear Grace, if you once begin to speculate
on what makes people fall in love with
each other, you will wonder without intermission
to the end of your days. Surely you
have seen enough of the world to know that it
is always the most unlikely people in the whole

world who marry, and that what we fancy to
be the most ill-assorted couples are often the
happiest; it is a matter upon which there is
really no reasoning."

"No, I know that. We are going to dine at
Rookwood on Monday."

Of course, that is as it should be. Was Mrs.
Furnivall civil?"

Ye-eyes. Civil, but not cordial. However,
it satisfied Iris, and that is all that I cared
for."

She will try to put off the wedding in
hopes that he may change. Don't be overpersuaded,
Grace."

I am in no hurry to part with Iris."

Nonsense ! You would part with her tomorrow
if you thought it was for her good.
What I mean is, don't let Mrs. Furnivall make
a tool of you. You are terribly amiable,
Grace."

What an accusation ! Come, Iris, Eve will
be wondering if we are ever coming home to
dinner."

After diDuer Mrs. Pleydell told her younger
daughter of Laurence's proposal.

You don't seem at all surprised, Eve," she
said.

Surprised !" said Eve, with a laugh. " Why,
I believe I first opened Iris's eyes to what was
going on."

What do you mean !"

It was the first day we went to Miss Nether-leigh's
; after I came back, I asked Iris who the
man was who put her into the carriage, and I
told her he was awful spoons on her. She
looked as if she were going to faint, and was as
cross as could be."

Eve seemed to have enjoyed her afternoon
thoroughly, and chattered merrily away about
it and the Rookwood party, but in her secret
heart she was very much surprised at herself.
Not all the fun, fast and furious as it certainly
had been, that she had had at Beechmont, nor
the admiration she had excited in her sea-green
dress at Rookwood, nor all the compliments she
had received from her special adorers, Colonel

Leybourne and Sir Henry Mossman, could make
her for a moment forget the stranger on the
river  " Claud Esmond."

Claud Esmond seemed to be whispered in her
ear by every breeze, and the handsome face and
soft, dark eyes came between her and the men
who flattered themselves that they were being
so very fascinating to her. The pressure of his
arm seemed never to leave her waist, waking or
sleeping she seemed to feel his kisses, and she
seemed to live a dual life, an outward one of
fun and flirtation, and an inner one of love and
passion. She almost shook herself in astonishment
at being what she supposed must be really
in love. She had tried hard that afternoon to
throw cold water on a project for a boating-party
on the following Monday ; she had
intended to go out alone that afternoon ; of
course she would not land  probably she should
never do that again  but she should row up
past the bow T er, and take a quiet look at it 
and perhaps she might meet Claud on the
river.

Had she had no other excitement, Eve
would by this time certainly have persuaded
herself that she was too desperately in love to
be able to pass a day without a sight of Claud ;
as it was, she had so much to amuse her that
she had only time to wonder at the persistence
with which she thought of her lover. There
was no chance of her private expedition on
Monday ; Hildegarde had been very determined,
and the boating-party was to take place.

On the Sunday Laurence made his appearance
in church, and walked on to the Gate House
afterwards. He had been there very little, for he
held morning visits in almost more than the
usual masculine abhorrence, and the county was
so sociable that he had constantly met Iris without
sacrificing himself. He admired everything,
declared the garden was prettier than Rook-wood,
and seemed to be altogether overflowing
with happiness.

He stayed till he had hardly time to get
home to dinner, causing Iris for the first time
in her life to forget the very existence of the

Sunday School of which she was the mainstay.
Indeed, when Laurence at length awoke to the
lateness of the hour as they were sitting on the
lower terrace, it was difficult to persuade her
that they had been together more than half an
hour.

Eve, to whom Sunday was rather a trying
day, deprived as she was of the constant succession
of afternoon visitors to which she had been
accustomed in Hyde Park Gardens, complained
mirthfully that the garden really was not large
enough to hold a pair of lovers, that she and
Mousse had wandered about in continual terror
of falling over them.

Finding that her mother would not allow
Iris's dog to be banished to please Mousse, Eve
had contrived to pacify her spoilt pet, and a
sort of armed neutrality had been established
between him and Fuss, occasionally broken by
some ebullition of Mousse's temper, when Fuss
would quietly roll the little ball of white w r fool
over on its back, and hold it there with one
paw, wriggling, snapping, and doing its

best to extricate itself till he was called off by
Iris.

Mother," said Iris, following Mrs. Pleydell
into her room that night, "he is in a great
hurry  he wants to be married at once."

Well, dear, that is only natural."

But, mother, he wants it to be in October."

"And what did you say V

That I must ask you ; but that it seemed
startlingly soon."

"Well, we will talk it over tomorrow."

VOL. I. U

CHAPTER XIII.

Vessels large may venture more,

But little boats should keep near shore.

Poor Richard. B. Franklin.

npHE dinner at Rookwood went off well, but
* it was decidedly stiff. Mrs. Furnivall did
and said all that politeness required, but no
one who knew her well could have failed to
understand that it was done contre coeur. Even
Iris felt that there was something wanting,
what she hardly knew, but it did not trouble
her much. Laurence was so devoted that
she had little time to distress herself about
his mother's manner.

One very annoying method that Mrs. Furnivall
took of showing her vexation was to
refer everything ostentatiously to Laurence
or Iris.

It is not for me to decide now," she said,
in answer to a question as to whether
she intended to carry out some alteration in
the garden which had been in contemplation
at the time of the inquirer's last visit, "it is
Miss Netherleigh's taste which must be consulted."


Causing Iris to blush painfully, and Laurence
to feel that somehow his mother was
not making herself pleasant, although her
speech sounded fair enough to the ear.

"Iris," he said, when, the gentlemen having
come in after dinner, he drew her out of the
window on to the terrace, where the full moon
made it almost as light as day, and the air
was heavy with the scent of the flowers, " did
you ask your mother about October?"

Yes."

And what did she say ?"

u2

We have hardly talked of it yet. But, oh f
Laurence, it seems very soon."

Not half soon enough for me, dear. Surely,
Iris, you don't want to wait ? I should like
to be married next week."

Oh, Laurence, what nonsense !"

Not a bit. I should like it of all things,,
but I know women can't be married without
a lot of clothes and things. But I say, Iris r
you won't put it off."

You must talk to mamma, and hear what
she says."

I am coming to see her tomorrow, so
you must talk to her before. And now I
want to give you this. I quite forgot to
bring it yesterday," and he produced a magnificent
sapphire ring, set in diamonds.

What a beauty ! And it is my favourite
stone," said Iris, when he had demanded and
received payment for the gift.

Yes, I know that. I heard you say so
that day at Allanton, when Mrs. Vaughan
showed you hers."

How nice of you to remember ! But indeed,
Laurence, we ought to go in now."

"Oh, no ! wait a bit. I say, Iris, every
time I look at you you grow handsomer. I
long to dress you up in all the family diamonds."


Oh, hush, Laurence, they are your mother's."


"No, indeed! they are mine, and you are
going to wear them."

But indeed I am sure Mrs. Furnivall would
like to go on wearing them, and I don't
care."

"But I do," and a certain obstinate look
came over Laurence's face which made him very
much like his mother.

Iris saw that he was vexed, and hastened
to change the conversation by some inquiry
as to the probable time of his visit the next
day.

"Eve will be overjoyed. She will escape
her reading," she said, laughing, as he named
eleven o'clock,

Indeed, when Eve heard, as they drove home,
the time that Laurence had named, she at once
exclaimed :

How delightful ! Then, mummy, as you'll
be busy, and I can't read to you, mayn't I go
and practise tennis ?"

l< Well, yes, just this once," said Mrs. Pleyel,
whose mind was full of Iris, and who
was not sorry that Eve should be out of the
way while she had her quiet conversation
with Laurence. She quite understood that he
wanted to talk to her about business, and
wished to be secure against inopportune interruption.


The boating-party had duly taken place on
the Monday afternoon. Eve had done all she
could to make Hildegarde choose to go down
the river instead of up, but without avail, and
they had gone farther than she had ever done,
had passed the bower, and had, on rounding
the next point, seen a charming cottage one,
which Eve at once knew must be where Claud
was living. Indeed she fancied, though she

was not sure, that she saw his head at one of
the windows. She was jubilant at her escape
from reading the next morning. It would
leave her the afternoon free, and surely Claud
would be expecting her. She had had innumerable
compliments on her improved rowing, had
beaten Hildegarde easily, and had given Colonel
Ley bourne hard work, as he averred, to keep
up with her. All arranged itself according to
her wishes ; she resisted entreaties to stay and
lunch at Beechmont, under the plea that she
dared not do so without leave, which made
Hildegarde pity and laugh at her for being so
kept in order, and caused Lord Rootley to say,
with a smile,

It must be quite a new experience for you,
Miss Pleydell, not to have everything your own
way."

Eve felt that she cordially hated him. He
had once certainly admired her, and it had been
a bitter mortification when he broke his chains,
and she realized that none of her wiles would
lure him back. Ever since she had always felt

uneasy when in his company ; she knew he disapproved
of many of her proceedings, and
always felt that she was being judged and
found wanting. And this was pain and grief
to Eve, whose vanity was insatiable, and who
liked to have the approbation of everyone with
whom she came in contact, so her feeling towards
Lord Rootley was a very bitter
one.

She rowed very rapidly up the river, but
she had reached the eyot before her solitude
was interrupted ; then she encountered Mr.
Esmond.

Well, so you have left the rest of the flotilla
at home."

"Yes, they are all gone for a ride in the
forest. Did you see us yesterday?"

You know I did  you saw me."

I thought I did."

"You knew it, Eve. Come, we will land
again to-day; it is easier to talk there than
here."

This time Eve made no difficulties ; it seemed

so much easier now that she had once done
it.

Now tell me what you have been doing in
the week since you were here."

Eve recited where she had been, being sharply
cross-questioned as to the names of her
various partners, and the number of times she
had danced with each ; but, finding that Claud's
brow lowered at every mention of Colonel
Leybourne, she almost entirely suppressed his
name, although she had danced with him more
than anyone else.

At last, having talked sufficiently of herself,
she communicated the intelligence about
Iris.

Furnivall of Rookwood. Is he a tall, fair
fellow, rather good-looking, but quite a country
bumpkin, who thinks of nothing but horses and
dogs?"

Except cricket and lawn tennis ; he's a
capital player, quite the best here."

So he's going to marry your sister. Well,
he will have a very handsome wife."

Do you think Iris so very good-looking?"
asked Eve, doubtfully. It seemed to
her that admiration of anyone so utterly
different implied a depreciation of her own
charms. " She's so tall, and then she's quite
old."

Old ! you ridiculous child ! What do you
mean f "

She is two and twenty," said Eve,
solemnly. " That is quite old if you're not
married."

Well, you see, she's going to be."

Yes, it's quite time. 1 should be awfully
ashamed of not being married before I was
twenty."

You little goose !"

He had his arm round her waist, and in the
tone he used she had no objection to being
called a goose.

I want you to take me to see your cottage,"
she said, presently. " It looked so pretty the
other day. Is it your own ?"

No. I rent it from Sir John Dibble-ton."


What, the funny old man with the creaky
shoes and squeaking voice, who lives on the
other side of Bannerton ? Well, it is very pretty.
Now show it to me."

Don't ask me. Eve, I  I really can't."

Eve pouted.

You mean won't."

u No, I mean what I say."

Oh ! very well ; if you won't do what I ask
you I shall go home."

She tried to rise, but he held her fast.

"Eve, look at me," but she kept her face
steadily averted.

He put up his hand and turned it round to
him quietly but firmly.

What a cross little face ! Eve, I hope you
don't often look like that. It spoils your looks,
and will bring wrinkles in no time. I declare a
crow's foot is coming at the corner of your eyo
already."

You are so unkind," said Eve, pouting, but
the scowl began to lighten.

"No, I am not. There, let me kiss the
wrinkles away. You know, Eve, I would do
anything for you."

Except what I ask you."

That 1 cant do. Eve, you mayn't care much
for that worthy person Mrs. Grundy, neither do
I except for you. Still it is never any use to
offend her unnecessarily. Here no one ever
comes, and no one is the wiser for our meetings,
but at the cottage it would be different.
Come, I'm sure you seemed anxious enough the
other day that your mother shouldn't know of
our meetings : you even suggested that I should
array myself in the garments of civilization and
call at Beechmont on purpose to be formally
introduced to you. What chance, pray, would
you have of keeping your secret if any of the
servants saw you? You are not exactly a
person to be mistaken or forgotten. Why,
it would be all over Bannerton tomorrow

Yes, I suppose so," said Eve, reluctantly.

By-the-by, while you have all your friends
about, it would be better if you were tolet
me have a line to say when you will
be able to come. I don't want to meet
them."

"I can't think why; they are all so pleasant."


Well, such is the case, I don't. Can you
write?  I mean, can you post your letter unobserved
?"

Yes, I think so. There is a box a little way
down the road."

"Well, direct < Post-office, Marston'"

 Why not to the cottage?"

It is safer."

'now I must go. I wonder if Iris and
Laurence will have done spooning by this
time."

You find it pleasant yourself, do you not V
with a fervent pressure.

Yes-s," said Eve, almost shyly.

"Well, then, don't grudge the pleasure to

others," said Claud, laughing. "Here," in an
altered tone, " stand back a little, Eve ; there
are two fellows in the field opposite. How
strange ! I have never seen anyone about
before. Just keep back in the summer-house
till the coast is clear."

It was quite a quarter of an hour before he
would allow her to emerge, and not then before
he had carefully reconnoitred the opposite
bank.

I think it is all right now," he said, as he
helped her into the boat. " It is a pity you had
the boat made so conspicuous ; there is no mistaking
it."

For Eve had insisted on having her boat
painted sky-blue, with a wreath of water-lilies
round the top, in consequence of which she had
the day before undergone a good deal of " chaff"
from most of the Beechmont party.

"Are you not coming?" asked Eve, in a
disappointed tone.

"Not to-day, pretty one. You see, if those
two fellows keep on along the bank you must

of course pass them, and it is as well you should
be alone."

You are awfully cautious," pouted Eve.

All for your sake. Au revoir /"

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN :macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

\l,"i'

AT URSANA'CHAMPAIG

STACKS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/iris02rand

VOL. n.

BY

MES. RANDOLPH

AUTHOR OF

"GENTIANELLA," "WILD HYACINTH,'
'little PANSY," "RESEDA,"

ETC. ETC.

Prouder than blue Iris."
Troilus and Cressida, A. 1, Sc. 3.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

Allrujhts rexf>rvf'd.

IRIS.

CHAPTER I.

A bitter and perplexed " What shall I do ?''

Is-worse to man than worse necessity.

Coleridge.

T Laurence was gone when Eve returned
- home: Mrs. Pleydell said he had gone soon
after she started, having an appointment with
Lord Rootley to go over some ground, something
about an exchange of shooting for which
he cared a great deal Iris seemed ah-lady
quite up in the subject, knew what difficulties
there had been in the past, and how impossible
it had always been to make Lord Beechmont,
VOL. II. B

who was no sportsman, take the requisite
interest in the matter, and how sensible and
practical Laurence thought Lord Rootley's
views.

That means that he agrees with him," said
Eve, shrewdly. '' Laurence cannot bear anyone
to differ from him."

'' That is because he knows what he is talking
about, and talks better about it than anyone
else," said Iris.

'bravo, Iris you have got up quite the
proper tone already !"

'' What do you mean ?" said L'is, looking up
in surprise. '' I only said what is the case."

Eve had not observed anyone on the bank as
she rowed home  indeed she had almost forgotten
that Claud had seen anyone, and had
therefore declined to accompany her; but, if
she had looked, she might have seen a gentleman
who was walking across a field some little
distance from the river stop and scrutinise her
attentively.

This was Lord Rootley, who had just parted

from Laurence after an interview respecting
the shooting, wherein an interchange had been
arranged with which they were mutually satisfied.
He had caught sight of two figures seated
under the shade of an oak near a summer-house
belonging to Sir John Dibbleton's riverside
cottage. He would have thought no more
about it but that, as he was walking home,
Eve's boat caught his eye.

There was no mistaking that sky-blue craft,
and it suddenly struck him that she wore a
pink dress, and that the lady under the oak
had done the same. Was it possible that it
could have been she? And if so, who could
have been her companion ? He knew a good
deal of Eve's fast ways, and that her aunt had
exercised bat little supervision over her, indulging
the girl's every whim and folly, and
seeming to think that her fastness must prove
an irresistible attraction. Could it be some
London adorer whom she was meeting on the
river unknown to her mother ?

When he had seen her since his arrival at

b2

Beechmont, she had seemed as little like a girl
in love as could well be imagined ; on the contrary,
she had appeared free as air, ready to talk,
laugh, and flirt with anyone. Well, of course
he was not quite sure that the lady under the
oak had been Eve  pink dresses in summer
were far from uncommon,  still he felt a very
strong conviction on the point. What ought
he to do ? Nothing, at any rate, till he was
certain ; when he was he would speak to Eve,
She was very young, and probably did not
realise the amount of her own indiscretion.
Meanwhile he would discover who had taken
the cottage.

The opportunity for this soon offered. He
met the agent riding across the water-meadows,
and after telling him of the arrangement to
which he and Mr. Furnivall had just come, and
which Mr. Campbell pronounced a most equitable
one, equally advantageous to both parties,
asked if he knew who was the tenant of Sir
John Dibbleton's cottage.

"A Mr. Esmond," answered Mr. Campbell.

*' He is not there alone ; there is a very handsome
young woman, who looks almost like a
gipsy, who is called Mrs. Esmond ; but there
seems to be a very general impression that she
is nothing of the kind. She has a pony-carriage,
and drives into Bannerton a good
deal. You can't mistake the carriage  it has a
handsome Norwegian pony with bells round its
neck."

Evidently, Lord Rootley thought, as he
walked onwards, he had been mistaken. There
must have been two pink gowns, and Eve's
appearance upon the scene was purely accidental
; he was very glad indeed that it was so.
What a foolish, frivolous little girl she seemed !
How could he ever have allowed her undoubted
prettiness even for a moment to persuade him
that he was in love with her ? Yas it possible
that if she had been only a little less fast, if she
had taken his remonstrance at Maidenhead in
good part, he might have even gone so far as
to propose to her? It seemed impossible now,
and yet he quite remembered how much he

had admired her. Well, he felt duly grateful
for his escape !

It was wonderful how Eve and Iris could
really be daughters of the same mother! He
had hardly ever, he thought, met anyone like
Iris. It was not only her beauty, though that
was of course undeniable, but it was her manner
and her conversation. He had seldom met
anyone so pleasant as she had been the night
she had dined at Beechmont, and the hour
during which he had talked to her at Rook-wood.


He quite understood now why Laurence
had discovered that apocryphal signal of Lady
Beechmont's. How very nearly he had been
very much de trop ! But who would ever have
thought of a girl so evidently superior as Iris
falling in love with such a man as Laurence,
an excellent good fellow, of course, there was
not a word to be said against him , but certainly
not intellectual. And she seemed so specially
formed for intellectual companionship I Well,
there never was any understanding women ! It

was impossible to predict whom one of them
would like, or the sort of man she would choose
to marry. With which sapient though hardly
novel conclusion Lord Rootley turned his
thoughts to other matters.

Mrs. Pleydell had been more than satisfied
with Laurence's business arrangements ; they
were liberal beyond anything which she had
either expected or desired. He had urged his
plea for an early marriage most earnestly, and
at length the 30th of October had been determined
upon. Mrs. Pleydell found herself liking
him better than she had expected ; he was so
thoroughly straightforward, and so evidently
fond of Iris, that she was not inclined to criticise
the very evident belief in his own supreme importance
that might at another time have made
her smile. But, like everything else about him,
it was so genuine, he so firmly believed in it
himself, that it had to be quietly accepted as
part of his personality.

After his departure. Iris and her mother had
had a long confidential talk. It surprised Mrs.

Pleydell to find how deep-rooted the girl's love
for him evidently was ; she could not understand
how she could ever have doubted, as she certainly
had done, as to whether she cared for
him or not. It became clear to her, however,
as they talked, that Iris had by no means
fathomed some things respecting Laurence.
She had evidently no doubts as to their mental
equality, and was quite prepared to find him
an intellectual companion, fully capable of
entering into all her thoughts and feelings.


Mrs. Pleydell felt rather puzzled : was it her
duty to call her daughter's attention to this
shortcoming on her lover's part? She gauged
Laurence's mental depths pretty accurately,
realised that he had plenty of the sense required
by a country gentleman to steer his course
through the world, and was not at all likely to
allow himself to be imposed upon ; but also saw
clearly that art and literature were to him
empty words, signifying absolutely nothing,
that he knew little and cared, if possible, less

about any of the great questions of the day
uDon which almost everyone thought it necessary
to possess some slender amount of information
; but that there were certain formulae, political
and social, that he had for some reason or other
taken up, and to which he adhered with a
dogged obstinacy quite unconnected with any
understanding of them.

On many points he was strongly prejudiced,
and it was of no use to argue with him ; for his
prejudices, never being founded on reasoning,
were, of course, quite independent of sense. Was
it, she mused, her duty to point out to Iris their
strange difference of tastes, to warn her that she
might awake with bitter disappointment to the
discovery that she had bound herself for life to
a man with whom she had hardly a thought in
common, and who, when she spoke to him of
some question which was agitating the great
intellects of the world, would answer with a
yawn and a remark on partridges or cub-hunting.


If it had been any moral fault, Mrs. Pleydell

would have had no hesitation : she would have
felt clear that her duty demanded that she
should warn Iris, and she would have done so
at once ; but in the present instance she felt it
hard to decide whether it were necessary, or
whether Iris might be trusted to discover the
fact for herself. She had, of course, both seen
and thought considerably more of Laurence
than her mother had done, and if, knowing
his peculiarities, she still thought she could be
happy with him, she was of course the best
judge. Still Mrs. Pleydell could not feel easy ;
and after an almost sleepless nighty caused by
doubts as to whether she had better speak or
not, she took advantage of the first moment that
she was alone with Iris to say :

My love, of course you know a great deal
more about Laurence and all his views and
opinions than I can possibly do. Does it ever
strike you how very little he seems to know
or care about what is going on in the world?
Home politics do not seem to interest him.

and, as to foreign ones, he certainly is hopelessly
at sea  does he never read the
papers ?"

I don't think he has a great deal of time,"
said Iris, who believed, as indeed Laurence
honestly did himself, that he was a martyr
to the cares of his estate, though in fact
everything was left to his excellent agent.
"You know, he manages all the property himself."


Even then he might surely read a little
in the evening of the current events of the
day. Does he ever read. Iris?"

'* I don't think we have ever talked of
books."

What do you talk of, dear ? did, I should
rather say ; for of course now it does not
require a conjurer to guess."

I  I  it seems very absurd, but I really
don't know !" said Iris, slowly.

And this was literally true. It was no
special mental gift of Laurence Furnivall's
Vol. ii. b

that had enthralled her, clever, cultivated,
intellectual as she was. She had simply fallen
in love with him, why she could not tell,
as indeed no one ever can when the love
is real, and after that whatever he said had
seemed music in her ears.

Her mother said no more. She had spoken
a few words which in a thoughtful mind
such as Iris's might bear fruit, and if they
did not  well! then it was surely proof that
she loved him well enough to endure all
drawbacks. But still in her ears would ring
the lines of " Locksley Hall."

'* Thou shalt lower to his level day by day ;
What is fine within thee growing coarse to sympathise
with clay.

As the husband is, the wife is; thou art mated with a

clown,
And the grossness of his nature will have weight to drag

thee down.

It may be my lord is weary, that his brain is overwrought :
Soothe him with thy finer fancies, touch him with thy
lighter thought.

He will answer to the purpose, easy things to understand


Better thou wert dead before me, tho' I slew thee with my
hand !"

Was such as this to be her darling's
Me?

CHAPTER II.

To what gulfs
A single deviation from the track
Of human duties leads !

Sardanapaliis. Byron.

LORD Rooted could not help more than
once thinking of the strange coincidence
that Eve, in a pink dress, should have been
rowing down from the direction of Oak Cottage
immediately after he had seen another
lady similarly attired, seated on the shady
lawn attached to it. And, as it afterwards
occurred to him, he was almost sure that he
had seen two boats moored under the bank

near the oak-tree, though he had not recognized
Eve's gaily painted craft.

Still, after what Mr. Campbell had told
him, it seemed quite impossible that the
girl's appearance could have been anything
more than a coincidence, and he felt almost
angry with himself for having suspected her.
Doubtless, now that she had the advantage
of her mother's care, and of the example
of her very charming sister, she was infinitely
nicer than when left with her aunt, who
evidently thought fastness was fashionable
and to be encouraged.

The day after he had seen Eve on the
river, he was to go on some estate business
to an outlying part of the property about
fifteen miles from Beechmont. Lord Beechmont
was by nature a very indolent man,
and had allowed his constitutional dislike to
any exertion to get quite the better of him. He
did not mind listening to details given him
by his son or the agent in his study, where
he could recline at his ease in a comfortable

lodging-chair, and smoke one cigar after
another. But nothing could induce him
either to go over the property himself, or to
see any of the tenants.

It bored him, he said, he never knew what to
say to them, and barely understood  because he
would not try to do more  what they required
of him. Where was the use of a superior sort
of agent like Campbell, if he did not take all
that sort of trouble off his hands ? If Rootley
liked the sort of thing, he was very welcome to
interest himself about the estate as much as he
pleased, if only he did not want to introduce
too many new-fangled notions. Of course where
subscriptions were required for the church or
the schools in any parish in which he had
property, his mite would be cheerfully forthcoming.
Church and State had always been
the watchword of the party, and he was the
last man in the world to go back from it, and
he would gladly double or treble his subscription
to any school to save the parish from the
tyranny of a School Board.

But he did not hold with the Workmen's
Clubs, of which Rootley was always talking, in
his opinion nothing but Radicalism and mischief
ever came of them ; and as to coffee taverns 
well, of course it was a bad thing if men drank
too much, still he thought beer was more the
drink for an Englishman. Why could not Rootley
leave the poor fellows to enjoy themselves
in their own way? They did not thank him a
bit for interfering. And Lord Beechmont
would light a fresh cigar, and sip his hock and
seltzer, and wonder plaintively why everyone
could not take life as placidly as he did, without
worrying themselves about the welfare of
their fellow-creatures.

Lord Rootley 's temperament was Yevj different
from his father's. He had almost a superabundance
of energy, and, as he had not been
allowed to have any profession, he found an
outlet for it in helping every movement which he
honestly believed to be for the "benefit of the
lower classes. He was, both by education and
conviction, a Conservative, but he was no
VOL. II.

bigot, and, if he saw anything which he thought
good and useful in schemes started by persons
of opposite views, he was always ready and
willing to co-operate.

He said as little as he could about such
matters at home ; his father utterly declined to
be interested, and was apt to express peevish
annoyance if he heard of his son working in
concert with anyone who did not strictly belong
to his own school of politics ; his mother
languidly wondered how he could take so much
trouble about people who were sure to be ungrateful,
and to turn against him at the first
opportunity ; whilst Hildegarde utterly declined
to listen, and only predicted that he
would bring home all sorts of fevers, and
probably kill them all.

Only Imogene cared to listen to him, but he
had her full sympathy, and when all she could
spare from her allowance proved too little for
what her kind heart longed to do towards
relieving the distress of which he gave her
heartrending accounts, she turned her talent

for drawing to good account, and sold her
water-colour sketches for sums that helped in
some degree his work of charity.

It was an accidental mention by Iris, the
night he had taken her in to dinner, of her
interest in one of his schemes, with which she
had no idea that he was connected, that had
given them so much to talk of, and had caused
him to conceive a very high opinion of her.
He had done a great deal on the Firshire estate,
for Lord Beechmont, though always grumbling
at his * new-fangled notions," and pretending
that he would only set the people above their
station, and make them discontented, loved his
ease too much not to allow himself to be persuaded,
rather than be obliged to listen to his
son's arguments, and attempt to refute them.
Perhaps, too, when he heard his friends' lamentations
over their various sons' predilections for
cards, actresses, and other questionable amusements,
he congratulated himself that his son's
fancies took so very different a turn.

At any rate. Lord Rootley felt pretty sure

c2

that he should be allowed to do as he pleased
so long as he did not shake his father's prejudices
too rudely, and had welcomed his mother's
fancy' to spend this autumn at Beechmont instead
of in Firshire, as his first opportunity of making-himself
really acquainted with the Coalshire
property.

His road led him through the wildest portion
of the forest after he had left Rookwood behind
him. As he rode on by the grass rides that
afforded the directed route to his destination,
in the interval of admiring the sylvan beauties
around him, he was thinking of Iris.

What a fortunate man Laurence Furnivall
was ! What a constant inspiration it would be
to have ever at his side a woman such as Iris
Netherleigh, full of wise and well-balanced
enthusiasm for the welfare of others. With
such a position as the master of Rookwood,
unfettered by any will to which he was in duty
bound to bow, and with such a help-meet ever
ready to aid and encourage him, there seemed
really nothing that he might not hope to

achieve. He was unconsciously growing envious
of Laurence's good fortune, when, from a
ride at right angles to the one he was pursuing,
there emerged another horseman.

The stranger gave a start, and would very
evidently rather have avoided the meeting, but
they were too close together for such a thing
to be possible, and Lord Rootley, recognizing
him immediately, exclaimed

*' Urban ! Whoever would have thought of
seeing you here ! Where are you staying?"

Well, properly speaking, nowhere. I am
merely a bird of passage."

"I thought at this time you were always in
Scotland."

Well, so I am generally, but one gets tired
of always doing the same thing, and I took a
sudden fancy for wandering."

Will you come to us for a day or two at
Beechmont? I am sure my mother would be
glad to see you."

Lord Rootley said this in deference to a
feeling of hospitality and politeness, and quite

against his own wishes and better judgment.
Mr. Urban was a man well known in London
society, of good family, rich, and good-looking ;.
but his reputation was not an enviable one as
regarded his conduct towards ladies, and many
careful mothers declined to introduce him to
their daughters. But he had become acquainted
with Lady Hildegarde, had paid her a great
deal of attention, and had been warmly encouraged
by Lady Beechmont. Lord E-ootley
knew that he would never be forgiven by hi
mother or younger sister if it were known that
he had met Mr. Urban and neglected to ask
him to Beechmont, but it was with a feeling of
infinite relief that he heard him reply,

Thanks, my dear fellow, it's awfully
good of you, but I'm really afraid I can't.
You see, as I told you, I'm only a bird of
passage, and I must be making my way onward."


Lord Rootley felt decidedly glad ; he had
asked him, so his mother could not reproach
him, and the invitation had been declined, at

which he greatly rejoiced : he did not press the
matter.

'' Which way are you going ?" asked Mr.
Urban.

To Elmhurst, about six miles farther on. It
is a piece of outlying property, and my father
is so disinclined to exertion that I am looking
over the estate for him. It is four years since
Tve were any of us in Coalshire."

Is it true that Lord Beechmont will allow
neither mining nor building on his property?
They say so in Bannerton, but it seems almost
incredible. Why, he might be a millionaire !"

Doubtless ; but he does not wish it."

Well, it is a singular fancy more especially
as he comes here so seldom. It will be a grand
thing for you some day."

I quite agree with my father."

Well, if I knew I had thousands a-year
under my feet, I should not be satisfied to let
them lie there undisturbed. I think I turn off
here for Debenham do I not? Good-bye,
Kootley, glad to have met you," and Mr. Urban

disappeared at a canter down one of the green
rides.

"Just the very last person one would have
expected to meet," thought Lord Rootley, as he
pursued his way. " How glad I am he declined
my invitation! How my mother can be so
eager about him for Hildegarde I cannot imagine,
and yet I believe nothing would give her
greater pleasure than such a marriage. Well,
happily his refusal does not look as if he were
eager about the matter. I shall say I met him
on purpose to let them know that he had the
opportunity of staying at Beechmont and did
not care to avail himself of it. I hope it may
disgust Hildegarde ; she generally cannot bear
anything but fervent worship."

And, by the time Lord Rootley had settled
this to his satisfaction, he had reached Elmhurst,
and found plenty to occupy his mind.

There was certainly no doubt that the church
needed repair  indeed little short of restoration
would do it much good. The incumbent, a
young, delicate-looking man with his heart

evidently in his work, was overjoyed to find
anyone who listened so patiently to all he had
to say, who understood so exactly what was
wanted, and who seemed to have no doubt
that the necessary funds would be at once
forthcoming.

The School Board already reigned triumphant;
but Mr. Morton's great desire, after the
repair of the church, was to obtain some means
of combating the evil influence of the public-houses,
of which Elmhurst certainly contained
an undue number for its size. Mr. Campbell,
he said, rather encouraged them, saying that
the men who took them generally throve and
paid their rents, which was the chief point he
had to look to as agent of the estate.

Lord Rootley listened attentively and sympathised
warmly, but he could not promise
assistance with so much certainty as he had
done for the church. However, he promised to
come over again shortly, and talk matters over
again with Mr. Morton ; and rode home revolving
in his mind ways and means of helping in

the good work the young vicar had so much at
heart.

The next day he inflicted the whole history
of Elmhurst and its shortcomings upon his
father, and fatigued him so much by his earnestness
that, more to get rid of him than anything
else. Lord Beechmont gave him carte
blanche to do what he pleased there, and to
draw upon him for the necessary funds.

A triumph, Imogene, isn't it ?" said Lord
Rootley, as he detailed the result of the conversation
to his sympathising sister. " It is a
great deal more than I hoped for."

Papa says your vehemence was really too
exhausting."

Well, I am very glad it was."

So am I for the result, but I wish the permission
were given from another motive."

So do I, of course ; but still let us be thankful
for what I have got. Besides, do you
know, I really believe he takes more real interest
than he will allow, or perhaps than he
himself quite knows."

I should be very glad to think that'* said
Imogene, musingly.

*' Well, really I do. Now I must go and
write some letters about this business. How
pleased Morton will be with my news ! He is
such a nice, earnest fellow, Imogene, we
must have him over here. I should like you
to know him."

Rootley, I wish you would join the boating-party
this afternoon. I know it will be very
tiresome for you, but really Hildegarde seems
quite wild, and they all appear so full of some
racing they are to have that I cannot help
feeling anxious. I should be so much easier if
you were there; you would prevent anything
very foolishly rash."

Very well ; if it will give you any satisfaction
I will go. Now come to my room and
help with the letters."

When Eve made her appearance for luncheon,
which Mrs. Pleydell had permitted as a long
afternoon was to be spent in lawn-tennis, she
found the programme was changed, and that

boating was to be the order of the afternoon.
A message had at once to be dispatched,
desiring the Gate House gardener to bring
up her boat to join the others at the boathouse.


It was quite a little flotilla; three of the
guests had, on Lady Hildegardes invitation,
brought their canoes, so with her own canoe,
Eve's boat, and three belonging to Beechmont
used by Lord Rootley and two others of the
party, they mustered eight.

Lady Hildegarde was rather put out by Lord
Kootley's presence; he was the only person in
the world of whom she stood the least in awe,
and she was always comparatively subdued in
his presence. She still talked of racing and of
beating each boat in detail, but it was with infinitely
less excitement than if he had been
absent. Lady Imogene was quite right in
regarding his presence as an element of
safety.

Various races had been rowed with different
results ; but Eve was well-pleased, having, as

she flattered herself, held her own triumphantly,
and having received so many compliments
that Lady Hildegarde, who herself dearly
loved to be first in all things, began to tire of
the amusement.

*'0h, we've had enough of the racing," she
exclaimed at last; "it's always Eve first and
the rest nowhere. Lets go for a good row
up the river, just for fun, not racing anymore."


Agreed !" said everyone, and they soon
passed the memorable eyot and the cottage,
and swept on up the river to some beautiful
woods.

As they were returning, just as they passed
the cottage, a gentleman emerged from one of
the windows on to the lawn, and, to his extreme
surprise. Lord Rootley recognised Mr.
Urban. Evidently he did not wish to be noticed,
for on catching sight of the party he
instantly withdrew ; but his manner was quite
that of a man at home, and Lord Rootley felt
no doubt that he was the Mr. Esmond of whom

Mr. Campbell had spoken. It suddenly flashed
into his memory that he had once seen a letter
signed Claud Esmond Urban. A changed name,
a doubtful, or, at any rate, a doubted wife, all
were very appropriate to the character which
was generally ascribed to Mr. Urban.

It was lucky he had not accepted the invitation
to Beechmont ; if he had, it would have
been extremely awkward. It was evident, he
thought, that no one but himself had noticed
the gentleman on the lawn ; certainly Hides
had not, for she would have recognised
Mr. Urban, and undoubtedly proclaimed her
discovery. Doubtless, after his meeting with
him the day before, Urban would take every
ware to avoid any of the Beechmont party; it
was the least he could do under the circumstances.


We shall see you at Miss Netherleigh's tomorrow,
of course. Eve," said Lady Hildegarde
as the' parted. " I don't know w4iy you said
her parties were dull  really it wasn't half bad

last time. Are you coming to tennis at the
barracks on Friday ?"

No' said Eve, pouting. *' It's so tiresome,
they always ask us, but mummy never will go.
she says she doesn't want to meet all the
people of the new town who are civil to the
officers, and that they are obliged to ask. Of
course they are vulgar  at least, a good many
of them  but they couldn't eat us. But mummy's
so dreadfully afraid of having to know
them."

Well, come up and play on Saturday, and
we'll tell you all about it."

Eve's first thought was that on Friday the
coast would be clear, and that she might have
another meeting with Claud ; these meetings
were rapidly becoming the great interest of her
life. She thought of little else but his handsome
face, bewitching eyes, and protestations
of love, and enjoyed immensely the romance
and excitement of a clandestine love-affair and
engagement. She scribbled a little note,

signed, "Your own Eve," and contrived to
post it herself that evening, telling him that
on Friday the Waterlily would be afloat, and
that he must meet her.

Well, did you see me on Wednesday, when
you came careering in such force up the river?"
he asked, when they were established under the
oak.

Yes ; how quickly you disappeared !"

Did anyone else see me ?"

I don't suppose so. Nobody said anything.
Why ? Should you care ?"

As I told you, 1 know all the Beechmont
party, and I don't care to see them. Has anyone
been making love to you, Eve?"

Why do you ask ?"

Because you belong to me, and I don't
choose anyone to do it. Have they?"

Now certainly both Colonel Leybourne and
Captain Norton had been flirting in a very determined
manner with Eve  indeed, the latter,
who was to leave Beechmont that day, had
tried unavailingly the day before to find an

opportunity of proposing to her ; but as this
would apparently not be pleasing intelligence
to Claud, Eve carefully suppressed it, and said,
with a killing glance of her blue eyes,
Don't you say I belong to you 1"
*' You little darling, do you always remember

itr

'* Of course 1 do."

Do you think of me always, Eve  even
when you are amusing yourself, and listening
to a lot of fools making pretty speeches to
you?"

Are you a fool for making me pretty
speeches V asked Eve, innocently.

He laughed.

You pretty little kitten, most men are fools
when a pretty woman is in question. Eve,
what will you do when I go away from
here ?"

Go away !" and the girl turned pale  " for
good, do you mean?"

*' For good or evil, que sais-je ? but for ever,
at any rate."

VOL. II. D

Eve was silent it was such a crushing blow
that she could not speak. Now that he spoke
of going away she realised how completely her
heart had passed from her own keeping into
that of this stranger who talked so calmly of
going away, and asked her what she would do.
But surely she was engaged to him, at least upto
this moment she had fully believed so ; if not
even she would not have been so ready to offer
him her company. Her bewilderment was so
great that she hardly yet felt the pain of her
wasted love, though she was dimly conscious of
a dull leaden weight at her heart.

He watched her as she remained speechless,
then put his arm round her and drew her towards
him. She felt a desire to resist, and
yet she could not, she felt as one fascinated
and helpless.

You silly little bird," he said, tenderly :
how your little heart flutters ! Eve, Eve, did
you think when I said I was going away I
meant never to see you again ?"

I did not know. You spoke so very
strangely."

And you cared, Eve ?"

Oh you have no right to ask me such
questions," cried the girl, passionately, " do not
I prove it only too well by coming here to
meet you I cannot bear to think what would
happen if it were known. It frightens me.
When will you come before me openly so that
I may recognise you V

You must not be impatient, my pretty Eve,"
and even through the sweetness of his caressing
tone she almost fancied there was a mocking
ring, " you know the proverb, ' Tobit vient a point
a qui sait attended "

When are you going away ?"

** It depends on circumstances. I cannot tell
you positively. You must write to me,
Eve."

*' It will be found out, I know, and then, oh
dear ! there will be such a fuss and I shall
never be allowed to move alone."

d2

Then, darling, you must come to me."

But why  why can't you come to mamma
as Laurence did for Iris ?"

"All in good time, little one. If I did now,
how, pray, would you explain our acquaintance t
As long as we love each other, Eve, it will
come all right."

*' I like to think so ; but when you are away
it will be hard."

' Well, I am not gone yet."

"It is time for me to go."

You always remind me of Cinderella, afraid
to hear the clock strike twelve. Well, goodbye,
little one' and he gave her a kiss before
handing her to the boat.

The setting sun was blazing in their eyes or
they might have noticed a pedestrian on the
opposite side of the river ; having his back to
the sun he saw them plainly. It was Lord
Woodley, who had been to one of the further
keeper's lodges to see one of the watchers, who,
as he had heard that morning, had broken his
leg by stepping into a rabbit hole the night

before. He was returning across the fields,
arranging various plans for Elmhurst, certainly
thinking neither of Eve Pleydell nor of Mr.
Urban when the flutter of a white dress caught
his eye and he saw Urban kiss the girl and
place her in the boat.

Lord Rootley felt much perturbed ; what
ought to be his course ? He could not reconcile
it to his conscience, knowing what he did 
Urban's character, that he was living in Coal-shire
under a name other than his own, and was
accompanied by a wife  to do nothing. Still,
if he went to Mrs. Pleydell, Eve would certainly
come in for a great deal of displeasure, and,
fast as he thought her, he fully believed that
she Alas acting more thoughtlessly than
wickedly. She had doubtless known Urban
in London, and was quite unaware of the
compromising circumstances of his present
life.

He would speak to the girl herself. True
she had once indignantly and even rudely rejected
his advice, but he would not on that

account bear her malice, but would help her if
he could. He would make an opportunity
the very next day, disagreeable as the task
would be. And having thus pacified his consciences
he turned to pleasant thoughts.

Eve was so unusually silent that evening
that her mother asked her once or twice if
anything were the matter, and at length
declared that she must be overtired and must
not row so much. This at length roused Eve,
who, fearful of being deprived of her one-means
of meeting Claud, declared she was not
tired in the least, and began to talk with
almost feverish vivacity, and to comment
volubly on Iris description of an unknown
pony-carriage they had met in Bannerton, with
a love of a Norwegian pony with bells, driven
by a wonderfully handsome dark lady, just like
a picture of a beautiful gipsy.

CHAPTER III.

I pray thee cease thy counsel
Which falls into mine ears sls profitless
As water in a sieve.

AIucJi Ado About Nothing  Act v, Sc. 1.

inOR almost the first time in her life Eve spent
- a sleepless night. She could feel no doubt
about the matter now, she was undoubtedly in
love. How she had laughed at others, sneered
at the " tender passion' vowed that she would
never be so foolish ! But the spasm of agony
she had felt when Claud had said so quietly,
What will you do when I go away T had
opened her eyes to the state of her own feelings,
and she realised, with painful distinctness

and absolute terror, that her happiness was
"wrapped up in him.

It was true that he professed to be devoted
to her, that he had said he could not live without
her, and that if he could not return she
must join him ; but still she had a feeling of
insecurity, though she fully believed in his love.
It was only of herself and of him that she
thought, never of her mother, excepting to
consider how best she could be kept in the
dark.

Eve never for a moment questioned that, if
Claud went away and sent for her, she should
join him at once ; then when they were married
they would go abroad for a little, and when
they returned her mother would be quite reconciled,
and all would be right. But, even when
she had arranged this, Eve was too agitated to
sleep, and only fell into a doze when it was
almost time to get up.

Perhaps, in consequence of her disturbed
slumbers, she was very peevish at breakfast,
and answered Iris so snappishly that Mrs.

Pleydell called her to order more than once.
She yawned so portentously over her reading
that at length her mother lost patience, and
declared that she must be far too tired to go upto
Beechmont, and run about in the sun playing
tennis, that unless she at once stopped
yawning, sat up and read properly, she must
stay at home all the afternoon and rest.

Thus adjured, Eve sulkily obeyed, and Mrs.
Pleydell, who, while insisting on a certain
amount of obedience as a species of moral discipline,
did not wish to draw the reins too
tight, and deprive the girl of the pleasures for
which alone she seemed to live, made no
objection to her departure directly after
luncheon.

Eve was very much puzzled that afternoon
by Lord Rootley's manner. He kept close to
her side, and seemed annoyed at not being able
to secure a tete-astute. It was very different
from the persistent way in which he had
avoided her ever since her rejection of his remonstrances
at Maidenhead. Of course she

accounted for it in the way most flattering to
her vanity, and believed that, now that he was
thrown intimately and constantly with her, he
really found her irresistible, and was returning
to his allegiance.

And the fact that she really had given all the
love she had to give  all, that is to say, that
was not centred on herself  to Claud, and that
she fully believed herself to be engaged to him
and meant to marry him, did not prevent her
being extremely gracious to Lord Rootley.
His return to captivity was a tribute to her
power, and, after the grave way in which he
had found fault with her, lent immense piquancy
to the delightful prospect of being able to refuse
him. Eve's spirits rose till she was almost
wild, and when at last she was about to
leave, and Lord Rootley asked permission to
walk home with her, her elation knew no
bounds.

Lord Rootley felt his task to be anything
but a pleasant one, and found it very difficult

to commence. Eve, who fully believed that he
meant to propose to her there and then, wished
heartily he would begin, and had already
arranged exactly what she should say in reply.
She felt quite startled when he at length
broke silence by saying, in a very grave
voice,

Miss Pleydell, I hope you will not think me
impertinent for interfering in your affairs, but
there is something I must say to you, a warning"
I feel bound to give."

Then he was not going to propose ! She
should not have the delight of refusing him I
It was in a very pettish tone that Eve
said,

Well r

Accident led me yesterday across the
fields opposite Sir John Dibbleton's cottage."


Eve started and turned very red, but she did
not make any reply. She was rapidly calculating
the chances of his telling her mother, or of

her being able to persuade him to keep
silence. After a pause, finding she did not
speak, he continued,

"May I ask if Mrs. Pleydell was aware of
your visit to Mr. Urban?"

Mr. Urban ? who may he be ? I never
even heard of him !" said Eve, in genuine
surprise.

Pardon me, but I saw your leave-taking ;"
then, as an idea suddenly occurred to him, * is
it possible that you have never known him
before?  that you know him only as Mr.
Esmond?"

I do know Mr. Esmond," said Eve, in a
bewildered tone.

Well, I do not know how you may have
made acquaintance with him, but it is right
that you should know that he is not Mr.
Esmond, but Mr. Urban, a gentleman who does
not possess by any means a spotless reputation
where ladies are concerned."

A long pause, and then Eve said, very
coolly,

'*I cannot see what possible business it is
of yours."

Lord Rootley coloured.

*' I beg your pardon ; I imagined you
might prefer my speaking to you to my going
to Mrs. PJeydell."

Why should you do either one or the
other? What possible right have you to
interfere ?"

Believe me, I claim no special right. But
when I see you, a pretty and very young
girl, taking a tender farewell of a man who is
supposed to be married, and is living in the
country under an assumed name, I conceive it
to be only the act of a friend to give yon a
word of warning."

Married !" said Eve, with an accent of
sovereign contempt, " that shows how little
you know what you are talking about. He
is not married at all."

*' The lady who is living at the cottage is
called Mrs. Esmond. I have not seen her
myself, but I am told she is dark and Levy

handsome, and drives into Bannerton with a
Norwegian pony hung with bells."

'' What f ' said Eve, sharply.

Iris' description of the pony-carriage they
had met in Bannerton the day before at once
recurred to her.

Perhaps you may have seen her V observed
Lord E-ootley, interrogatively.

"No."

"Neither have I, but I have heard of
her."

Still," said Eve, whose feelings and temper
were both in a state of intense irritability, the
former because, in spite of her determination to
believe Claud perfect, a terrible doubt of him
would intrude itself into her mind, the latter
because Lord Rootley's expected proposal had
resolved itself into a lecture, " still I do not see
in the least what business you have to speak
to me in this way. I consider it very impertinent."


'' Would you have preferred my telling
Mrs. Pleydell? I fancied you would not."

I don't see why you should meddle with
what does not concern you. If it were Hides
it would be different."

*' My wish was to do good, to save a young
and inexperienced girl from being gravely
compromised by a worthless man. Does Mrs.
Pleydell know Mr. Esmond ?"

"I shan't tell you: you have no right to
ask."

I shall ask her whether she thinks him
agreeable."

'you will do nothing of the sort I" cried
Eve, facing round on him with flashing
eyes.

"Yes, I shall. If you will not listen to
reason, I shall save you in spite of yourself."


What is it you want me to do ?" asked
Eve, stopping and looking at him very
steadily.

It had suddenly struck her that the wisest
plan would be to appear to listen to
him, to promise whatever he might require,

and then to follow her own course. In conformity
with this plan, her face and manner
changed so much that Lord Rootley believed
she was really yielding, and answered
eagerly,

I want you to promise not to see
him again without your mother's knowledge."


'' And if I refuse ?"

"I shall come to the Gate House and tell
her what I know, what I saw."

"I wonder you are not ashamed of
being a spy," cried Eve, passionately.

I don't think you are entitled to consider
me one because in walking through the open
fields 1 happened to see you."

'* Well," said Eve, with a well-acted appearance
of sullenness, which, as she had no intention
of abiding by her promise, was only assumed
to make her companion believe in her
sincerity, '' I suppose I must promise. As
you put it, I don't see how I can help myself."


''I am very glad indeed," stopping and
taking her hand. " The last thing in all the
world I wished was to make mischief and get
you into any trouble, but my conscience would
not let me rest without warning you. Of
course, if  if there is no reason against Mr.
Urban's coming forward, he can easily make
Mrs. Pleydell's acquaintance. Good night! I
am sorry to have kept you so long. I am
so glad you have promised !" and he turned
homewards, congratulating himself on having
done good to a silly little girl against her
will, while Eve pursued her way to the Gate
House full of wrath, mortification, and 
doubt.

Surely what Lord Woodley had said could
not be true! Claud could not be married!
If he were, how could he have engaged himself
to her? But still the description of the
lady and pony carriage, which corresponded
so exactly with what Iris had talked of the
night before, considerably startled her.

Oh ! with a sudden start, how foolish she

VOL. II. E

bad been not to think of it before ! Of
course it was his sister, Miss Esmond, and
some one had made a blunder, and called
her Mrs. Of course that explained it all.
But why should he call himself Esmond when
his name was Urban ? She must ask him ;
doubtless he had some excellent reason. The
first day when she could be sure of Hides
and Lord Rootley being out of the
way, she would make an appointment.

Accordingly, having laid her plans satisfactorily,
the following Wednesday found
Eve, regardless of her promise, once more
under the oak-tree.

' It is lucky you chose to-day, caressing"
said Claud, after the usual endearments. "I
find I am obliged to leave this the day after
tomorrow."

Oh, Claud ! And when do you come
back?"

*' Well, I doubt if I shall be able to do so
at all. Don't look so wretched, little sweetheart,
though it is very flattering to me.

We must write ; aud we shall meet
again."

"Which name am I to write to you under,
Esmond or Urban ?"

He started.

Who told you my name was Urban ?"

"Lord Kootley. He saw us together on
Friday."

Mr. Urban muttered an oath.

*' And he said,"  looking at him very
hard  '* he said you were married."

"Did he indeed? Then he talked of what
he knew nothing about."

'you are not, Claud?"

'' You silly little Eve ! What do you
think?"

"Well, of course I couldn't believe it, but he
said she had a carriage with a Norwegian pony
and bells, and Iris was talking on Friday of
having seen one just like it in Bannerton."

I confess I don't see why I am to be married
to a Norwegian pony, when I only want my
little Eve."

e2



iiWi\/CDCiTV nc

' You are quite , quite sure you only care forme,
Claud?"

Quite, little woman."

"And when shall 1 see you again ?"

"Well, that must depend a good deal on
circumstances. I may have to go abroad for a
little while on business, but at any rate before
long."

And when you come back you will be Introduced
to mamma, and get it all straight? I
felt so angry when Lord Rootley took me to
task, and yet I didn't dare say much, for fear
he should tell mamma."

'' You poor little thing !"

"' Do you think it will be very long before you
come back?"

"I can't tell. You must write. Will it be
safe to write to you ? Does anyone see your
letters T

"No; we have them in our rooms generally."


I shan't write often, for fear of accidents.
Write to me, Claud E. Urban (Esmond is my

name as well as Urban), at the Parthenon Club,
Pall Mall. You pretty little bird, it is very hard
to have to leave you."

But need you really go, Claud ? Men can
always do just what they please."

Can they ? That's a feminine delusion, my
pet. When you women have all the rights you
some of you screech about, and are ' on an
equality with men,' and all that rubbish, I don't
fancy you'll find it will make much difference
as to your doing exactly what you like. No
one ever does lind it possible that I ever heard
of."

I don't want rights and things," said Eve,
pouting.

He laughed.

Pretty women seldom do, my pet. They
find they get what they want Without any such
nonsense."

Eve sat still, saying nothing and looking
troubled. It was a real blow to her to find that
Claud was going away, that this would be
their last meeting, and, though he talked as if

he cared for her a great deal, he did not seem
so cast down at the separation as she thought
he ought to have done. She was sore and
grieved, and altogether miserable, but still she
could not feel angry with him. But it was with
a very dismal little face that she rose to take
her departure.

"Don't look so wretched, little bird," said
Claud, putting his arm round her and kissing
her repeatedly. "As I say, it isn't for long.
You're sure to be in London some time, and
then we can meet easily."

'* Ah ! if mummy would only let me go back
to Aunt Louisa !" sighed Eve.

If you persist , my pet, of course she will.
Who could resist my little Eve, when she had
set her heart on anything ?"

Ah ! you don't know mummy," with a
despairing shake of the head.

*what! is she so very cruel? Well, cheer
up, sweetheart, it won't be for long."

Then ensued a tender leave-taking, and Eve's
eyes were so blinded with tears that she never

saw that soon after her departure Claud was
joined by a lady who seemed to be addressing
him angrily.

That lawn under the oak-tree was hardly a
place suitable for the meetings of people who
wished their interviews to take place in secret.
Habituated to the absolute desertion of the
river banks during the summer months neither
Eve nor Claud Urban considered that now that
Beechmont was inhabited, and the shooting
season had commenced, the country was hardly
such a solitude as had at one time been the
case. As Lord Rootley had seen them on two
occasions, they were now observed by Laurence
Furnivall, who had been out shooting over a
portion of the land recently exchanged with
Lord Beechmont, and was now making a shortcut
home to dress for a dinner in the Close,
where he was to meet Lis.

He stopped for a moment to make sure that
it really was Eve, and thereby became witness
of their very fervent leave-taking ; he also saw
the arrival of the other lady upon the scene,

and recognized the gipsy beauty whom he had
admired a few days before driving through
BannertoD. What could Eve know of Mr.
Esmond he wondered  was he one of her
London friends? Somehow he did not fancy
they knew anything of the intimacy at the
Gate House. He would ask Iris.

And so he proceeded to do that night at
dinner. Eve, as usual, had refused to go, and
declared she preferred a solitary evening to
being bored by dull old men, who had nothing
to talk about. Laurence, of course, took Iris
in to dinner, as the engagement was now announced,
and pronounced on all sides to be
*' most suitable "  a verdict that, when it
reached her ears, caused Mrs. Furnivall to
compress her lips and to look unutterable
things.

I say, Iris," he began, as soon as they were
seated, *how on earth comes Eve to be on
such uncommonly intimate terms with that fellow
Esmond, who has got old Sir John Dibble-ton's
cottage up the river?"

Eve ! I don't know anything about it,
Laurence ; I never even heard of him, or knew
that the cottage was let to anyone. What is
it you mean ?"

'' I had been shooting, and was taking the
short cut home across the Grange fields. As I
came opposite the great oak that shelters the
lawn a little way from the cottage, round the
point, you know, I saw Eve and a very tall
dark man, rather good-looking. They were on
pretty intimate terms, I can tell you ; he had
his arm round her waist, and her head was
on his shoulder, and he kissed her several
times."

Laurence !"

L'is looked so aghast that Laurence exclaimed,
hurriedly,

Take care ; don't look like that. People
will be asking what is the matter."

You are quite, quite sure it really was
Ever

Am I likely to make a mistake about
herr

No, no, of course not."

Besides, I saw her get into her boat  it
was evidently the leave-taking on which I had
intruded  and row homewards. Then a very
handsome woman, who passed me in Bannerton
the other day, and whose name, I was told,
was Esmond, came upon the scene, and appeared
to be vehemently reproaching the forsaken
swain."

"And Eve? You really saw all this? Oh,
Laurence, it is dreadful ! What will mamma
say?"

'' I heard to-day that the cottage would be
vacant in a day or two, so perhaps this was a
last fond farewell."

Oh, Laurence, I can't laugh about it," and
the tears stood in Iris's eyes.

My dear Iris, I am not laughing."

"But what can it mean? Eve has never
said a syllable about meeting anyone on the
river."

No  I should fancy this was something she
would keep to herself. My dear Iris pray

don't look so very miserable ! People will
think we are indulging in a lovers' quarrel, a
thing which always appears to me to be simply
idiotic."

Do you feel incapable of quarrelling ?" said
Iris, smiling.

With you, most decidedly ; I don't say with
anyone."

But, Laurence, about Eve  what ought we
to do ? I don't like to tell mamma ; she will
be so shocked and vexed, and Eve will be so
angry."

"Hadn't you better talk to her?"

I suppose that must be it. But I am afraid
I have very little influence with her. She says
and thinks that I am old, but it never seems
to occur to her that it gives me any right to
advise her."

'' I say, Iris, don't worry yourself about this.
I wish I'd kept what I saw to myself."

Oh, Laurence, don't say that. I am glad
to know  that is to say, as such a dreadful
thing has happened. I want to be able to stop

any more of it, to warn Eve to be careful. But
I am so afraid she will not listen : she is so
rebellious."

If she makes you look so harassed, I shall
wish she was back again with her aunt. By-the-by,
she told me the other day that she
was to go back as soon as her aunt was
settled."

I am sorry she told you so, for she has
been told over and over again that she is not
to do anything of the sort. I suppose the wish
is father to the thought, and she cherishes a
hope that by saying she is going she may get
mamma to consent. She will not succeed,
though."

If she is prevented, she will revenge herself
by some more escapades. I suppose this Mr.
Esmond is a London acquaintance."

I suppose so, for she certainly cannot have
met him here. Do you know anything of

him r

Nothing in the world, and neither does Sir
John Dibbleton, for he was talking of him thee

other day, when, as I tell you, I saw Mrs. Esmond
in Bannerton. It was Sir John who told
me who she was. She certainly is very handsome,
just like a gipsy."

A gipsy ! Was she driving a Norwegian
pony with bells ?"

Precisely."

"Then we saw her on Friday. Mamma was
quite struck with her. But, Laurence, you say
she is Mrs. Esmond. You cannot mean that she
is his wife f '

She is supposed to be so."

But then  Eve  you said you saw him kiss
her! Laurence, what does it all mean?" and
L-is looked so piteous that Laurence feared she
would burst into tears.

"Don't;' he said, hurriedly. 'you don't
know how wretched you look. Mrs. PI ey dell
is looking quite anxious. Depend upon it
there's nothing much the matter. Eve lived, I
fancy, in a pretty fast set in London, and took
to it as naturally as a duck does to water.
This is only a sentimental tendresse she has got

up, probably to enliven the dulness of the
country, and the farewell was the culminating
point of the performance. Don't fancy that
things are worse than they really are."

I hardly see how they can be," said Iris.
*' However'  in a more cheerful tone  " there
is nothing to be done at this moment, and I
have worried you half dinner. You have been
very good to bear it, Laurence."

*' 1 say, Iris, do you think you will be long in
London?"

For of course the important matter of the
trousseau could not be settled without a sojourn
in the metropolis.

Not more than ten days. Why?"

Well, I want to know if you would mind
my not coming up. You see I hate London at
any time, and in September there's nothing to
be done there, and lots in the country. Besides,
you'll be running after milliners and
dressmakers all clay, and I could do no
good."

Won't you come up at all ?"

Of course I will, if you really wish it ; but,
as 1 say, I shall see nothing of you, and I
might just as well be doing something at
home."

I should like you to do just whatever you
like best, Laurence."

But though she said it cheerfully, and really
meant it, Iris could not help feeling a little disappointed.
she did not think he would have
been willing to lose sight of her for ten whole
days. Still, as she told herself, she knew very
little of men, except, of course, in a social, and
therefore necessarily superficial way.

Girls who have been brought up exclusively
in the company of women, without either father
or brothers to enlighten them as to the peculiarities
of the opposite sex, are always at a great
disadvantage when first brought into intimate
contact with men, compared with those brought
up in mixed households. What these have
learnt to regard as such matters of course as to
be absolutely unworthy of remark, such as the
masculine belief in the supreme importance of

anything that affects in the slightest degree
the comfort or amusement of the male members
of the family, the pre-eminence of all things
connected with sport over such trifles as the
comfort or the convenience of the womenkind,
above all the serene belief that the world
was made for man alone, and that woman ought
to be deeply grateful for being graciously permitted
to minister to his comfort  all these
things, matters of course to girls brought up
with brothers, are apt greatly to astonish and
perplex those who are never really intimate
enough with a man for him to be quite natural
with them till they are engaged. Like Iris,
they are apt to imagine that the natural masculine
temperament is a strange peculiarity of the
individual.

CHAPTER IV.

With wild surprise,
As if to marble struck, devoid of sense,
A stupid moment motionless she stood.

Summer. Thomson.

TT seemed impossible to Iris that the little
 childish figure and mignon face that welcomed
them on their return from dinner, could
possibly belong to a girl who had recently
passed through such an experience as Laurence
represented Eve as having had. She looked
such a perfect child, and her face always wore
such an innocent expression, that, if Laurence
had not been so absolutely positive, she would
have comforted herself with the belief that he
VOL. ir. p

must have been mistaken. She dreaded speaking
to Eve fearing that the girl would set herat
defiance, and was yet anxious, if possible, to
spare her mother the pain of hearing of what
had occurred.

Iris had tried her very utmost to love Eve
since her return home, and had even exaggerated
to herself all her little sister's charms and
fascinations, but her efforts had not been particularly
successful. Eve had not thought it
worth her while to conciliate her, on the contrary
she had rather chosen to set herself in
antagonism, and to talk as if her sister were an
unattractive old maid ; and though Iris was of
course young and handsome enough to laugh
at the silly child's absurdity, still it had not
been the means of drawing them more closely
together. They had hardly a pursuit or an
interest in common. Eve ridiculed most of the
things that Iris cared for, and thought right ;
and spoke of their mother in a disrespectful manner
which she could not bear. Altogether, in
spite of Iris' cordial endeavours, they were as

unsympathetic as it was well possible for two
girls to be.

'' Will you come to my room when you are
undressed, or shall I come to you V said Iris,
as they were wishing each other good night at
the top of the stairs ; '' there is something I
want particularly to say to you."

'' To me ?" said Eve, looking surprised ; '' all
right, I'll come."

'swell, what is its she asked, as a little
later she made her appearance in Iris' room ina
pale blue dressing-gown, and with her fair
curly hair surrounding her head like a halo.

Iris did not feel it very easy to begin  at
length she said,

"Eve, I heard something about you to-night
which shocked me dreadfully."

You're easily shocked I know, well, what's
the matter?"

Eve, is it, can it be true that you meet anyone
secretly when you go up the river?"

What should put such a thing into your
head r

f2

Then, isn't it true, Eve ? Oh, I should be
so glad to tell him he was mistaken."

'MVhois'/ieT

*' Eve, tell me first is it true that you met
some one under the oak near Sir John Dib-
bretons cottage, and that  that he kissed
your

Eve gave a violent start.

*' What ? then he went there again to watch
for me, to spy on me ! I didn't think even
Lord Rootley would have done such a thing !"

Lord "Rootley ! "what has he got to do with
it V

' As if I didn't know well enough who told

'&'

you !"

"Eve, you are quite mistaken. It was
Laurence who was taking a short cut home
from shooting and saw you from the opposite
side of the river. Oh, Eve, how could you do
such a thing ? Who is this Mr. Esmond ? and
how did you know him ?"

Really, Iris, I don't see that it is any business
of yours."

Eve, I should be glad to spare mamma the
pain of hearing this. It would make her so
very miserable."

"I daresay it might make her even Grosser
than she generally is, and I'm sure that isn't
necessary."

' Eve, you ought to be ashamed of yourself,
mamma is everything that is kind and indulgent.
I would do a great deal to spare her
this sorrow. Will you promise me not to see
him again f

Well, as he is going away I can do
that's'

Eve was in a defiant humour. She felt that
as both Laurence and Lord Hooted knew what
she had been doing there was no use whatsoever
in ber professing innocence.

Going away ! Ah ! Laurence heard that
the cottage would be vacant in a few days.
But, Eve, promise me that you will not write
to him."

' As I said before it is no business of yours,
and I won't make you any promise at all.'

Then, Eve, I must tell mamma."

Do as you like, I don't care I believe old
maids are always spiteful and nasty."

Iris could have laughed if she had not been
too sincerely anxious about the silly child pouting
opposite to her.

It is not for mischief or spite, but for your
good, Eve."

' That's what people always say when they're
going to do something extra-disagreeable."

I can't help being disagreeable ; it is your
own fault. Oh, Eve ! how could you do anything
so underhand ! a married man too !"

'' He isn't."

Laurence was told so, and his wife wa
pointed out to him. She was that very handsome
gipsy-looking woman I told you we had
seen in a pony carriage at Bannerton. Laurence
saw her join him under the oak directly
after you were gone, and he said they seemed
to be quarrelling."

*' You're inventing that !" cried Eve, starting
up.

*' Inventing it ! Indeed I am in far too sad
and serious earnest to invent anything."

'' Surely it cant be true' muttered Eve to
herself.

Eve, had you heard it before ? And yet
you met him !"

"Don't be silly and make a fuss. Do you
mean Laurence saw her there ? Really I
mean, yon needn't pretend, just to make up a
story."

"Really, Laurence told me he did see her,
and that she seemed to be reproaching him
violently."

Good night !" said Eve, leaving the room
abruptly.

When she was gone. Iris wondered whether
she had done any good, or whether it would
have been better to tell her mother at once.
How Eve could ever have allowed herself todo
such a thing was past her comprehension.
Iris, who was proud to a fault, could not realise
the possibility of enduring, much less enjoying
a clandestine courtship. If the man who cared

for her , were not willing to claim her before all
the world, she would have renounced him and
professed indifference, no matter what it might
cost her. She felt she had got but little information
from her sister, had not even elicited
the particulars of her former acquaintance with
Mr. Esmond, about which she had intended to
make such special inquiries.

It had never entered her mind as a possibility
that there had been no prior acquaintance at
all, that Eve had advanced to terms of the
greatest intimacy without even knowing Mr.
Esmond's name. Even if she had had the disadvantage
of Eve's training. Iris' pride would
always have been a safeguard to her against
any such dereliction of maidenly reserve : as it
was she could not even imagine the state of
the case.

It was long before she fell asleep, and then it
was only to dream of strange misfortunes
happening to Eve, in which Laurence was
somehow inextricably intermingled.

But if Iris was thus disturbed Eve was

infinitely more so. Laurence's report of what
he had seen under the oak filled her with
alarm. Was it possible that Claud had deceived
her? That this woman really was his wife?
She walked up and down the room turning
the matter over and over in her mind, until at
last the solution which had before occurred to
her seemed her only way out of the difficulty.
This beautiful woman was dark and gipsy-like
so was he. Doubtless she was his sister ! Of
course, that quite explained it !

Eve carefully put away from her the consideration
that if this were the case it would
have been only natural that Claud should have
told her so when she told him she had heard
he was married. This would have somewhat
discomposed her satisfactory explanation, and
therefore she wilfully closed her eyes to it, and
steadfastly considered that she had quite
established its authenticity.

But the misery which her doubts had caused
her, had more than ever enlightened her as to
the state of her own feelings and she could no

I

longer feel the slightest doubt that she had
done what she had always so ridiculed in others
fallen desperately in love. It must have
been the dulness of life at the Gate House, she
told herself crossly, otherwise she never could
have been so silly  it was so different from
what she had always intended. Her scheme
of life had been a year or two of flirtation and
amusement culminating in a marriage with a
man of wealth and rank, after which she would
become one of the leaders of fashion.

But Claud was certainly very fascinating, and
Eve forgot her ruined castles in the air, and
began to build others of which he was the joint
owner.

Perhaps it was a good thing that he was
going away now. Even if Iris did not tell
Mrs. Pleydell, as she had threatened to do, they
could never have met again without a terror
of being watched, while, if her mother once
heard of it, Eve felt tolerably certain that all
boating excursions would be strictly prohibited.

It would be worse to feel that he was close hj,
and yet to be unable to meet him, than to know
that he was in London and to be able to write
to him.

Perhaps she had been foolish not to promise
Iris not to write ; if she had done so her sister
would have been satisfied, and she might have
written just the same.

Eve considered that no promises were binding
that were not purely voluntary. Well, she
would promise in the morning, and perhaps
that would satisfy Iris, and keep her silent.
What possible business was it of hers ? and
why could she not leave other peoples affairs
alone ? Eve wondered pettishly. She would,
she was determined, do something whenever
she had an opportunity to " pay the cross old
thing out." So determining, Eve at length
went to bed, and slept much more tranquilly
than her sister.

It was not till the next afternoon that Iris
had an opportunity of speaking to her alone

and even then it was only by following
her into her room, when she went to put
on her hat to go to Beechmont for lawn-tennis.


Eve, must I tell mamma ?"

What do you mean T

"You know what we were talking of last
night. I must tell her, if you will not promise
to cease all communication, not to write. Eve,
if he were a proper person for you to know,
there would be no necessity for this mystery ;
he would come here openly."

You know nothing whatever about the
matter' returned Eve, snappishly; "however,
if it is any satisfaction to you, I'll promise, if
you like."

'' I am very glad," said Iris, quietly. " I
should be so sorry to grieve mamma."

You are very tiresome and interfering,"
grumbled Eve as she ran downstairs.

The party at Beechmont changed its elements
frequently, but was always about the
same size. Both Lady Hildegarde and her

mother dreaded beyond anything being left
to their own resources, and so kept the house
quite full, and, the distance from London not
being very great, it was easy to keep up a
constant change of guests. Lady Hildegarde
had set up a very strong flirtation with Captain
Deverell, and even though she was herself
otherwise engaged, Eve was mortified by
his desertion, and would have dearly liked to
detach him again from her friend. But at present
there seemed little chance of success, and
though she cared for some one else, and would
not have accepted Captain Deverell even if
he had proposed to hers she was decidedly
piqued.

The lawn-tennis tournament was to take
place in about a fortnight. Eve hoped to hear
on this particular afternoon that the da' was
fixed ; she hated everything indefinite, and
always liked to know exactly when to expect
and calculate upon her pleasures. Two or
three parties from neighbouring houses had
driven over to Beechmont that afternoon, and

it was very late before Eve made her appearance
at the Gate House.

"The tournament is to be on the 28th of
September," she announced at dinner.

That is rather later than they thought of,
is it not ?" said Iris.

"Yes, a few days but it suits better. Lady
Beechmont asked if we should not have a
party for it ; there is to be a dance in the
evening."

I do not think I can manage it," said her
mother. " I am not quite sure yet what day
we must go to London about the trousseau."


Oh, you must put it off till after the tournament,"
cried Eve, impetuously ; " the bracelet
is quite too lovely, and I've improved so
lately, I really think I've a good chance of
it."

Mrs. Pleydell made no answer. She was
revolving in her own mind wei ether it would
not be wiser not to take Eve to London when
they went up on this necessary business. Mrs.

William Pleydell had returned from Germany,
and had settled herself in Park Street, in a
house much smaller but far prettier than her
former more pretentious mansion in Hyde Park
Gardens.

Having determined that Eve should under
no circumstances return to her aunt, Mrs. Pleyel
was inclined to think that it might be
better that they should not meet at present.
Mrs. William was sure to renew her entreaties
to have her niece returned to her, and vvould
make Eve even more discontented than she
already was with life at the Gate House, and
teach her to think it a great hardship to be
expected to live with her mother, instead
of with the aunt who indulged her every
whim.

It would, she knew, be a sad blow to Tom
Pleydell if Eve did not accompany them ; still
she felt sure that there was nothing but disappointment
in store for him in that quarter, or,
even if Eve were ever persuaded to listen to
his wishes, that it would be productive of

nothing but misery to him. She always tried
to give him clearly to understand this in her
letters, but he made it evident to her in his
replies that his feelings had undergone no
change.

Mrs. Pleydell always sighed as she read his
letters : she was greatly interested in Tom, and
felt deeply grieved that love for her pretty,
but, as she could not help thinking, heartless
little Eve should mar his life. She almost
wished he would put his fate to the touch.
Eve's refusal, of which she had not the slightest
doubt, might perhaps be couched in terms which
would open his eyes to her real character, and
destroy the illusions in which he indulged respecting
her. It would be a severe discipline, but
salutary. However , she feared there was no
hope for it : Tom would not think himself justified
in speaking to Eve till he had something
better to offer her than the position of the wife
of a clerk, and, unless she married some one
else, he would go on devoting his life and
affections to her.

Mrs. Pleydell felt more and more convinced
the more she considered the question, that it
would be injudicious to risk a meeting between
Eve and her aunt at present, but she hardly
knew how to leave her behind. It was out of
the question to leave her alone at the Gate
House : she was too young and giddy to be left
alone; besides, at the first mention of such a
thing, she felt sure that Lady Beechmont would
insist on her staying with them, and that she
did not wish. She could hardly prevent Eve
from being a great deal at Beechmont and
making a friend of Lady Hildegarde, but she
did not regard the intimacy with favour or
wish it to increase.

At length the idea of Miss Netherleigh
occurred to her. If Aunt Rachel would but
take charge of Eve during her absence, she
might be quite easy about her ; but would she ?
Mrs. Pleydell rather doubted. Eve had never
been discussed between them since her return
home. Mrs. Pleydell had felt keenly that it
would have been better for her child if she had

VOL. II. G

taken her aunt's advice and kept her at home,
but she did not like to acknowledge that Eve
had disappointed her, and Miss Netherleigh
rarely if ever volunteered her opinions unsolicited.
But Mrs. Pleydell was quite aware
that her aunt had watched Eve narrowly, and
had little doubt that she had gauged her
character quite as accurately as she herself
had done. She determined to ask her, and
the next morning she drove alone into Ban-merton.


It is seldom I get you alone now, Gracie,"
said Miss Netherleigh, as she welcomed her
niece.

Xo, I have generally one of the girls," said
Mrs. Pleydell, settling herself in the corner of
the sofa ; " but, Aunt Rachel, I have come alone
to-day because I want to ask you a favour. I
must go to London with Iris at the end of the
month about the trousseau, and I do not want
to take Eve ; I think it will only unsettle her
to see her aunt again just at present. I really
do not know what to do with her, unless you

will be very good-natured and have her while I
am away."

I shall be glad to help you out of a difficulty,
Grace, as you may be sure. I think you
are very wise not to take the child. But what
does she say to it?"

*' I have not as yet broached the subject to
her, but of course it will be a disappointment."


Yes, and she will not approve of the way
in which you have disposed of her."

"I could not leave her alone."

Certainly not. You and I see that, but she
will not. However, I will make it as pleasant
to her as I can."

Don't put yourself out about her. I am so
much obliged to you ; it is a relief, T confess. If
I left her at the Gate House, Lady Beechmont
would have asked her there."

Don't you like them 1 I took a great fancy
to Lord Kootley."

'I like him and Lady Imogene very much
and so does L-is ; but Lady Hildegarde seems

n O

to be entire mistress of the situation, and I do
not like many of the people they have in the
house''

Still of course Eve is to go there a

little r

Oh ? yes, of course. Just as you think
best, Aunt Rachel, you always know what is
wisest. But it will not be so easy from here as
from home."

But there is this tournament. Well, I suppose
most of the practising for that will be over
before you leave. I will do my best, Grace, but
the child will be discontented. You must be
prepared for that."

I daresay, Aunt Rachel, but I can only do
what I believe to be best."

Exactly. Well, when do you think of
starting?"

On the 26th, I think."

Of course Mr. Furnivall goes with you ?"

*' No," and Mrs. Pleydell's countenance clouded
considerably. " He asked Iris if she would
mind very much his not coming up, as he wanted

to have some shooting. However, she
seems quite satisfied, so I suppose I ought to
be."

Miss Netherleigh compressed her lips sightly,
but made no remark, and, after a little
more conversation, Mrs. Pleydell took her departure.


In a few days' time she made her arrangements
respecting the London visit, and not till
they were quite completed did she announce to
Eve that she was to be left behind. To her
surprise the girl did not seem much disappointed
; she had expected tears, lamentations,
and fits of sulkiness, but there was nothing of
the sort. Eve seemed a little surprised, and
said something about being sorry not to see
Aunt Louisa, but she did not complain. Only
when she heard that she was to stay with
Miss Netherleigh, she asked eagerly whether
she might not come to the Gate House every
other day to row  the weather would soon be
too cold, and she should like to have as much
of the river as was possible.

Mrs. Pleydell, glad to fiat her decision so
quietly accepted, willingly gave permission ; and
supposed that it was the thought of the Beechmont
Tournament that made Eve acquiesce so
readily.

Iris, when she heard of Eve's petition respecting
the boat, thought for a moment apprehensively
of the inhabitant of the cottage, but the
next she was very angry with herself. Had not
Eve promised not to see him again, or even to
correspond with him'' And Iris to whom a
promise Alas absolutely sacred, reproached
herself bitterly for having even thought of the
possibility of her sister's breaking her word.

Meanwhile Eve had received a letter from
Claud Urban, saying that he was coming back
to the cottage for a couple of days, and urging
her to meet him. The time would be during
her mother's absence, and it was this that had
made her so indifferent to being left behind.
Despite her promise to Iris, she had written to
Claud several times and had no hesitation about
promising to meet him.

Full of her project, Eve , from the moment
of her arrival at Miss Netherleighs, made herself
most fascinating to the old lady, and, though
Aunt Rachel was far too shrewd to be completely
deceived as to her real character, she
yet conceived a more favourable opinion of her
than she had ever done before. She made no
objection to the days spent on the river : indeed,
believing Eve to be alone, she considered them
preferable to those spent at Beechmont, for
Lady Hildegarde's fast manners and slang conversation
were abhorrent to Miss Netherleigh's
somewhat rigid ideas of what was ladylike and
becoming. And so the day came when Eve,
rowing up towards the cottage, was once more
met by Claud.

They landed as usual, separate boats not
being convenient for the lover-like endearments
of which Claud was not sparing, and which Eve
had learnt to think so strangely, perilously
sweet. The interview was not a very long-one,
for Eve dared not be later than the hour
at which Miss Netherleigh expected her.

'rand you really go away for good tomorrow
f she said, lingering after a last and
yet a last farewell. "Oh! Claud, when shall
I see you again ?"

I suppose you'll be in London next
spring ?"

I don't know. I hope so ; but mummy's
so cross, and seems to fancy I ought to be quite
contented in this dull place. But perhaps I
shall get back to Aunt Louisa. I'm sure 1 hope
so. Shall you be there, Claud ?"
Yes, probably."

And then you will be introduced properly,
and it will be all right. L'is will know nothing
of you as Mr. Urban."

Eve had told her lover of Laurence's discoveries.


Yes, little woman, I'll be introduced in due
form."

Then," said a voice behind them, *' I hope,
Mr. Esmond, you will introduce me too. I
have not the pleasure of knowing this young
lady's name, but I will make myself known to

her, at any rate. I am sure," addressing Eve,
*' you cannot be aware of my existence, or you
would not have met my husband here so often
without asking for me. I am Mrs. Esmond 
may I ask your name T

Eve looked at the speaker, recognised the
description which both Lord Rootley and Iris
had given of the supposed Mrs. Esmond, and
was in her boat rowing rapidly homewards
before Claud could spring forward to assist
her.

CHAPTER V.

These words have turn'd my hate to love ;
And I forgive and quite forget old faults.

Henry F/. Part 3, Act iii, Sc. 3.

AN the 26th, as she had arranged, Mrs. Pleyel
dell left the Gate House and started for
London with Iris, leaving Eve with Miss
Netherleigh, on her way to the station, with
many injunctions not to be troublesome or
thoughtless, but to remember how kind it was
of Aunt Rachel to have her.

In London they established themselves at an
hotel in Dover Street, for though Mrs. William
Pleydell had pressed them to be her guests, her
sister-in-law infinitely preferred to be independent.

She had purposely abstained from mentioning
in any of her notes her intention of
leaving Eve at home, and was quite prepared
for the storm of lamentation with which the
intelligence was received when she and Iris
appeared alone to dine in Park Street on the
night of their arrival. She had done what she
considered for the best, and listened in silence
to her sister-in-law's vehement reproaches ; but
she could not help feeling grieved at the sad
disappointment which poor Tom's countenance
displayed at the intelligence.

Later in the evening, when Mrs. William
Pleydell was consoling herself by discoursing
at length to Iris on what was and was not chic,
what was indispensable for a smart trousseau,
and what should be avoided, she did her best
to crush any hopes he might have cherished
that absence had caused Eve to think of him
with any more affection than she had avowed
when first interrogated by her mother.

Indeed, Tom' she concluded, " her disposition
often makes me very sad. She seems so-absolutely

careless of everything and everyone
but herself."

** She is so young, Aunt Grace."

Yes ; but indeed, Tom, I wish you would
honestly try to cure yourself of your love for
her. She would not make you happy, even if
she cared for you, and that I do not think she
is ever likely to do. She openly avows that
all she thinks worth consideration in marriage
is wealth and position."

"And I could give her neither," said Tom,
sadly. *aunt Grace, I know as well as you
can tell me that it is hopeless ; even if I had the
wealth which she prizes so highly, she would
very probably think me old and dull. I know
well enough I am not half good enough for
her, and I love her so well that I could rejoice
at least, I think I could  if I heard that she
had found anyone with all she requires, and
who loved her as she ought to be loved. It is
no use my trying to give up loving her  I
have tried, and can't. The more I try, the
more I feel how impossible it is."

It is infatuation !" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell,
almost impatiently " I do not want to say
anything harsh of my own child, but indeed,
Tom, I cannot help wondering how, seeing so
much of her as you did, you do not realise that
she really never has a thought for anyone but
herself."

*' She is very young, Aunt Grace, and all
that will change when she loves. Undine has
not found her soul yet."

I wish she would' said Mrs. Pleydell, half
laughing.

It will come soon enough. When it does,
you will lose her pretty, butterfly' brightness
for ever."

*'If it were only that," said Mrs. Pleydell,.
slowly; 'but she comes out sometimes with
strange, cold bits of worldly wisdom, more
appropriate to a dowager of sixty than a
child of eighteen. And it is not, as I see
you are going to suggest, that she has caught
them up from others, and repeats them like

a parrot ; she so evidently feels and believes
them."

Tom looked grieved.

Don't be hard upon her, Aunt Grace."

*' Hard upon her ! Tom, do you think it
likely f

No  only, wasn't she awfully disappointed
at being left behind, now ? She's so much
happier, she always says, in London than
in the country, and she was so fond of her
aunt."

I believe' said Mrs. Pleydell, almost sharply,
for she was vexed at finding it impossible
to shake her nephew's infatuation ; " indeed,
I am almost sure that all Eve cared about
was the amusement and indulgence, not the
person who gave them to her. The idea
of the tournament and dance at Beechmont
seemed quite to reconcile her to staying at
home, for she said there would be 'nothing
going on here yet.' "

Do you mean her to come here for a

long visit soon? She'*  with a glance at his
step-mother  '' expects it."

'I am sorry she does. I have written as
plainly as is possible to her, saying it cannot
be. Eve must remain with me''

"But she writes that she means to come
back for good."

She persists in saying so, though she
knows it is not likely. I think she is like
a little child, and believes that, if she says
a thing often enough, it must come to pass.
1 shall probably bring her to London fora
time in the spring, but she will only go
out with me. I have a perfect horror of the
fast set in which she seems to have lived so
much."

At this moment Mrs. William Pleydell claimed
her sister-in-law's attention in order to
impress upon her some point of which Iris
did not seem sufficiently to appreciate the
importance, and Tom had no further private
conversation with his aunt that evening.

The next few days were spent in the necessary
whirl of shopping, but one afternoon,
as Mrs. Pleydell and Iris were resting after
a long morning's work, they were astonished
by the door being suddenly thrown open,
and the waiter announcing,

Sir Charles and Lady Netherleigh."

Mrs. Pleydell had a good deal of self-control,
but she could not conceal her extreme
surprise as she Event forward to greet
her brother-in-law and his wife. Old Lady
Netherleigh, who had so vehemently denounced
her re-marriage, and her husband
had been dead some years.

You are surprised to see us, of course,"
said Lady Netherleigh, a bright, pleasing-looking
young woman ; *' and no wonder. I
tell Charley the family behaved infamously
to you, and we've been dying to say so, and
make friends for ever so long, only  somehow,
it's so very difficult to do things in
writing, and you've never been in London,
so, when Aunt Rachel wrote us word that

you were coming up about this trousseau, I
said to Charley,  Now or never,' and we came
up on purpose."

'rit is very kind of you, and I am very
glad indeed to see you," said Mrs. Pleydell,
who had had time to recover herself during
Lady Netherleigh's speech. "Pray do not
refer to the past, but let us enjoy the
present. I am glad Iris should make acquaintance
with ]her relations ;" and, with
ready tact, she began to talk of Iris's prospects,
and their business in London, occasionally
asking her brother or sister-in-law's
opinion on some trifling point, and putting
them quite at their ease.

It required some determination to do it,
for Sir Charles bore a strong resemblance
to his brother, her adored Arthur, and it
was often difficult to keep back the tears
that would fill her eyes, or the choking that
rose in her throat. But she struggled bravely,
and when the Netherleighs took their
leave, after a long visit, both sides felt that

VOL. II. H

there was the beginning of a real friendship.


Mrs. Pleydell had never felt any rancour
against her brother-in-law ; she had never seen
him before, for he was abroad with his regiment
ut the time of her marriage and of her return
from India, and it was, as she felt, only natural
that he should have acquiesced in the decision
of the rest of his family respecting a sister-in-law
of whom he knew absolutely nothing. It
was very kind of young Lady Netherleigh to
have insisted on making friends ; but the interview
and the recollections it awakened had
saddened Mrs. Pleydell a very great deal,
and she was unusually silent during the
evening.

Iris understood her mood and left her undisturbed.
Her mother had never told her
of the unkind treatment she had received
from her husband's family, not wishing to set
her against her relations in case she at any
future time came in contact with them, but
the girl had a vague idea that her mother

had been ill-used, and had felt indignant, and
but little inclined to be conciliated till won
over by the unaffectedly friendly manner of
her uncle and aunt. Lady Ketherleigh especially
quite won her heart, and, while keeping-silence
so as not to disturb her mother's
meditations, she was pleasing herself by thinking
how delightful it was to have some
relations. Hitherto she had known none, with
the exception of Aunt Rachel.

She was soon destined to make acquaintance
with some more, for, though the first
week in October is not a propitious month
for finding people in town, Lady Nether-leigh,
who was very energetic, and who professed
herself absolutely fascinated by Irises
beauty and grace, disinterred various cousins,
and had them all to dinner to meet Iris and
her mother. Many of them Mrs. Pleydell had
heard of from her husband, and, though glad
for her daughter's sake that the reconciliation
had taken place, and that she should take
her proper position among her father's peo-

h2

pie, it Twas exquisitely painful to her tone
transported back again to the happy
days when her Arthur had so often talked
of introducing her to the relatives with
whom, after so many years, she was but now
making acquaintance.

This introduction to her father's family increased
very largely Iris's list of presents,
and some of the gifts were of a very magnificent
description. Aunt Rachel wrote in
great delight on hearing all that her niece
had to relate, and she gave so good an
account of Eve that Mrs. Pleydell ventured
to extend the length of her absence by several
days.

Both Sir Charles and Lady Netherleigh
were most anxious that she and Iris should
pay them a visit at Netherleigh before returning
home but to this she would not
consent.

"There was a great deal to be done and
seen to at home," she said. "If they would
let her visit them later, she would be very

glad. She would like to stay with them, and
also to see Netherleigh."

She did not say, what was the truth, that
to see her Arthur's home, which he had
loved so well, would be a pleasure so intermingled
with pain that she feared it might
unnerve her, and render her unfit for all
the bustle attendant on the wedding. It
was agreed that Sir Charles and Lady Nether-leigh
should come down for the ceremony,
and that their two girls, aged respectively
sixteen and twelve, should be bridesmaids.

Mrs. William Pleydell hardly approved of
her sister-in-law's reconciliation with her husband's
family. Now that Mrs. Pleydell's time
was constantly taken up by some member of
the Netherleigh family, and that Iris was
being always carried off to drive with one
cousin, or shop with another, she felt herself
a person of comparatively little importance,
a position of which she did not at all
approve. She thought that, as Mrs. Pleydell
had been so long absent from London, she

L

would have been only too glad to have someone
to advise her, and was fully prepared to enjoy
to the utmost the authority which her more
intimate acquaintance with shops and fashions
would surely give her.

So it was a terrible mortification to find her
protegee carried off from her, and her place
usurped by persons with whom she was not
acquainted, though she would dearly have liked
to be so. Her disappointment found vent in
various sarcastic observations on her sister-in-law's
" Christian meekness in taking up with
people who had used her so ill," and when
Mrs. Pleydell quietly remarked that Sir Charles
and Lady Netherleigh had certainly not behaved
ill to her, for she had never even seen
them before, she rejoined that it was all very
well talking, but they would never have come
forward now or troubled themselves if Iris were
not going to make a good marriage.

Mrs. Pleydell did not reply : she believed
much in the " soft answer which turneth away
wrath," but she believed still more in many

instances in no answer at all. She allowed her
sister-in-law to talk on till she was tired, and
then quietly started another topic. She was
considerably surprised that Mrs. William had
as yet said nothing respecting Eve's return to
her, which she affected in her letters to regard
as a certainty. It was a relief, for she greatly
disliked saying anything that might prove
disagreeable, and yet, if Mrs. william had
argued very much, she felt that she must tell
her that she disapproved of the society into
which Eve had been thrown, and that she
had no intention of permitting her to re-enter
it.

There now remained but two days of her
stay in London, and, as nothing had yet been
said, she hoped that her sister-in-law had at
length realized that the refusal she had written
so often and so decidedly was really intended,
and that she had abandoned the idea of Eve's
return. But this afternoon, when she was
paying a solitary visit in Park Street, Iris
having gone out driving with one of her

cousins, the attack which she had dreaded took

place.

"Well, Grace, you have deprived me of the

pleasure of seeing poor little Eve now, but of

course it is only a pleasure deferred. When is

she to come back to me?"

You know, Louisa, I have written to you

over and over again that I mean Eve to stay

with me."

It is a breach of faith," said Mrs. William,

hotly; "you know you let me adopt her, you

left me all the trouble of her bringing up, and
now you refuse to let me enjoy the result.
Besides, you promised."

"I am very sorry indeed," said Mrs. Pleydell,
more sorry, Louisa, than I can say that I ever
acceded to your wish to have the child. I see
now that I was wrong, that I ought never to
have parted with her, but  you were in such
terrible trouble, my heart ached so for your loss,
that I thought of you rather than my child and
my duty. Do not ask me to part from her
again, Louisa, for indeed I cannot do it."

*' Then you throw your promise to the
winds ! And it is going against the child's
own wishes ; she is dying to come back."

She misses the gaiety and excitement. I
suppose it is natural she should find the
country rather dull after the life of feverish
dissipation which she represents herself as
having led with you. But indeed I hope intime
to reconcile her to a healthier life. She
has as much amusement as is good for any girl,
and, if all is well, I hope to bring her to
London for a little while."

You have been buried in Coalshire so long
that you have lost all taste for London, and
dropped all your acquaintances. Why not let
Eve come to me for the season, even if you
refuse to keep your promise of letting her live
with me altogether."

Mrs. Pleydell felt that at last it would be
better to speak out and make her meaning
clear, instead of bearing continual attacks ; so
she said,

"Don't be offended, Louisa, at what I am

going to say. I daresay you will call me very
dull and old-fashioned ; perhaps I am, but I
cannot alter ray feelings, and I can hardly tell
you how much I dislike the slang, fast set in
which Eve seems to have lived, and of which, I
regret to say, she has caught the manners.
While she is under my control , she shall never
enter it again."

Mrs. William Pleydell turned scarlet. She
prided herself immensely on her acquaintance,
which she considered an exceedingly fashionable
one, and was aghast at the idea of her
sister-in-law, who was, she considered, quite a
country cousin," and who, even in her London
days, had never striven after the " fashion " so
dear to her own heart, presuming to disapprove
of the set into which she had introduced her
niece. She was so astonished that she remained
silent, and, after a short pause, Mrs. Pleydell
continued,

I do not want to hurt your feelings, Louisa,
by what I say. Believe me, I know you treated
Eve precisely as if she were your own daughter,

and would never have permitted her to do anything
or go anywhere that you thought in the
least objectionable. But, as I said before, my
views are different and I mean to keep Eve a&
completely aloof from fast companionship as I
can. I am sorry to say we are so close to
Beechmont that I have not been able to prevent
her seeing a good deal of Lady Hides
Becher, who iSj to my mind, a far from
desirable companion. However, they have not
been at Beechmont for four years, and very
likely may not come again for as long a
period."

'I wonder what you would have better,"
said Mrs. William, wonderingly. " Lad' Beechmont
is one of the leaders of society and most
difficult to know. Her balls are the best in
London, and I thought I had done wonders for
Eve when I achieved the acquaintance, and,
above all, when Lady Hildegarde took her up
so. Lord Rootley was a great deal about herat
one time, and I thought it very promising.
Is there anything between them now ?"

k

Certainly not. My dear Louisa Eve is
only eighteen, and very young of her age, it
would be dreadful even to think of her marrying
yet ! She is terribly ignorant, and,
what is worse, she has no wish to be otherwise."


*' Ah !" said Mrs. William, with some satisfaction,
" that is my doing. I was determined
her prospects should never be spoilt by learning
too much. Nothing men hate so much asa
girl who knows as much as they do about
anything. Besides, girls who read much get
views ' about things into their heads, and they
will talk about them and argue, and that is
fatal, they never marry  at least not well. No,
I was determined Eve should know nothing
that they call solid, but I took pains with her
music, and singing, and dancing, and was very
particular about her learning how to write
pretty notes, and to understand all about a
menu. There was no need to teach her anything
about clothes and colours, it came to
her naturally. I do hope, Grace, you're not

spoiling the girl by making her learn things."
*'I am trying to get a little useful knowledge
into her head certainly, but I am afraid it is
very doubtful whether she absorbs any of it.
I make her read aloud to me, but I am not at
all sure that she takes in the sense of what she
reads."

Poor child I No wonder she writes so
piteously about wanting to come back."

"I wish you would not encourage her. I
have told her from the first that it is not to be
and yet she persists in talking of it."

*' She believed in your promise, you see."
If there were any promise  and I cannot
say I think there ever was a distinct one  it
was that her uncle might adopt her  that is
out of the question now."

''Ah I" said Mrs. William, with a sigh, "if
only that crash had been postponed three
months I am sure I should have had my reward,
and have seen Eve make a really good
marriage. I never saw any girl her equal in
flirtation. She was always so cool and composed,

able to take advantage of everything?
and to play one man off against another.
Poor dear! I am very sorry ; and now, buried
in the country, of course she will have no
chances."

'' Iris, who has never left it, is going to make
an excellent marriage, with the additional advantage
that it is one of pure affection," said
Mrs. Pleydell, smiling. "Besides, supposing
even that Eve never married at all, is there
anything so very dreadful in that ? Tell me,
have you heard of your husband lately? Of
course I do not ask where he is , but is he
well?"

"Yes, I believe so. He seldom writes ; there
would be risk," said Mrs. William, hastily.

I must go now ; it is getting dark, and Iris
will be wondering what has become of me,"
said Mrs. Pleydell, rising.

And it is definitive that 1 am not to have
Eve ?"

Yes, indeed it must be so. And, Louisa, I
cannot say how much obliged to you I shall be

if you will make the child see that it is so, instead
of encouraging her in the belief that I
may yield. I assure you there is no chance of
my doing so.

"Well, I think I am very ill-used, and Eve
too. I shall see you and Iris again before you
go?"

' Yes, if possible ; but tomorrow is our last
day, and, though wee have tried not to put
things off, there is a great deal still to be
done. Good-bye, in case it should not be
possible to come."

As Mrs. Pleydell was leaving the house, she
encountered in the hall a tall man who had just
been admitted. He drew back into the shadow
let her pass, but she perceived that he had a
short, thick black beard and a profusion of
black hair. She would hardly have given him
a second thought, but, while the butler was
assisting her to put on her fur-cloak, the footman
preceded the guest to the drawing-room,
and before the door closed she heard her sister-in-law
say,

*' Remember, James,  not at home to anyone."


Some matter of business, no doubts Mrs.
Pleydell thought, dismissed the matter from
her mind, and pondered over all that had been
said respecting Eve.

As she had feared, the girl had been carefully
educated to consider a good marriage the sole
end and aim of life, and had proved only too
apt a pupil of her worldly aunt. It eras not
without considerable anxiety that the mother
looked forward to her child's future, and determined
that when they were left alone together
she would make her her constant companion,
and do all that lay in her power to
counteract the evil influences to which, owing
to her neglect of Aunt Rachel's advice, she had
allowed her to become exposed.

It was late, nearly half-past six, the next day
when Mrs. Pleydell and Iris had finished all
they had to do and went to wish Mrs. William
Pleydell " Good-bye."

As their hansom turned into Park Street,

they saw a gentleman enter the house, and Mrs.
Pleydell at once recognised him as the visitor
she had met when leaving the day before.
She was therefore not much surprised to hear
the answer, " Not at home ;" but, as they drove
back to the hotel, she wondered what
important business her sister-in-law was transacting.


VOL. II.

CHAPTER VI.

When once the young heart of a maiden is stolen,
The maiden herself will steal after it soon.

Ill Omens. MooRE.

Then Eve found herself left alone with
' Miss Netherleigh, she took it into her
whimsical little head to charm the old lady,
and convince her that all the complaints which
she felt sure her mother had made of her were
really without foundation. Miss Netherleigh
had a very shrewd insight into character, and
Eve hardly deceived her so thoroughly as she
hoped and intended. Aunt Rachel was not
blind to the girl's vanity, selfishness, and
worldliness, but she was to a certain extent

deceived by the soft, caressing madder and
childish innocence which Eve could assume at
Avill, and was willing to regard these faults as
incidental to her unfortunate education rather
than fundamental to her character, while she
totally failed to realise the cold heartlessness of
her nature.

Eve was well aware of Miss Netherleighs
rigid notions of propriety, and, true to her intention
of charming her, was far more careful
both in her conversations and actions than was
generally the case, so that, after observing her
narrowly, the old lady was inclined to believe
precisely what the girl wished, that " dear
Grace, in her great anxiety, had been unnecessarily
alarmed, and that the child had taken
less harm than might have been anticipated
from the fast set into which Mrs. William Pleyel
(for whom Aunt Rachel had always entertained
a strong aversion) had introduced her at
so ridiculously early an age."

Acting on this opinion, Miss Netherleigh
allowed Eve more latitude in the matter of

i2

going to Beechmont than she would otherwise
have done, thereby exactly fulfilling that astute
daniel's wishes.

The tournament duly came off. It was a
lovely day, the gathering a very large one, and
Eve's vanity was gratified not only by winning
the prize a very handsome bracelet, but also
by the many compliments paid her on her excellent
and most graceful play. Colonel Leybourne,
who was paying a second visit to
Beechmont, was most devoted to her ; but it
was Eve's pleasure that day to be on her very
best behaviour, and even Miss Netherleigh could
see no fault to be found with her.

Lord Rootley noted the change, and wondered
whether it were the sobering effect of
finding herself on the brink of a real scrape
that had quieted her ; and even Laurence, who
was present to please his mother, though he
declared it bored him inexpressibly to go to
such a party when there was no chance of
meeting Iris, and who generally disapproved
utterly of Eve  partly, perhaps,, because she

laughed at him  was quite surprised at her
quietness, and was unusually attentive to her
in consequence

In her heart Eve hated both him and Lord
Rootley; the one had ventured to lecture and
extract a promise from her just when she believed
that the hour of her triumph was at
hand and that she was about to have the
pleasure of refusing the man who had dared
to express disapproval of her proceedings at
Maidenhead ; the other had betrayed her to
Iris, and caused her to receive what she called
an awful scolding." It was thus that Eve,
who in her aunt's house had never heard a
word of reproof, but had been allowed, or indeed
encouraged, to think everything she did
was perfect, always characterized the mildest
attempt at remonstrance.

But she carefully concealed her feelings,
talked to Lord Rootley as naturally as if they
had never had that, to him, extremely unpleasant
tete-astute, and caused him to think that she
was showing more sense than he had believed

that she possessed ; and made herself so charming
to Laurence by the way she talked of Iris
and listened to all his plans for the future, that
he felt quite astonished at himself for never
having properly appreciated her before. He
wondered rather whether Iris had spoken ta
her of what he had seen ; if she had, evidently
Eve bore no malice, and he dismissed all
thought of the matter for the infinitely pleas-after
consideration and discussion of his own
affairs.

There was a good deal of gaiety going on in
the neighbourhood at the moment, and to all
the parties Miss Netherleigh took Eve, and she
and Laurence became at each better friends.
Mrs. Furnivall looked on with disapproval.
Perhaps she hardly herself realised what it was
she wished. She could hardly have desired
that her son, within a month of his wedding-day,
should find some one whom she thought
more suitable, and forfeit his word. She would
have been indignant if the idea had been suggested
to her, yet she would have liked to see

him devote himself to anyone rather than to
Eve, because such devotion seemed to bind
him more firmly to Iris.

Several days had elapsed since the tournament
before Eve paid the visit to the oak by
the river mentioned in a former chapter. Her
state of mind, as she rowed rapidly homewards,
would be impossible to describe indeed, she
hardly knew herself what she felt. Indignation,
astonishment, bewilderment anger that
Lord Rootley and Laurence should have been
right, and she herself wrong, all possessed her
in turn, and drowned for a time the misery of
mortification and disappointed love. Perhaps
the former was the stronger of the two. How
he must have laughed at her  she who never
could endure ridicule  for believing all he had
told her ! How he had deceived her I  she
who prided herself so on her acuteness, and on
always knowing whether people were telling
her the truth or not. And he knew quite well
that she loved him ! She had made no secret
of it, she had felt so sure of him. Well, it

served her right for falling in love at all ; she
had always known it was ridiculous ; something
bad was sure to come of it. Well she
was cured for ever. She hated him  yes, hated
him with all her heart now ; and, by way of |
proving how decidedly this was the case she
began to sob as if her heart would break at the
thought of never seeing him again.

No one who saw Eve that night at a dance
at the barracks, would have guessed what an
exciting experience had been hers that afternoon,
but many observed that she was even
prettier than was her wont. Her face seemed
to have gained in expression, her eyes to
have a greater depth and softness. It was
but an illustration of the old truth that no
woman's face reaches its perfection of beauty,
attains in short its highest capability of loveliness,
until she has suffered. And though Eve's
nature was extremely shallow, and her sufferings
would in all probability not be of long
duration, still for a time they were very bitter.
Her trouble gave her for a few days a sort of

languid softness that was very bewitching, but
it was also partially occasioned by her not
feeling very well.

Miss Netherleigh pronounced that she had
a slight cold, and forbade any more rowing,
and Eve acceded with a gentleness that both
surprised and delighted her. She little guessed
that the very thought of the river was
odious to the girl, and that she was quite
thankful for an excuse for not going there on
her usual days. It seemed to her guilty conscience
that if she gave up her rowing without
any ostensible reason, it must cause suspicion
and give a clue to her secret.

It was three or four days before she received
a letter from Claud Urban, written
from London. i\.fter some expressions of dismay
that such an occurrence as that under
the oak should ever have taken place, he
continued,

"Do not, my darling Eve, condemn me
unheard. 1 am bad enough, but not so bad as

you think me. I need not say I have no wife.
It is too long a story to write you now, I would
rather tell it when we meet, which must be
soon. Write me one word, my darling, to say
that you believe me; you wrung my heart
that day when you rowed away without a
word, though you were right and I could not
wonder. There are many things 1 must say
to you : can you suggest any plan of meeting
at onces

Yours ever, Claud."

This letter reached Eve two days before her
mother's return home, and excited her extremely.
So great a shock had been given to her
confidence, however, that she was by no means
prepared to accept it without reserve. Was it
true, she wondered? It was very strange.
The woman had certainly claimed him for her
husband. Was that true ?

Eve mused and pondered; her love urged
her to believe him, and to write as he
entreated, her pride bidding her take no

notice of the letter at all. Pride was in
the ascendant for the whole of the first
day ; on the second, love and not a little
curiosity became overwhelming, and she
wrote,

'I will meet you at Euston Square tomorrow
at one o'clock. We shall have half an
hour."

The plan which Eve had arranged was as
follows. Mrs. Pleydell and Iris were to leave
Euston at half-past one, and all her luggage
was to be taken from Miss Netherleigh's to
the station, which was not far off, so that all
might go home together in the omnibus. If
she reached London at one, she might see
Claud, hear his explanations, slip unobserved
into the train by which her mother was to
travel, and appear on the platform of Banner-ton,
which was always crowded, as if she
had come there to meet them.

All was apparently easy, except accounting
to Aunt Rachel for her absence the whole
day ; for her train, an express, started at

half-past nine. However, she must try
to arrange it, and so the night before, when
they were sitting quietly at home, she
began.

'* Aunt Rachel " (Eve had always steadfastly
refused to call Miss Netherleigh by this title,
but had adopted it during her stay as part
of her scheme of propitiation), " I want very
much to go home the very first thing tomorrow.
I want to get some flowers, and
make the rooms pretty, just as mummy likes
them."

"Very well, my dear; but surely the afternoon
will be time enough"'

Well, if it is a fine day I thought I should
like a row. You know, my cold is quite well
again now" (this was hardly the case, for Eve
felt very poorly, and her throat was extremely
sore), "and it would be very nice. Then I
could put the rooms straight and come in the
carriage to meet them at the station."

It all sounded very plausible, and, though
J\liss Netherleigh could not understand why

Eve was in such a very great hurry that she
could not wait till the middle of the morning-
she thought it Alas only juvenile impatience,
and was not very much surprised, when she
came down to breakfast as usual as the clock
struck ten, to hear that " Miss Eve had had
breakfast at nine, and had set off to walk to
the Gate House."

*' To walk, Evans ! Are you quite sure ? I
thought I understood that she had ordered the
pony-carriage to come for her."

No," Evans was quite sure she had gone on
foot and Miss Netherleigh, though vexed that
the girl should have given herself needless
exertion when certainly somewhat weak and
languid with her cold, comforted herself by
thinking that the day was so lovely that she
could hardly do herself much harm.

Mrs. Pleydell and Iris were to arrive at a
quarter-past five, and Mrs. Pleydell had written
to say that she thought they had better not
call to see Aunt Rachel that evening, but that
they would come in and spend the next day

L

with her: Eve had better meet them at the
station, and they could all go home together.
It was therefore with infinite surprise that,
about half-past five Miss Netherleigh saw the
door thrown open and heard Evans announce,


*' Mrs. Pleydell and Miss Iris Netherleigh."

My dear Grace, this is an unexpected
pleasure."

*' We cannot stay, for we are only come to
fetch Eve," said Mrs. Pleydell. "How could
she have misunderstood what I said about her
meeting us at the station? We should not
have come in , but Evans said she was not here,
so I wanted to find out from you where she
is."

At the Gate House, I imagine," said Miss
Netherleigh, and detailed the programme Eve
had recited to her the night before.

"It is very strange. Robert thought she
was here," said Mrs. Pleydell in much perplexity


Miss Netherleigli rang the bell.

"Evans," she said, "ask Mrs. Pleydell's
servant if Miss Eve was not at the Gate House
when he left."

Evans returned immediately.

'*No, ma'am, Miss Eve has not been there
to-day."

Then where in the world can she be ?"
exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell, anxiously.

Go up to her room. Iris," said Aunt
Rachel, '' and see if she has left anything
about."

You don't think she has gone away and
left a note ?" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell, turning
pale.

*'I am sure she has left nothing on the table,
or Jane would have brought it to me," said
]bliss Netherleigh ; ** but one never knows.
Look in the drawers, Iris, and in the blotting-book."


While Iris was absent, Mrs. Pleydell asked
innumerable questions as to whom Eve had seen
and what she had done, and Miss Netherleigh
gave the fullest details, not omitting to tell

her niece that she thought she had been rather
hard upon Eve, who was much nicer than she
had ever represented her to be. Upon these
remarks Mrs Pleydell broke in with,

How stupid of me not to think of it before I
Of course she has gone to Beechmont, and has
forgotten all about meeting us while she was
amusing herself I"

Then she must be alone with Lady Imogene
and Lord Rootley," said Miss Netherleigh :
and, you know, that is not in the least likely.
The Beechmonts and Lady Hildegarde went
two days ago to stay at the Duke of Myrtle-shire's
for two balls, and return home on Saturday.
I confess I cannot think where Eve can
be, but I do not see why you should fancy
that anything very dreadful has happened to
her."

'you said," said Mrs. Pleydell, starting to
her feet : " oh ! Aunt Rachel, you said she
meant to go on the river. That boat ! There
may have been an accident! She may be
drowned I"

*' My dear Grace, think for a moment, and
don't be a goose ! You heard just now that
she had not been at the Gate House to-day, so
she could not have got at the boat. I grant
she is a very troublesome and naughty child,
and deserves to be well whipped for disappearing
and frightening you like this ; but depend
upon it she is quite well and safe somewhere.
You are sure you didn't miss her at the
station '?"

Oh, yes, quite. The train was very punctual,
and we thought she might be a little
late, and waited till everyone was gone.
AVhat can Iris be doing? She has been an
hour !''

"Not quite ten minutes' said Miss Nether-leigh
glancing at the clock. *iris is thorough
in everything, and will be sure not to leave a
corner unexplored. Ah I what is it?" she exclaimed,
sharply, as Iris appeared at the door
as white as a sheet, and with a blotting-book in
her hands.

"It is oh, I am afraid!" stammered Iris.

VOL. II. K

'' Oh, mamma, forgive me. I ought to have
told you, but I wanted to save you pain.
Laurence knows, and indeed she promised not
to see or write to him again."

*' Not to see Laurence ?" cried her mother, ina
bewildered tone, and Miss Netherleigh said,
almost angrily,

"Iris, it is not like yoa to talk in that confused
way. Say at once what you mean, and
don't frighten your mother into fits ; she is
upset enough already."

Thus adjured. Iris, standing in the centre of
the room between her mother and aunt, strove
to repeat exactly what Laurence had told her,
and what had passed between her and Eve,
but she was so nervous and upset that her
narrative was far from clear.

I don't understand a word of it," cried Miss
Netherleigh, testily. ' Who is the man ? where
did she meet him ? is he married ? And what
in the world has Lord Rootley got to do with
it? What have you found in the blotting-book
? Perhaps that may help us."

But there was nothing but the few lines in
Eve's somewhat sprawling hand.

I will meet you at Euston Square tomorrow
at one o'clock. We shall have half an
hour.

Eve."

No sign of the address of the envelope; if
she had blotted that, it had evidently not been
on a blank page.

She must have gone to London by the
130,"' said Miss Netherleigh. ' All that story
about going home to gather flowers to make
the rooms pretty for you must just have been
so much dust thrown in my eyes. Grace, my
dear, I beg your pardon for thinking I knew
your daughter better than you did. You are
quite right, and she is a heartless little minx !
Still we must find out where she is. Ring the
bell. Iris. Evans, go to the station and ask
quietly  don't make any fuss  whether anyone
saw Miss Eve go by the train this morning,

jk2

and where she took her ticket for. We think
she may have gone to meet Mrs. Pleydell and
missed her."

Evans disappeared, and shortly returned
with the intelligence that a lady very like
Miss Eve, but the clerk could not be quite
sure, she v/ore such a thick veil, had taken
a return ticket for London and gone by
the 9.30.

"A return ticket  then she may come by the
next train," said Miss Netherleigh. " Grace,
you had better stay here to-night. No ?" as
Mrs. Pleydell shook her head. " Well, at any
rate wait for the last train. And now, Iris," 
turning to her  " sit down there and try to tellus
a little more clearly what you know and
what you suspect."

So Iris told the tale over again, and felt
bitterly her mother's reproaches for not having
told her at once.

I wanted to save you the pain, mamma,"
she said, with the tears in her eyes.

"I am sure you meant well, Iris; but I did

not think you would have shown such want of
judgment. It was your plain duty to tell me
anything of such importance at once. If you
had, this would probably never have occurred.
If anything terrible happens to poor Eve, the
responsibility will be yours."

Iris did not answer but she turned very pale,
and her eyes filled with tears. Miss Nether-leigh
thought her niece unnecessarily harsh but
she made allowances for the cruelty inseparable
from terror, and said nothing, though she took
Iris's hand in hers and pressed it kindly. It
was almost more than the girl could bear. She
Alas terrified beyond measure at Eve's disappearance,
reproached herself far more bitterly
than her mother could possibly do for having
kept silence, though it was with the best possible
motive, and yet felt that it was unjust of
her mother not to acknowledge that she had
acted for the best, and to save her pain and
annoyance. She had hardly ever before heard
words of reproof from her mother's lips, and it
was with infinite difficulty that she choked back

the tears that filled her eyes and the sobs that
rose ia her throat. She returned the pressure
of Aunt Rachel hand with a fervour that gave
that lady exquisite pain, but she guessed what
the girl was suffering, and endured it
stoically.

There were three hours that must elapse before
the last train would reach Bannerton, and
it seemed as if the time would never pass. The
carriage was put up, and Miss Netherleigh insisted
on their taking off their things and sitting
down to dinner, but it was a most dismal
meal, and Mrs. Pleydell kept her eyes fixed
upon the clock till the hands seemed to her
to stand persistently still. But when the train
at length arrived there was no Eve.

The return-ticket must have been a blind'*
exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell, bursting into tears.
'' Oh ! Aunt Rachel, what is to be done ?
How are we to save the poor misguided

child r

She evidently intended to return," said
Miss Netherleigh, " or she would not have said

we shall have half an hour ;' she meant to
return by your train."

But she has not. That wretch must have
persuaded her to go with him ! Oh I my child !
my child ! if I had but known the danger that
threatened you ! if 1 had but been upon my
guard!"

*' Grace," said Miss Netherleigh, gravely,
there is no use in reproaching Iris now. She
committed an error in judgment, and is as sorry
for it now as you can be. What is to bethought
of now is how to find Eve. You cannot
telegraph from here  it will make the affair
too public. Could you take the mail to-night,
telegraph to your nephew, Mr. Pleydell, to
meet you at Euston, and do what he advises?
If you are equal to it, it would be the wisest
plan, and would waste the least time. Iris had
better stay with me."

Oh ! let me go with mamma. She will be
so tired," pleaded Iris.

I think you had better stay here," replied
her mother. " You could not help, and I should

do better alone. Write the telegram for me,
Please meet me at Euston 3 a.m. to-morrow
Thursday. Necessity urgent.' "

The telegram was despatched, but Mrs.
Pleydell could not rest, the minutes seemed
hours to her; she insisted on being at the
station fully an hour before the time, and paced
up and down the platform with hurried steps.
Iris walked at her side, but did not attempt to
break silence. She felt that her mother was
too wretched to be just, and was herself too
disturbed and miserable about Eve to think of
the vehemence of her mother's reproaches.
Her pale, sad face at length struck Mrs. Pley-
dell and putting her hand on her daughter's
arm, she said,

' I spoke strongly, Iris dear, and of course
you were wrong. You should never, even with
the best intentions, have concealed anything so
serious, but I quite know you meant it for the
best, and to save me pain. But, dear, it only
shows that one must never do evil that good
may come."

Iris's eyes overflowed, and, the train coming
up before she could trust her voice, she kissed
her mother in silence as they parted.

CHAPTER Iii.

Of all the agonies in life, that which is the most
poignant and harrowing  that which for the time annihilates
reason, and leaves our whole organization one
lacerated, mangled heart  is the conviction that we
have been deceived where we placed all the trust of
love.

Buller LyTTON.

By foreign hands thy dying eyes were clos'd,
By foreign hands thy decent limbs compos'd,
By foreign hands thy humble grave adorn 'd,
By strangers honour'd, and by strangers mourn'd.
Elegy to the Memnon of an Unfortunate Lady. Pope.

rrOM Pleyel was sitting over the fire
-*- smoking and thinking of Eve, while pretending
to himself that he was reading the
paper. He knew as well as his aunt could

do that his chance of winning Eve was but
small. No one knew better than he how
much she valued wealth and all the luxury
and pleasure that are unattainable without
it, and his estimate of himself was far too
humble for him to hope for a moment that
she would ever love him well enough to accept
poverty for his sake.

And yet he loved her passionately. He
was blind to the faults that her mother
saw so clearly, and put so plainly before
him, and was inclined to fear that his darling
did not meet with all the love and adoration
in her home which he considered were her
due. Her mother loved her of course, still
she hardly seemed to appreciate her charms
and sweetness, and really spoke as if the
child were cold and heartless. Perhaps it
was right that Eve should be in her own
mother's house, still he hoped she did not
very sorely miss all the love that had been
so demonstratively showered upon her in
Hyde Park Gardens. Perhaps his step-mother

was not the wisest of women; perhaps
she had indulged Eve too much,, and let her
do things and go to places which would have
been better let alone, but she had never
thwarted her ; and, kind as he had always
himself found his Aunt Grace, he feared that
she was too strict with Eve, and was making
her unhappy. What other explanation could
there be of her evident belief that the child
was not of an affectionate disposition? little
loving Eve, who was always overflowing with
smiles and kisses to everyone who was kind to
her.

Tom forgot that he had never seen Eve
thwarted, or told to do anything that she
did not like, and would have been amazed
could he have seen the sullen frown that, at the
Gate House, so often clouded the countenance
which he believed to be perennially sunny.
In fact he was very genuinely and thoroughly
in love, and was honestly blind to any
imperfections in his idol, in spite of all that
her mother had said to him.

It had been a cruel blow her having been
left at Bannerton. From the moment that
he had heard of Mrs. Pleydell's intended
visit to London, he had made sure of seeing
Eve, and though he told himself incessantly
that he had no hopes, that even if he could,
he would not say a word that could doom
his bright, blithe little bird to a life of poverty
which he knew she would hate, yet he had
longed feverishly to see her again, to feast
his eyes on her beauty, to hear the laughing
voice  which was to him the sweetest
music on earth  call him 'dear old Tom,"
and it had been a very dire disappointment
when, on his arrival in Park Street, he had
found only Mrs. Pleydell and Iris.

Of course he was foolish ! No one knew
it better than he ! He was the last person
in the world to expect that Eve, fascinating,
bewitching Eve, would wait for him. It would
be a weary waiting ! He was but a clerk,
and though Mr. Allison, the head of the
firm he had entered, knew all his circumstances,

and favoured him to the utmost of
his power, still his outlook in life was but a
poor one.

Before he would be in a position to make
much money, he would in all probability bean
old, grey-haired man, and, when even that
point was reached, there were all his father's
debts to be paid to the uttermost farthing
before he could think of happiness for himself.
And years, long years before that time
Eve would be married to some one who
could give her all that she delighted in 

wealth, position, rank Well, none could

adorn them better than she! If only he
could know her happy, could be privileged
to watch her from a distance enjoying herself
and dazzling the world as she would
love to do, he felt that he could be, in a
manner, content. He pictured himself as an
old man going to see her, taking her children
on his knee, tracing their likeness to the face
he loved so well.

From such dreams he was roused by a sharp

deal of the door-bell, and in a few moments his
landlady entered with Mrs. Pleydell's telegram.
Its contents sorely puzzled Tom. He had seen
his aunt the evening before he knew she was
to leave town that very day, and it was plain
she had done so, as the telegram was dated
from Bannerton. That it could have anything
to do with Eve he naturally never for one
moment suspected : she was at Bannerton, and
could therefore have no concern in an emergency
that brought her mother back to London
so few hours after having quitted it.

He rang the bell, and, on his landlady's
appearance, he began,

I am very sorry, Mrs. Morris, but this telegram
asks me to meet a lady  my aunt  at
Euston at three tomorrow morning. Will you
be good enough to leave the door on the latch?
I will be scrupulously careful in putting up the
chain, you may be sure."

Well, for you, ]mr. Pleydell," answered Mrs.
Morris , graciously : " I'm sure you're that quiet
and careful as it was never so ! Else the door

on the latch is what I caaH abide nohow. I
lies thinking we'll all be murdered or burnt in
our beds, which there's an awful murder in the
paper to-night, sir, if you'd like to see it. I'll
bring it up in a minute."

No, thank you, Mrs. Morris, not to-night. I
shall sit up till it is time to start, so I hope
nothing will happen. I shall be on guard, you
know. Good night."

Mrs. Morris retired, and Tom fell to musing
once more over the telegram, but, having no
clue, he naturally could make no guess as to
what had occurred. It was, therefore, a terrible
shock when, as he handed his aunt out of the
train and inquired what was the matter, he
received for answer,

Oh ! Tom, it is Eve. She is missing."

' Eve ! My God !" cried poor Tom, staggering
back ; then recovering himself with an immense
effort. *' How ? When ?" and, hesitatingly :

Who r

We suppose a Mr. Esmond," and Mrs. Plej-
dell gave a rapid sketch of all the story and

circumstances so far as she knew them. All
this had passed as they were standing on the
platform. Tom now drew her into the waiting-room.


Yait here a few minutes, Aunt Grace," he
said; *' I must see one of the inspectors and try
to find out if anyone saw Eve. It is just
possible''

After much inquiry and an interval that
seemed hours to Mrs. Pleydell, but that really
was not much more than twenty minutes, the
following information was produced : 

The Bannerton train, due at one o'clock, had
been twenty-five minutes late, so that probably
Eve had stepped out of the up train on one
side of the station, while her mother and sister
were tranquilly seated in the down one on the
other. One of the porters deposed that a
young lady very fair and pretty, had waited
till everyone was gone, and had hung about on
the platform as if she were waiting for something.
That he had asked if he could get hera
cab, and she had said " Xo ; she was waiting

VOL. IT. L

for a friend, and was going away by the 1.30."
That he had rejoined that she could not do that,
for it had been gone a good twenty minutes, and
that she had given a kind of cry and looked white
and steered like. That he had been called ofi
to some work the other side of the station, but
that half an hour later he had seen her going
out of the station by herself.

''By herself!" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell, when
Tom had reported this. " Oh ! Tom, ask him
if he is quite sure."

On re-examination it proved that the man
was anything but certain, and, on his appealing
to one of his comrades, the referee at once
expressed his opinion that he had seen the
young lady leaving "along of a tall, dark
gent."

Mrs. Pleydell wrung her hands in despair.

Oh ! Tom, Tom, what are we to do ?"

Let me take you somewhere  the hotel you
left yesterday would be best until you can goto
Park Street. I will go to Scotland Yard as
soon as I have seen you safe. You know, Aunt]

grace, I am as anxious as you can be."

Mrs, Pleydell was so exhausted with fatigue
and wretchedness that she allowed her nephew
to take her where he pleased, only saying, when
he left her,

You will never rest till you find her, Tom?
Poor wretched child, how little she knows what
she is doing !"

Tom promised, and set off in a hansom to
Scotland Yard. His story was listened to,
notes taken, and an officer sent at once to
Euston Square to extract any more information
that might be obtained from the officials there.
Tom went to his lodgings , had a bath and
dressed, wrote a note to Mr. MallisoUj saying
that private business of the most urgent importance
detained him, but that he would beat
the office as soon as was possible, and then
set out to walk to Mrs. Pleydell's hotel.

Hitherto he had hardly had time to reflect
on the story that his aunt had told him ; all
the energies of his mind had been concentrated
on the means by which Eve might be traced

land

recovered ; but now, as he walked slowly
along the gradually awakening streets, he had
ample time for meditation. His thoughts were
far from pleasant.

It appeared that Eve had not only been
carrying on a clandestine flirtation under
colour of solitary boating excursions, but that
she had continued to do so after she had been
warned that the man she was secretly meeting
was supposed to be married. It seemed absolutely
inconceivable. One thing was clear : in
his thoughts he had done Iris Netherleigh grave
injustice ; he had fancied that she was hard on
Eve, perhaps jealous of her (in his infatuation
poor Tom thought no one could be Eve's
equal), and it was clear that she had been kind
nay, too kind ; for, if she had been less so,
she would not have kept the girl's secret, and
this last terrible catastrophe would doubtless
have been prevented.

But what a new idea this story gave him o
Eve ! He had always thought her so guileless,]
so incapable of deception. He did not reflect

that when he knew her in Hyde Park Gardens
there was no necessity for her to conceal anything
; if she had said she wished to meet anyone,
she would have been allowed to do it.
Where had she met this man ? He had a remarkably
accurate memory for names, and was
fairly certain that there was no Mr. Esmond on
his step-mother's visiting list, nor among Eve's
partners. And yet clearly he was unknown to
Mrs. Pleydell, so Eve could not have made his
acquaintance at Bannerton.

He was quite shocked, when he reached the
hotel, to see how ill his aunt looked.

'' Dear Aunt Grace, you will be quite worn
out. Have you had any breakfast?"

Oh, no, Tom  I want nothing but to hear
of Eve."

Tom saw it would be of no use to insist on
her own want of food, so he said,

Well, I am glad you have not finished, for
I am very hungry," and, ringing the bell, ordered
that the meal should be brought up ;
then, sitting down by his aunt, he told her

I

what bad been done, and that be bad directed
that any information should be sent to Park
Street.

Oh ! Tom, why ? I should bear it sooner
here."

' I want you to go there,, Aunt Grace. Perhaps
we may get some light thrown on the
matter. Tell me, bow do you think Eve made
this Mr. Esmond's acquaintance ?"

*' I haven't an idea. I suppose be was one
of her London friends, and followed her down
to Coalshire."

I don't think she knew anyone of the
name. You see, I watched her so earnestly,
I think I know everyone who ever came near
her."

But then  how could it be ? It couldn't beat
Bannerton ; she has been nowhere without
nie, except a few times to Beechmont, and I
know no one of the name was there. Besides,
Iris says Lord Rootley warned her against
him."

Eve must know something he and Mr.

Furnivall do not. She must know he is not
married."

God grant it ; but oh ! Tom, you are infatuated,
and, I know, think I am hard upon
the child, but she is so wilful, and, as it seems
to me, so absolutely devoid of principle ! I
cannot tell you how terrified I am. I believe
if she really took a fancy into her head, as she
must have done, believed she was in love, she
she would not care."

No, no, it can't be so. Don't say it, don't
think it !" groaned Tom. "It is impossible but
that she knows that all is right."

Does this carefully-arranged plan for deceiving
Miss Netherleigh look like it? How
deliberately she schemed to get a day's start !"

"But she meant to return  she took a return
ticket ; she told the porter she was going by
the 1.30 to Bannerton."

Mrs. Pleydell shook her head.

"It may be so Tom; but I confess it all
seems to me part of the deception. She never
had any intention of returning."

'' Then why did that letter say, * we shall
have half an hour?" asked Tom. " You see,"
he continued, almost triumphantly, as Mrs.
Pleydell remained silent, " she must have meant
to return."

Perhaps so but she did not," said the
mother, with a weary sigh. " He must have
persuaded her to go with him. I fear it was
anything but a difficult task."

*' One of the porters was very certain that no
one met her, and that she left the station
alone," said Tom. " I really don't see why he
isn't just as likely to be right as the other
fellow."

Because his story is the least probable,"

It is always the improbable things that
happen, Aunt Grace !" and he suddenly sprang
from his chair. " Is it possible she can be in
Park Street ? She would naturally go there if
if she did not meet anybody."

"But surely Louisa would have telegraphed
to me. She must have known the agonising
anxiety I must be enduring."

"Let us go to Park Street, at all events,"
said Tom ; " 1 said any information was to be
sent there. Aunt Grace, you  you won't be
hard upon Eve?"

He said it in an imploring tone that went to
Mrs. Pleydell's heart.

I am sorry for you, Tom," she could not
help saying; "but some good will come out of
this misery if it cures you of your infatuation.
Hard upon her ! I hardly think I am likely to
be that; I feel as if I should be too thankful to
see her safe."

Not a word was spoken in the hansom that
conveyed them to Park Street, but to Mrs,
PleydelFs astonishment the answer to Tom's
inquiry was,

"Miss Eve, sir? Yes, she came about three
o'clock yesterday."

"Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell,
fervently. The relief of finding her child safe
was so great and unexpected that she almost
fainted.

"I will go at once and stop inquiries," said

Tom, as he handed her out. '' When I have
done so I will come back ; yon will not be gone
just yet' and, springing into the hansom he
drove off to Scotland Yard.

Meanwhile Mrs. Pleydell, somewhat bewildered
at the sudden relief to her feelings, followed
the butler into the dining-room, where
Mrs. William Pleydell and Eve were lingering
over their breakfast.

Mummy !" exclaimed Eve, colouring.

Grace ! well, this is a surprise !" exclaimed
her sister-in-law.

"I came to find Eve," said Mrs. Pleydell,
very gravely.

I told her it was very naughty of her to
come without leaves said Mrs. William.
However, she said she could really live no
longer without seeing me. It was a sudden
impulse, dear child ! I was going to write
to you to-day to say I really must keep
her."

Did Eve really pretend she came up to
see you, Louisa?" asked Mrs. Pleydell, gravely.

Of course ! Why, vhat else should have
brought her ?" asked Mrs. William, in astonishment.


What else could I have come for, mamma?"
asked Eve, innocently.

Did she ask you to meet her at Euston
Square at one o'clock and say you would have
half an hour together?" inquired Mrs. Pleyel.


For one moment she had a wild hope that it
might be so, that Eve might really have been
silly enough to come up to see her aunt, and
have been over-persuaded to stay. But the
hope faded as Eve gave a guilty start and
coloured crimson and Mrs. William Pleydell
exclaimed,

Ask me to meet her ! What do you mean,
Grace? I never knew anything of her coming
till she walked in here at three o'clock and
said, dear child ! that she could not live without
me any longer."

Her journey was not taken to see your's
said Mrs. Pleydell. " Perhaps you can tell me

something of the gentleman whom, I believe,
she wished to meet, but who, as she is here
safe and alone, I suppose failed her  a Mr.
Esmond?"

Eve gave a half articulate cry.

"Mr. Esmond?" said Mrs. William. "none
to m} knowledge. But you say Eve came
to meet him ? It must be some one with
whom she has n:iade acquaintance at Banner-ion,
for I don't know anyone of the name,
and neither did she. What does it all
mean ?"

It appears that Eve has been in the habit of
meeting him on the river. Our neighbour, Lord
Rootley. Lord Beechmont's son, became aware
of it, and unfortunately, from mistaken kindness,
refrained from telling me, but warned her
that Mr. Esmond was supposed to be married,
and made her promise not to meet him again.
However, she broke her word, for it seems
Laurence saw him kissing her in the grounds of
the cottage he had on the river, and told Iris,
who, from a mistaken wish not to pain, me,

promised to sap nothing if Eve would Neither
see nor write to him again. He left the country
two days after. Yesterday Eve made an excuse
to Miss Netherleigh that she wanted to go
home the first thing to gather flowers and
prepare the rooms for me. Instead of this she
came np to London, having previously written
the note of which I told you. Imagine my
dismay, on reaching home, when she was nowhere
to be found ! I never once thought of
her being with you ; I should have thought you
would have felt for ray anxiety and have
telegraphed instantly ! After searching for any
trace of her, and finding the impression of the
note on the blotting-paper, and hearing that
some one very like her , but wearing so thick a
veil that the clerk could not be sure, had taken
a ticket for London, I telegraphed to Tom to
meet me, and came up by the mail. We questioned
the porters, Tom went to Scotland Yard
and set the detectives to work, and, after all.
Eve comes here and makes believe that she
came up to see you."

Well, I'm sure she was very glad to see me,
and so I was to see her' said Mrs. William :
don't take things to heart so, Grace; after all,
you see, here she is quite safe, and alps well
that ends well. Eve, you're a naughty little
puss, and I've a great mind not to take you to
the play, as I promised, to-night. Come here,
you monkey, and tell me all about Mr. Esmond,
who he is and where you met him."

"I cannot take your view of the matter,
Louisa," said Mrs. Pleydell, very gravely.
Eve has been guilty of grave duplicity and
falsehood, and it will be long before I can trust
her again. As to her going to the play, that is
out of the question. She will go home with
me by the 1.30, and I shall take very good care
never to trust her or let her out of my sight
again."

"Don't be cruel, Grace; after all, all is fair
in love, you know, and it was nothing but a
girlish scrape, and no one is any wiser, so there
is no harm done. Really she can't go home
to-day, she has a bad sore throat."

c i

It is very bad indeed," put in Eve.

I cannot help it ; a journey will not do it
more harm than the theatre."

"It is very hard," said Eve, beginning to
cry.

I cannot think how you can be so inland,
Grace' said Mrs. William-what could be
better for the child than staying with me ?"

It is you who have brought her up," said
Mrs. Pleydell ; *' it is with you she has learnt to
disregard truth and honour. Forgive me
Louisa, but I am very miserable, and I think
you must understand that I could not let her
out of my sight again."

Mrs. William Pleydell flushed angrily, but
did not reply. Instead of that she turned to
Eve.

You have not told me about Mr. Esmond,
Eve. Where did you meet him?"

'' On the river."

Who introduced you ?"

He helped me once when my boat got
stuck in the mud on the eyot. I was afraid

to say anything, because mummy is always
so cross, and she would have kept me at
home."

It would have been a good thing if I had,"
said Mrs. Pleydell.

' But Eve," pursued her aunt, *' how was it
you went to meet him after you heard he was
married."

*' He said he wasn't. I am engaged to
him."

'' But you know, Eve, this can be. You
can't be engaged to a man that no one belonging
to you knows. What did he say to you
yesterday ?"

I didn't see him," owned Eve, reluctantly.
' He wrote and said he must see me, and I
thought I could manage so beautifully coming
up by the train that gets to Euston at one, and
hearing what he had to say, and then going
back by the same train as mummy and Iris
and looking as if I were at the station to meet
them. But I waited and waited and he never
came, and then of course the right train was

gone, and I knew there'd be no end of a fuss,
so T came bere instead. I wanted to see you,
dear Aunt Louisa, and I'm sure I wish you'd
keep me for ever."

You need not hope for that' said Mrs.
Pleydell, firmly.

"My throat is so bad I should like to go to
bed," said Eve.

I " So you shall, if you wish it, as soon as you
go home. Xo, Eve, it is of no use," she continued,
as the girl looked at her aunt ; " you
know when I say anything I mean it."

At this moment Tom Pleydell came in,
looking very pale and agitated. He held a
telegram in his hand, and both his aunt and
step-mother exclaimed simultaneously,

''What is it, Tom? Whatever is the
matter ?"

He put the telegram into Mrs. Pleydell's
hand.

Help me to break it to her," he said, in a
low voice.

But Mrs. William heard what he said, and,

VOL. II. M

rising, she came swiftly across the room, and
saw the telegram before her sister-in-law could
hide it.

'james Freeman, San Francisco, to Thomas
Pleydell. Mr. William Pleydell died here yesterday
of cJwIera. No effects. Break tidings to his
luise. Further news hy main

Mrs. William did not what is called "give
way." She stood quite still a moment, and
said softly, half to herself, 'poor fellow!" then
shook hands with Mrs. Pleydell, saying, '' Goodbye,
Grace," kissed Eve, and walked slowly
from the room.

CHAPTER VIII.

Before the curing of a strong disease,
Even in the instant of repair and health,
The fit is strongest ; evils, that take leave,
On their departure most of all show evil.

King Join.  Act iii, Sc. 4.

'POR a moment Mrs. Pleydell and Tom looked
-*- at each other in silence, and then she exclaimed,


Oh I Tom, I am sorry for you !"

Yes," he said, dreamily  " yes, I know
you are. Ah ! well, I hoped he would have
lived to see things differently  to make restitution."


You did not know where he was?"

M 2

L

No, I had no certainty. Of course I guessed
he was in America, but I was particularly
anxious not to know. Well,"  passing his
hand over his eyes  " he is gone ! Now all
must rest with me."

'' Surely you do not think yourself liable?"

Not legally, of course, but do you think I
can ever know a moment's real peace till all is
paid and his name clearer'

*' I understand your feeling. Of course there
was so much that ought to have gone to the
creditors."

Yes," hastily, ' do not let us speak of
that. 1 cannot bear to think of it. My
poor father I He was so good to me."

It was too bad of him to go away ashe
did, and spoil our season," pouted
Eve.

Tom started.

'' Eve, I had forgotten. Dear, how you
frightened us ! How thankful we were to
find you safe here !"

"Aunt Louisa wants me so much to stay,

but mummy won't let me," said Eve, plaintively.


Quite right, dear Eve, you are far better
at home," said Tom.

' Ah, it's all very well for you to say so,"
said Eve, piteously ; " you're a man, and
can do just whatever you please. You
don't know how dreadful and dull and dismal
it all is."

'' You will soon get used to it and learn to
think differently."

It is time for us to be thinking of starting'
said Mrs. Pleydell. " Tom, will you send
a telegram for me to Aunt Rachel to ease her
mind, and to say we shall be at Bannerton at
5.15. I wonder if I could be of any
comfort to Louisa? Shall I go up and
see i

But at her sister-in-law's door she found
herself denied admittance. Mrs. William
thanked her without opening the door,
and assured her she would rather be
alone.

Tom escorted his aunt and cousin to the
station, Eve complaining all the way of her
throat. Mrs. Pleydell had so completely lost
all confidence in her daughter, that she regarded
it merely as a ruse assumed in the hope of
being allowed to remain in London, but Tom
thought the girl looking very ill, and before
they reached Bannerton Mrs. Pleydell herself
was convinced there really was something
the matter, the girl seemed so dull and
feverish.

Rapidly reviewing things in her mind, she
decided that Iris should not come home with
them, but should remain with her Aunt Rachel
for a day or two. If Eve had only a feverish
cold such a precaution could do no harm, while,
if the child were really sickening with any
infectious disorder, it would probably save Iris
from catching it. So Iris was considerably
surprised by being sent back again to her
aunt, while Mrs. Pleydell stopped on her way
through the town and begged that Dr. Jenkins

would come to the Gate House, if possible,
that evening.

On her arrival at home Eve went straight
to bed, declaring she could not hold up her
head,  of course mummy did not care, or she
would never have dragged her away from
Park Street when she was so ill. And now if
she were to be very ill she must die with
only a common country doctor to attend
her.

When Dr. Jenkins arrived, rather late in
the evening, he at once pronounced Eve to
be in the first stage of scarlet fever, and
congratulated Mrs. Pleydell on her prudence
in having left Iris in Bannerton. He promised
to send a nurse at once, and gave clear directions
as to the best methods to be employed
for preventing the spread of the
infection.

Mrs. Pleydell listened attentively made
one or two suggestions which the doctor pronounced
eminently practical, and arranged

with the maid who had been with them many
years that her young subordinate should be
sent off to Iris the first thing in the morning,
taking with her as many of the girl's things
as possible to get them out of the infected
house. She then wrote notes to Iris and Miss
Netherleigh, announcing the state of affairs,
and pointing out that it would of course
be impossible that the wedding should take
place as had been arranged on the 30th, for
that was only three weeks off, and it was
impossible in so short a time that Eve should
have recovered and the Gate House be again
fit for habitation. Iris must therefore write
and explain the matter to all who had been
invited, as they would naturally rather hear
from her than from the infected house.

Now that Eve was safe from the terrible
peril that Mrs. Pleydell had feared for her,
she could take a calmer view of Iris' conduct,
and could see that though, as it happened, her
concealment was ill-judged, yet she had
every right to believe that Eve would keep

her promise as she herself would most
certainly have done. In fact Iris had only-been
too confiding, and that in a girl could
hardly be considered a crime. So Mrs. Pleyel
ended her letter with the words :

' I know, dearest Iris, that, in my alarm
yesterday, I spoke very harshly to you, but
you can hardly realize what my terror was.
Now that I consider calmly, which I could
not do then, I acknowledge that, trusting,
as you naturally thought yourself able to do,
that Eve would keep her word, you were
not so greatly to blame for keeping her
secret ; and I am quite sure your only motive
was to save me pain."

k

These notes Mrs. Pleydell confided to Dr.
Jenkins, with a request that he would disinfect
them properly, and deliver them at
their destination, and, after his departure, set

to work with the aid of the faithful Rogers,
I
I who had been with her ever since her first

marriage, to carry out his directions. For
herself she had not the least fear of infection,
but she neglected no precaution, not
considering it right to leave anything to
chance. It grieved her much that Iris's
wedding must be postponed, but of course
there was no help for it.

When Rogers was gone to bed, and she
sat alone in the sick-room, she began to
meditate gravely on the future of her eldest
child. Iris appeared quite contented, but it
seemed to her mother that Laurence wooed
her in somewhat cavalier fashion. She had
thought his shirking accompanying them to
London strange in the extreme, and had
wondered that Iris, who undoubtedly loved
him dearly, had seemed to consider it quite
a matter of course, and cheerfully accepted
the position of being secondary to shooting.
If he treated her so before marriage, what
would he do when she was his wife ?

But she had also been surprised to observe

how very seldom he wrote, and this, she
fancied, had both astonished and hurt Iris,
though, when her mother remarked upon it,
she observed quickly that,

"Laurence had so much to do about the
estate that he could not be expected to write
much, and he knew that she was well, for she
wrote every day."

Mrs. Pleydell did not know it, but Laurence's
letters were an astonishment and a
shock to Iris. Like many other men, he
prided himself on only writing " when he
had something to say," and never considered
whether, even when inconvenient to himself,
it might not give others pleasure to hear
from him. He wrote letters so seldom that
epistolary communication was most irksome
to him and Iris Alas surprised at the short,
disjointed sentences, the ungrammatical observations,
and perhaps more than all by
frequent mistakes in spelling.

The first was a terrible shock to her. She

had taken Laurence entirely at his own valuation,
had believed, as indeed he did most implicitly
himself, that the only reason why he
read so little was that he was always busy
about his property, and had taken it for
granted that he of course knew infinitely
more on all subjects than she did.

Once or twice, when they had touched on
some topic of public interest, and Iris, who
had read a good deal on the subject, and
was interested in it, had expressed an opinion,
Laurence who knew nothing whatsoever of
the matter, except perhaps that the view she
had taken was not in exact accordance with
the strict shibboleth of his party, had put
an end to any discussion in the off-hand and
magnificent manner so dear to his sex, by
observing that, "Women should never argue.
They always got out of their depth, and
showed their ignorance." And so great is
the power of the mighty magician Love,
that L'is really believed that Laurence must
know better than she did, and looked forward

with delight to the time when he would
be always at her side to instruct and guide
her.

And to find this wise counsellor and teacher
spelling disappointment with one p, and weather
without the a, was a very terrible shock !
Iris could hardly believe her eyes. It would
be too much to say that it shook her faith
in Laurence's pre-eminent wisdom ; it Alas too
firmly rooted to be readily disturbed , but it
perplexed her beyond measure. Not for worlds
would she have revealed the fact to her
mother, she could see so well the arch which
Mrs. Pleydell's eyebrows would take.

Though quite unaware of all this, Mrs.
Pleydell was far from entertaining so exalted
an idea of Laurence's attainments asher
daughter did. To her he seemed singularly
uninformed on even the simplest of the
current topics of the day, and it was an
ever increasing subject of surprise to her
that he should have been able to charm
Iris, who, in the opinion of her mother, was

intellectually so immeasurably his superior.

As she sat alone that night, Mrs. Pleydell
found herself wondering whether this unavoidable
postponement of the marriage would have
any result  whether it would give Iris time to
discover that Laurence was really ill-suited to
her.

These musings only lasted during the earlier
portion of the night ; after that, Eve's condition
occupied all her attention. The fever seemed
to increase almost momentarily, the girl became
delirious, and her mother listened in dismay
to the affectionate epithets showered on
*' Claud, dearest Claud."

What a terrible hold this stranger seemed ,
to have obtained over the child's affections !
There was a great deal that Mrs. Pleydell
could with difficulty make out, but she realised
that it referred to the rumour of the said
Claud being married, and Eve seemed very
indignant with some one who was claiming
him.

Until the delirium was over, Mrs. Pleydell
quickly decided that the professional nurse
might be in the house, but no one but herself
and Rogers, on whose discretion she could
depend, must approach Eve. She could not
brook the idea of the poor child's heart-secret
being laid bare before a stranger.

For the next three or four days Eve was in
the greatest danger. The fever was extremely
high , the delirium almost incessant, and in
spite of all Dr. Jenkins could say, and the
actual presence of the nurse in the next room,
Mrs. Pleydell adhered to her intention, and
divided the nursing with Rogers.

On the fifth day Dr. Jenkins allowed himself
to speak some words of hope ; on the seventh
he pronounced the danger over, and, the delirium
having passed away, Mrs. Pleydell consented
to take the rest she so much required,
and to allow the nurse to take charge of the
patient.

"When Mrs. Pleydell awoke, refreshed after

her sorely-needed sleep, she was able, after
visiting Eve, and assuring herself that all was
going on satisfactorily, to examine the correspondence,
which she had not glanced at while
the girl was in danger. Of course, there were
innumerable letters of condolence on Eve's illness,
and the postponement of the marriage,
' always such a bad omen," one or two friends
wrote, apparently oblivious that, even if that
were their opinion, it was hardly a kind suggestion
to make.

Lady Netherleigh wrote most kindly, urging
that, as the wedding was put off it would bean
excellent time for Iris to pay them a visit.
Of course, they would invite Mr. Furnivall as
well, and should be glad of the opportunity
thus afforded of making acquaintance with
him.

There were notes from Miss Netherleigh and
Iris, the former urging that it was very desirable
that Iris should visit her father's people,
and the latter saying that it was very kind of
Lady Netherleigh, and, as it seemed that it

canst be some time before she could rejoin her
mother, she would like very much, now that
Eve was pronounced out of danger, to go to
Netherleigh for a little while. Laurence would
be able to go the next week, and was very
pleased to have been asked ; she hoped her
mother would not see any objection to her
accepting the invitation.

Mrs. Pleydell was far from objecting  indeed,
she felt very glad that Iris should stay at her
father's old home, and make more intimate
acquaintance with his family than had been
possible in the bustle of their London visit.
She wrote this to both L'is and Lady Nether-leigh,
and having burnt such of her correspondence
as she had already answered, or which
did not require a reply, she observed that there
were two letters remaining of the pile that
Rogers had placed ready for her, and that both
were directed to Eve.

Under ordinary circumstances it would never
have occurred to Mrs. Pleydell to open a letter
addressed to her daughter, but she observed

VOL. II. N

that both those before her were addressed in a
decidedly masculine hand, and considered herself
amply justified, under all the circumstances,
in opening them to gain what further enlightenment
she could respecting Eve and Mr.
Esmond. The first one she opened was as
follows :

Parthenon Club, PaU Mall.

My own Darling,

"Did you come to Euston as
you suggested on Thursday in the hope of
meeting me ? I hope you did not, for I did not
come to the Club till three, and, though I
dashed off to Euston at once, you were nowhere
to be seen. If you came up, what did
you do ? and what must you have thought of
me '? I was nearly wild with myself for being
so late, and shall be here at ten every day to
receive any letter you may write. Do let me
have a line, sweet little Eve, to say you are
not angry with me; And make some plan

about our meeting soon. I must see you, and
explain everything, and will run down at anytime
and meet you anywhere you may appoint.
I'm sorry it can't be at the old spot, but I hear
the cottage is let to two old maids, so that is
out of the question. You have kept our secret
like a trump, you little pet, and I hope it
needn't be one much longer. I have lots to
say to you.

'' With heaps of kisses, your own

Claud."

This had been written the day after Eves
journey to London, and had of course received
no answer. Her correspondent had waited five
days, and then wrote again.

*' Eve, my own dear little Eve,

'' Surely you are not angry
with me? My darling, don't you understand
that, if I had got your letter, I should have
been waiting for you? but that I didn't get it

N 2

till you, if you came (which, as things turned
out, I devoutly hope you didn't), must have
been half-way back to Bannerton. What more
can I say, except that I'm awfully sorry,
though, as you see, indeed it wasn't my fault.
Do you think I would have failed to meet you
if I had the chance ? Forgive me, little Eve,
and set your quick wits to work to settle how
I can see you soon. Of course you don't believe
a word of all the nonsense you were told,
do you ? I can explain everything, but I must
kiss my Eve and hear her say she believes me
jBrst. Write, Eve. I cannot tell you how
impatient I am growing.

*' Ever your own

Claud."

Mrs. Pleydell mused over these letters for
some time. What was her best course ?
Should she burn them and say nothing whatever
about them, or should she allow Eve to
see them when she recovered ? After mature
deliberation, she adopted neither alternative,

but decided to return them to Mr. Esmond
with a few lines from herself. She wrote as
follows :

Sir,

In returning you the enclosed
letters addressed to my daughter. Miss Pleyel,
I wish to inform you that I have become
aware of the clandestine meetings which you,
who are reported to be a married man, held
with her on the river. I do not wish to remark
on your conduct in thus compromising a vain
and silly but innocent child, but merely to
inform you that in future it will be impossible
for you to approach her, and that any letter
which you may address to her will be returned
unopened. Even if you now approached her
properly 1 should decline your acquaintance.
I have the honour to be, sir,

*' Your obedient servant,

Grace Pleydell."

This, with the letters enclosed, Mrs. Pleydell

directed to " Claud Esmond, Esq., Parthenon
Club, Pall Mall," being in total ignorance of
Mr. Urbane real name, and naturally not
dreaming that he would never receive them.
She hoped it would show him that his pursuit
of Eve was of no avail, and that he would leave
the girl alone in future.

When she returned to Eve's room, after
writing the letters in her own, she found the
girl awake.

"Are there no letters for me, mummy?"
asked Eve, in a faint voice.

"No, my dear, none," said her mother.

Having determined that Eve should not seethe
letters, and having returned them, she
considered this reply perfectly justifiable. Eve
was not yet strong enough to be talked to seriously:
when she was, it would be time enough,
Mrs. Pleydell thought, to decide whether it
would be judicious to tell her of them or not.
At present the great point was to get her
strong and well, and agitation would not be
likely to assist this.

Very fragile she looked lying back on the
pillows, all her wealth of golden hair gone, and
one little thin hand straying among Mousse's
curls. The little dog had never left her since
she was taken ill, excepting when forcibly carried
off by Rogers and shut out into the garden,
where he whined in the most piteous manner
at the door till re-admitted, and was too depressed
to attempt to snap at his bitter enemy
Fuss. The latter was also in a very dist-bed
state of mind ; he missed Iris terribly, and
whined and scratched at her door every night
before stretching himself on the rug outside
it.

Two or three days passed during which Eve
made considerable progress, and then she again
asked for letters, and on hearing that there were
none, murmured to herself,

'' It is very strange. I thought of course he
would write."

Her mother affected not to hear. She did not
yet think the girl strong enough for agitating

conversation, and felt sure that whenever the
subject was broached between them she would
excite herself.

"Have people sent to inquire about me?"
asked Eve one day, when her recovery was sofar
advanced as to enable her to enjoy the feeling
of importance consequent on being an
invalid.

*' Yes, everyone, I think, and the Beechmonts
every day."

How tiresome it is to be shut up while
they are here ! Have they the house full
still r'

I don't know at all. I have had other
things to think about."

* How soon shall I be able to see Hides


Not for another six weeks, certainly and I
daresay many people will be afraid of you even
then."

How long have I been ill ?"

*' More than three weeks. To-day is the 4th
of November."

*'0f November! Why, mummy, what became
of the wedding?"

It had to be put off, of course."

What a bore for Iris ! Well, she deserves
it nasty cross thing, for telling of me when she
promised not."

*' I don't think it is for you to talk of broken
promises, Eve. What did you promise Lord
Rootley and Iris, and how did you keep your
word."

Oh ! but when people threaten things, and
oblige you to promise, of course it doesn't
count."

** Eve, were you serious the other day when
you told your aunt that you never were introduced
to Mr. Esmond that you merely met him
by chance on the river ?"

Yes, mummy. You see he helped me. The
boat got fast in the eyot, and I should have

I been there all night if he hadn't come in his
boat and pulled me off, and then he was so
handsome and so pleasant, and I met him again
and "

"You dispensed with ceremony and propriety."


Eve pouted.

"You're so cross mummy. He's so nice and
so handsome. I'm sure you'll like him."

In all probability I shall never see
him."

* Never see him! Why, I'm engaged to
him !"

*' You were told that he was already
married."

He says he can explain that. He said he
must see me to tell me all, it was such a long
story, and it was for that I went up to see
him."

And did not succeed."

No," with a puzzled air. *' I am sure he
could not have got my letter, and yet I
posted it myself too. If he had got it he
would have written to say v/hy he didn't come.
Are you sure there are no letters for me,
mummy?"

Now that her misdeeds were known, Eve
thought the best plan was to brave the matter
out, and assume that her engagement was
satisfactory, and sure to be ratified. Nothing
would have induced her to confess what qualms
she had had as to whether she might trust to
Claud's denial of his marriage, whether his story
or that of the handsome, gipsy-looking woman
were the true one.

Mrs. Pleydell reflected for a few moments
and then deciding that it would be wiser to tell
Eve there had been a letter, and what had become
of it, she said,

*' My dear child, listen to me. It is nonsense
for you to talk of being engaged to this Mr
Esmond. After his conduct in entangling a
child like you in such an intrigue , I should decline
his acquaintance, even if he now came
forward honourably ; he is not a man to whom
I could intrust my child's happiness, even if he
could prove that there was no foundation for
the rumour of his marriage. He has written to

L

you to say that he did not meet you because
he did not receive your letter in time, and I
have returned his letters with a few lines saying
that there was no use in his writing to you
again, as you would not be permitted to receive
his letters, that they would be returned unopened,
and that in future he would not be allowed to
approach you. I shall take very good care of
that, Eve ; you must not expect to be allowed
the freedom you have hitherto enjoyed. You
have abused confidence, and must suffer for
it."

You opened my letters !" exclaimed Eve.

Yes," returned her mother, quietly : " and,
for the future, I shall look over them before
you receive them. I shall stop any that I see
in Mr. Esmond's handwriting and return them
to him."

It is very hard," said Eve, piteously ; then,
as if a sudden thought had struck her, "how
did you direct to him ?"

He signed merely ' Claud,' I directed to
Claud Esmond, Esq., Parthenon Club.' "

Eve said nothing more, but seemed lost in
thought, and her mother left her to her meditations.


I

CHAPTER IX.

His talk is like a stream which runs

With rapid change from rocks to roses ;
He slips from politics to puns,

Passes from Mahomet to Noses ;
Beginning with the laws that keep

The planets in their radiant courses,
And ending with some precept deep

For dressing eels or shoeing horses.

The Vicar. Prayed.

T Laurence had of course been a constant
 guest at Miss Netherleigh's house during
Iris's stay there, and Aunt Rachel had watched
him very closely, and was not particularly well
satisfied with what she saw. She did not lay so
great a stress as Mrs. Pleydell did on his want
of interest in all intellectual subjects, though

she certainly wondered what it was in him that
could have attracted such a girl as Iris ; but she
thought him more than ordinarily selfish, and
more inclined even than men in general to
think that, if a thing was agreeable to him, it
must of course be delightful to everyone
else.

Now Iris, her aunt thought, was by no
means a girl to assimilate well with such a
temperament ; she was amiable indeed, and
quite as inclined as the majority of her sex to
sacrifice her own wishes and inclinations for the
sake of those she loved, but she was exceptionally
clear-headed and fond of justice, and. Miss
Netherleigh feared, would be unlikely to be
able to persuade herself that Laurence was
invariably in the right. And if it ever came to
a trial of will, to remonstrance on her part at
being deprived of some perfectly legitimate
enjoyment because it did not suit her husband's
whim, it did not need any great gift of
prophecy to tell who would be victorious.

The selfish are always those who carry their

point, and Laurence would have his way, while
Iris would not complain, for she would consider
that a dereliction of wifely duty, but would
have a painful feeling of being unjustly dealt
with, which would most certainly increase,
and would in all probability produce estrangement.


The woman Laurence ought to marry was
some one as selfish as himself, who would insist
on having her own way quite as often as he
had his, or else a timid little Avoman who would
never discover that she was being treated
unjustly and cavalierly.

She could not help smiling, although it
often made her very angry to hear the short
work that Laurence made of Iris's opinions
whenever, by a rare chance, the conversation
diverged from his descriptions of the sport he
had had, or his anticipations of that which was
to come. It was very clear to her observant
eyes that he generally knew nothing whatever
of the subject started, but he invariably said
that women should not talk of what they could

not possibly understand : it was for men to do
the thinking and arguing. Women ought to
be very thankful to be spared the trouble.
And if Iris at all rebelled at this doctrine, and
insisted on a right to think of and be interested
in what was going on in the world, he at
once became peevish and " hoped to goodness
she wasn't going to pretend to be strong-minded."


Miss Netherleigh observed that, in their talk
about future plans, it was always his own
pleasure he thought of, and not hers. When
Iris suggested Italy for their honeymoon, and
expressed the longing she had always had to
see Rome, he demurred at once. What could
she possibly want to go abroad for, among a
lot of dirty foreigners who could only talk
gibberish ? Rome, too ! There was nothing in
the world to see there, except a few old walls
and some dingy pictures ; she could see plenty
of them in the gallery at Rookwood.

Then, though he was willing enough to consult
her as to any alterations she might like to

VOL. II.

have made in the furniture or the gardens, it
was very clear he never meant to give her her
choice of ever going anywhere else  he meant
to live at Rookwood entirely. To see what
he would say, Aunt Rachel asked if he thought
of buying a house in London, or only of taking
one when they went up for the season, and,
without any reference to Iris, he replied that
they should do neither, he did not like
London.

"Iris may, though," observed Miss Nether-leigh,
*' and it certainly would be better for
you both not to vegetate the whole year
round."

'' I don't know what you call vegetating'
he said, with rather a sulky look. " I can't
see what anyone can want better than Rook-wood.
There's fishing, and shooting, and
hunting; something for every season of the
year, without wanting to go and be bored to
death in London."

Mrs. Furnivall called once or twice, and
treated Iris with the most freezing courtesy,

but it was clear to Miss Netherleigh that she
disliked the marriage excessively, and this
raised the old lady's vehement wrath, though
she more than half suspected that it was
the mere fact of her son marrying at all, and
not the object of his choice that Mrs. Furnivall
disliked.

Laurence did not make his appearance
every day. Cub-hunting had now commenced,
and there was shooting also to be
attended to , but he came every unoccupied
day, and sometimes in the evening,
and Iris appeared quite satisfied, which surprised
her aunt.

P *I should not have been at her age," she
mused. " Ah, poor Walter ! He never tried
me! He was never absent from my side
when he could help it." For Aunt Rachel
had once, like Iris, been on the brink of
marriage. Her lover, Sir Walter Arlington,
had been killed out hunting, and she had,

\ in spite of all other eligible offers, remained

all her life faithful to his memory.

i o2

What day shall yoii come, Laurence V
asked Iris, the day before her departure for
Netherleigh, as they walked backwards and
forwards in Miss Netherleigh's garden.

It was the last week in October, and, though
it was fairly warm and balmy, the smell of
decay so characteristic of autumn was in the
air. The paths, though scrupulously swept
every morning, were thick with fallen leaves,
the odour of which mingled with the fragrance
of the still remaining clematis and heliotrope.
The glory of the borders had departed, but
hollyhocks and dallas still gave a little
colour, and here and there a few clumps of
sweet peas yet looked fairly gay.

Iris liked the thought of this visit to Nether-leigh,
and yet she was not quite happy at
going without having seen her mother. Although
Mrs. Pleydell had written her forgiveness
and had acknowledged that, in the extremity
of her alarm, she had spoken with
undue harshness, Iris knew she should not
feel as if all were right between them until

she held felt her mother's arms round her
Deck, and her Hps upon her cheek.

Besides, she was very uneasy as to the
effect of all the anxiety and nursing upon
her, and would fain have seen with her own
eyes that she was as well as she reported
herself to be. But of course it was not
to be thought of, and she was obliged to satisfy
herself with Mrs. Pleydell's notes, and the
reports of Dr. Jenkins.

It was a disappointment to her that Laurence
was not to escort her on her journey.
It had at first been arranged that he should
do so, but on the very day she was to
start, the Master of the Hounds proposed to
go to Rookwood for cub-hunting, and Laurence
at once announced the absolute necessity
of his being at home. Then there was an
invitation for a shooting-party the ensuing
day at Driffelsmere, Sir William Turton's
place, on the other side of the county,
and that was too pleasant an offer to be
refused.

Miss Netherleigli felt very indignant at the
cool way in which he resigned Iris's company
in favour of sport, bat the girl herself
seemed quite contented, and to think
it all right, so she held her peace.

The truth was that Iris realized that, owing
to her having never known father, brother,
or other near male relative, she was likely
to be but ill-instructed in the ways and
peculiarities of men, and was always afraid
of being foolishly exigeante and troublesome,
and of not entering into all the importance
and necessity of the sport of which she
had of course been brought up in ignorance.


It did sometimes strike her as very strange
that Laurence, who had been shooting and
hunting ever since he could either hold a
gun or mount a pony, should find it more
interesting to recapitulate all the events of
a hatter or to argue as to the probable
wood in which some wretched fox had

succeeded in escaping his pursuers, than to
talk on any of the stirring topics of the day.
She was yet far from realizing that the
latter were not of the very slightest interest
to him, and that he could not talk of
them for the excellent reason that he knew
nothing.

Well," replied Laurence, " as I can't come
with you tomorrow, I think I had better say
Friday  that will give me one day more with
the hounds on Thursday."

You are going to bring your horses to
Netherleigh, are you not ?"

Yes ; Sir Charles has asked me to bring a
couple, but T am not sure if they will suit the
country. However, I shall like to see the
Moorshire ; they are a good pack."

I wish you were coming with me," said
Iris.

So do I, but it wasn't possible. You might
have waited till Friday."

Lady Netherleigh wanted me at once, bel



caiise Uncle Frederick and his wife leave on
Thursday, and she wants me to make acquaintance
with as many of the family as
possible."

'' Well, you'll get there all right."
*' Oh, of course ; I am not at all afraid of the
journey."

I say, Iris, when do you think Eve'll be out
of quarantine ? It's awful hard lines having
our wedding put off; do you remember it was
to have been on Thursday? When do you
think it can be ?"

I don't know, I am sure ; I couldn't tease
mamma about it yet. I believe Eve will not
be safe for another six weeks  at least, so
Dr. Jenkins says, and when she is they will
have to go away for a little for change of
air, and to get the house thoroughly disinfected."


Six weeks will bring it to the middle of
December, and I don't suppose they'll disinfect
the house under a month  workmen
always are such dawdles  that makes it the

middle of January ; it's au awfully long time,
Iris."

"Indeed it is, Laurence, but it is a thing you
know that no one could help."

I don't see why we shouldn't be married
quite quietly now at Netherleigh. I don't suppose
Sir Charles would mind it, and it would
be a great blessing to get out of all the fuss
and bother of a grand wedding. What do you
think?"

It is quite impossible  mamma couldn't
come," said Iris.

She was a little hurt at his wish to escape all
pomp and ceremony. No woman, no matter
how little wedded to the vanities of the world,
in her heart likes the thought of a quiet wedding.
It is the one great epoch of her life, the
one which, in a great many instances, she has
been trained to look forward to from her very
cradle, and she likes it to be marked by all
possible splendour. The aversion of the male
creature to the proceeding is incomprehensible
to her, and she is inclined to resent it as an

>

indication that he is not very anxious to exhibit
the treasure he has won to the whole
world.

Iris in a degree felt all this, but still the
reason she had given was the one foremost in
her mind. Be married without her mother's
presence ! Impossible ! She would rather,
far rather, wait a year. What could Laurence
be thinking of even to suggest such a
thing?

She would know it was all right."

Laurence !" said Iris, stopping and looking
at him with the tears in her eyes  "I can't
think how you can suggest anything so dreadful.
Please don't mention it again."

'well, I don't see what there is to upset you ;
but of course it must be as you please. But
it's very hard having to wait for you, Iris, and
you oughtn't to be angry with me for saying
so."

I'm not angry, Laurence dear, only  it hurt
me so your thinking I could bear it without

*' How long shall sou be at Nether-leigh?"


Lady Netherleigh won't hear of my staying
less than a month. She says they expect
that of course yon will stay all the
time."

They're very kind, but I'm afraid two
horses would hardly do a whole month with
the Moorshire. Perhaps there's some place
near where I could send a couple more."

It was a little after four on the 28th of October
that Iris and her maid drove up to Nether-leigh.
It was a fine old Elizabethan mansion
of red brick, much festooned with ivy. It
stood on the side of a hill, and from the house
were terraces planted with fine cypresses, the
balustrades being relieved by large vases, in
which the scarlet geraniums still showed a few
blossoms ; at the bottom of the terraces was a
small lake, on the other side of which lay thei
park, finely timbered with oak and beech, beneath
which herds of deer moved through the
brown and golden bracken. Behind the house

the hill, covered with fine woods, rose somewhat
abruptly sheltering it from the north and
east.

Lady Netherleigh met Iris in the hall and
took her up at once to the charming little room,
close to her own boudoir, which was prepared
for her.

I am so glad to have you," she said; "though
of course we are sorry for the cause. So sad
for you too, dear, to have your wedding put
off! How does Mr. Furnivall bear it? It is
very hard upon him."

There is nothing to do but to make the best
of it."

'well, of course, that is the right way to
look at it. Now, if you are ready, wee will go
down ; wee always have tea in the hall, and it is
nearly time. I think there are some people you
will like. There are Fred and his wife : she is
the cleverest woman you ever saw with her
hands, can do any kind of work, or carving, or
modelling more beautifully than anyone else,
but does not talk a great deal. Mr. Thornham

is an artist ; be has been the last three years in
Italy, and bis portfolios are a real treat. Mr.
Vavasor and his wife are very musical, she
sings exquisitely, and also accompanies ibis
violin to perfection ; then there is Mr. Haywood,
whose charming novels you have read, of
course, and Mr. Lesson, the essayist, besides
several couples and young men and maidens,
distinguished for nothing, but necessary as an
audience."

It sounds delightful," said Iris ; " how I
shall enjoy seeing and watching so many clever
people !"

 '' Though they are lions," said Lady Nether-leigh,
laughing, *' they ' roar you as gently as
any sucking dove.' Come along and you shall
seem

There certainly did not seem anything very
remarkable in any of the people to whom Iris
was introduced at tea-time; but during the
evening it began to strike her that the conversation
had a decidedly higher tone than what

, she was accustomed to hear. Subjects in which

she took considerable interest, and which hitherto
she had never discussed with anyone but
Lady Imogene or Lord Rootley, were brought
forward, and she delighted in listening to calm
and wise arguments upon them.

The next two days were very pleasant. Iris
found herself able to talk to the one person she
had dreaded as being so far too clever to care
to talk to her, Mr. Lesson, the essayist. He
proved not to be in the slightest degree formidable
 really clever people very seldom are  and
seemed to take a pleasure in talking to her,
and recommending her books. He observed to
Lady Netherleigh that he had seldom met a
girl with such a candid mind, and she repeated
this to Iris, who felt it to be a great compliment.


I suppose Mr. Furnivall will come by the
same train you did ?" said Lady Netherleigh to
her niece on the Friday morning. "I was going
to propose that we should fetch him from
the station; but two or three people whom I

did not expect till tomorrow have written to
offer themselves to-day, being obliged to leave
Cornerstone Towers owing to illness in the
house. I must telegraph to them. I think that
train will bring everyone except Mr. Winchester;
the dog-cart must go for him
later."

"Do you mean the poet?" exclaimed
Iris.

' Yes. Are you one of his great admirers ?"

Oh, yes ! I think ' Lilian's Story ' one
of the most beautiful things I ever read."

If you did not belong of right to Mr.
Furnivall I would send you in to dinner with
him. Well, you will have plenty of opportunity
of talking to him, on hunting or shooting days ;
he is to stay a fortnight'

Of course the greeting between the lovers
could not be very fervent, as it took place before
the eyes of the assembled company in the
hall ; but both contrived to be early before
dinner, and to secure a few minutes alone.

"You are looking very Tells' said Laurence,
when he had enjoyed the dovelike salutation
impossible on his arrival ; 'how are you enjoying
yourself here? What sort of people are
there in the house ?'*

'' It is delightful," exclaimed Iris, enthusiastically,
and she proceeded to give him a description
of all the people in the house, ending with a
delighted observation; "and, do you know, Mr.
Winchester came before dinner !"

Winchester ! the great shot ! Ah, that'll
be some one worth meeting."

I done know , I don't think he shoots' said
Iris, rather puzzled ; " indeed I am sure from
what Lady Netherleigh said that he doesn't.
He is the great poet."

"Poet?  is that all? Do you know where
and when the hounds meet ?"

*' There is to be a lawn meet here on Monday."


"That's satisfactory. I can just go out before,
and see what sort of a country it is. Are there
any hunting men here ?"

Really I don't know. I haven't heard anything
about it. Everyone has been talking of
such interesting things. Oh! and, Laurence,
you must look over Mr. Thornham's portfolios
of Roman sketches. 1 am sure, when you
have seen them, you will never rest till you
have been there."

When I have seen the picture of a place it
is all the same as having seen it. It'll be much
less trouble to look at the sketches than to goto
Rome. But I don't expect they'll be at all
in my line. A good country and a game fox is
more in my way."

Here some of the rest of the party entered,
and the tete-astute was over.

Laurence entertained Iris during dinner with
a minute account of his two days' hunting
since she left, and a circumstantial narrative of
the day's shooting at Drififelsmere, of the compliments
that had been paid to his shooting,
and the fact that he had shot three out of the
four woodcocks. Iris listened attentively, and
responded when necessary. She was glad to

A''OL. II. P

have Laurence once more at her side, happy
that he had had three days of such evident
enjoyment, pleased that he should enjoy himself
by telling her all about it.

But nevertheless, when stray sentences from
some of the other members of the party caught
her ear, she could not help thinking how very
much more interesting their several topics of
conversation were, and almost wishing that
Laurence would end his very lengthy description
of the death of the last cub the day before,
and let her hear the evidently interesting story
that Mr. Haywood was telling about some
experience of his in Athens.

When at length the cub had been satisfactorily
slain, she turned to listen, and
observed,

Does not Mr. Haywood tell a story
weir'

Oh, I don't knoAv; I suppose so. He writes
novels, didn't you say? Of course it comes
easy to him to make up a story as he goes on ;
but I don't think it's amusing."

"But this was something that really happened
to him;'

"You never can tell what's true or not
when people have been abroad; it's a proverb,
you know, that travellers tell strange
hales."

The evening did not prove amusing to
Laurence. He sat by Iris and talked to her,
but the general tone of the conversation bored
him, and he did not care for the music, which
was very good, and for which Lady Nether-leigh
insisted on silence. Neither did he like
Iris's being drawn into a discussion of the
merits of Dore's illustrations of Dante, in which
Mr. Thornham and Mr. Winchester took eager
part. Of course he was quite out of it. He
barely knew either Dante or Dore by name,
and certainly had not the very faintest idea of
anything about the spirit of either the poem or
the illustrations.

It could not be said that he was what could
he called jealous, but he felt aggrieved that
Iris should be so interested in a subject for

v2

which he did not care. She was much more
animated than when he had been telling her
about the hunting, which surely Alas more
interesting than all this trash.

And during his whole visit he was little
better pleased. Iris devoted herself to him
whenever he was not hunting or shooting ; he
could not doubt of her love for him, or even
dream of accusing her of flirting with or encouraging
anyone else, but he had an uncomfortable,
uneasy feeling that she was sought
more than he was. It was, in fact, just like
his former experience in London ; he was not
the first, as he was accustomed to be, and he
did not like it.

He made up his mind that after his marriage
he would not often stay at Netherleigh. The
sport was good ; even he was obliged to allow
that he had seldom had better covert shooting,
and that the Moorshire had more brilliant runs
than often fell to the lot of the Coalshire, but
the evenings he voted dull. He did not think
Lady Netherleigh had a good stamp of men

about her ; what did she want with artists and
poets and novel-writers ?

Mr. Thornham had incurred his deadly displeasure,
because he had heard him when Iris
was looking over his portfolio,, tell her that,
with her love of art, it was a thousand pities
she should not go to Rome. And Iris, instead
of saying at once that it was impossible, as
she knew it was, actually said how much she
should enjoy it, and even said something
about perhaps it might be managed next
winter.

Next winter ! Why, she knew that then he
would be Master of the Hounds ! He had
told her only two days before that Mr. Fuller
was positively going to give them up at the
end of the present season, and that he had
promised to take them. She could hardly
have forgotten so important a piece of
news, and yet she coolly talked of
Rome !

He said something of this to her when they
were next alone.

"dear me!" said she, with a start; 'I'm
afraid I quite forgot all about the hounds.
But surely, Laurence, they will not always
keep you at home? That would be a terrible
tie.'

'' I want nothing better than to be tied at
home. I like being there better than anywhere
else."

Surely you like being here ? it is so very
pleasant."

I don't see anything so very delightful.
The sport is good enough, but no one cares to
talk it over afterwards, which is half the
pleasure. Sir Charles rides forward enough
and seems to enjoy it, but he never mentions
it after dinner : then it is all the turn of these
painting and writing fellows."

I am sorry you do not enjoy yourself," said
Iris, gently, *' but you can always talk to me
of what you have been doing."

Yes, but you haven't seen it, and can
understand. Besides, you don't care  you like

IRIS. 215

much better listening to all the nonsense
these fellows jabber.'

Indeed, Laurence, it isn't nonsense."

'' Well, I think it is, and of course a man
must know better what is sense and what isn't
than a woman. I am going home on Friday."


*soh, Laurence, must you? Why? I
am so sorry V and the tears rose in her
eyes.

The sight of them somewhat mollified
him.

I wouldn't go if I could help it,' he said,
kissing her : " I'd stay here till you went back,
dull as I think it, but my mother makes a
favour of it. She's got some people coming
to stay, and wants me to help
her "

Well, I'm very sorry, but I suppose you
can't help it," said Iris.

And for the remaining two evenings of his
stay she devoted herself so entirely to listening

to the accounts of his day's sport, that he
found Netherleigh less dull than he had done
for the previous three weeks.

CHAPTER X.

She's outwardly
All that benches sense, all that entices ;
Nor is it in our virtue to charm it.

Beaumont.

"YT'ERY soon after Laurence's return home,
it struck him that he might as well call
at Beechmont. He was not, as he himself
described it, "good at calling," still that shooting
exchange with Lord Beechmont had been
most convenient, he had enjoyed a good deal
of their hospitality, and  he had an afternoon
with nothing particular to do.

So he walked over, found the ladies at
home, and confirmed his original impression

that Lady Hildegarde was 'every fast and'
awfully bad form." Perhaps this might not
have struck him so forcibly if she had not
snubbed him most decidedly, and clearly
shown her preference for the conversation of
Captain Deverell, who happened to be paying a
visit at the same time.

Laurence was not used to being snubbed,
all his experience in Coalshire had lain in diametrically
the opposite direction, and even the
novelty of the proceeding failed to render
it agreeable. And to be neglected for Captain
Deverell was specially annoying. How
could that handsome young soldier  though
Laurence naturally considered him by no
means good-looking,  dare to enter into
competition with a Furnivall of Rookwood,
one of the oldest families and finest places in
the county.

It of course never struck Laurence that
Captain Deverell might be one of the oldest
families in another county ; Coalshire and his

own position in it were far too much in the
foreground of his mind for him to give a
thought to such a contingency. As he personally
knew nothing of his family, he airily
characterised him as " a mere nobody," and
wondered that Lady Beechraont should allow
*a conceited puppy without sixpence " to
hang about her daughter.

Presently' Mr. Morton, the Rector of Elmhurst
was announced, and though Laurence knew
him wells and therefore recognized him as a
person privileged by his position to visit at
Beechmont, he found it rather dull when the
new-comer monopolized Lady Imogene, and he
was left to amuse himself as best he might with
Lady Beechmont. That lady could be amusing
enough when it suited her, but she had never
particularly liked Laurence, who would have
been aghast to hear that she considered him " a
good-looking country bumpkin with nothing to
talk about."

She was also not in a specially good humour.

for by some accident they had been two days
without guests, aud would be alone until the
next day. She had, therefore, fallen back upon
her usual resource of ill-health, and discoursed
eloquently to Laurence on her nerves and other
maladies.

It was in anything but an amiable humour
that Laurence left Beechmont : it was not with
such indifference that his extremely rare calls
were wont to be received in the neighbourhood.
He had not long left the grounds and passed
the Gate House when he encountered Eve ina
Bath-chair drawn by the gardener, and
escorted by the worthy but somewhat grim
Rogers.

Laurence had a great contempt for those
who feared infection, and was wont to talk in a
lofty and curiously illogical manner on the
subject. Besides, he had himself once had
scarlet fever, so he had not the slightest
scruple about stopping to talk to Eve. She on
her part was overjoyed : it was seven weeks
since she had spoken to anyone, except her

mother and the doctor. Mousse, who lay
curled up in her lap snarled vehemently as
Laurence shook hands.

Well, Eve , I wish you joy of being out
again."

Yes, it is only my second day. But why
aren't you afraid of me? Everyone else flies
off to the other side of the road."

Fm not such an idiot ; there is no such
thing in my opinion as infection."

"I wish other people thought so. Oh , Laurence,
it is so dull !"

You poor little thing ! I daresay it is
And you don't look as if you were getting on
very fast."

For Eve looked very white and fragile,
though excessively pretty, prettier indeed,
Laurence thought, than he had ever seen her.
There was a tenderness and beauty in her
large, brown eyes that he had never seen
before.

"No," said Eve; "that is what Doctor
Jenkins says, only he uses some fine word 

I

recuperate, I think it is. We are going away
to the sea as soon as he thinks me strong
enough to move, and, meanwhile, I have to go
out in this horrid thing."

"I should have thought the pony-carriage
would have been pleasant."

Of course it would, but mummy is knocked
up and obliged to be quiet for a while, with
nursing me, you know. I'm so awfully sorry,"
and Eve looked up in the most touching way :
she can't go out, and she won let me go
without her."

''Do you think she would let me drive you?"
said Laurence, feeling a great compassion for
the little girl shut up in what seemed to him so
doleful a conveyance as a Bath-chair.

Oh ! Laurence, but would you ? Oh ! I do
believe I should get strong directly if I could
go quickly against the air. It is so dull to go
crawling along in this horrid thing, and it
would be so nice to have you to talk to."

' Well, but will Mrs. Pleydell let you ?"

*' Come and ask her. I suppose she won't let

you come into the house, but you might go
round to the drawing-room window. Was
Netherleigh very pleasant ? Oh ! I did envy
Iris being there all the time that I have been
shut up. I must say she wrote everything she
could think of to amuse me. It seems to be a
gay house."

"There was capital shooting, and we had
some good runs. I don't know that the
people were particularly pleasant. Lady
Netherleigh seems to get together poets, and
painters, and novelists and all that kind of
people."

'iris must have enjoyed herself. She has
always longed to meet people of that sort."

Well, I don't care for them."

' I'm sure I shouldn't. I shouldn't understand
what they were talking about, but then
Iris goes in for being clever, and intellectual,
and all that. I'd rather listen to you talking
about horses and hounds."

Laurence wondered very much that he had
never liked Eve before. It could not be only

ber illness that had made her so winning. He
supposed it was because he had hitherto had
all his thoughts set upon Iris, that he
really had not observed her sister's fascination.


"If you please, sir," here observed Rogers,.
it is getting late, and Dr. Jenkins was most
particular Miss Pleydell was not to be out after
sunset'"

Will you come and ask mummy now ?" said
Eve, wistfully.

Laurence had almost forgotten his offer, and
thought, with a momentary pang, that he had
let himself in " for what would interfere disastrously
both with hunting and shooting, but
he was sorry for Eve, and the expression of
her eyes was so piteous that he could not
find it in his heart to disappoint her ; so he
turned and walked by her side to the Gate
House.

He was demonstratively greeted by Fuss,
who evidently recognized him as a friend of his
absent mistress. The poor little fellow had

been inconsolable ever since Iris's departure ;
so completely were his spirits gone that he
allowed Mousse to tyrannize over him in the
most flagrant manner, and the Maltese, who
was at first astonished at the change, now considered
that he was paramount of right. Fusses
greeting gave Eve time to enter the drawing-room
and warn her mother of Laurence's approach,
and she opened the window and greeted
him. He exclaimed in dismay at her looking
so ill.

"It is nothing serious," she said, quietly,
' only fatigue and anxiety. Don't write anything
alarming to Iris  promise me you will
not."

No, if you don't wish it."
I " There is nothing really the matter, and I
don't want to spoil her enjoyment. What a
delightful visit she is having ; she writes in
ecstasies at enjoying the society of so many
clever people. It is a treat such as she has
never had before. It is a pity you were obliged
to come away."

VOL. II. Q

My mother wanted me to entertain some
friends."

*' Yes, so Iris said. Of course it was quite
right and proper you should come, but naturally
she was sorry. Do you go back
again ?"

No, I think not. They were very kind in
asking me, but I hardly think I can manage
it."

You are the first person of the outer world
we have seen. You are courageous !"

Oh ! I should never think of such
nonsense. Mrs. Pleydell, Eve seems very
dull in her Bath-chair, will you let me drive
her in the pony-carriage ? It will do her
good."

"It is really kind of you," said Mrs. Pleydell,
warmly.

She was surprised. It did not enter into her
conception of Laurence's character that he
would be very earnest in giving himself trouble
for others ; besides, she had always believed
that he did not like Eve.

Shall I come tomorrow about eleven ?
That is the finest and warmest part of the
day."

Thank you, 1 shall be very glad. I hope
in a few days I shall be able to turn charioteer
myself, but Dr. Jenkins makes a great point of
my keeping perfectly quiet. But, Laurence,"
and she hesitated  " I suppose Iris has told
you. I know you told her what you saw.
Of course you know about Eve's going up to
London 1"

"Yes, Iris told me."

When she got better I talked to her ; but
she did not seem either sorry or ashamed. I
cannot make out whether she knows for certain
that this Mr. Esmond is not married ; at
any rate she will give no promise of not communicating
with him, and indeed if she did I
could not trust her, for she broke her word, as
you know. I dare not let her go out in the
carriage alone for fear of her posting a letter,
or in some manner contriving a clandestine
meeting."

q2

I see. Well, of course she will be quite
safe with me."

Yes, I know that, and I shall be sincerely
grateful to you. You don't know anything of
this Mr. Esmond, do you, Laurence V

'' No, nothing whatsoever. I don't even
know him by sight."

*' I thought, of course, that he was an old
London acquaintance, but her aunt knew
nothing of him. It is very shocking, but I
believe she really picked him up on the
river."

Don't distress yourself too much. She will
soon forget him and be all right."

*' I wish I could think so ! Well, Laurence,
I must not keep you. It is getting quite
late. Thank you very much for your offer.
Eve shall be quite ready for you."

It was rather a bold assertion to make
that Eve should be ready for anything, for
one of her most aggravating peculiarities washer
habitual disregard of time. Mrs. William
Pleydell was not exact as to time herself,

and had allowed her niece to acquire habits
of punctuality, very pleasant to her self-indulgent
nature, but unspeakably provoking
to sensible people.

Mrs. Pleydell had struggled ever since Eve
returned to endue her with some sense of
time, but, though the girl always promised
amendment, it never became apparent. Still,
as Iris had often privately observed, Eve vas
generally ready in excellent time when any
pleasure of her own might have been jeopardised
by delay, and perhaps she thought Laurence
might not be very patient if kept waiting,
for she was quite ready when he arrived,
and soon, carefully wrapped up, was established
in the pony carriage by his side.

He had encountered considerable opposition
at home when he had announced that he
was going to drive Eve instead of meeting
the hounds, as he had intended, at Aylmer's
Gorse. Mrs. Furnivall exclaimed vehemently
at his imprudence in approaching anyone so
recently recovered from scarlet fever ; and

when he reminded her that he had had the
malady only six years before, and was therefore
presumably exempt, she rejoined that he
seemed to forget that, even if he did not
catch the fever himself, he might bring home
the infection to others.

Whereupon Laurence propounded his pet
theory of the non-existence of infection
and his mother told him he was talking
egregious nonsense about things he did not
in the least understand. It would really
serve him quite right if he caught the fever
again, and postponed his marriage for still
longer than had been already the case.

It was not often that Mrs. Furnivall allowed
her son to think that she believed him to
be otherwise than perfect ; indeed, until he
had chosen to engage himself to Iris, she had
perhaps never done so, and his serene belief
in his own perfections was, in a great measure,
owing to her. But she could not brook
the thought of her coming deposition from

IRIS. 231

the proud position of mistress of Rook-wood,
still less that she must resign in favour
of a girl against whom she had specially
warned her son, and who, as she chose to
think, was " so utterly unsuited to him " on
other grounds besides her " objectionable connections."


Mrs. Furnivall would not have credited,
even if she had been told, that Mrs. Pleyel
and Miss Netherleigh were both troubled
with considerable misgivings as to whether
Iris were not unsuited to Laurence, not, as
his mother believed, from not being good
enough for him, but from being far too
clever to be happy with anyone so far, intellectually,
her inferior. But any reference
to the marriage irritated her, and the thought
that her son might be met driving Eve
Pleydell, " the niece of a defrauding bankrupt
and common cheats filled her with
wrath.

However, in telling Laurence he was talking

nonsense she had wounded his vanity,
and overshot her mark. He merely looked
at her as if wondering if she had taken
leave of her senses, put his hands in his
pockets, and walked whistling out of the
room.

It was a very fine day in the first week
of December. There had been a hoar frost
in the morning, but it had yielded to the
bright sun, excepting in the shade of the
hedges, where the grass was still white
with rime; it was perfectly still and calm,
the sky deep blue, and almost without a
cloud ; it was an ideal day for Eve's first
drive.

Wonderfully pretty Laurence thought her
as she leaned back, wrapped up in her furs,
and looked up at him with great, velvety-brown
eyes. They were not so beautiful as
Iris's, which were a deep grey, but why
should he compare the two? The fact that
Iris was beautiful did not prevent Eve from
being quite bewitchingly pretty. It was

very strange be had never admired her
before.

He was infinitely more astonished to find
how very pleasant the girl made herself.
Hitherto she had always seemed to laugh at
him, and Laurence was excessively sensitive
about ridicule ; he thought too much of his own
dignity and importance, and mixed too little in
general society not to be so. But now Eve was
soft and gentle, deferring to his opinion, and
showing an interest in his sports that made her
an eminently pleasant companion.

And did yon really give up your day's
hunting to drive me ?" she said, wonderingly
looking up at him. " Oh I Laurence, how good
of you ! But I am sorry. I could have waited
till tomorrow."

I will come and drive you again tomorrow,
Eve."

* Oh, how nice ! But are you sure, Laurence,
that you haven't got something else
you want to do ? There is no hunting ;
but don't you want to shoot, or isn't there

some business ? I know you always have so
much on your hands and I don't want to be
in the way."

What a reasonable little thing she was ! It
struck him that Iris never seemed to understand
that hunting and shooting were things which
took precedence of everything else. She
acknowledged it if it was put before her, but
she never seemed thoroughly to realise or remember
it.

You won't be in the way at all. I am very
glad to be of use to you."

It is a relief to get away from the Bath-chair,
but, above all, from Rogers," sighed Eve ;
*'' she is such a grim creature, and somehow she
always makes me think of a bat, a creature I
detest."

A bat ! You very fanciful child !"

Well, don't you know the funny way she
holds out her arms, and the large sleeves drop
from them  I declare she is just like one. And
she is as solemn as an owl."

She doesn't look lively, I allow. But I
thought Iris was so fond of her."

Yes, I believe so. But then she is fond of
Iris  she was her nurse, you know  and hates
me."

Nonsense,, child ! As if anybody could hate

you."

Ah, you don't know," said Eve, looking up
pathetically. ' Mummy doesn't like me at all,
do what I will I never can please her, and,
though Iris is very kind and all that, she is nota
bit fond of me. You see she and mummy are
everything to each other, and I'm just an interlopers


*' You should not say that. Eve. I am sure
they are very fond of you."

'* I suppose it doesn't sound well to say it, but
it is true all the same. And talking to you
about it is not like anyone else ; you are
so kind, and you are almost a relation."

But I don't like to hear you talk
so, Eve. I am sure it is your fancy."

She shook her head ; she felt sure he saw the
tears in her eyes.

*' 1 should not ' fancy  anything so unpleasant,
you may be sure ; indeed, it is true
enough. How I wish mummy would let me go
back to Aunt Louisa, who is so fond of me !
We should be so happy, and she would be rid of
me."

But that is the very last thing she wants
to be."

*' Ah !" with a deep sigh ; then, shyly, '' but
surely you must know quite well from Iris that
they don't want me at home."

' I know nothing of the sort. Iris never said
anything of the kind. She was very much upset
once when I told her " and he stopped.

He had not intended to touch on the delicate
ground of Mr. Esmond.

'you mean about Mr. Esmond," said Eve,
with a faint blush ; " I knew you had told her.
I don't feel angry with you, dear Laurence I
suppose it was the right thing for you to do,
hind you couldn't help yourself. I'm sure you'd

never do anything unkind. And I don't want
to blame Iris, but I can't help thinking it was
unkind of her to break her word and tell
mummy."

But, Eve  I thought  that is, I understood
surely you had promised not to communicate
with him, and it was on the faith of that that
she promised silence ?"

**'It is partly true," said Eve, "1 did promise,
and I kept my word till I got a despairing
letter. He knew I had heard he was
married, and he wanted to tell me how untrue
it was, and to explain how the story had
arisen. It was a long history, he said, and
he must see me to tell it properly ; where could
he meet me ? Iris was away ; I could not tell
her the strait in which I was, and I wrote to
say I would meet him at Euston. I quite
meant to come back by mummy's train, and it
would have been all right. But my train was
late , and he did not meet me, and 1 missed the
down train, and then I went to Aunt Louisa
as soon as I was missed, Iris went up to

my room and searched my blotting-book, and
though there was nothing to tell her that the
note of which she found the impression was to
Mr. Esmond, for there was no address, and not
even a beginning, she ran down and told
mummy and old Miss Netherleigh everything.
I think it was rather hard."

"I am sure her last thought was to harm
you; but you must remember how dreadfully
alarmed they were."

'' Oh ! I don't bear malice," said Eve, with
her sweetest smile ; " I'm sure Iris is always
right, and she is so clever and superior, and all
that, but it was rather hard upon me. Mummy
scolded me awfully as soon as I began to get
a little better, and she opened two of Mr.
Esmond's letters and sent them back without
my even seeing them."

"Eve, are you very sure all is right about
him? Because, you know, certainly it was
believed here that he was married."

'I believe him," said Eve, with touching

simplicity. "However , it is all over now.
Mummy said that, even if he came to her
now and asked for me openly, she should
refuse, because he had met me clandestinely."


And are you willing that it should be what
you call ' all over ' ?"

"I must make up my mind to it. Mummy
never changes her mind. I wish she would let
me write to him just once to tell him that it is
all over, and that I was not allowed even to
see his letters. Do you think you could persuade
her ?"

"I am afraid not. I am sure she would
refuse."

"Has she said anything to you?" asked Eve,
quickly; then, as he coloured and looked embarrassed,
she continued, " Ah ! I was sure she
would. I assure you I am watched morning,
noon, and night, for fear I should post a
letter."

Well, you are going away soon, and by the

time you come back you will have forgotten."

That is so easy to say," said Eve, with a
tearful smile ; '' but we have talked quite
enough about me. I don't want to bore you,
and I am sure you and Iris must hate me
enough already for being the cause of putting
off your marriage''

Well, you couldn't help it."

"No, I did not have scarlet fever for fun,
certainly. Well, I am glad Iris has had this
pleasant visit. How she has enjoyed all the
clever people ; there was a letter this morning
full of them. Now that wouldn't amuse me a
bit; but then I'm stupid, and I'm afraid I shall
always be so, for all the wise, dull books that
mummy makes me read."

"When are you going away!"

"Next week, if mummy is well enough, and
we stay three weeks, and then when we come
back I suppose you'll be married at once.
Laurence, don't be shocked, but shan't you be
awfully sorry to miss the January and February
hunting?"

Laurence felt a pang at the suggestion, but
he of course could not allow its truth, though,
had he only known it, his countenance was
most eloquent, so much so that Eve nearly
laughed.

I shall have sufficient compensation for the
loss, you know," he said.

Yes, of course. And have you settled
where you are going for the honeymoon? Iris
has always longed for Rome, and ever since
she has met this artist at Netherleigh she has
quite raved."

'' Rome is a good way off," said Laurence,
gloomily.

He was but ill-pleased to hear that Iris had
recurred to the idea of Rome, which he had so
decidedly negatived. It really seemed as if
she ignored his wishes and preferred the indulgence
of her own whims. Meditations on
this kept him for awhile silent, and he was
quite surprised to find that they had reached
the Gate House. Eve was carefully lifted out,
and, with the assurance that he would be with

VOL. II. R

her the same time the next day, he bid her
good-bye and strode away in the direction of
Bannerton.

i

CHAPTER XL

It is the little rift within the lute,

That by-and-by will make the music mute,

And ever widening slowly'' silence all.

The little rift within the lover's lute,
Or little pitted speck in garnered fruit,
That rotting inward slowly moulder all.

Vivian. Tennyson.

Then Laurence left Eve at the Gate House
' and walked on into Bannerton, where ho
had some business, his mind was very full of
the conversation he had just had. After all it
really did not seem to him that Eve had done
anything so very dreadful. Poor little thing !
she evidently quite believed that no one cared

k2

i

for her at home, and, although of course it was
nonsense, still she certainly felt it deeply. How
piteous she had looked as she said it, and how
very pretty she was !

It was very strange that he had never
admired her before! He supposed it must be
that he had never had eyes excepting for Iris,
for she was undoubtedly lovely. Evidently
Mrs. Pleydell was not fond of her: she was,
as the girl herself said, hard upon hers and
he was afraid Iris had been harsh too. It
would have been better if she had not been
in such a hurry to repeat what he had told
her.

He wished now he had never told her what
he had seen; it had only made mischief, and
got that soft, pretty little thing into trouble,
for which he was heartily sorry. He would
drive her every day till she went away, as some
sort of amends. She seemed to enjoy it, and
it must be pleasant than going about with
that grim old female Rogers as a duenna.
Why could not Mrs. Pleydell trust the child ?

It was evident that she had given up all hope,
and was striving to resign herself to her
fate.

How she had sighed when she said that she
would like so much to write once more I Poor
child ! why should she not ? However, of
course it was no business of his ; he supposed
mothers ought to know best what was good for
their own daughters ; all he could do was to
amuse the poor child a little. Of course it was
provoking losing the hunting and shooting,
but, after all, it was not for long, and really,
much to his own astonishment, he had not
found the morning's occupation at all the bore
which, it must be confessed, he had expected it
to be.

Then his thoughts turned to what Eve had
said of Iris. It really seemed very strange that
she should lay such stress on her delight at
meeting people that she was quite aware he
did not like. It almost seemed like intentional
opposition. Surely it could not be that she
proposed to herself to take her own way after

they were married, irrespective of what his
wishes and tastes might be.

Laurence almost gasped at the idea. His
ideas of matrimony were, like those of the
majority of men, decidedly autocratic. Without
actually putting his thoughts into so many
words, he felt that a woman's thankfulness at
obtaining a husband, more especially such a
one as himself, should make her ready and
willing to yield to his lightest wish, never
indeed to cherish a desire that was not incomplete
accordance with his.

He began to wonder uneasily if Iris were
what is called strong-minded, able to think and
decide for herself instead of, as was proper ,
depending on her husband to settle everything
for her. He almost feared she might be. How
often he had heard her attempt to argue, and,
though of course she had at once yielded when
he had shown her the absurdity of her views,
still it was a bad sign that she should ever
have even thought of giving her opinion. How
different from Eve, who had no opinions and

i

only chatted pleasantly about trifles, as women
should.

But the head and front of Iris's offending lay
in her having again referred to her wish to goto
Rome. He had made it so abundantly clear
that he did not wish to go, had even taken the
trouble of explaining to her that there was
nothing to see; and, apparently, as she was
still harping on the subject he might as well
have saved himself the trouble. It was all the
fault of that conceited puppy Thornham and
his stupid sketches ; but he thought Iris had
had too much sense, and  well, yes, and
dignity to attend to what a fellow like that
said, instead of the man she was about to
marry. If she had any consideration, too, it
might surely occur to her that he would necessarily
lose the cream of the hunting by their
honeymoon, and consequently would not wish
to make it longer than absolute necessity
required.

Eve bad thought of how much he would
miss  Eve whom he had always fancied so

thoughtless of anything but her own amusements
and whom her mother and sister certainly
always considered as selfish. It seemed
to him that those who talked of selfishness had
better look at home before they found fault
with others. If it were Eve that he was
going to marry, he had no doubt she would
propose that the honeymoon should be spent
at Rookwood, whereas he felt pretty certain
that Iris would not relish such a suggestion.


Before he reached Bannerton he had almost
worked himself up to the pitch of wondering
whether, after all, he had chosen wisely. If
Eve could but have known his state of mind,
she would have congratulated herself hugely
on her diplomacy. She was of a decidedly
vindictive disposition, and never forgot an injury
or a wound given to her vanity. She
could not forgive Laurence for having witnessed
her parting with Claud, nor for having
betrayed her to Iris ; it was worse than Lord
Rootley : he was bad enough, but still he had

had the consideration to speak to her herself,
and not to tell tales.

Still less could she forgive Iris. Mischief-making
old thing, she called her. If she had
only held her tongue, her mother would never
have known anything about Mr. Esmond, and
her escapade to London would have passed for
only an attempt to re-establish herself with her
aunt.

So in the long hours, when she lay in her
bed or on the sofa, Eve arranged her plan of
revenge. She would separate Laurence from
Iris. Perhaps Iris did not care about him very
much ; she was so calm and cold that she probably
did not, but she was very proud, and
would be extremely mortified by his desertion.
Besides, she could not lose without a pang such
a place as Rookwood, or those splendid diamonds
in which Mrs. Furnivall blazed on great
occasions. She would be miserable, and would
show it, and it would be sweet to Eve to know
that it was her work.

Eve was very observant. She had lived so

entirely in the drawing-room with her aunt,
that, when too old to be played with as a
child, but too young to be talked to as a young
lady, she had had ample opportunity of watching
people and gaining a good deal of insight
into character. She knew a great deal more
about Laurence's disposition and views than
Iris did, and therefore exactly knew the little
poisoned darts that would rankle in his mind
while they sounded the most innocent observations
in the world. She quite knew that he was
more than half jealous of Iris's pleasure in the
society of the clever people at Netherleigh 
who, as she said to herself, " of course talked
over his head, great stupid fellow !" Also, she
knew how completely he had disposed of the
proposition to visit Rome, and it was for that
reason she had told him that Iris was " raving "
about it.

Poor Iris ! Her sober utterance on the subject,
very far indeed from raving, had been :
*' I have been looking through Mr. Thornham's
Woman portfolios again to-day, and perhaps

saw them better, as I had them all to myself,
and there Alas no distraction of asking for explanations
or listening to descriptions. The
more I see, the more interesting and beautiful
I am sure it must be, and I hope some day or
other to explore it ; but there is no hurry, and
I must be careful not to interrupt any of Laurence's
great enjoyments."

Eve had not quite made up her mind what
she proposed to do with Laurence when she
had detached him from Lis. When the deed
was once done, she did not think there was
much chance of their coming together again.
Iris was, she thought, too proud ever to forgive
such a slight : she would haughtily repel any
advances even if he were to make them, and
would remain a " cross old maid."

It was not like Eve to doubt her own powers
of fascination, in which she generally had a
very firm belief, yet she doubted whether she
were able to make Laurence fall in love with
her. It was not that she thought she could
not conquer him if there were no obstacle but

she feared that his knowledge of Mr. Esmond's
existence, and recollection of the parting he
had seen under the oak, besides the story of
her journey to London, which, as mummy
seemed to think it such a very shocking thing,
Iris had doubtless made the most of to
him, would quite alienate him.

But the drive to-day had given her hopes.
She had, she thought, acquitted herself very
well, been soft, and gentle, and pathetic, told
him how little appreciated she was at home,
and, while ostentatiously praising Iris's kindness,
had said many things which went to
prove her the reverse of kind. She had given
her own version of her love-affair, and had
acted, as she thought to perfection, the part of
a submissive daughter bowing to her mother's
arbitrary will, and only sighing for the permission
to write one letter of dismissal and farewell
to her lover. Also she thought she had
hinted with consummate art that, though of
course at present low and unhappy, she might
not be always inconsolable.

And Laurence's frame of mind had been
infinitely more favourable than she had expected.
It was a wonderful thing that he should
have given up a day's hunting for the sake of
doing her a kindness, but he might have promised
to do that hastily the day before, and then
not have liked to retract. But he had volunteered
to come again the next day, and that
proved pretty conclusively that the drive had
been pleasant.

Eve's creed was that a man, being a privileged
being, able to do whatever seemed good in his
eyes, never by any chance did anything he did
not like, and that Laurence was as little likely
as any of his sex to depart from that eminently
comfortable rule. She was quite aware that atone
time he had positively disliked her, she had
been piqued that he had not instantly done her
homage, and had snubbed him. That was before
she had realized that he was in love with
Iris, and had therefore neither eyes nor ears for
anyone else, but it had taught her that to be
won he must be soothed, and, above all.

that his dignity and self-love must not be
ruffled.

Eve laughed to herself as she recalled how-soft
and gentle she had been that day, how she
had abstained from any attempt at persiflage,
and, above all, how she had shown her tender
interest in all Laurence's sports and pastimes.


It is rather hard work," she thought to herself,
" but it gives me something to do, and, at
any rate, it is more amusing than moving about
with Rogers as duenna. I must be very careful
to keep it up. I don't suppose he'll come again
after tomorrow. Saturday is one of the best
meets, and of course Sunday doesn't count , and
on Wednesday we go to Cockleton-on-Sands.
Great heavens ! imagine Cockleton in December,
with no one but mummy, who will read me
improving works !' How I wish we could
take Laurence ! but that is past praying for.
I really believe, with a very little coaxing, I
could get him to post a letter to Claud. I
should like to write of all things. How he

must wonder what has become of me ! For of
course as mummy directed to C. Esmond he
never got the letters. However, I aren't risk
it with Laurence. I want him to think it is allover
and done with. If I could not only
get him away from Iris, but make him in love
with me, what fun it would be ! How delicious
it would be to refuse him, and say I despised a
tell-tale ! However, I have a good deal to do
before it comes to that."

Eve strove to make herself as pleasant as
possible the next day, and succeeded so well
that Laurence announced he should come for
her again on the Saturday.

To-morrow ! Laurence you forget ! It is
the meet at Somerford."

I don't forget, Eve at all. I shall come for
you all the same."

But  it is very kind  but I couldn't hear
you to lose your pleasure for me ! Somers
is one of the best meets they always
say."

Nevertheless, Eve, I shall drive you. I

can't have the heart to leave sou to the stillness
of your Bath-chair, and the tender mercies
of the bat."

Eve laughed.

I like your remembering my name for her.
But, Laurence, it really is too kind."

Do you really think, Eve, that I catit give
up a day's hunting ?"

No, not quite that. I don't know  only 
Iris said  wasn't it hunting that put Rome out
of the question?"

' Hang Rome !" exclaimed Laurence, angrily.
I beg your pardon. Eve, but I'm sick of the
sound of it. I wouldn't go there if there was
never to be hunting anywhere again."

It was very evident to him that Iris had
been complaining of his decision, and grumbling
about the hunting. It was exactly what
Eve intended him to believe.

*' Don't be vexed, Laurence," she said. " I
am sure Iris won't mind. I'm sure no one
could care to go abroad who had such a
lovely place as Rookwood, and a house in

Park Lane, and everything they could
wish."

''A house in Park Lane, Eve? What do
you mean ? I am never the least likely
to have one there, or anywhere else in
London."

Really ?" said Eve, with a look of surprise.
" Oh, then, I suppose, I misunderstood."


Misunderstood what ?"

"" What Iris said. It was just before they
went to London, and Miss Netherleigh asked
where your house was to be. I thought Iris
said Park Lane, but of course, if you are not
going to have one, I must have been mistaken."


She glanced at Laurence as she spoke, and
was almost startled to see the dark sullenness
of his countenance. It was evident that
she had made a good shot.

Such was indeed the case. If there was
one point upon which Laurence was more
sensitive than another, it was the dread of

VOL. II. S

its being supposed that anyone managed him.
Now what Eve had just let fall had given
him exactly the impression she had intended,
namely, that Iris was already arranging her
future life without the slightest reference to his
wishes.

A house in Park Lane indeed ! when she
knew perfectly well that he detested London,
and never went there except on business.
And, if he did not do so now when he
was free to amuse himself as he pleased, was
it likely that he should care to go when he
was married, should be expected to go to
stuffy dinners and crowded evening parties ?
Nothing would induce him to do such a thing I
Iris must know that perfectly well, and she
ought not even to wish it. But to talk as
if it were a settled thing, to coolly discuss
and settle where their house should be, was
an offence of which he could not have believed
her capable, and he drove on in gloomy
silence musing on what Eve had said.

At length she said, timidly,

*'I am afraid I have vexed you, Laurence.
I am so sorry if I have said anything I should
not."

She looked up at him in a pleading way;
his brow cleared, and he smiled at her.

You have done nothing wrong, Eve. I
fancy the house in Park Lane would be
much more tempting to you than Rookwood,
6h, little one ?"

 I don't know," said Eve, musingly, though
she could hardly repress a shudder at the
thought of living at Rookwood all the year
round, as Laurence seemed to intend doing.
If such were the case, could she do anything
that would be more dreadful to Iris than
inflict such a fate upon her? But perhaps
it would not be so terrible to her, and besides,
then there would be no punishment for
Laurence.

**I am not sure. Of course 1 enjoyed myself
very much, and I should like dearly to

s2

IRIS.

go back to Aunt Louisa, for she loves me,
and mummy doesn't. But  I don't know, if
I were going to be married and happy, like
Iris the country might be as nice as London,
particularly such a place as Rookwood  it
would be very different from the Gate
House."

*' Well, rather," said Laurence, laughing.

"I don't suppose you can fancy how dull
a little house by the side of the road, with
past a garden, is. Mummy is always moaning
over my not liking the country, and saying
it ' shows a depraved taste,' but what is thereto
do ? Iris gathers and arranges the flowers,
and, if she didn't, that wouldn't take much
of the day, and one does get tired of wandering
up and down that strip of terrace. Now
at Rookwood you can't see everything at
once from your bed-room window. There
would be some interest in going to see
how things were getting on, and you could
have any quantity of pets, horses and dogs,
dear things."

I am afraid Mousse wouldn't like your pets
multiplied."

*' Not at first ; but he would soon get used
to it. There would be some pleasure in walking,
if one had dear creatures like your collie,
Laddie, and your Irish water-spaniel, Nellie,
to watch and pet. How Fuss hates them,
by the by I And then one could ride !"

"Do you ride, Ever

Yes ; I always did when I was with Aunt
Louisa. I asked mummy to let me have a
horse here, but she said there was no one
to ride with me. You know , Iris hasn't the
nerve. She tried it, and had to give it

up."

'eyes, I know; it is a great pity," for
Laurence loved to see a woman on a horse,
and provided she was a really good rider, and
consequently not likely to interfere with his
amusement, liked even to see her in the .


He had tried to persuade Iris to try riding
again under his auspices, and had been rather

vexed at the determination she had shown in
declining, on the plea that her cowardice was
quite invincible. She might, at any rate, have
tried, if it Averse only to please him. She
could have had as many horses as ever she
liked, and here was Eve longing to ride, and
was not allowed to do so. Certainly her mother
did not seem to try to make home pleasant
to her ; it was hardly to be wondered at that
she should have tried to make some little pleasure
and excitement for herself, as she had done
with Mr. Esmond.

Well," he said, " when we are settled I
must see what can be done for you in the riding
line."

' Oh," cried Eve, enthusiastically, " how
good you are to me !" and she almost burst
into tears.

It was a new experience to Laurence to
find himself the object of so much gratitude,
and he rather liked the sensation. It was true
that he very thoroughly enjoyed these drives,

though he was sublimely unconscious that it
was Eve's clever flattery that rendered them
so pleasant ; but he also liked to pride himself
on his self-denial in giving up his favourite pursuits,
and Eve's warmly expressed gratitude
put plainly before him how extremely praiseworthy
his conduct was. The gii*! was quite
aware of this, and plied him dexterously with
as much flattery as she thought prudent, while
in the most innocent manner in the world she
dropped just the observations about Iris that
she judged were most likely to private
him.

Each day Laurence came at the same time
for Eve, and Mrs. Pleydell quite began to reproach
herself for ever having thought him selfish.
She wrote to Iris warm appreciation of
his kindness, and the girl wrote cordially thanking
him. But Eve's artfully dropped words
had borne fruit, and Laurence did not accept
the letters loyally, but was always looking for
ambiguous phrases and finding grounds of displeasure.

He looked so gloomy the last day
that he came to drive Eve, that she asked if
anything were the matter.

"No, nothing particular, only Iris makes a
great point of my going to Netherleigh again
next week."

*' Oh, for the tableaux ! Of course you will
go?"

Well, I hardly know ; it will be very
inconvenient; I have a lot of things todo."


I am afraid you have wasted so much time
upon me. Oh ! but, Laurence, you must go 
it will be exquisite. It is such a great thing
having an artist like that Mr. Thornham in the
house, and Iris will look lovely as Guinevere.
Of course you will be King Arthur ?"

I'm sure I shan't, even if I go ; I hate all
this play-acting sort of absurdity. I wonder
Iris gives into it, it is very bad form, and so I
told her."

Oh ! then, of course, she has given it
up. What a disappointment for her !"

"No, she has done nothing of the sort.
Writes that she wishes she had known I did
not like it before, but that now she has promised,
and Lady Netherleigh depends upon her,
and that she is very sorry, but she must goon."


I should have thought you were of more consequence
than Lady Netherleigh ; but I ought
not to say that. Of course Iris knows best.
She is always right. Now listen to my news :
the Beechmonts are going to give a ball on
New Year's Eve."

Are they ?"

Oh ! I suppose you don't care ; but it will
be a great treat to me. Think how long I have
been without seeing anyone ! Lady Beechmont
wrote to-day, and mummy has promised to
come back. Did you know Lord Rootley was
going abroad?"

"Rootley? No. What for?"

It seems he has had a bad cold on his chest
and can't shake it off, and the doctors say he
must try a warm climate''

''I should have thought he was too sensible
to give in to coddling."

You know the two eldest sons died of lung
disease."

Did they ? That's no reason why he should
go humbugging abroad."

' Mummy says there is great delicacy in the
family, and that he is quite right to take care
in time."

Well, it is no business of mine, only I
wouldn't go if all the doctors on earth told me.
When does he start ?"

 The end of the week."

Well, good-bye, Eve. I can't come and see
you off tomorrow ; get well as fast as you can
at Cockleton."

How dull it will be ! Oh, Laurence, how
much I shall miss you !"

It won't be for long."

'sand you mustn't think I am ungrateful
because I haven said much, but indeed I have
felt it  your giving up so much time to me, I

mean," and, looking up at him with her soft
brown eyes full of tears, she held out her
hand.

Don't talk like that, Eve," he said, warmly,
as he pressed it ; *' it has been a great
pleasure, and  I'm very sorry you're going
away."

He might have been a little surprised, firmly
believing, as he did, what Eve had told him of
her submission to her mother's decree respecting
Mr. Esmond, if he could have seen the
letter which she wrote in her own room that
night.

Dearest Claud,

'* You must under that I never
answered two letters which I hear you wrote
to me, but which my mother opened and returned
to you. As, however, she directed to
the name of Esmond of course you never got
them. Why didn't you meet me that day at
Euston ? As you didn't, I waited and missed

the train I was going back by, and so mummy
and Iris got back first, and I was missing, and
there twas a 7'ow and Iris, like a nasty, spiteful
old thing as she is, told about my meeting you
when Laurence saw us. Ever since Fve been
laid up awfully ill with scarlet fever, and now
I'm better, mummy won't let me out of her
sight, for fear I should meet you or post a letter.
She's awfully cross to me, and it's no use your
writing to me, for she wouldn't let me have the
letter. She says, even if you came to her openly
now and asked for me, she would refuse, because
' you inveigled me into a secret engagement
' !

But I've got an idea. You say you've a
great deal to tell me (so you have, quite a lotto
explains and I've a great deal to say to you.
Can't you get invited to Beechmont ? You
said you knew them well, and if you comedown
as Mr. Urban, no one will ever be the
wiser that you were here as Mr. Esmond. The
only person who would know is Lord Rootley,

and he is going abroad at once for three months
because of his lungs. There is to be a big
party at Beechmont the end of the months and
a hall on the 31s, to see the new year in.
Couldn't you manage to get asked then? It
would be no use before, because we go away
tomorrow for change of air for me (to 
 odious place !), and only come
back in time for the ball. I'm sure you could
manage it if you really tried ; if you don't, I
shall take it for granted you done care about
me any more.

I shall take this letter with me tomorrow,
and try to post it at the station, but mummy
and her odious old maid Rogers watch me asa
cat does a mouse.

Ever your own,

Eve.

Pes. They have cut off all my hair, but I
don't think it looks at all bad, now that it is
beginning to curl all over like a poodle."

No one, to look at Eve's innocent, childish
face as she drove up to the Bannerton station,
the next morning, would have believed it possible
that she had in her mind a deep plot,
involving her sister's happiness, and had at
that moment in her pocket a letter to a forbidden
lover, on which all the energies of her
mind were concentrated in order to post it
unobserved.

Mrs. Pleydell went to take the tickets. Eve
shivered.

Mammy, it is draughty here ; mayn't I goto
the book-stall and get a book ?"

Yes  take Rogers with yoa," and the
solemn maid moved to the girl's side.

Look there, Rogers," said Eve suddenly :
surely that is one of our boxes that man is
wheeling away to the other end of the platform,
and all the rest are gone the other
way."

Rogers turned her head, and in that moment
Eve deftly slipped her letter into the box they

were passing. In another moment she was at
the book-stall, absorbed in the choice of a
novel.

CHAPTER XII.

When to mischief mortals bend their will,
How soon they find fit instrument of ill.

Rape of the Lock. Pope.

nOCKLETON-ON-SANDS was quite as dull
 as Eve had anticipated. Mrs. Pleydell in
no way relaxed her vigilance ; it was not only
that she was anxious to prevent Eve from committing
any further imprudence, but she wished
the girl to feel herself in disgrace and under
surveillance.

When she did not go out with her herself,
she always sent Rogers, who hated the duty,
and was proportionately cross ; and Eve revenged
herself by being as sulky and disagreeable

as was possible. When required to read
aloud books which did not interest her, she
pretended violent hoarseness, and when her
mother read to her she calmly went to
sleep.

Perhaps Mrs. Pleydell, in her not unnatural
vexation and annoyance drew the reins a little
too tight, but she acted after anxious deliberation
as she believed for the best, and was sorely
troubled and disappointed by the way in which
Eve fought against her authority. It was, she
thought with a sigh, but a dreary prospect for
the future.

How sadly different her life would be with
this obstinate, sullen child, who seemed possessed
of an absolutely endless ingenuity in
devising methods of quiet insubordination and
annoyance, from what it had been with Iris, who
had ever accepted her mother's word as law,
and with whom she had never had the shadow
of a disagreement.

Still it had to be undergone ; and Mrs. Pleyel
tried to look forward as hopefully as was

VOL. II. T

possible, and to devise any means by which
Eve might be rendered more submissive and
companionable. She despaired of an appeal to
her affections. She had watched the girl narrowly
and anxiously ever since her return home,
and was tolerably aware of the truth that she
cared for no one in the world so much as herself.
This was bad ground on which to work,
and the nature of her meditations did not tend
to render Cockleton a more attractive place than
it really was.

She was very greatly astonished one day by
the appearance of Laurence, who paid them a
flying visit on his way back from Netherleigh.
He had been persuaded to go for the tableaux,
but had not made himself specially pleasant
there ; indeed he had been so silent, and on
occasion so snappish, that Lady Netherleigh
had confided to her husband that Iris was a
great deal too good for him, and that, late as it
was, she should be very glad if the girl found it
out and gave him his cone.

Iris was both pained and puzzled by Laurence's
behaviour. She devoted herself to him
as entirely as the claims on her time for rehearsing
the various tableaux would allow, but
he was decidedly sulky, and disposed to make
a very great grievance of her having consented
to take part in them. Various parts had been
purposely left for him, chiefly those which
would bring him most closely into contact with
Iris, but he absolutely refused to appear, declaring
that nothing should induce him to make
a fool of himself, while he at the same time
made innumerable objections to her appearing
with others.

It was in vain that she assured him that, had
she had any idea that he would disapprove,
nothing would ever have induced her to take
part in the tableaux ; that he might be quite
sure that she would never again have anything
to do with such an entertainment, but that it
was absolutely impossible for her to withdraw
now ; there was no one to take her place, the

T 2

whole thing would collapse, and both Sir
Charles and Lady Netherleigh, who had been
most kind to her, would be greatly hurt and
annoyed.

Laurence would not take her explanations in
good part, was cross to her whenever she spoke
even in the most trivial manner to any of the
other men in the house, and was altogether so
disagreeable and unreasonable that Iris felt
sure he must be ill, and racked her brains
to think what could be the matter with
him.

Girls brought up without brothers, cousins,
or some other intimate male relatives, are very
much at a disadvantage in understanding the
tempers and whims of their lovers, compared
with those to whom these masculine peculiarities
are familiar. They do not realize that a man
does not consider it necessary to conceal the
fact that something has put him out, or that,
with or without reason, he is extremely cross,
and are quite appalled at exhibitions of temper
of which he thinks nothing, and which their

more experienced sisters would accept as simple
matters of course.

Mrs. Pleydell had gathered from Iris's letters
that something had not gone quite smooth,
though the girl had been most loyal, and had
not said a word of blame of her lover. Indeed
Iris did not blame him ; she loved him too
dearly, and was only grieved that she had inadvertently
done anything of which he disapproved.


He appeared in excellent spirits when
he reached Cockleton, and the effect of his
presence on Eve was quite surprising. She
became in an instant gentle, obedient, amiable ;
did not grumble at dulness, but appeared
pleased with everything, and was altogether
a totally different creature.

Laurence, who while at Netherleigh had
heard a good deal from Iris of all that her
mother was suffering from the girl's waywardness
and obstinacy, was confirmed in his belief
that the poor child was harshly treated and
misunderstood, and had good reason to say, as

she had done so piteously, that no one at home
cared for her.

How different was the tone of reprobation
which Iris used respecting Eve from the loving,
admiring way in which Eve spoke of her !
Eve, he was sure, would never act in direct
opposition to the wishes of the man she professed
to love, as Iris had just done ; indeed,
had not her first exclamation when she heard
that he disapproved of the tableaux, been, " Oh,
then of course she will give them up !" She
was a sweet, gentle, loving little thing,
and, if he had only met her earlier,
perhaps

Eve was immensely elated by this visit of
Laurence's to Cockleton ; it showed that she
had made a very considerable impression upon
him , and during the three days that he spent
with them she spared no pains to deepen it in
every way in her power, and also to say sweet-sounding
things about Iris, Which, however,
were barbed darts that rankled and festered in
his mind.

Laurence bad come to Cockleton half conscious
that he had been rather unreasonable,
and had not behaved particularly well at
Netherleigh ; he left it fully convinced that
Iris had treated him extremely ill, and that
many men had broken off their engagements
for less. He had not yet arrived at thinking
of doing so ; the wedding was fixed for the
20th of January, and as yet he had every intention
of carrying out his engagement. But
more than once after a walk with Eve, during
which she had plied him with the subtle flattery
which she so well knew how to administer, he
had sighed and thought regretfully to himself
that he had made a mistake.

Two days after Christmas Mrs. Pleydell and
Eve left Cockleton-on-Sands ; the girl's health
was quite re-established, and but for the closely-cropped
hair, which, now that it curled all over
her head, was far from being unbecoming to
her, there was no trace of her having been an
invalid.

The change which Laurence's unexpected

appearance had wrought in her temper and
behaviour partially continued. She was not so
uniformly amiable, but still she was far more
agreeable than she had been at first, and Mrs.
Pleydell felt duly thankful for even a slight
improvement.

The first thing they did in London, where
they were only to remain two nights, was to
pay a visit to Mrs. William Pleydell. She welcomed
them warmly, Eve almost rapturously,
and there was a great deal to be told about the
girl's illness. After they had been there some
little time the door opened, and " Mr. Francia "
was announced.

*' A very old friend of mine  of course I am
not receiving generally as yet," said Mrs.
William, hurriedly, and her sister-in-law was
surprised to observe that she coloured violently,
and certainly seemed ill at ease.

She had Httle difficulty in recognising in Mr.
Francia the gentleman whom she had met in
the hall when leaving Park Street in October.
He was a portly man, above the middle height,

with a very dark, olive-coloured skin, a short,
thick black beard and black flowing hair,
which colouring rendered very remarkable his
light blue eyes.

"I never saw such a curious combination,"
was Mrs. Pleydell's reflection ; '* somehow it
gives a disagreeable impression."

But the stranger's manner was extremely
pleasant: he was evidently on very intimate
terms with the hostess, and Mrs. Pleydell concluded
that he was a foreigner who had been in
some business connection with her late brother-in-law,
whose house, as she knew, had a good
deal to do with South America. Tom's name
was mentioned, and Mr. Francia, regretting
that he had never yet met him, Mrs. William
suddenly suggested that her sister-in-law and
Eve should dine with her the next night,
and that Mr. Francia and Tom should meet
them.

It was agreed that such should be the case,
and Mrs. Pleydell found herself almost wishing
that Eve would make herself as disagreeable as

she had done at Cockleton, and so put an end
to poor Tom's infatuation. However, she
knew that was not Hkely. Eve kept her ill
temper strictly for private use.

The dinner went off very pleasantly : Mr.
Francia made himself most agreeable, and the
conversation was general, though Tom tried
hard more than once to monopolize Eve.
Later in the evening he talked for a short time
to his aunt, and she told him all that had
passed between her and Eve respecting Mr.
Esmond, and what she had done.

*' And he has not answered your letter?"
'*No, nor has he written to Eve. I am
certain of this, because I have taken complete
control of the letter-bag."

' Do you think she frets about him ?"
Not a bit. She pouted and was very sulky,
but any trifle that crosses her will has that
effect. I wish, Tom, I could persuade you
that it is not in Eve to care for anyone but
herself."

He shook his head.

'I cant believe it, Aunt Grace. I know her
so long and well. However, I am glad both
for your sake and hers that she hasn't taken
this to heart."

"How is it that you didn't know this Mr,
Francia ? I suppose, by Louisa's knowing him
so well, he must have been a friend of your
father's T

No, I think not ; at least, I never saw him
before. He has just established himself in a
large business in London, and I know him by
reputation ; it is said to be a rich house, very
much in our old line."

' He seems such a friend of Louisa's, might
he not be of use to you ?"

*' How strange you should say that ! After
you went upstairs, he actually sounded me a
little as to whether I should feel disposed to
leave my present situation and take a very
important position in his firm. I was too surprised
at first to answer, and he went on to

touch on my poor father's misfortunes, and to
say how sorry all business men had been forme.
He really spoke very kindly, and said
that the experience I had had under my
father would be invaluable to him, while it
was practically useless in my present situation."

Oh ! Tom, it sounds as if it were the very
thing for you. What did you say ?"

That it was very kind of him, but that I
could not decide at once. I must think it over.
Aunt Grace, I suppose it is very foolish, but
there is something I do not like about his
face."

' You mean the curious combination of light
blue ees, and that very dark skin and hair.
It is most peculiar. Still I don't think it would
be right to let that prejudice you."

No, I suppose not. Well, I must think it
over."

"You will come to us for the wedding,
Toms

As she said this, Mrs. Pleydell felt that she
was not wise. She wished to cure him of his

love for Eve, and yet she had invited him to

come and see her.

"If 1 can, Aunt Grace; you know, I am

hardly my own master now. Eve looks none

the worse for her illness."

No ; she is quite well and strong."

On their return home, Eve found a letter

awaiting her from Lady Hildegarde.

*' I want to be the first to tell you the news,"
she wrote : " only fancy ! old Image is going to
be married. It isn't anything very exciting,
though, only Rootley-protegee, Mr. Morton,
the Rector of Elmhurst. However, it'll just
suit Image to be a clergyman's wife and go to
church twice a day, and lecture the school-children,
and coddle all the old women. She
never had an idea of enjoying herself. We are
to have a jolly party for the ball ; they all come
tomorrow. You know a good few of them " 
here followed a long list of names, among
which Eve's eager eyes at once saw that of
Urban. " This frost and snow is delicious ; we

shall have sleighing and skating ; the large
pool in the wood is to be flooded every night.
Come up to-moiTOW and have a good talk. I
may not come to you. Mamma says you are
safe, but the house may not be, and it would bean
awful bore to catch the fever. So mind you
come, before lunch, if you can.

Yours, H."

Eve announced Lady Imogene's marriage
and begged permission to go up to Beechmont
the next morning. Mrs. Pleydell hesitated,
but Eve seemed so exhilarated by the idea of
the party, the ball, and the skating, and chattered
so merrily of her pleasure at meeting
various of her old London partners, that
her mother thought that, while her head was
o full of present pleasure, she was hardly
likely to give much thought to Mr. Esmond
and past experiences. She therefore gave her
consent and herself drove off to see Aunt
Rachel.

In the afternoon Laurence made his appearance,

and was greatly disappointed at only
finding Mrs. Pleydell at home. Eve had not
returned, and had evidently been kept to
luncheon. He seemed very distrait, often sat
for some time without speaking and started
when he was addressed, till Mrs. Pleydell
began to think there was something very
strange the matter with him.

At length he took his departure, and she
would have been still more surprised had she
known that instead of turning homewards he
walked up the Beechmont avenue. He had no
intention of calling at the house : he only
hoped to meet Eve. He had almost reached
the house, however, before he did so,  so much
the better, he should have the longer walk
with her.

Laurence !" she exclaimed, in surprise :
"are you going to call? They are at
home."

"No, Eve," as he turned and walked
beside her : " I came on the chance of walking
home with you."

'' I thought you would have gone to the
station perhaps to meet Iris."

Iris I I had quite forgotten. I thought it
was tomorrow."

This was strange, for Mrs. Pleydell had only
just asked him if he expected Iris to come
by the early train and whether he would
not stay to tea to welcome her on her
arrival.

"No, to-day, and we are all to dine at
Beechmont tomorrow. The skating will be
delightful." -

Eve, I wish you were not so fond of
Lady Hildegarde."

She stopped and looked up at him in the
most innocent manner possible.

'* Do you, Laurence ? Why ?"

She is not a good friend for you, she
is both fast and slang and  very objectionable."


Laurence still felt the sting of Lady Hides
snubbing.

"Do you really think so?" said Eve,

slowly; "I know mummy says so, but
then she cannot bear me to enjoy myself."

I really mean it, Eve. I wish you would
keep as much aloof as possible."

"You don't mean to give up Beechmont?
It is the only place where there is any
fun."

But you can go there without being hand
and glove wuthLady Hildegarde."

Eve would dearly have liked to tell him to
mind his own business, that it was Iris whose
friends concerned him, and not hers. But to
have done so would have put an abrupt end to
all her designs, so she constrained herself to
say softly,

Well, Laurence, I'm sure you are right, I'll
try and keep aloof, but think how dull it is at
home with mummy always preaching at me
about being ignorant, and making me read
dull books for hours and hours every day.
Don't say I oughtn't to go and skate, or
enjoy the ball, or all that. I won't be with
Hildegarde more than I can help."

VOL. II. U

This Eve knew was a safe promise when
the house was full of company, for Lady
Hildegarde seldom wasted her time on a
girl when she had companions of the opposite
sex. He stopped and took both her
hands.

*' Eve, you're the sweetest, gentlest little
thing in all the world. You would never
stand on your rights and insist on exercising
your own judgment. You are always ready to
give in. Of course I don't want to stop your
enjoying yourself, only  I should hate to see
you fast and  and worldly like Lady Hides


I am sure, Laurence, anything you said was
kindly meant to me."

How bewitching she looked as she stood
looking up at him in the fast gathering twilight,
with the soft rings of golden hair just
escaping from the close sealskin cap ! An
impulse too strong to be resisted came over
Laurence, or, perhaps being naturally self-indulgent,
he did not resist very strenuously.

He caught Eve in his arms and pressed kiss
after kiss upon her lips. Then without
looking at her he walked rapidly away
through one of the narrow woodland
glades.

It was not a moment too soon. He had
hardly disappeared when the carriages came insight
conveying the Beechmont guests from
the station.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

f4

.30

ATURBANA-CHAMPAin\i

STACKS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/iris03rand

VOL. III.

MBS RANDOLPH

Author OF

GESTIANELLA," 'WILD Hyacinths
"LITTLE PAKSY,*' "BESEDA,"
ETC Emc.

'FftrntarflkomliflnsfiraB.'-

A- L St 5.

m IHBEE VOLUMES.

VOL. in.

LONDON:
HLK-T ASD BLACKETT, FUBLiSUfiBS,

1882.

IRIS.

CHAPTER I.

When headstrong passion gets the rein of reason,
The force of Nature, like too strong a gale,
For want of ballast, oversets the vessel.

Tie Generous Conqueror. Higgins.

His soul, like bark with rudder lost,
On passion's changeful tide was tost ;
Nor voice, nor virtue had the power
Beyond th' impression of the hour ;
And O, when passion rules, how rare
The hours that fall to virtue's share !

KOKEBY.

rpHE next day both Iris and Eve went to
-*- the large pool at Beechmont to skate.
Both were fond of, and excelled in the
VOL. III. B

amusement, and Mrs. Pleydell said that very
probably she should come up herself during
the morning. They must remember not to
tire themselves too much, as they were to
dine out.

The Great Pool, as it was called, was a
very lovely spot, situated in the centre of
the beech woods, beautiful glades of which
sloped down to it. It was of very considerable
extent, and possessed three or four
islands, covered with rhododendrons and other
evergreens ; the centre one having a sort of
Swiss chalet built on it, to which, on skating
occasions, the elders of the party were
wont to retire for the enjoyment of a good
fire, and where the luncheon was generally
spread.

It was an old custom that all the neighbouring
families who were on visiting terms
with Beechmont should have the privilege of
skating on the pool, and, as all the houses
were now full for the ball the next nighty
a very large, gay party was assembled on

the ice when Iris and Eve made their appearance.


Mrs. Furnivall had brought her party from
Rookwood, and was comfortably established
with other matrons by the chalet fire. Laurence
came forward at once to greet Iris,
and showed himself most devoted in putting
on her skates, and paying her every attention.
To Eve he accorded but the current
of greetings. She noticed this of course, but
she was amply occupied by responding to
the greetings which assailed her on all sides,
as well from former London friends as from
neighbours desirous of congratulating her on
her recovery.

From the moment they came in sight of
the pool, she had seen Claud Urban, and
had felt that he was watching her, and
when, as she greeted Lady Hildegarde, the
latter introduced him, she could hardly raise
her eyes.

Gradually the groups dispersed, and before
very long Mr. Urban and Eve found them

2

selves out of earshot, as they started together
to one extremity of the pool.

"At last, my little Eve!"

Oh, Claud ! I did so wonder if you would
come !"

** Small doubt of that when you asked
me."

"But  before you seemed so anxious that
no one here should see you."

Because matters were different. Eve, you
are a trustful, confiding little thing ; but don't
you want to know the explanation of  of
what occurred the last time we met ?"

Of course, or I should not have gone to
London to meet you."

"Ah, my poor little birdie, how sorry I
was about that ! I never went to the club
till three o'clock, as I told you in my letter,
and, though I flew off at once , of course you
were gone."

I never saw your letter, you know."

No, I know. When I got yours, I asked
for one under the name of Esmond, and got

it all right. So nothing would induce your
mother to relent, if she knew who I
was?"

"No; and oh, she is so hard! She must
not know ! But it is quite safe as Lord
Rootley is away."

' Still, as this is our first acquaintance,
we mustn't stay down here too long. I see
your future brother-in-law looking at me suspiciously
already."

Laurence ? Ah, I have something to tell
you about him. Perhaps I had better go
and take a turn with him, now Iris is talking
to Lady Imogene."

Just as Eve reached Laurence's side, Lady
Hildegarde came up to her.

I say, Eve, we want you for a quadrille
with steps, as we did last winter, don't
you remember, down at Oak Court? You
dance with Bob Hamett. I think it'll rather
astonish the natives."

Nothing would have pleased Eve better
than to exhibit her agility and proficiency,

but mindful of what Laurence had said the
day before, and the promise she had. given
him, she hesitated.

*' I'm afraid I'm hardly up to it, Hides
I suppose I'm not quite strong yet,
and mummy said I must be sure not to tire
myself."

' Oh, very well ! I must find somebody
else. I thought you'd like the fun;" and
Lady Hildegarde skated off in search of
recruits.

Are you tired ? Do you want to rest V
asked Laurence, anxiously.

*' Oh no ! I'm not a bit tired, only  you
know what you said yesterday  I thought you
would rather I didn't."

Dear little Eve !"

Doesn't Iris look well in that violet velvet
and fur? It just suits her."

Yes, very," with a marked want of interest.
*' I say, who was that fellow you were skating
with just now ?"

A Mr. Urban I think Hildegarde said."

He seemed to have a great deal to say to
you. You were down at the end of the pool forages."


People often have a good deal to say tome,"
said Eve, mischievously ; then, in a softer
tone, ' I don't suppose he skates very well
he seemed to like to keep out of the
crowd."

* Come for one good spin with me, Eves and
away they flew.

''Mr. Furnivall and your sister make a good
race of it," said Lady Imogene, looking after
them.

Yes, 1 am so glad Laurence is so kind to
her. I was vexed at one time because he never
took the slightest notice of her."

'let me introduce you to mamma," said
Eve, as Mrs. Pleydell made her appearance
shortly after luncheon, and Mr. Urban found
himself bowing to the lady who had informed
him that she would never allow her daughter
to see or speak to him again.

He sat down by her and made himself exceedingly

agreeable for a short time, and then
challenged Eve to another expedition to the
end of the pool.

Do not let her do too much," said Mrs. Pleyel
; " she has been very ill, and ought not to
overture herself."

She has done very little as yet, have you,
Miss Pleydell? There were great lamentations
at your defection from the quadrille
party."

I am not a bit tired, mummy," said Eve,
looking her very brightest, and off she flew
with her companion, who seemed to Mrs. Pleyel
far pleasant and less inane than the
general run of Eve's favourite partners."

Now," said Eve, when they were well out
of earshot, " tell me all you have to say  all
about that day."

"I will tell you something else first. The
future brother-in-law has begun to find out that
he has made a mistake  he is in love with you,
Eve."

I said I had something to tell you about

him ; but that will do afterwards. Now for
your story."

It is not a long one, Eve, but very sad. The
lady you saw was my sister."

Your sister ! Then why did she say "

That she was my wife ? That makes the
story. She married our cousin, Claud Esmond,
who died two years ago. His loss, and that of
her only child, who died suddenly a fortnight
after its father, completely upset her reason.
For a year she was under restraint, but this
spring it was considered that she was well
enough to return home, provided, of course,
that some supervision was exercised over her.
She came to live with me in London, her maid
being a person specially recommended by the
doctor. She seemed perfectly rational excepting
upon one point : she persisted in believing
that I was her husband. I must tell you that a
very remarkable likeness existed between my
cousin and myself  it was a common occurrence
for even our intimate friends to speak to us for
each other. After she had been with me some

little time, I thought that perhaps country quiet
might be better for her than the bustle of London,
and after looking at various places I decided
on Sir John Dibbleton's cottage. You
will wonder why I did not take it in my own
name. Well it really was to avoid gossip. I
know what a story is in the country, and I
thought that the mere fact of Mr. Urban and
Mrs. Esmond inhabiting a cottage together
would be quite enough to set tongues wagging.
I did not wish the real story known, for I
hoped she would entirely recover, and was
anxious as few persons as possible should be
cognisant of it. It was after we came here
that she developed an extraordinary jealousy,
and could hardly bear me out of her sight.
Still persisting that I was her husband, she once
upbraided me fiercely for my meeting with you
which she witnessed, and, as you know, she
followed me from London, having contrived to
elude her maid's watchfulness."

Poor thing ! it is very sad. And where is
she now?"

'* In the family of a doctor with whom I am
well acquainted. She is well and harmless, but
she is hopelessly insane; he assures me there is
no chance of her recovery. Now, Eve, you
see it would have been a long story to
write."

Yes, indeed."

And now tell me what you have to say
about the brother-in-law f

Well, you know he told Iris how he had
seen us wishing each other good-bye ?"

"Yes, I know."

*' Well, she pitched into me awfully, as I told
you ; but I pacified her, and she promised not
to tell. She said it was to spare mummy, and
all that  of course I knew it wasn't for me, she
can't bear me."

Not bear you I Why not f

Oh, because she was used to being the
only one at home, and  she's an old maid, and
doesn't like being put out, and her Skye hates
my Maltese, and  a thousand things. Well,
when they got home, and 1 was missing, what

must she do but run up to my room and look
into my blotting-book  can you fancy anything
so mean?  and then came running down to
tell mummy about the note I wrote you to
meet me, and all that Laurence had told her.
As if she hadn't promised ! You canst think
how mummy scolded and bullied me, both
when she found me with Aunt Louisa in London
and afterwards when I was beginning to
get well. I wonder I was not worried to
death ! And I owe it all to Iris and Laurence.
And I'm determined to be revenged."

I begin to see. You mean to make the
handsome but bucolic brother-in-law in love
with you  there you have already succeeded
 and make Miss Netherleigh wild with
jealousy. I do not as yet see symptoms of
that."

She only came home last night. But she
is so proud and cold she would never see anything
of the sort. No, I shan't be satisfied
unless I break off the marriage. She will feel
that."

"I should think she probably might. And
the brother-in-law ?"

I will make him tell me he loves me, I will
let him think he may hope, and then  I will
laugh at him."

Eve, you are a veritable little demon I
Let the bucolic swain alone, and devote yourself
to me."

*' No, Claud, I loll do this ! I only told you
that you might understand  that you might
not think "

"That you were really deserting me. But I
don't like it  you've made him very uncomfortable
already. Let him be."

"No, no. Claud, I can't! I tell you it's the
only way I can punish her  and if you knew
all she made me suffer ! And after she'd
promised, too !"

Well, little Eve, I suppose, like most
women, you'll end in going your own way.
Don't go too far, though, I warn you. I shall
be a demon of jealousy."

"Nonsense; yov. couldn't be jealous of

him. Besides, you know what it means."

Yes  and by-the-by, as we are by way of
unravelling to each other the cobwebs of our
diplomacy, I may as well tell you something.
Do you know that I am invited here as an
adorer of Lady Hildegarde's V

'' Of Hildegarde's ! You ! But "

"But I am not one  precisely. I flirted
with her  no, accurately I should say she
flirted with me, for I was a passive agent, at
the beginning of the season. Lady Beechmont
welcomed me as an eligible suitor, and overwhelmed
me with invitations to come to them
when and where I chose, so when I got your
note there was no difficulty. I had a warm
welcome yesterday  from mamma."

"AndHildegarde?"

"I fancy wishes me at Jericho, and is infinitely
more interested in a young man with fair
hair and an eyeglass, whom, I think, I understood
to be quartered at Bannerton."

Oh ! Captain Deverell."

"Very probably; it is a matter of perfect

indifference to me, only, you see, I must occasionally
seem to be carrying out the role which
my hostess intended for me/

I see. Well, we understand each other."

Yes ; but mind. Eve, I can't have you go
too far. You belong to me, you know."

Yes, yes, Claud, of course ; but there is not
much time to lose, and I must do it my own
way."

Well, a wilful woman, I suppose, must have
her way, and vengeance is sweet, especially to
your sex. 1 think your mother is beckoning
to you; are you to be carried away
captive?"

Mrs. Pleydell was going home, and thought
Eve had had quite as much exercise as was
good for her. She was rather surprised at the
girl's quietness as they walked home, for after
any gaiety her chatter was generally irrepressible.


Laurence walked home with them, but he
was of course by Iris's side, and he watched
Eve too closely to prove an amusing companion.

Iris noticed his abstraction, but naturally
did not ascribe it to the right cause ; she
thought he was vexed about some estate business,
and only wished he would talk it over
with her. She had the usual feminine belief
that a trouble shared is a trouble halved.

At dinner that night Mr. Urban strove to
make a favourable impression on both Mrs.
Pleydell and Iris, and succeeded, as he generally
did when he cared to take the trouble.
He was not interested in Iris : he did not care
for women of an intellectual type, but preferred
gay, pretty butterflies like Eve, or fast, amusing
girls like Lady Hildegarde, who gave him
no trouble, and exacted no mental effort. He
regarded women as playthings, and greatly
objected to their having "views" on the serious
topics of life.

But, by the manner in which he talked to
Mrs. Pleydell, she obtained no idea of this, and
almost wondered that a giddy child like Eve
should have so evidently attracted so superior
a man.

Laurence being absent, Eve had nothing to
distract her attention from Claud, and her
mother observed with surprise that she received
his advances with pleasure, and allowed him to
devote himself to her during the greater part
of the evening.

Since her daughter's escapade with Mr.
Esmond, Mrs. Pleydell had not been able to
disguise from herself that it would be a decided
relief to feel that Eve was safely married
to some one steady and suitable, even
though she considered her to be terribly young
and childish for matrimony; and, though she
did not yet regard Mr. Urban in the light ot
a possible son-in-law, she was yet pleased to
see Eve contented to sit and talk to anyone
who conversed so sensibly, instead of forming-one
of the noisy group that surrounded Lady
Hildegarde in the billiard-room.

The next day was again spent on the ice,
Eve dividing her favours very evenly between
Claud and Laurence. Two or three of the
chaperons, who, being passive spectators, of

VOL. III.

h

course saw most of what was going on, wondered
that Mr. Furnivall should so often leave
Miss Netherleigh for her sister ; but Iris had
never a thought of jealousy, and was as well
satisfied of Laurence's love for her as of her
own for him : it was a matter on which it
never occurred to her to feel a doubt.

But that evening at the ball, she could not
help remarking that, except one or two dances
with herself, Laurence danced with no one but
Eve, and that, when he was not dancing, he
leant against the wall, watching her sister with
a very gloomy expression.

Lacking, of course, the right clue, she imagined
that he must know something to Mr.
Urban's disadvantage, for it seemed to be
chiefly when Eve was dancing with him that
he watched her : if he did, it would be better
to know it at once, for he certainly was paying
her immense attention. So, when she next
danced with him, she said,

"Laurence I notice you watch Eve and that

Mr. Urban very much. Do you know anything
about him?"

Only that he is a conceited, impudent
puppy!"

Oh, I don't think that. He made himself
very agreeable last night, and mamma thought
him quite above the average."

"What business has he to dance with Eve so
much, I should like to know V

Because they both like it, I suppose. Then
you don't know anything against him ? I was
afraid, by your face, you did."

I never saw him before yesterday."

Iris was satisfied, and began some other
topic, but Laurence hardly responded satisfactorily.
He could not keep himself from watching
Eve, and yet all the time he was telling
himself that he was a fool, and that it was no
affair of his.

He tried to respond to Iris's remarks, but
was conscious that he acquitted himself but
ill ; he could not take his eyes or his mind

o2

from Eve and her companion. But still not
the shadow of a suspicion entered Iris's mind :
she only tried another topic.

*' I suppose you will all come over for the
skating fete tomorrow night? I do hope it
swill be fine ! What a very pretty sight it will
be!"

What is it ? I had not heard of it."
*' The pool is to be lit up, coloured lamps
hung from the trees, and we are to have the
regimental band from Bannerton, and, after
skating, to come in here to supper. It will be
quite a novelty."

Yes, 1 suppose we shall all come."
But you will like it, won't you, Laurence?'
said Iris, disappointed at his tone.
*' Like it !  oh, yes, I suppose so."
Evidently he was not himself to-night. Iris
thought. Perhaps he was not well, perhaps he
was tired, and did not like to say so ; perhaps
he had mysterious worries connected with
'business." Well, in less than three weeks it
would be her right to share all his troubles,

and to smooth his path in so far as in her
lay.

Mrs. Furnivall, who was glistening in all the
glory of the family diamonds, presumably for
the last time, watched her son attentively, and
was persuaded that there was something the
matter, though what it was she could not
understand. It was evidently nothing on Iris's
side, for her manner to him was precisely
what it always was. Even to Mrs. Furnivall
the idea never occurred of his caring for
Eve.

The illumination of the pool the succeeding
night was a great success. Whatever Lady
Beechmont undertook in the way of entertainment
was always sure to be thoroughly well
carried out. Chains of coloured lamps hung
from tree to tree all round the pool, and clusters
of them on the islands seemed as if the rhododendrons
had suddenly burst into flower, while
a bonfire at one end, and a multiplicity of
torches, lit up the scene sufficiently, while
throwing weird shadows in every direction.

Eve was almost monopolised by Claud Urban.
He, with the rest of the Beechmont party, was
to leave the ensuing day, as Lady Beechmont
and Lady Hildegarde were starting on a
tour of visits comprising a series of county
balls.

Well, Eve, this is all very charming,
but when and how am I to see you
again f '

I believe mummy talks of going to London
after Easter."

And this is New Year's Day. It is an
eternity !"

Yes, but what can I do ? I'm sure I don't
want to stay here."

Your ingenuity must contrive something."


I wish it would."

How are your designs on the bucolic
brother-in-law prospering? His fiancee suspects
nothing. She looks serenely satisfied."


I don't know, I shall see. There are three

weeks yet," said Eve, hurriedly. " Hush I
Surely some one is behind that bush !"

Come round and see. No, not a creature.
But, Eve, my own little Eve, I shall not see
you after to-night, and we must have our parting
now. One kiss, my sweet one," and he
pressed her fondly in his arms. They skated
out into the open part of the pool, and joined
a merry group where Mr. Urban was at once
claimed as a partner in the Lancers by Lady
Hildegarde.

Laurence came up to Eve, and, almost before
she knew where she was, swept her
away with him to the farther end of the
pool. He stopped in the shadow of the smallest
island.

*' Eve," he said, and his voice shook so that
she hardly knew it  " Eve, tell me I am
mistaken, that that man did not kiss you just
now !"

*kiss me? What man? What do you
mean ?" asked Eve, innocently.

She was calculating what effect his having

seen her parting with Claud would have ;
whether it would disgust him and overthrow
her scheme, or whether it would work for her
in arousing his jealousy.

*' Eve, don't pretend to misunderstand me.
I feel he kissed you, that conceited puppy who
was doing his best to make you ridiculous last
night? What do you know of him? What
right has he to "

What right have you to ask ?" said Eve,
composedly. ' What business can it be of
yours, even supposing he did ? If it were Iris,
indeed, you might "

Hang Iris !" Laurence broke forth. " Eve,
it is you that I love, that I adore ! Heaven
knows I have struggled against my love, struggled
hard to keep my word, though cursing
the blindness that had bound me to her instead
of to you. But I can bear it no longer. And,
Eve, I believe you love me. Is it not so, darling?
You must have felt how I loved you all
through those drives we had together. And
you have been so different, so gentle and winning

 surely, Eve, it must mean that you love
me. Say it does, darling, say so !"

"But  but Iris," said Eve, hanging back 
*' you are engaged to her."

She will release me when she knows
that our life must be one of misery. Even
if she did not I would refuse. Eve, I will
only marry you ! In pity tell me that you
love me."

Laurence !"

It was said in a very tender tone, and she
glanced up at him with her great blue eyes.
fie caught her in his arms.

My darling !" he said, " you are my very
own, Eve, are you not V

Eve did not speak, but she lay passive in his
arms.

At that moment '' God Save the Queen "
began ; it was the signal for leaving the ice
for the house. As they emerged from behind
the island they came face to face with
Iris.

I have involuntarily overheard your conversation,"

she said, quietly. " You are quite
right, Mr. Furnivall, I have great pleasure
in releasing you from your engagement."

CHAPTER II.

Alas ! I have no words to tell my grief ;
To vent my sorrow would be some relief ;
Light sufferings give us leisure to complain ;
We groan, but cannot speak, in greater pain.

Salmon and Archie. Dryden.

TRIS NETHERLEIGH never in after-days
* could imagine how she contrived to spend
the remainder of that evening in society and
appear as usual. It was not that she was unhappy
 that was all to come  but that she was
indignant.

Iris, as we have said, was very proud and
such a blow as her lover's defection roused her
spirit, and made her feel as if she never had.

never could have, cared for him. She felt as it
her feelings must be patent to everyone, legibly
written on her countenance, and would have
been incredulous if told that the only difference
in her was that her manner had, if possible,
more than its usual stately calm.

Those who knew her well had, of course left
Lier unappropriated for Laurence to take in to
supper, and she felt a debt of gratitude to Mr.
Urban, who, shrewdly guessing that something
was amiss, stepped forward and offered her his
arm. Captain Deverell was escorting Eve, and
Laurence found himself obliged to take Lady
Hildegarde, and was unmercifully rallied by heron
his silence and dulness.

The supper was purgatory to him as well as
to Lns ; he could not help knowing that he had
behaved very ill, and the thought hurt his
pride, while his self-satisfaction had been
cruelly wounded by the cool and contemptuous
tone in which she had said : " I have great
pleasure in releasing you from your engagement."


He looked at her as she sat responding calmly
and apparently without an effort to Mr. Urban's
lively conversation, and at once decided that if
she had ever loved him she could not possibly
look so unconcerned. This was an additional
mortification. He did not actually confess to
himself that he wished Iris to be made miserable
by his desertion, but still that she should
take it with cool equanimity and not seem to
care, was very wounding to his self-love. It
was no wonder that Lady Hildegarde voted
him stupid, and soon turned her attention to
her other neighbour.

Eve in the meantime was in the highest
spirits, and Captain Deverell, who had never
seen her so brilliant and amusing, almost
repented the time he had spent in worshipping
at Lady Hildegarde's shrine.

It was with extreme regret that she saw
Lady Beechmont at length make a move ; it
would, she knew, be the signal for departure,
she would not see Claud again, and now that
the deed was done, and the breach made between

Laurence and Iris, she began to be a
little alarmed at the prospect before her. How
angry her mother would be ! and how increasingly
disagreeable her life at home would be
made ! Mr. Urban joined her in the hall
as the ladies were seeking their various
wraps.

It is good-bye, my darling," he whispered.
*' When shall I see you again, I wonder ? Write
if you can."

Of course. Oh ! Claud, I've done it ! Iris
heard him say something to me, and she stepped
forward ; she had been listening behind the
rhododendrons, mean thing ! and said she had
great pleasure in releasing him from his engagement
!"

"And now, of course, he'll propose to
you'

I suppose so. Oh ! Claude what a fuss there
will be at home, and how angry mummy will
be r

I daresay. Indeed, Eve, I can't wonder.
You know it is very wicked of you."

'' Don't you say it's wicked, you know why I
did it ; they made mischief. Oh ! Claud, I wish
you were going to stays'

''So do I."

There's mummy calling ; I must go," and,
with a warm pressure of the hand, they
parted.

Iris spoke not a word during their drive
home, and Eve was unusually silent. Mrs.
Pleydell concluded they were tired, and, being
herself sleepy, was not sorry to be quiet. Iris
had resolved to say nothing to her mother that
night. It would, she knew, distress her greatly,
and she would not disturb her when she was
tired.

Eve, who had anticipated vehement reproaches
the instant they were in the carriage,
was amazed to find that Iris wished her goodnight
as usual, and shut herself into her own
room without enlightening her mother as to
what had occurred. Was it possible that she
did not care? It would make matters less disagreeable,
but still it would be a bitter disappointment.

She had wanted to punish her
even more than Laurence.

If Eve could have looked into her sister's
room that night, her malice might have been
amply satisfied, she might even have been
moved to pity. Iris never thought of going
to bed, or even of undressing. She sat in
the arm-chair by the fire, where she had at
first seated herself, unconscious of the flight of
time.

Now that she was alone, it was not only
the blow to her pride that she felt, it was
the agony of her slighted love. Little suited
as they really were in every way, she loved
Laurence very dearly, and it was a bitter
blow to feel that he had ceased to care for
her, and had turned to another, and that
other her own sister.

That it should be Eve he preferred filled
her with amazement. He had seemed at one
time almost to dislike her, had said sharp
things about her fast, flirting manner and
pert speeches, and had positively avoided

her. Then, too, was it not he who had told
her of the affectionate farewell which he had
himself witnessed between Eve and Mr. Esmond
? It seemed absolutely inconceivable,
and yet her own ears had left her no doubt
that it was true, and, as the thought of her
future life without the love she so prized
came over her, Iris covered her face with
her hands, and wept as if her heart would
break.

She was aroused at length by the cold.
The fire was almost out, and the grey dawn
just beginning to show through the blinds.
Iris roused herself with an effort, raked the
embers together, and put on some coal, then
walked to the window, and drew up the
blind. It was a dismal scene. The river
ran black and cold between its snowy banks;
the evergreens and creepers bent beneath
their load ; a leaden sky lowered over all,
and some large flakes of snow were beginning
to fall.

Iris turned away with a shudder. Such a
VOL. III. D

dismal day seemed a fitting beginning of her
wrecked life.

As soon as her mother was awake she
would go to her, and tell her, but not even
to her would she reveal her misery. It
would only give her needless pain, and that
she would feel it bitterly she well knew.

Gradually she heard sounds of life begin
in the house, and at length the tap that
told that Rogers was taking Mrs. Pleydell
her morning cup of tea. She waited till the
maid was gone, and then entered her mother's
room. Mrs. Pleydell started up.

Iris, my child, what is it ?"

The girl's face of proud misery, her unchanged
dress, the black circles under her
eyes, revealed something much amiss.

*' I have something to tell you, mamma.
Everything is at an end between me and Lau 
Mr. Furnivall."

' Iris ! what do you mean f

He no longer cares for me. He loves someone
else."

"You do not mean that he told you
sol"

"No  but he told her. Oh, mother, I could
not help it  it was by the small island. Before
I could move, I had heard enough to tell
me I was entitled to hear all."

*' You are sure you did not misunderstand
r

Misunderstand ! No, mamma, it was clear
enough."

My poor, poor darling !"

Don't pity me, please, mamma "  this with
a choke in her voice that made her mother's
heart ache. " If, as it seems, he has changed
his mind on such a subject, he is not a
person to be regretted. It  it might have
been worst might have come later "

'' I am thankful you can take it so, Iris.
Of course it is the only right way to look at
it but but "

But "  with a ghastly effort at a smile
'you think I am rather cold, mamma. Perhaps

I am, but I think it is something to
be thankful for."

"My darling, I never thought you cold!"

There was a pause. Iris was half lying
on the bed beside her mother, whose arm
was round her. Mrs. Pleydell's tears were
flowing fast.

'* Don't cry, mother," said Iris, kissing her.
*' After all, you know, he is not worthy of
a regret."

"Can you bear to tell me what you
heard, and  and how you heard it?"

I had been skating for a little very fast
with Colonel Brandon, and wanted to rest.
We stopped just behind the small island,
where it was quite sheltered from the wind.
As we were waiting there we saw Nellie
Minchenden fall, and, as her brother did not
seem very expert, I begged Colonel Brandon
to go and help her. In a moment I
heard voices the other side of the island.
The first words I heard were : ' What business
can it be of yours ? If it were Iris '

Hang Iris !' That paralysed me, or I should
have called out. And then he went on
how he loved her, and how he had struggled
against it, but without success, and that he was
sure she loved him. Oh! mamma, perhaps it
was very wrong, but I could not help listening !
Then she said, in a hesitating voice, * But  but
Iris  you are engaged to her !' And he said,

Oh ! she will release me. If she did not I
would refuse. In pity tell me you love me !'
Then she only said ' Laurence !' and I heard
him kiss her, and call her his darling. Then
God save the Queen ' struck up, and I went to
meet them round the end of the island, and I
said quite quietly, ' You are quite right, Mr.
Furnivall, I have great pleasure in releasing
you from your engagement.' Then Colonel
Brandon came up and began to talk to me
about ' Patience,' and I was so glad I had not
seen it, because it gave him so much more to
talk about, and  I don't much remember anything
afterwards."

My darling !" said her mother, *' it is well

indeed that you know this in time. But tell
me, who is it that has supplanted you ?"

*' Oh ! mamma, did I not tell you ? It is
Eve !"

Eve !" exclaimed her mother, almost with
a scream. " Iris, are you swe you are not
dreaming ? Why, it is not four months since
Laurence himself told you of her meeting with
Mr. Esmond ! He knows of her going to London
to meet him ! My child, you must be
mistaken ! It is absolutely impossible."

 But quite true, mamma. 1 heard him call
her Eve, I heard her answer, and, if that were
not enough, I met them together when I spoke
to him."

"It is past belief!" said Mrs. Pleydell. "I
always thought he almost disliked her  that
she had offended him by her pertness when she
first came home. I thought it was so excessively
kind of him to take her out as he did
when I was knocked up. I suppose this accounts
for the visit to Cockleton which surprised

me so much. Wicked, heartless child !
What did she say to him, Iris ?"

"Only what I told you."

"But you are sure she let him kiss
her?"

"Oh! yes, more than once."

Iris, indeed a man who is capable of deserting
you within a month of your marriage for
such a girl as Eve is no loss. Of course, darling,
you feel it deeply, and hate all the gossip
it must necessarily create, but call your pride
to your aid, dear, and reflect that his is a
character beneath your contempt. Neither
your Aunt Eachel nor I ever thought him well
suited for you ; we thought you worthy of a far
higher character, but we never dreamt of such
baseness as this."

Don't abuse him, mother," said Iris, with a
stifled sob.

My darling, how can I help it ? How can
you expect me not to regard him with contempt
? My child, you will soon do so yourself.

You have plenty of pride, Iris  you will
not waste regrets on a man who could desert
you and prefer Eve."

Regret him ! No !" said Iris, trying hard
to steel herself in pride, and to harden her heart
against the thought of Laurence. She was
determined not to break down, and show her
mother how miserable she was. It would do
her no good, and would only make her dearest
mother miserable. " But  I can't help thinking
of the nine days' wonder  of what people will
say."

1 know. I think we will go abroad for a
little, and then to London. I had always intended
to go after Easter."

'eyes, but  mother, you forget  it is  Eve
be wants to marry."

My dear, I can't hear of it ! I am glad 
thankful  that you have been spared from
marrying a man capable of what he has
done  he could never have made you happy.
My darling, I trust some one infinitely
better is in store for you. But desert you

and many Eve ! No, it is not to be thought
of!"

"But, mamma, if they really love each
other."

Iris, do you honestly believe that Eve has
it in her to love anyone but herself? As for his
feelings, I am not likely to consider them. But
Eve ! It is not three months since she sobbed
as if her heart would break about Mr. Esmond,
and I suppose she must have fancied she cared
about him, or she would not have gone off to
London to meet him. How can we ever be
sufficiently thankful that he did not get her
letter in time ? And I am sure the last three
days I have thought there must be something
between her and that remarkably pleasant Mr.
Urban. How is one to understand such a
weathercock '?"

' I noticed," said Iris, in a low, pained voice,
*' that at the ball Laura  Mr. Furnivall only
danced with me and Eve, and he watched her
in such a peculiar way that I asked him if he
knew anything about Mr. Urban. He said,

only that he was a conceited puppy.' I suppose
now he was -jealous."

You do not regret, Iris, that on the spur
of the moment you spoke to him as you
did?"

Regret it ! It was easier to speak then
than later ; it required less explanation."

"Forgive me for asking, darling  I only
meant  if he had said nothing  you would
still have broken it off."

Mamma !"

'* Don't be shocked at me, Iris  many girls
would not. I felt sure you would."

Iris lay silent. It seemed to her as if years
had passed since she had started for Beechmont
the night before  as if she were old, and
hard, and withered. Mrs. Pleydell stroked her
cheek.

You do not want to see him when he comes
here, as I suppose he will."

See him !  no !" and Iris shuddered  " that
is, unless you think I ought."

Certainly not ; only I would not have

opposed it if you wished it. There, my darling,
you are white, and cold, and miserable ;
you have had a great deal of fatigue, and a
night of wretchedness. Do not attempt to
come down to-day : go to your room, have a
warm bath, and go to bed."

** Mamma, I could not sleep. It would be
worse to  to lie still thinking than to be downstairs
reading and doing something."

Do as I ask you darling. You are more
worn out than you know yourself. Take off
your things so that Rogers may not notice
you have been up all night, and, when she
answers your bell, tell her you want a really
hot bath. I will bring you something afterwards
that will soothe you."

Fortified by a fervent kiss. Iris stole away
to do her mother's bidding.

The mother and daughter understood each
other well. Mrs. Pleydell knew, as well as if
it had been told her with sobs and groans the
agony of disappointed love that her child was
enduring, but she realised that by the slightest

allusion to it she should add weight to the
heavy burden that had to be borne. To have
touched on her disappointed love would have
seemed to Iris like pity and that her sensitive
pride could not bear even from her own mother
yet.

All this Mrs. Pleydell understood perfectly,
and Iris felt that she did and was grateful to
her for sparing her feelings : she knew the
heartfelt sympathy was there, but was thankful
that it was not expressed.

When Iris left her, Mrs. Pleydell lay musing
on what she had heard. Her heart ached for
her child, but still there was one consolation
in the fact that there was no uncertainty : Iris
knew the worst, and had promptly taken the
only action that was possible. Her mother
hoped that her pride would prove an assistance
to her ; it must surely help her to cast out
all love for a man who, within three weeks
of their marriage, could desert her for another.


But the pride, if an assistance in one direction,

increased the trial in another. Mrs. Pleyel
groaned as she thought of the agony it
would be to Iris to know of the gossip which
such an event could not fail to produce in a
country neighbourhood.

How soon could they go abroad ? It might
seem very cowardly to fly from gossip, but
anything would be better than that Iris should
be wounded by artful questions or painful allusions,
or than that she should shut herself upto
brood at home for fear of encountering such
inevitable disagreeable. She had expressed a
wish to go to Rome  it should be gratified.
This was Friday : they could quite well start
on Wednesday, and with this determination she
rose and began to dress.

Of course, she thought, Laurence would
come to her that morning ; she must compose
herself before the interview, or else she should
say more than was at all judicious. And then
there was Eve. That anyone could possibly
prefer her to Iris passed her mother's comprehension,
but that anyone engaged to the elder

sister, and knowing all her perfections, could
deliberately turn from her and profess to be
wildly enamoured of the younger seemed
really little short of a miracle.

As soon as she was dressed, she went into
Iris's room. The girl was in bed, but as soon
as her mother appeared she said,

I don't think, mamma, there is the least
chance of my being able to go to sleep. I
would so much rather get up and do something
than lie here and think."

Lie still, dear, and drink this," said her
mother, giving her a glass of milk, in which
some chloral was mixed. '' I will shut the
shutters, and you will soon be asleep. I have
decided, dear, that we will start for Rome on
Wednesday. I shall insist on his keeping the
secret till then, so we shall be gone' before
there is any gossip or wondering."

Oh, mamma, how good of you !" said
Iris.

Already the potion was beginning to work,
and her voice sounded dreamy. Mrs. Pleydell

closed the shutters, placed a screeD so that the
firelight should not fall on her eyes, kissed her
fondly, and softly left the room, pausing in the
passage to give Rogers orders to prevent any
noise that could possibly wake Miss Nether-leigh.


When she entered the breakfast-room Eve
started up.

Mummy, how late you are ! Fancy my
being down before either you or Iris !"

"I think, Eve, you must know very well
what has detained me  I have been with
Iris."

"Is anything the matter ?" asked Eve, innocently
; " has she got a headache?"

Eve, where is the use of pretending you do
not understand? You are no fool, and you
must be perfectly well aware that I know what
passed between you, Mr. Furnivall, and Iris
last night."

"I never thought she would tell, that she
would confess she had been listening ; it was so
mean of her," said Eve, colouring.

If anyone is mean, Eve, it is you and Mr.
Furnivall. Before Iris could move she had
heard what fully entitled her to remain and
discover how far the man to whom she was
engaged meant to betray her. It is only a
mercy his true character is discovered before
marriage rather than after. Iris herself must
soon be most thankful for what has occurred.
But that you , Eve, should have allowed the
man who was almost your brother-in-law to
make love to you, nay, have encouraged him 
for you must have done so, or this wild, wicked
scheme of transferring his allegiance from Iris
to you could never have entered his head 
is a pitch of wickedness shocking in any
woman, but quite appalling in such a child as

you."

"Now don't be cross, mummy dear," said
Eve, coaxingly ; " how in the world can
I prevent men from falling in love with
me?"

"Even if they are engaged to some one
else?"

'' Is it m J fault ? As to poor, dear Laurence,
Iris never understood him one bit.
She used to talk about books and pictures,
and bore him about them, and about wanting
to go to Rome, the very thought of which
he hated, instead of caring about his dogs
and horses and shooting, and things. Heed
have been miserable with her  he said so last
night."

"If he thought so, why did he not take
the only manly course, and tell her so ?
It would have been more gentlemanlike to
have done that before making love to anyone
else."

Ah ! you see, he was really in love this
time," said Eve, coolly. "Now, from what I
can make out, he never was the least bit in
love with Iris. He thought her handsome and
stately, and he'd been so used to be run after,
from what he says, that he was caught by the
novelty of her being so cold and stand-off, and
he thought she'd look grand at the head of his
table, and in the family diamonds. And then

VOL, III. E

he didn't for a minute fancy she'd let him off.
Rookwood is too good a thing."

*' That a man who had had the privilege of
knowing Iris well could imagine she cared for
his place, or would have held him an unwilling
captive !"

'And then when he came to know me well
of course everything was changed, and it opened
his eyes, and "

Pray," said Mrs. Pleydell, coldly, '' do you
pretend to be in love with him f

I  that is  he  I  there was Iris," stammered
Eve.

She was sorely puzzled what to say. She
did not want to commit herself to too much
love for Laurence, lest it should prevent her
mother from allowing her to see much of Claud
Urban when they went to London ; and yet
she could not say she did not care, for fear of
disgusting Laurence and losing the exquisite
pleasure of refusing him and telling him she
had only encouraged him for the express purpose

of so doing in revenge for his interfering
in her affairs.

"Iris! I imagine you did not think much of
her. However, I hope your fancy for Mr.
Furnivall may prove as evanescent as that for
Mr. Esmond seems to have been, for you will
see no more of him."

"But, mamma  Laurence loves me."

Call him Mr. Furnivall whenever you must
speak of him, which had better be as seldom as
possible."

*' But when wee meet ?"

You will have no opportunity at present.
We start for Rome on Wednesday."

"Oh! mamma, we can't. The hunt ball is
Wednesday, and the dance at the barracks
on "

We start for Rome on Wednesday," repeated
Mrs. Pleydell, leaving the room; and
Eve was left to reflect that the first result of
her machinations had been to deprive herself of
two balls, besides several other probable ones,

E 2


HmERSIJy Of Hi

and to afford Iris the means of going to the
very place she so much wanted to see. Her
meditations were far from satisfactory.

CHAPTER TIL

Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
IVIisprising what they look on.

Much Ado about Nothing.  Act iii, Sc. 1.

Tithes Laurence awoke from a disturbed
' sleep the day after the Beechmont skating
fete, it was with the sensation that something
very unpleasant was impending. For a
few moments he could not remember what it
was, but almost immediately the thought of all
that had happened the night before recurred to
him.

It was in a certain sense a relief that Iris
had heard what she did, it saved him from the
extremely disagreeable task of announcing that

be could not fulfil his engagement. Now she
had cancelled it herself, and there was nothing
more to be said.

He supposed though he must see Mrs. Pleyel
: it would be awfully disagreeable, but he
supposed he could not shirk it. Of course the
girls would have told her all about it, but he
supposed he must go through the form of
asking her consent to his engagement to Eve.
He wondered if she would make any fuss. She
ought not, for if, as his mother seemed to think,
disgrace attended the name of Pleydell, she
ought to be more glad to get Eve well married
than Iris.

Why should they not be married on the day
already fixed, only substituting one sister for
the other ? It was the very simplest thing in
the world, and Eve was such a dear, reasonable
little thing, she very likely would not mind
going straight home to Rookwood without any
nonsense of a honeymoon tour, and then he
should not lose any hunting. This frost had

been bad enough, it would be too bad to lose
any more.

The Dower House was quite ready for his
mother : she could easily move there before the
day, and then Rookwood would be quite ready
for them. It was hard upon Iris of course ; he
was sorry for her, very sorry, but, after all, it
was her own fault. When she had him, why
could she not keep him ? If she had not made
herself so ridiculous with those conceited idiots
at Netherleigh, and bothered him about Rome
and all that nonsense which she knew he hated ,
and seemed to think his shooting and hunting-matters
of no consequence, perhaps he should
never have thought of Eve.

He did not know, though  the little darling
was so bewitching; he could not understand
how it was that he had ever looked at Iris
after he had once seen her. She was the only
creature that could ever make him happy,
and then how absolutely devoted she was to
him!

He would walk over to the Gate House and
get his interview with Mrs. Pleydell over ; perhaps
till he had done that he had better not
say anything to his mother. She would be
surprised, and, as he was quite aware, not well
pleased ; but after all, he was his own master,
and his marriage concerned no one but himself.
Still the conversation might not be a pleasant
one, and it would be better to defer it till he
was sure he should want Rookwood on his
wedding-day. That would, he well knew, be a
blow, and it was best to get everything disagreeable

over at once.

Breakfast was rather late, and he was notable
to start directly after, for he had to
arrange the shooting-party, make what excuse
he could for not accompanying them and give

his orders to the keepers. Then two of the
young ladies staying in the house challenged
him to a game at badminton in the gallery,
which he had some difficulty in evading, and,
just as he was starting, the agent stopped him
on some important business.

When he had finished that it was luncheon-times
so he waited for that meal, at which his
guests did not find him an amusing companion,
and started immediately after through the now
heavily-falling snow.

As the morning hours wore on, Mrs. Plej-
dell began to feel considerably surprised at
Laurence's non-appearance. Surely he must
come ? He could never intend to let the
matter rest as it was, and make no sign?
She kept Eve in the drawing-room, and insisted
on her reading for the appointed time,
but if the girl, instead of the prescribed
work, had read Sanscrit it would have fallen
on unheeding ears.

Luncheon passed almost in silence. Eve
was sulky at the thought that all she had
done at present was to give Iris her wish
of going to Rome, and deprive herself of
all the county gaieties, and her mother had
plenty of food for her thoughts, and was
besides desirous of making Eve feel herself in
disgrace.

At about three o'clock the bell rang.

'ego to your own room, Eve, and wait
there till I send for you," said Mrs. Pleyel.


"Mayn't I stay and see Laurence?" asked
EvOj pouting.

It was said from sheer contrariness ; for
to have seen him at present would have
been rather embarrassing to her. She wanted
to keep clear of meetings and promises for the
present.

"Do as I tell you," said her mother, coldly,
and Eve disappeared, taking care to vanish
round the corner of the staircase before
Laurence was admitted, though she watched
him from a coign of vantage divesting himself
of his ulster, and shaking the snow from
his boots.

It was a shock to Laurence, who had persuaded
himself that, with a very little trouble,
Mrs. Pleydell would be pacified, and induced
to let him marry Eve at once, that his extended
hand was not taken, and the only

greeting that he received was a freezing bow.

Mrs. Pleydell waited for him to speak, and
this still more disconcerted him. He had
expected to be received with a storm of
reproaches, and, when these were exhausted,
to have explained his own views plausibly.


At length he stammered,  he found it very
difficult to begin with those searching blue
eyes fixed inquiringly upon him, 

I  I suppose you have heard "

"What?" said Mrs. Pleydell, coldly, as he
hesitated.

I mean, I suppose Iris "

"I must remind you that my daughter's
name is Miss Netherleigh, Mr. Furnivall. Pray
proceed."

"I suppose she has told you that she 
that is I  that is you know "

Yes ?" said Mrs. Pleydell, continuing to
speak interrogatively.

She was determined not to help him in the
least.

"That  that she has cancelled our engagement
V

Do you imply that it is a caprice on her
parti"

No  1 can't say that ! She heard  overheard
what  what was not intended for her
ears."

Something that you never intended that
she should know 1"

'' Well, I can hardly say that."

By this time Laurence was scarlet, and
hotter than if he had been playing cricket in
August. Mrs. Pleydell leant back in her
chair, looking at him calmly and interrogatively.


I must have told her that "

"That?"

Oh, you must know  of course they have
loid you that I love Eve ?"

"Miss Pleydell, if you please. You have
no right to mention either of my daughters by
their Christian names."

But I love her  I mean to marry her."

"Bat I intend that you shall do nothing
of the kind. Is a promise of marriage, think
yon, so light a thing that it may be lightly
tossed one day to one sister and the next
to another ? If my girls had had a father or
brother, Mr. Furnivall, you would not have
dared to act as you have done. You would
have been afraid  yes, you may exclaim at
the word, but I deliberately repeat it  afraid
of the consequences. However, I am glad
that such was not the case; thankful that
you have shown yourself in your true colours
before the irrevocable knot was tied. It has
preserved my darling child from the misery
of finding herself linked to a man whom,
sooner or later, she must have learnt to
despise."

Despise !"

Yes. A high-toned nature must despise one
that is cowardly and untruthful."

"I defy you to say that either epithet applies
to me'' cried Laurence, angrily.

It was cowardly when you found that

your affections "  with a cutting emphasis 
"were fixing themselves on another, not at
once to apprise my daughter of the fact. It
was untruthful to go on acting as her lover
when, as you assert, you were ' in love ' with
her sister."

Mrs. Pleydell, do you not believe me, when
I say that I love Eve, and mean to marry
herr

"I confess, Mr. Furnivall, I shall never again
place much confidence in your assertions.
However, it is very possible that at this moment
you may be what you call in love with
ray second daughter."

"Believe me, I am. I cannot be happy
without her. Let me marry her on the 20th,
instead of her sister, and we shall be as happy
as the day is long."

Your happiness, Mr. Furnivall, is a matter
in which I am not in the least interested ; my
daughter's  even if she wished it, which I
greatly doubt  I will not imperil by allowing
her to unite her fate with that of anyone so

fickle as yourself. As to your marrying heron

the 20th Well, if you are not quite

mad, I wonder you are not struck by the
indecency of the proposal."

Well then, later."

"My daughter will not be nineteen till the
end of this month. She is naturally under my
control until she is one and twenty. Before
that time arrives and she is mistress of her own
actions, I declare most emphatically that she
shall not marry you. Probably long before
that time comes you will have forgotten her
very existence."

"Mrs. Pleydell, you are cruel. I never
loved before."

So you doubtless told my eldest daughter
and possibly many others. As I said before,
your happiness is a matter of the most perfect
indifference to me."

"ado you mean to say you forbid me to
see Eve?"

"You will not have much opportunity of
seeing Miss Pleydell at present. We start for

Rome on Tuesday or Wednesday, and shall be
absent till the end of the summer, possibly
longer."

I must see her before she goes."

"It is very easy to say 'must,' Mr.
Furnivall, but I shall not allow it."

*' Then I shall write."

* That I also forbid, and shall take precautions
to enforce my wishes."

You cannot mean to separate us for two
years !"

'' Most emphatically I do. If your so-called
love stands that test, I may perhaps
believe in it. At present it seems to me that
you are strangely blind to the enormity of
your own conduct."

I am sure I am very sorry to have made
Ir  Miss Netherleigh so unhappy."

Oh ! pray do not imagine you have done
that. Love in a mind like hers could not
exist without esteem, and, as your conduct of
course destroyed that, she can hardly feel
unhappy. Contempt for you and dislike

of the inevitable gossip are what she
feels."

Contempt !"

Yes," with a surprised air : *' what else
did you expect she could feel ?"

Laurence could not say that the thought of
a beautiful girl weeping over his faithlessness
had not been without its fascination for him,
so he remained silent.

'' For myself," continued Mrs. Pleydell, " I
confess that I have for some time felt
rather doubtful as to whether you were
qualified to make my daughter happy. You
seemed to have so few ideas in common with
her, and to have so little appreciation of her
refined and intellectual views. No doubt
it is all for the best, though I am sorry
the matter has ended so disgracefully for
you."

Laurence rose.

*'I don't think there is any more to be
said. I shall speak to Eve whenever I have a
chance."

VOL. III. F

Really ! Ah ! there is one thing I forgot.
Your ring and other presents and your letters
shall be returned tomorrow. I am sorry they
are not ready for you now, but Miss Nether-leigh
was fatigued with the ball and skating-party,
and is still asleep. Of course you will
return hers.'

" Of course. Mrs. Pleyel you  you will
be good to Eve? You are so awfully unkind
to her and she feels it so."

I am afraid Miss Pleydell is apt to make
somewhat random statements ; I am not aware
of ever having treated her otherwise than with
the most perfect justice."

*' She is such a darling;, and she would
be so loving if you would be the least kind.
She believes you dislike her."

Mrs. Pleydell's lip curled.

She believes nothing of the kind. If she
made you believe such nonsense, you must be
credulous indeed ! Good morning, Mr. Furnish
and she rang the bell.

The next moment he found himself in

the hall, feeling very far indeed from
triumphant.

As he walked home through the drifting
snow, he felt quite aghast at the treatment he
had received. He had expected reproaches,
tearful representation of Iris's misery at his desertion,
assurances that if she died he alone
would be responsible, but he had never once
doubted that his own wishes would triumph
and that he should leave the Gate House the
plighted husband of Eve Pleydell, even if he
did not obtain his desire of being married to
her at once.

And how different it had all been ! There
had been no reproaches as to the misery he had
caused ! Indeed, he had been expressly told
that the only sentiment he had inspired was
contempt, while he had been charged both with
cowardice and untruthfulness. And the worst
of it was that, angry as he felt at the accusations,
he could not absolutely deny them, could
not affirm that there was nothing in what Mrs.
Pleydell had said. She had been so dreadfully

f2

cool and calm, so perfectly at her ease, it was
impossible to think that she was grieved at
what had occm-red, and it was a terrible mortification
to him to find the indifference with which
his defection had been received.

His cheeks tingled again as he recalled the
cool scorn of Mrs. Plejdell's voice and manner
when she had asked him what else lie expected
from Iris but contempt ! Altogether he had
been made to feel  indeed, he still felt  so
small ! And to a young man of considerable
self-complacency like Laurence, this new experience
was exquisitely painful.

And then the calm way in which his hopes of
Eve had been quenched. But that, of course,
was all nonsense. When people loved each
other as they two did, it was impossible that
anyone could keep them apart for two whole
years.

When they came home from Rome he would
go and see them in London, and by that time
Mrs. Pleydell would be more reasonable, and
all would be right. It was hard on his little

I

darling, though, that he should be obliged tolet
her go without a word ; still if her mother
was in earnest in forbidding it  and she certainly
seemed to be so  there was no use in his
attempting to write. He must just wait till he
saw her.

He determined he would not tell his mother
till the next day, when all their guests would
be gone. By the way, she must put off the
party that was coming for the hunt ball ; he was
not at all in the humour to have people staying
in the house, it was bore enough to have to
entertain his guests for that one evening when
he had so much to think about. He should
enter into no explanations, merely announce the
fact, and leave her to draw her own conclusions,
and he should not mention Eve. Time enough
to do that when matters were a little more
forward.

Mr. Furnivall's guests could hardly have
found him amusing that night. He sat quite
silent excepting when addressed, and even then
frequently required to be spoken to a second

time. His mother saw something was very
much amiss, and wondered what it was, but
forbore to question him, knowing his inveterate
dislike to having his moods remarked
upon.

The next morning, when the last guest had
departed, he went to her in her morning-room.


Mother, I want you to put off all
the people who are coming here next
week."

Put them off ! My dear Laurence, why ?
There are two balls, and it will be a dreadful
disappointment to the girls who are
coming."

"Well, I can't help that."

'' But, my dear Laurence, you must have
some reason."

'' I don't choose to have anyone here.
My  my marriage with Miss Netherleigh is off,
and I don't want a lot of gossiping people
here."

Your marriage off ! Do you mean you are

not going to be married on the 20th ?" cried his
mother in astonishment. '* Why is it, Lam-once?
What has happened?"

I have told you the fact ; isn't that
enough V returned her son, gloomily. " At any
rate, it is all that I am going to say. I don't
want to be asked questions, or bothered, or
gossiped about, and I won't have anyone here
next week."

As you please, of course, Laurence, but you
are quite wrong. Shutting yourself up will
make much more gossip."

I tell you I cannot and will not stand
people in the house. If you think we must
have them say so at once, and I'll go
away."

Mrs. Furnivall thought for a moment, and
said,

'' It had better be so, I think. The breaking
off of your engagement will be a nine days'
wonder, and you would be very much better
out of the way. But, Laurence, you know I
don't want to tease you with questions, or to

hear anything you don't like to tell me, but you
really must give me some clue what I am to
say."

Say the truth, that you know nothing except
that it is all over," and Laurence walked
away, deliberating where he should go to avoid
his guests.

Mrs. Furnivall was very considerably perturbed.
She had always steadfastly maintained
to herself that Iris, though in many respects a
very nice girl, was by no means worthy of or
suited to Laurence. She should therefore logically
have been glad that the marriage was at
an end, and ultimately it was very probable
that she would rejoice, but at present she was
overwhelmed at the thought of all the gossip
the rupture would create, and also greatly annoyed
and mortified at knowing nothing whatever
of the cause.

Of course it was Iris's fault, of that she did
not for a moment doubt, but it was very humiliating
that, when questioned on the subject,
as she was of course sure to be, she should be

able to give no particulars, not even to say
what had been the final cause of the rupture.
And so being unable to say anything, and determined
not to confess her own ignorance,
Mrs. Furnivall took refuge in mysterious ejaculations
and shaking of the head, which, being
interpreted by each of her many interlocutors
after their own fashion, resulted in a very promiscuous
indictment against Iris, who happily
by that time was far out of reach.

Everyone told a different story, and emphasised
it by the assurance that they had heard it
from Mrs Furnivall, and the different factions
quarrelled fiercely over details, and only agreed
in vehemently condemning '''that heartless Miss
Netherleigh," and warmly sympathising with
'' poor dear Mrs. Furnivall."

No one ventured to repeat these rumours
to Aunt Rachel, the only person outside the
Gate House who really knew the whole state of
the case. Old Miss Netherleigh was held inconsiderable
awe in Bannerton, for she had a
somewhat caustic tongue, and was known to

speak very plainly when those she liked were
attacked. Therefore no one mentioned the
current stories before her, and the one lady who
ventured to remark what a very sad thing it
was for poor Miss Netherleigh her marriage
being broken off, only received for reply that
probably it was the best thing that ever happened,
and immediately constructed a theory
which found ready acceptance, that Iris's engagement
to some great grandee would be
speedily announced.

Much mortification was felt that Laurence
should have withdrawn himself from Coalshire
at this juncture. Several damsels had taken to
heart the old saying that " many a heart is
caught in the rebound," and were quite ready
to try their best to console him. No mention
of Eve had ever been made, and no one had
an idea that she had any connection with the
affair.

As we have said. Aunt Rachel was the only
person to whom Mrs. Pleydell told the whole
story from beginning to end. She wrote it

after Laurence had left her, for the snow was
falling too heavily to render it possible to
drive into Bannerton. Then she went into Iris's
room.

The girl still lay asleep, a calm, sweet repose,
which rejoiced her mother's heart. This
rest would calm and strengthen her beyond
anything, and the next day there would be so
much to do in preparing for their departure
that there would be distraction for her
mind.

Eve was curled up in the arm-chair in her
own room fast asleep also, and Mrs. Pleydell
returned to her correspondence. To Mrs.
William Pleydell she said that the marriage
was at an end, Mr. Furnivall having chosen to
get tired of Iris, and to fancy himself in love
with Eve, but she gave no particulars.

To Lady Netherleigh she said Iris had discovered,
happily before it was too late, that Mr.
Furnivall's affections were set on some one else,
and had at once, of course, cancelled her engagement.
To the other guests who were to

have come for the wedding she merely said that
Iris had seen fit, for ample reason, to renounce
her engagement.

All the letters finished, she summoned
Rogers.

Rogers, Miss Iris's marriage is broken off fora
very good reason. I need not tell you, the
fault is not on her side, but of course, when
such a thing happens, there will be gossip, and
I want to get her away from it all as quickly
as possible. I think of going to Rome, where
Miss Iris is very anxious to go, for a month or
two and then to London. Can you and
Martha be ready to start Tuesday or at latest
Wednesday? We can stay a day or two in
London for anything we want."

Rogers was a person of very few words.
"All shall be ready for Tuesday, ma'am."
Very well, then send me Simmons."
With her housekeeper and butler, Mrs. Pleyel
settled all that was to be done in her
absence, and then felt that she wished the time
of departure was nearer.

Iris awoke and came down to dinner. She
exerted herself to talk calmly and naturally,
and, though her mother saw and appreciated
the effort Eve noticed nothing unusual in her
manner, and lamented bitterly to herself that
she had so signally failed in inflicting the
punishment she had hoped upon her.

CHAPTER IV.

Sorrow preys upon
Its solitude, and nothing more directs it
From its sad visions of the other world
Than calling it at moments back to this ;
The busy have no time for tears.

The Two Oscar. Byron.

'-' T CAN understand that you are naturally
 very much annoyed," said Mrs. William
Pleydell ; ' of course he behaved very ill, so
near the wedding, and all that and of course
any esclandre of the sort always goes against a
girl, still the fact remains that he is an excellent
loath, and, as he won't marry Iris, I cannot in
the least understand why you will not let him
please himself by marrying Eve."

Louisa ! you cannot really mean it ! Allow
Eve, who requires such careful guidance, to
marry a man absolutely devoid of principle !"

'' I daresay he would take just as good care
of her as anybody else."

"Besides, I am by no means certain that she
cares about him herself."

That makes a difference. It is an old story."

Tt is a very painful one. I fear it is quite
clear that Eve must have given him great
encouragement, which, under the circumstances,
is quite inexcusable."

She always was a most inveterate little
flirt. I don't think she can help it ; it comes to
her naturally."

I am sure I wish it did not."

' I'm afraid you're hard on the child, Grace.
She tells me she has missed ever so many balls
in Coalshire, and she hates the thought of
going to Rome. Now, why shouldn't you leave
her with me till you come back at Easter? Of
course, at present, I couldn't take her out, but
she might see a few people."

*No, thank you, Louisa, I know you mean
it most kindly, but Eve must stay with me."

' Well, I think it is a pity, but there is no
more to be said. Tom will be sadly vexed at
missing you."

Is he not in London ?"

Nos he has gone on business into Spain.
You know that Mr. Francia has taken him into
partnership V

'' No  he told me that Mr. Francia had made
some proposals to him, but I did not know that
it went so far as a partnership. I am sure I am
very glad."

It is only just settled. It seems Mr. Francia
knew a great deal about poor Mr. Pleydell's
business and had a very high opinion of Tom,
so he first offered him the position of manager,
and then asked him to become a partner.
There was some important business to be
carried on in Spain, and so Tom went last
week for a month."

Well ! I hope it will turn out well. I mean
that he will find Mr. Francia a pleasant person

to work with. Do you know much of him,
Louisa."

Mrs. Pleydell asked the question in all
innocence, but it evidently discomposed her
sister-in-law greatly. She coloured, fidgeted,
and at length rose and walked to a flower-stand,
where, standing with her back to the room, she
said,

Grace, can you keep a secret ?"

' Yes, of courses' said Mrs. Pleydell, wonderingly
; *' but if it is anything you would rather
not tell me, Louisa, pray do not do so. You
know I am not curious''

Everyone must know some time, but I have
told no one yet, not even Tom. Oh, Grace,
you can guess."

No, indeed' said Mrs. Pleydell, somewhat
bewildered.

"Not that I  that Mr. Francia has asked me
has made me promise "

"To marry him !" exclaimed Mrs. Pleydell ;
surely it is very "

"Soon," she was going to say, but broke

VOL. III. G

off, she had no wish to say anything unpleasant.


You are shocked," said Mrs. William, who,
now that the confession was made, had returned
to her seat. " Of course it cannot be
yet ; and it is not like a new acquaintance. I
have known him so long, before I was married
even."

'' 1 suppose you have not seen much of him
of late years, as Tom did not know him."

No, he has been abroad. Tom knows nothing
yet, I have only told you ; of course,
whenever it is, it Avill be very, very quiet."

Well Louisa, whatever you do will, I hope,
be for your happiness."

Thank you, Grace ; I know you mean it.
I only wish you would spare me Eve ; but I
see that is hopeless. When do you start ?"

"On Saturday. I think travelling will bethe
best thing for Iris."

No one who met Iris would have guessed
what she was enduring, the only difference in
her being that she was paler and rather more

silent than usual. She was struggling to kill
her love with pride, and with very fair prospect
of ultimate success. But as yet love was by
no means dead, and stung her fearfully in its
death agonies.

Perhaps what was the hardest thing of all
for her to bear was the conviction that Laurence,
to whom she had given her whole heart
and allegiance, had never loved her as he did
Eve. Never had she heard that passionate
tenderness in his voice that she had overheard
that night on the pool. Probably, after all, he
had never cared for her very much, and she 
had given herself up to him so entirely ! She
was thankful that even her mother did not
know this, the overflowing drop in her bitter
cup.

Iris's was a proud and self-reliant nature,
and any trouble that she could bear alone and
in silence was to her less agonising than one
for which even her mother could pity her.
There was one thing that comforted her. Review
her conduct how she would, there seemed

g2

to her nothing for which she could blame herself,
and it was certainly a great boon to escape
self-reproach. It would be long before she
could trust a man again, if indeed she could
ever do so, and now her first duty was to
forget what had happened ; or if, as she sadly
feared, that were as yet impossible, to appear
to the world, and even to her mother, as if she
had done so.

She did not succeed in deceiving her mother,
Mrs. Pleydell followed with tolerable accuracy
all the workings of her darling's mind, her
heart aching for her sore trouble ; but she knew
that silence was the truest kindness, and one
infinitely more appreciated by Iris than would
have been the most outspoken sympathy.

When Mrs. Pleydell returned from her visit
to her sister-in-law, she found, to her surprise,
Mr. Urban seated with her daughters. The
girls, under Rogers' escort, had been out to do
some shopping, and as they reached the hotel-door
on their return they encountered him.
He expressed great surprise at seeing them ; it

was too cold to stand, and a few drops of rain
began to fall. He asked if he might come in
and see Mrs. Pleydell, the waiter saying she
had returned, which, however, proved not to bethe
case, and he remained chatting to the two
girls till she came in.

Mrs. Pleydell had thought him particularly
pleasant at Beechmont ; she found him even
more so now. He made himself useful also, for
he had spent the previous winter in Rome, and
was able to give a great deal of valuable
information and advice.

It is more than probable that I shall be in
Rome myself very shortly," he said ; " I mean
to give myself that indulgence as soon as a
small matter of business in which I am interested
is settled, and I do not think it can delay
me long. I shall hope to find you comfortably
established when I arrive."

He took his departure after a long visit, but
almost immediately returned.

I had quite forgotten," he said ; " 1 have in
my pocket a ticket for a box at the St. James's

to-night. It was sent to me this morning, and
it will give me great pleasure if you will make
use of it."

Oh, mummy, do say yes !" cried Eve.
Mrs. Pleydell accepted the box, naturally
expressing a hope that Mr. Urban would join
them there.

During the evening he contrived to have a
few words apart with Eve.

"I suppose this sudden journey is the result
of your schemes ?"

Yes ; but," pouting, " I never dreamt of
being carried off abroad. We miss two balls
this week and three next."

That is your punishment for making
mischief."

And it has given Iris her great wish of
going to Rome. I'm so sorry."
How about the bucolic swain ?"
Oh ! there was a great fuss. Mummy was
very cross and scolded me awfully. He wanted
to marry me at once, but she wouldn't even
let him see me, and said he must wait till I

was twenty-ODe, for she would never consent."


And long before that, Eve, you will have
married me."

The girl cast down her eyes and blushed
beneath his ardent gaze. Certainly all the love
of which Eve was capable was given to this
man whose acquaintance she had made in so
irregular a manner, and who had been assured
in writing by her unsuspecting mother that
she would never suffer him to approach her
daughter.

Mrs. Pleydell, turning at the moment, caught
something of his impassioned gaze, and made
some remark which broke up the tete-a-Ute.
What on earth was it, she wondered to herself
that night, that made her silly, frivolous, heartless
little daughter so universally attractive to
men ? It could not be her beauty, for there
were plenty of girls far prettier who did not
meet with a tithe of the attention. Wherein
did the great attraction lie %

Mrs. Pleydell did not realize, indeed she was

probably not aware of the fact, that Eve was a
past mistress in the art of flattery, and was
able to make any man believe, if she chose to
take the trouble, that he was everything that
was delightful.

The journey to Rome was uneventful. Eve
longed to stay in Paris, enjoying her two days
among the shops there more than she was at all
likely to enjoy any of the beauties of the
eternal city. When they left it she was in the
worst of humours, and made herself so disagreeable
that Mrs. Pleydell cordially wished
that Laurence, who evidently thought her a
SYeet- tempered martyr, and Tom, who regarded
her as an angel, could have had the felicity of
travelling with her. But then, as she reflected,
remembering the gentle softness that Eve had
displayed the instant that Laurence made his
appearance at Cockleton, if there had been any
such audience, doubtless the girl's conduct
would have been utterly different.

Rome did not please Eve. Her mother and
Iris wished to devote themselves to seeing it

thoroughly, and, having no special friends
there, did not care to go out much. Eve
wearied indescribably of the whole thing. If
she had gone with a large, merry party, she
would have affected to enjoy of all things the
pictures, churches, and ruins. As it was, she
did not feel, and would not affect, the slightest
interest in anything. She always complained
of being tired, sat down on the first chair
looking like a martyr, and absolutely refused
to look at or be interested in anything.

It was gall and wormwood to her to see how
thoroughly Iris enjoyed Rome, and also she
was much mortified by the expressions of fervent
admiration of her sister's beauty which
frequently caught her ear.

After they had been in Rome about a week,
they one day, in the Vatican, encountered a
gentleman who welcomed Iris with delighted
surprise.

Miss Netherleigh ! This is indeed an unexpected
pleasure !"

"Mamma," said Iris, "this is Mr. Thornham.

I told you how beautiful his sketches of Rome
were when I was at Netherleigh."

Of course with such a well-qualified cicerone
the galleries became more than ever interesting,
and Eve, yawning in her self-inflicted
isolation J almost wished sometimes for an
earthquake that would swallow up all the
'' dull, stupid places " together. Mr, Thornham
tried several times to interest her and draw
her into the conversation but Eve was sulky
and would not be appeased, and so he devoted
his attention to Iris.

The situation puzzled him considerably. He
had heard from Lady Netherleigh of her engagement,
and was aware that the wedding-day
was fixed : he had seen Laurence twice at
Netherleigh, and thought him but little worthy
of such a prize  indeed such had been the
general opinion, especially on the occasion of
his second visit. Still she had seemed very
fond of him, it was hardly likely she would
have broken it off, and if he had  well, she had
none of the look of a jilted or lovelorn maiden.

He refrained from anything in the guise of a
question, but, writing to Lady Netherleigh
about a commission with which she had intrusted
him, he confided his perplexity to her
and received her version of the story.

"I fancy it was a very bad case," she
wrote ; " but Mrs. Pleydell said as little as
possible, and I was too discreet to ask questions.
I think their going abroad was a
capital plan to avoid the natural gossip. She
returned all her presents the day they left
home. I confess I am glad she is saved from
anyone so little worthy of her."

So was Mr. Thornham. From the first moment
of their acquaintance Iris had had a great
fascination for him, and, now that she was
free, why should he not venture to hope ?
Not yet of course. No true woman could at
once put aside the thought of a man with
whom she had been on the brink of marriage
and replace him by another, but, when sufficient
time had elapsed, surely there was no
reason why he should despair. He had, at

any rate, in his favour the great similarity
of tastes, which had certainly never existed
between her and Mr. Furnivall.

In the meantime, the life was very pleasant.
Nothing was more delightful to the enthusiastic
artist than to exhibit all the beauties of
Rome , which he loved as if they were his
own, to such sympathetic and well-read women
as Iris and her mother. He was quite
in his element, and every day increased his
admiration for Iris's mind and person.

Mrs. Pleydell guessed his feelings, but
thought it best not to interfere. The interest
of all she was seeing was evidently doing
Iris all the good she had hoped that it would ;
indeed she confessed to herself that it exceeded
her expectations. Mr. Thornham's company
rendered their sight-seeing infinitely more
entertaining than it would have been without
him, and if, in the course of it, he made
himself so agreeable to her child as to enable
her to forget her trouble, it would be with her
own entire concurrence.

Eve was, at that moment, the only annoyance
her mother had, but she was a very
great one. She was absolutely impracticable;
would not even look at, or attempt to be
interested in anything that was pointed out
to her, drooped her head with the air of a
martyr, professed perpetual fatigue, and, subsiding
on the first chair, begged pathetically
that no one would mind her  she was used
to waiting. She Alas considerably disconcerted,
however, at being taken absolutely at her
word, and being left to her own reflections
during the, to her, apparently interminable
time that it took lor mother and sister to see
anything to their satisfaction.

Her delight was unfeigned when, about a
fortnight after their arrival, Mr. Urban made
his appearance. Eve revived at once. Mr.
Urban accompanied them everywhere, and
there was no more talk of fatigue, to Mrs.
Pleydell's mingled amusement and disgust.

Probably he and Eve did not know or care
anything about pictures, statues, or ruins, but

they wandered about, seeming to look at
them, and it at any rate looked better than
to see Eve perched in solitude on a chair,
trying to look like Patience on a Monument.
What Eve liked best was when, a little later,
expeditions were made to Tivoli, Albany, and
various other places. Besides,, Mr. Urban knew
a great many people in Rome, and introduced
so many of them to Mrs. Pleydell that
her first intention of going nowhere was
soon abandoned.

She watched Mr. Urban very closely, and
believed that she saw that he was becoming
really attached to Eve. He and Mr. Thorn-ham
were old acquaintances, and the latter
spoke of him as a man well known and
liked. Mrs. Pleydell could not disguise from
herself that it would be a great relief to
her to have Eve safely married to some man
who could be trusted to take care of her,
and whom she really loved.

The question was would Eve ever really

love anyone? She had professed to be so
miserable at being forbidden to see or write
to Mr. Esmond, yet almost immediately after
she had contrived to make Laurence Furnivall
wildly in love with her, and must certainly
have given him great encouragement,
even if, as her mother firmly believed, she
did not care in the least for him.

Now she was very decidedly encouraging
Mr. Urban. To all appearance she was in
love with him; but was such really the case?
Mrs. Pleydell could not answer the question,
and did not know how to find out. Eve
was so perverse that to ask information of
her would be worse than useless. Altogether
it seemed to her there was nothing to do
but to be patient, and watch the progress of
events.

The constant succession of new ideas and
impressions was doing more for Iris than anything
else could have done. Society alone
would not have been half so efficacious ; it

would have distracted her mind for the time,
but there would have been nothing to occupy
it when in solitude.

Now the days were occupied in seeing interesting
and beautiful things and the evenings,
when not passed in society, were amply
filled with reading of what they had seen, or
looking out references required by some train
of thought which had been awakened.

It must not be imagined that Iris had forgotten
her lover and her loss of him  far, indeed,
from it. She still in secret shed bitter
tears over her slighted love, and sometimes
felt as if she could never again know happiness
; but, unconsciously to herself, these sad
thoughts recurred less and less frequently; her
mind was so fully occupied that she was unable
to brood, and almost insensibly the soreness of
her trouble passed from her.

Her mother guessed that such was the case,
though she carefully refrained from ever recurring
to the past ; but she felt deeply thankful
for the pride that had so effectually helped her

child, when she heard once more Iris's low soft
laughy and saw the violet eyes sparkle with
something of their old light. Had Mr. Thorn-ham
anything to do with the change? she
wondered. If so, she should be glad. Iris
certainly seemed to enjoy his company; but
perhaps she had not as yet fathomed his
meaning.

Such was, indeed the case. Unlike Eve,
Iris was not accustomed to fancy people in
love with her ; indeed, she thought very little
about herself. She was naturally aware of her
own beauty  it would have been affectation
had she pretended that she was not  but, like
all real beauties, she thought far less of her
looks than do those whose claims to the title
of beauty are uncertain.

She liked Mr. Thornham very much and
was quite conscious that he enjoyed her society;
she had found at Netherleigh that he
always talked to her when he could, but of
anything further she had no idea. He saw
that such was the case at present, and was

VOL. III. H

wiKC cjnonh not to R?iy anything fiat might
enlighten lir, hut pio allowed hirnHolf to hope,

ft was 11i(; last wof*k in Marli, and in two
(lay Mi'K. [Mf.'y(l(i]l and her daughters were
to Icavo Rome, 'i'hoy intended to go home
leisurely, stopping for Rome day at Florence,
an far an while town Mr. Thornfiam waH
to aef;orn[)any them. 'i'hr;nee tfiey were to
proceed along the Riviera, while he went
on to Bologna, Ferrara, and Venice ; but he
hoped to be in London about the middle of
May.

It liar] been half understood that Mr. Urban
intf;n(h;d to effort thei laches home ; Something
had beer Maid about it, and l]ve had no doubt
whatsoever aljout tluj matter. It was therefore
a grrjat blow to Ike)' wliei), on a lovely
mf)iniug in March, hIh", found such was not to
be. th(; eaK(!. Kv(t was alone when he wan
announced, hei mother and iris having gone
with Mr. 'riiornham on a Herod visit to tho
catacombs, which nothing would induce her to
visit again.

'' It is a rave chance to find you alone,
Eve."

Yes. Mummy watches me just as a cat
does a mouse. However, I loouldnt go into
those horrid catacombs again. I was frightened
to death there the last time."

*' I'm glad to have this chance of wishing
you good-bye, Eve. I must leave Rome tonight."


To-night !  leave Rome !" and Eve's face
fell. '' Why, I thought you were going home
with us."

So I was  so I hoped, Eve, but my Irish
agent has telegraphed for rae. He wants me
on urgent business, and I must go. Are you
very sorry, little one? You can hardly be
more so than I."

*' Surely you might let the business wait a
little," said Eve, pouting ; " a short time could
not make any difference."

I wish I could think so, dear. Eve, you
know I want to stay ; I should like of all things
travelling home with you, and I thought it

h2

would be a good time to speak to your mother.
I think she likes me Eve, and it will be all
right."

But, Claud, do you really mean you won't
stay"

Not won't. Eve, my pet, I would if I could,
but the business is of importance, and go I
must. Don't be angry with me, my pet,"
putting his arm round her waist and turning
her face up to him with one hand ; " you know
I wouldn't go if I could help it. I don't want
to leave my pretty bird."

'rand when shall you come back? Shall
you be in London as soon as we are?"
said Eve, beginning to be a little mollified.


' That is right ! I am glad to see a smile !"
kissing her fondly ; '' I don't know yet how
long I shall be kept, but I think I am
sure to be in London by the 1st of
May."

'' You mustn't stay away any longer."

I shall come the very minute I can.

Eve, remember you belong to me. You are
not to flirt with anyone else's'

*' Except Laurence. I must finish him
off."

'' Well, I don't like it, I wish you had left
the whole thing alone. However, I don't
think I need be jealous of him."

' Jealous of Laurence ! You !"

Well, I said I wasn't. But finish it off as
soon as you can, and don't get into anything
of the sort again."

You are not going yet''

''I must. I have a heap of things, all
left to the last of course, to do before I
start."

Their farewell, which was a very tender
one, lasted some time, and was very nearly
broken in upon by Mrs. Pleydell and Lis,
who returned the moment Mr. Urban had
left.

Eve announced his defection, but she seemed
so little disturbed, in fact, in such excellent
spirits, that her mother suspected he must

have said something more definite, and asked
quietly,

*' Was that alle said, Eve V

But Eve calmly responded,

'' Yes  no, by-the-by, he said he should
probably be in London by the 1st of
May."

CHAPTER V.

Journeys end in lovers' meeting
Every "vise man's son doth know,

Twelfth Night Act ii, Sc. 3.

A S the party, consisting of Mrs. Pleydell, her
-*- daughters, and Mr. Thornham, were
strolling through the galleries of the Officii on
the morning after their arrival in Florence,
they suddenly heard an exclamation behind
them, and turning, found themselves confronted
by Lord Rootley.

This is an unexpected pleasure," said Mrs.
Pleydell, after the first greetings were over;
we thought you were in the south of
Spain."

So I was till quite lately, but it grew so
very Lot that I made my way to Cannes and
Nice, and, not particularly liking either, I came
on here. Surely you haven't been here
longs

*' We only arrived last night. And
you r

Oh, I have been here a week, in a few
days I am going to Genoa, and then slowly
on to Cannes and Paris."

That is exactly what we are going todo."


"Then I hope we shall be fellow-travellers."


'' It would be very pleasant. Do you know
Mr. Thornham? He has been our companion
from Rome, and is kindly pointing out to us
the chief beauties here. He is going on to
Bologna to see the Guides."

The two gentlemen bowed, Mr. Thornham
feeling a pang of jealousy at the thought that
this good-looking young man, who appeared
to know Iris so well, would in all probability

have the pleasure of travelling home with her.
How he wished he had never committed
himself by saying he was going home by way
of Bologna and Venice ! He was ashamed to
change now, but would very gladly have
done so, could he have thought of a satisfactory
excuse.

Eve's first thought at sight of Lord Rootley
was that after all it was fortunate that Claud
was not with them. After he had once settled
matters with her mother, she thought there
would be no fear of her drawing back, while,
if she knew beforehand that Mr. Urban and Mr.
Esmond were identical, she might refuse to
have anything to say to him. It would be
too dreadful, and Lord Rootley was just the
sort of goody-goody young man who would
think it right to tell everybody everything
and make as much mischief as was
possible.

This was ungrateful of her. She ought to
have remembered how punctilious he had been
in speaking to her alone about Mr. Esmond,

and that no one would ever have known that
he had done so, if it had not been for her own
incautious exclamation to Iris. But Eve was
put out at having no one to pay her attention.


After the first greeting, Lord Rootley devoted
himself entirely to Mrs. Pleydell and Iris, more
especially to the latter, and Mr. Thornham had
but little patience with Eve's provoking ways,
which had been so troublesome in Rome before
Mr. Urban's arrival, and was besides listening
eagerly to detect whether the new-comer had
any special interest for the girl he was so fast
learning to love. To be neglected always
made Eve cross, and it was not long before
Mrs. Pleydell, glancing round, found she was
missing.

I suppose Eve has one of her fits of fatigue
again," she said, with a somewhat provoked
laugh, and Mr. Thornham very reluctantly
volunteered to go in search.

It was not long before he found her established
on a sofa, with the air of patient martyrdom

with which he had become so well
acquainted in Rome, and which irritated him so
much.

'' Miss Pleydell, your mother has sent me to
beg you will join her at once."

I am so tired, I can't ; mummy cares for all
these stupid old pictures, and could stand looking
at them all day. She forgets I can't do so
much."

I am sorry you have grown weak again all
of a sudden. You have seemed strong enough
for the last two months."

Eve coloured with vexation. She had long
since found that it was quite useless to waste
any of her fascinations on Mr. Thornham. She
rose with a very bad grace.

Well, if I must go I must ; but I think it is
very hard I couldn't have been left to rest in
peace ; I should have been there all right when
they came back."

We are going out another way."

But you needn't."

"Yes, I want to show Miss Netherleigh

something that I am sure will interest
her."

Oh, of course if it is anything for Iris it is
hopeless; everything is always arranged for
her pleasure."

They had now joined the others, and Eve
was much mortified to find that though she was
as sulky, and tried to make herself as disagreeable
as possible, no one seemed to take any
notice of her. Mrs. Pleydell had found that
this was the best way of treating one of her
daughter's fits of bad temper, and Iris was too
much interested in all she saw and in the conversation
of the two gentlemen, to observe that
anything was amiss.

It appeared that Lord Rootley was staying at
the same hotel, so he naturally joined them at
the table-dliote,

"You must be pleased at Lady Imogene's
marriage," said Iris, next to whom he had seated
himself, Mr. Thornham to his exceeding discomfiture
finding himself between Mrs. Pleyel
and Eve, where his only consolation was

to listen for Iris's voice, and try to make out
what she was saying, thus rendering his own
answers to observations addressed to him
less apposite than might have been wished.

* Yes, indeed, I was delighted ; I cannot
fancy two people better suited. I saw a great
deal of him while I was at Beechmont. It
was very provoking being ordered ois just as
I was beginning to know something about
Coalshire."

But it is always best to take precautions intime."


** Yes, of course, and I do believe it has done
me all the good in the world. I must try to
get my father to let me go to Beechmont
sometimes, even if he does not."

But do you think he will not ?"

He does not like it. He never did, and this
time he seems to have done so less than usual.
Then my mother fancies it disagrees with her,
and Hildegarde prefers Pinefield; it is nearer
London, and therefore gayer."

*' I am sure no one could complain of dulness

at Beechmont this winter ! Why, the house was
always full."

'' My mother cannot endure the country if
she is left for a moment alone. They are in
London now."

Yes, I know. I found a letter from Imogene
here yesterday, asking me to be bridesmaid."


Does she say when the wedding is to

ber

Is it possible you don't know ? The 1st of
June."

*' I am afraid we are not a writing family.
Our correspondence is of the slenderest."

Then we have really told you some
news !"

Lord Rootley was exceedingly puzzled by
finding Iris still unmarried and unattended by
Laurence. As he said, his family were not good
correspondents, indeed Lady Imogene was the
only one who wrote, and she had been so occupied
by her own engagement that she had
quite forgotten to tell him about Iris. When,

therefore, the next day he happened to befor
a short time alone with Mrs. Pleydell, he
said,

"I was so surprised yesterday to see Miss
Netherleigh with you. I thought she was to
have been married in January ?"

"Her engagement is at an end," said Mrs.
Pleydell , with some surprise. " I thought,, of
course, you would have heard what naturally
was a nine days' wonder. She discovered,
fortunately in time, that Mr. Furnivall preferred
some one else, and at once released
him."

I had heard nothing. I am afraid it must
have been a great grief to her."

"She has borne it nobly. I do not mean
to say that she has not suffered. No woman
could help doing so. But I don't think it would
be possible for her to love without esteem  hers
is by no means a weak character and also
her pride forbids her to mourn for one who had
deserted her. I think the change of scene has
done her good."

Lord Rootley said very little but he was
filled with astonishment. He had seen a good
deal of Iris during the autumn when she was
the chief friend of his favourite sister, and he
marvelled greatly at any man who had had the
good fortune to win her allowing the prize to
slip from his grasp.

Certainly he had wondered that her choice
should have fallen on Laurence, who appeared
to him a good sort of young fellow, but absolutely
devoted to field sports, and quite unable
to enter into any of the intellectual interests of
which he soon discovered Iris had so many. If
her eyes had been opened he would not have
been so much surprised, but that she should
have been rejected for another seemed inconceivable.
Well, it was no business of his ; it
was very delightful falling in with such pleasant
companions,, it would render his return journey
very much more agreeable, and he at once fell
into the way of regarding himself as one of the
party.

This was very pleasant to everyone excepting

Mr. Thornham, who, if he had had any
doubt before as to his own feelings respecting
Iris, was bitterly enlightened, by his jealousy of
every word she spoke to Lord Rootley, as to
how much he loved her. If only, he thought
despondingly, he could have had her to himself
a little longer, if the pleasant time in Rome
could but have lasted for another month or
six weeks perhaps then he might have dared
his fate, and with some hope of success. She
seemed to enjoy his society, they had many
interests and pursuits in common, there seemed
no reason why he should despair.

But he feared Lord Rootley ; he was a
younger man, very good-looking and agreeable,
with the advantage of being an older acquaintances
and, owing to his own folly in having
arranged to return home by a different route,
he should lose all the pleasant opportunities of
travel of which his rival would of course hasten
to avail himself.

For Mr. Thornham was far too genuinely in
love to believe that anyone, not previously en-vol.

III. I

gaged, could fail to be fascinated by Iris, and
he judged by Lord Rootley's evident pleasure
in her society and appropriation of it, that he
was very much in the same condition as
himself.

Perhaps it was as well that they were to
part at Florence. It would have been almost
more than he could have borne to travel slowly
home to England in their company, watching
the whole time the slow and sure destruction
of the hopes that had become so dear to him.
For, being really very much in love, he was of
course diffident of his own merits and powers
of pleasing, and exaggerated all his rival's
advantages.

Eve saw that he was in love with Iris, and
took pleasure in saying little things respecting
Lord Rootley, which she was in hopes pained
and made him jealous. It was very hard to
see her sister, whom she chose to consider
old and jxtssee," the object of attention to the
two young men of the party, while she was
left unnoticed. Of course it showed their bad

taste but it did not make the situation less
dull and mortifying.

It was so hard, too, to have so utterly failed
in punishing Iris. All she had succeeded in
doing was in giving her nearly three months in
Rome, which she had evidently greatly enjoyed,
in delivering her from marrying a man
who would have kept her always shut up in
the dulness of Rookwood, and in possibly
enabling her to marry Lord Rootley. It was
too aggravating I If it had not been for her
hope of refusing Laurence, and of telling him
the reason why she had encouraged him, she
would have been in despair. -

Now, too, she felt it incumbent upon her to
keep some sort of guard over her temper. She
did not care what Mr. Thornham thought of
her ; he did not seem, from what she could
gather, to go out at all in London, or to know
any of her friends. His opinion of her was
absolutely immaterial, as she had very soon
found out that it was useless for her to try to
charm him.

l2

But Lord Kootley was different ; he was in
her set, and knew her friends, and might easily
ruin the reputation she had always held  out
of her own domestic circle  for imperturbable
sweetness of temper. So, after the first day's
crossness in the Officii, which she trusted he
had been too occupied with his surprise and
pleasure at meeting them to observe, she became
as gentle and submissive as could be
wished, and Mrs. Pleydell began to wonder
whether this meant that she was trying to
captivate Lord Rootley, or what was the reason
of the change.

If it was any hope of fascinating Lord Rootley,
there certainly did not seem much hope of
its being fulfilled. He was pleasant and courteous
to her, and very attentive to Mrs.
Pleydell, but there never seemed an end of
what he had to say to Iris. This became more
evident after they left Florence, where of course
the art-treasures made their topics of conversation
more general.

It was not that they talked apart, or with
any affectation of special confidence, but he
was always consulting her and appealing to
her judgment about the things that interested
him; and Mrs. Pleydell, though fairly well-acquainted
with her daughter's thoughts and
views, was often surprised to find how much
attention Iris had given to all topics of philanthropy,
more especially those which aimed at
aiding people to help themselves.

She and Lord Rootley seemed to think alike
on most points ; when they did not he was
always most patient in explaining his views,
and equally ready to hear all that she had to
say on her side. There was none of the impatient
contempt for a woman's opinion which
Laurence had manifested even on the most
trivial occasions, and which had so greatly
irritated Mrs. Pleydell, even though Iris had
never seemed to notice it. In short, Mrs.
Pleydell began to build castles in the air and
to hope that her darling child might console

herself for her disappointment by a marriage
with one who seemed in every way worthy of
her.

And Iris herself? Very certainly no thought
of love either for Mr. Thornham or Lord Rootley
had as yet entered her mind. When her
heart did not ache it still felt stunned and
numbed by the blow dealt by Laurence's desertion,
and by the conviction that, though he
had said he loved her, he had never done so
with a tithe of the devotion evinced in his
passionate appeal to Eve.

No thought of her own future, certainly no
thought of love or marriage, had even entered
her mind ; if such had been suggested to her,
she would probably have answered, and, as she
believed, sincerely, that she should never
marry. ,

Not because she still loved Laurence. Asher
mother had said, love in her nature could
not exist without esteem, and when she knew
that he loved another, and yet had ostensibly
remained her lover, all respect for him had

died, and was replaced by contempt. If it
bad not been for this her sufferings would
have been greater than they were, but as it
was they had been severe, and it was not
likely that the thought of another love should
yet have occurred to her.

Eve listened with considerable anxiety to
hear whether either her mother or Iris mentioned
Claud Urban's name as having been
with them in Rome. If they did, might not
Lord Rootley, who was so fond of mischief-making
and meddling, think proper to enlighten
them respecting his identity with the
Mr. Esmond who had spent a short time in
Coalshire.

It was true he had promised her to say
nothing, on condition of her promising not to
meet Mr. Esmond again unknown to her
mother, and he had no means of knowing
that she had almost immediately broken her
word. But, not being scrupulous herself, Eve
never put much faith in the promises of others,
-and felt no certainty that he might not betray

her to Iris on the first opportunity. If Mr.
Urban were not mentioned, the fact might
not occur to him, and the explosion which
would ensue might be averted.

And it happened as she wished. Iris had
been so monopolised by Mr. Thornham as to
come but little into contact with Claud, and
she was besides more than ever disinclined to
take any part in her sister's affairs. Even
while striving to condemn Eve as little as
possible for what had occurred, she could not
hold her blameless ; and was therefore doubly
anxious to interfere in no Vv'ay in her concerns.


Mrs. Pleydell's silence was caused by a
different motive. She had believed herself to
be sure that Mr. Urban was in love with
Eve, and during the latter part of their stay
in Rome had expected daily that he would
propose, and, so far as she could understand
Eve, that she would accept him. His sudden
departure was therefore a great surprise, and
she had no wish to talk about him, or say

how much they had see of him until she
saw what his future conduct might be.

It was of no use to question Eve. Her
mother felt quite sure that she should be no
nearer knowing what had passed in that last
interview in Rome even if she did so, and
was therefore obliged patiently to await the
course of events. But the result was satisfactory
to Eve: Claud Urban's name was not
mentioned.

Soon after she arrived in Rome, Mrs. Pleyel
had received a letter from Tom, telling
her of his having been taken into partnership
by Mr. Francia.

It is wonderfully kind of him," he wrote.
Personally, as you know, I am quite a
stranger to him, and I am quite puzzled to
think how he can know so much about meas
he seems to do. He quite takes away my
breath sometimes by appearing to know all
my thoughts and opinions on business matters.
I thought no one could have known me sa

well, except my father, of whom something
in his manner sometimes reminds me.

*'0f course this partnership in so lucrative
a business will materially aid me in what, as
you know, is my first object in life : clearing
off every debt my father left. I told Mr.
Francia honestly that such was the one goal
before me, and that he must not expect me
to be a partner who would spend or entertain
largely, as I shall retain only 200 a
year for myself, and devote everything else
to clearing off the debts. I thought it was
better to have this explanation, so that we
might start fair, understanding each other. He
shook my hand, and said my feelings did me
credit, and that though he thought most
people would call me quixotic, he honoured my
chivalry too much to do so.

It was rather an odd, stilted speech, and
his manner as he made it was peculiar, but I
am sure he meant it kindly. He will entertain
a good deal himself, I fancy, as he is looking
at houses, and seems to have nearly decided on

one in Belgrave Square. He can do nothing
without my step-mother's advice : he even says
that her taste is so good that, when the house
is found , he shall beg her to undertake all the
furnishing and decoration for him, if she does
not think it too much trouble.

"I cannot tell you what a disappointment it
was to me, on my return from Spain, to find
that I had missed you in London. I should
like to have done in person what it seems so
cold to do in writing : to thank you for the
help you so generously gave me when the
troubles came last year. Of course now I no
longer need it, but I feel your kindness as much
as if I had availed myself of it for many years.
When you write tell me of Eve. I know, I tell
myself as often as you could wish, that the
object of my heart's desire is absolutely hopeless,
but still the aching longing remains. As
nothing can increase it, and it is beyond either
your or my power to cure, tell me of her all
you can, that I may picture her as she is, either
grave or gay, but always charming."

It was clear from this letter that Mrs. William
Pleydell had not yet taken Tom into her confidence,
and his aunt was glad of it, knowing
how much he would feel the slight to his
father's memory of her very speedy consolation.


She wrote back , warmly congratulating him
on his greatly improved prospects, and commending
his wisdom in having come to a clear
understanding with Mr. Francia before accepting
the offer of partnership. She then
proceeded :

You ask me about Eve. You know, my
dear Tom, you and I never do and never shall
agree about her disposition, which you persist
in seeing through such very rosy spectacles. I
think, however, if you had been able to see her
the first ten days here, even you must have
slightly modified your opinion. She was simply
impracticable, would look at nothing and would
do nothing but subside on to the first chair in
every gallery and complain of fatigue. Latterly,
however, a Mr. Urban, with whom we

made acquaintance at Beechmont has made his
appearance, and, having some one to amuse
her, she has revived and is much as usual."

The party made their way slowly homewards,
pausing to admire the beauty of Spezzia,
the palaces of Genoa, the gardens of Pegli and
the palms of Cordillera. They passed through
Nice, not caring for its dust and bustle, and
stayed but a day in the English colony of
Cannes.

Eve was longing to be in Paris, and groaned
at every delay as curtailing the time to be
spent in the acquisition of fresh toilettes, as
they were to be in London in the house
Mrs. William Pleydell had taken for them in
Grosvenor Street, by the 1st of May, in time
for the Drawing-room at which Iris was to be
presented.

It was in Paris that Mrs. Pleydell received a
letter from Tom, telling her of his step-mother's
approaching marriage.

It was a great shock to me," he wrote :
perhaps I ought to have suspected  1 believe

others have done so,  but I did not, and it was
a blow to me to think he was so soon forgotten
and replaced. Against Mr. Francia personally
I have of course nothing to say ; he is everything
that is kind to me. Still, as you may
imagine, I do feel it at first."

CHAPTER VI.

Our love was like most other loves ;
A little glow, a little shiver,
A rose-bud, and a pair of gloves,
And " Fly not yet " upon the river ;
Some jealousy of some one's heir,
Some hopes of dying broken-hearted,
A miniature, a lock of hair,
The usual vows,  and then we parted.
We parted ; months and years rolled by ;
We met again four summers after ;
Our parting was all sob and sigh ;
Our meeting was all mirth and laughter ;
For in my heart's most secret cell
There had been many other lodgers ;
And she was not the ball-room's belle ;
But only  Mrs. Something Rogers.

Belle of the Ball-room. Prayed.

I T was quite a new sensation to Mrs. Pleydell
*' to find herself, after so many years, once

more plunged into the bustle of London life.
It was a far greater whirl than she had ever
before undergone, for not only had she two
daughters to chaperon, but she found her own
fairly large acquaintance supplemented by all
the Netherleigh connection, besides a great
many people to whom Lady Beechmont introduced
her, and friends of Eve's who requested
an introduction through Mrs. William Pleyel.


Fashion is as capricious as to types of beauty
admired as about any other matter : one year
the tall and stately bear away the palm,
another the small and piquante are the rage,
one season no one is admired who is not dark,
the next blue eyes and golden hair are insisted
upon as a sine qua non of good looks.

When Eve was last in London, her style
had been in the ascendant, and, never dreaming
that taste could change, she was astonished
and dismayed to find that, though still considered
'' a pretty little thing," it was Iris who
received the lion's share of admiration, and was

emphatically pronounced the beauty of the
season.

Miss Netherleigh was warmly solicited by
Mrs. Pleydell to come up and stay in Grosvenor
Street for a short time, and renew her acquaintance
with all the family connections ; but this
Aunt Rachel declined to do.

At my age," she wrote, '' my proper place
is in my own chimney-corner or under my own
cedar-tree. I know you really mean that you
wish to have me, but, my dear Grace, you have
quite enough on your hands without undertaking
the care of your old aunt as well. Mrs.
Furnivall called yesterday. She seems to think
that her son has grown strangely restless ; she
said that he was talking of going to London
for the season. 1 let you know this at once,
as it probably may have reference to Eve, and
you may like to be prepared."

The idea that Laurence might come to London,
where it was more difficult to prevent his
seeing Eve than in the country, had not
occurred to Mrs. Pleydell ; he had always

VOL. III. K

spoken with such contempt and disgust of
London society that, if she had considered the
matter at all, she would have thought herself
quite safe from him.

Her first thought was naturally of Iris ; she
must not meet Laurence unprepared. She
called her back as she was leaving the .


"iris dear, I want to tell you something. I
have had a letter from Aunt Rachel, and she
tells me that Mr. Furnivall talks of probably
spending the season in London."

Iris flushed, and then turned pale, but she
said very composedly,

Well, London is as free to him as to us. I
suppose he wants to see Eve."

"Which I shall not allow. Iris darling, I
hope his being in town will not spoil your
pleasure."

No," said Iris, slowly ; " I think not. I am
glad to know it is likely, not to be taken by
surprise, I mean. I should not like to be
startled, and  perhaps blush."

"You can meet him calmly?"

Yes, mamma, quite. I think I have quite
learnt to be thankful that he knew his own
mind in time."

This took a weight off Mrs. Pleydell's mind.
She had feared that, when it came to the
imminent prospect of seeing Laurence again,
Iris' heart might have overpowered her pride 
it was a comfort to feel that such was not the
case. Her next interview was with Eve.

Eve, I have heard that Mr. Furnivall is likely
to be in London for a part of the season.
Remember that you are not to dance with him
if he asks you, nor to talk to him, nor let him
talk to you."

Oh ! mummy, poor Laurence ! and he is in
love with me, you know !"

"I wonder. Eve, you are not ashamed to
refer to that, when you know how disgracefully
he behaved to Iris. But remember, beyond a
bow, or ' how do you - do V your communication
is not to go. Do you clearly understand
?"

k2

"But, mummy "

*' No buts, Eve. I have given you an express
order  do you understand it f

*' Yes, mummy ; but "

'then we need say no more about it. If
you disobey me I shall not let you go out at
all."

Mrs. Pleydell did not care that Eve should
see a great deal of Lady Hildegarde, but, without
being absolutely rude, it was almost impossible
to prevent it. Lady Beechmont was one
of those ladies who make very violent, though
perhaps not very durable, friendships, and Mrs.
Pleydell was at this moment the person whom
she had taken up.

The Beechmonts' house in Grosvenor Square
was but a very few doors from Mrs. Pleydell's
in Upper Grosvenor Street, and the communication
between the two was incessant, more
especially as Iris was to be one of Lady Imogene's
bridesmaids, and the number of things
to be settled about the dress and its accessories
seemed never-ending. Lady Imogene

herself did not trouble much about the matter.

When Mr. Morton was not in London, she
and Iris used to spend a good deal of time in
the boudoir, where they were frequently joined
by Lord Rootley, always sure of sympathy and
interest in anything in which he might be occupied.
He learnt to know and appreciate Iris
during these quiet talks, better even than he
had done in Italy, for Imogene knew all her
thoughts, and drew out her opinions better
than he had been able to do. Every day he
met her she seemed to him to become more
delightful, and he allowed the charm of her
society to beguile him into putting off the
visit to Pinefield which he had intended
to pay immediately on his return to England.


It considerably amused Lord Beechmont, who,
though languid and indolent, was by no means
slow in seeing things, to find his son perpetually
finding excuses for not doing what generally
was his great pleasure, namely, running
down to the country after even the briefest absence.

He knew the reason of Lord Bottle's
disinclination to leave London far better than
the young man did himself; indeed Lord Rootley
had as yet by no means realized the fact
that he was in love. A calm bystander like
his father saw perfectly well that he was
so.

Lord Beechmont was well pleased. He was
very anxious that his only son should marry; he
was devoted to beauty, and admired Iris almost
more than any girl of his acquaintance, and he
regarded her as being in every way perfectly
satisfactory. And though he was too indolent
himself to enter into his son's views, and was
much inclined to think that all his trouble was
labour in vain, and that he had far better leave
well alone, still, as he was so very eager about
such matters, it was doubtless better that his
wife should sympathise with him. On the
whole, he did not think his son could do better,
especially as he was by no means easy to
please.

While Iris and Lady Imogene talked in the

boudoir, Eve and Lady Hildegarde chattered
in the latter's bed-room, their conversation
being generally interspersed with remarks on
bonnets, and trying on each other's hats.

It was hardly of the practical and edifying
nature of the conversation in the boudoir,
which both would have voted " deadly dull,"
and turned chiefly on lovers, compliments, and
various escapades of Lady Hildegarde's, to
which Eve listened with admiration and longing,
and a desperate envy of her friend's greater
freedom.

Ah ! it's all very well for you," she said one
day, when Lady Hildegarde had been describing
how she had spent the whole of the previous
evening sitting in the conservatory at a
ball, and had never re-appeared till it was time
to go home ; " you are lucky, and can do just
as you like. Now if I don't go back the minute
a dance is over there is a fuss, and once when I
stayed away for two dances mummy told me if
I did so again I should stay at home for a
week !"

'* I'm obliged to be much more careful now ;
Rootley has taken to going everywhere, and
he's worse than the crossest old chaperon. Ita
mercy he didn't see me and Bertie last
night, or there'd have been no end of a
row."

Oh !" said Eve, somewhat sharply, " so it
was Bertie Deverell, was it f '

' Of course ; who else should it be V

"I didn't know, there are two or three
more."

Not quite like Bertie."

Do you mean anything, Hildegarde, and
does he ? You know he's an awful
flirt."

' He means it fast enough. What do
you think he had to say to me all last

night r

*' I don't know. Tell me."

"You're safe?"

Of course. Why you know I am ! Didn't I
know about Cis Warrington the year before
last ? and did I ever breathe a syllable ?"

** No, no, of course not. Well, Bertie wants
me to  elope with him."

What fun ! When is it to be f '

"Never."

Never ! Do you mean to say you don't
care for him ? Well, I did think "

"What?"

Well, that you were really hit this
time."

Perhaps I am."

"Then why "

*' Oh ! you silly child, don't you see it's all
very well being in love  we both are awfully 
but then one knows that it won't last. Of
course no one believes those trashy things
about love being eternal, and all that sort of
thing, that poets write, and that one had to
learn in the school-room, and people who know
always say that love-matches are the marriages
that come to grief first. But it isn't only that.
Don't you see, if we eloped, and were married
before anyone was the wiser, I should have no
settlements."

What would that matter ? Surely they
could be made afterwards

You goose ! they could, of course, but there
is always a fight to get a man to settle money,
and, of course, when he was once married, and
had got what he wanted, it would be next door
to impossible."

Well, but you could spend the money
just as well whether it was settled or
notes'

And have no certainty of pin-money, and, if
he died, be left without a jointure ! Eve, you
are a goose !"

But why should you elope ? Of course,
Lord and Lady Beechmont wouldn't like it
at first, but you always get your own
way in everything, and they'd soon come
round."

Oh ! yes ; it isn't them we're thinking of.
But, you see, Bertie depends entirely on his old
uncle, Sir Charles, and, though the title must
come to him, all the estates and money are in
the old wretch's power."

*but why shouldn't he like him to marry
you r

Because he didn't choose me. He loves
power, and likes to dictate what everyone
belonging to him is or is not to do. Besides,
there is a horrid heiress, with property down in
Swedeshire, whose land fits into the Deverell
estate, and so he has set his heart on Bertie
marrying her."

"What is she like?"

Short-sighted red-haired, has projecting
teeth, and can't speak without giggling."

How awful ! Poor Bertie ! But of course
he won't."

'He vows not. Bat one never knows."

But he has asked you to elope with
him."

And was furious last night because I
refused point-blank. But I coaxed him into
better humour, and I have no doubt by this
time he is profoundly grateful to me for not
having ruined his prospects."

'but  I don't quite understand how do you
stand now ?"

Well, we're engaged, and  and awfully
fond of each other," and here Lady Hildegardes
voice broke, and she gave a sob that astonished
Eve, but she tried to hide it with a laugh,
and went on ; " but I daresay it will come to
nothing. If old Sir Charles would but die !
But people never do when it would do any
good ! If he did, it would be all right. But
he won't, and some day there'll be a bad Derby,
or Leger, or something, and Bertie '11 want
money, and marry the heiress, and I  shall
marry somebody else, and the next year he'll
take me down to dinner somewhere, and we
shall talk of the park, and the balls, and la plume,
et le head-temps, and the world will go on just
the same."

Can't he get round Sir Charles 1"

He doesn't see his way to it."

 Couldn't you ?"

How am I to get at him ? He hardly ever
comes to London ; besides, his seeing me would

be the worst thing. He thinks a woman ought
always to dress in plain black and grey, and
never open her mouth. Not much chance forme,
eh, Eve V

Well , no. I say, Hildegarde," in a very
business-like tone, "you'd better get Bertie out
of your head as fast as may be."

As if I didn't know that as well as you
could tell rae ! But it's easier said than done.
1 can't think why we were ever given hearts ;
I'm sure they're only a terrible nuisance. I
never knew I had one till just lately. Now
I do believe, Eve, you're lucky enough not to
have one at all, so you can go on amusing-
yourself and make a good marriage after
all."

Eve laughed, and declared that she fervently
hoped that she neither had nor ever should
discover that she had so inconvenient an appendage.
But, even while she laughed, she
was uncomfortably aware that her words were
untrue. Her heart, such as it was, was very
securely in Claud Urban's keeping, and she

was rapidly becoming very uneasy at his prolonged
absence. He had promised her, when
leaving Rome, that he would be in London
by the 1st of May ; ifc was now the Derby
week, and she had neither seen nor heard anything
of him.

There was a certain satisfaction that he
should not meet Lord Rootley, who might
reveal his identity with Mr. Esmond ; still
that risk must be faced some time or another,
and it seemed very strange that he should
absent himself so long.

Lady Imogene was to be married on the
1st of June, and Lord Rootley had announced
that on the ensuing day he positively must go
down to Pinefield and face all the arrears of
business that were awaiting him in Firshire.
If only Claud would come back then, and
speak to her mother at once, all might be
safely settled before anyone could make any
mischief.

In the meantime, to divert her thoughts, she

flirted even more audaciously than usual, and
drove Laurence to the verge of despair.

Laurence had come to London hating the
thought of the season, and of the interruption
of his ordinary pursuits, but unable to deny
himself the pleasure of Eve's society.

It had hitherto been his experience in life to
obtain anything that he wished for, and he
never doubted for a moment that he should
ultimately gain Eve as his wife. It was all
very well for Mrs. Pleydell to talk as she had
done  of course, at first, she naturally felt sore
and aggrieved at losing so good a match for
her favourite daughter (Laurence was perfectly
well aware of his own value in the matrimonial
market)  but in the four months that had
elapsed since their interview she would have
become reasonable, and have seen that, as it
was out of the question to secure him for Iris,
she might think herself lucky in getting him
for Eve.

As to all that nonsense of not being allowed

to see anything of her till she was one and
twenty  nearly two years  that, of course, had
only been said ia the heat of passion  he always
chose to ignore how perfectly cool, composed,
and passionless Mrs. Pleydell had been
throughout their interview  she would never
refer to anything so absurd ; and, even if she
tried to do so, Eve would not stand it. Dear
little, gentle, submissive Eve ! She loved him
so devotedly that no one could possibly hold
out against her misery if forbidden to see him.
There could be no difficulty ; all must go
smoothly ; and, confident of everything arranging
itself according to his wishes, he established
himself in London the first week in
May.

He heard where Mrs. Pleydell had taken
a house, and called, but she was not at home,
neither was Eve, for whom he also asked.
Mrs. Pleydell had not contemplated his calling.
She thought he would have confined his endeavours
to trying to get speech of Eve at
parties  but she now gave strict injunctions

that he was, under no circumstances, to be
admitted, and renewed her warning to Eve as
to her conduct.

That evening they met him at a ball. With
an air of perfect unconsciousness of offence 
indeed, in his secret heart, he felt rather magnanimous
for thus showing he bore no malice
for all the hard things she had said to him 
he came up to shake hands. From Mrs. Pleyel
he received the coldest of bows  she
did not seem even to see his offered hand 
and an inquiry if his mother were in London.
Iris's bow was as cold, bat that did not
surprise him, still he was rather astonished
that she neither blushed nor looked conscious.
If he could only have known how wildly her
heart throbbed at that moment I It was the
first sight of him that called up the old
feelings, but, even while feeling almost as if
about to faint with emotion, she was able
distinctly to realize, with infinite thankfulness,
that she no longer loved him.

Laurence drew back somewhat dismayed by
VOL. III. I*

a greeting so different from what he had anticipated.
It was not an absolute cut, still
two or three acquaintances standing near
had witnessed his reception, and he saw, or
fancied, a smile on their countenances. He
was enraged that he should be slighted, still
more that there should be witnesses of his
discomfiture. Well, he must find Eve, her
welcome would be very different, and, when
they were agreed, it would of course be impossible
for Mrs. Pleydell to hold out against
them.

He at once went in search of Eve, and
met her at the head of the stairs coming
up from tea on her partner's arm.

*' Well, Eve," and he held out his hand.

But she only said, " How do you do ?" in a
constrained voice.

Then, as he looked at her almost stupefied,
a sudden crowd of dancers leaving the room
pressed her close up against him, and she
whispered, hurriedly,

I can't help it. I mayn't talk to you ;"
and gave him a glance of her blue eyes
which to him spoke volumes, as she intended
that it should.

He made no further attempt to speak to
her that night, but stood and watched her,
and constantly, as in valuing she swept past
the place where he stood, Eve would raise
her eyes and give him a glance that set
all the blood throbbing in his veins. He went
home that morning more passionately in love
with Eve than ever.

Sleepless hours were a new experience to
Laurence Furnivall, but there was no sleep
for him after this first meeting with Eve.
She had grown slightly thinner abroad, and
he set this down to the fact that she was
pining for him. Poor dear little child I how
piteous she had looked as she said, " I can't
help it. I mayn't talk to you."

Something must be done or she would die
of her mother's barbarous cruelty. It was

L 2

simply monstrous ! Something must 'be done
but what ? That was not so easy to decide.
It was evident, though almost incredible, that
her mother meant to adhere to her ridiculous
determination. But something must be done,
or Eve, his sweet little Eve, would die of
a broken heart, and he should never know
another happy moment.

He would call in Grosvenor Street that
morning, and insist on an explanation with
Mrs. Pleydell.

'* Not at home, sir," said Simmons.

Then I will see Miss Pleydell."

'not at home, sir."

That is not true. I hear her singing ;"
for Eve, carolling '' Buttercup," was coming
down the stairs.

Not at home, sir."

Laurence looked at him.

"Have you orders to say that whenever I
may call ?"

Yes, sir."

' Oh, very well," and he turned away in a
rage.

Evidently Mrs. Pleydell was determined,
but she should see that he could be so
too. He would write to her, and, after many
attempts, he succeeded in inditing an epistle
wherewith he was satisfied.

He told her that his feelings were precisely
the same as when he had last spoken to her,
and would always remain so, that it was
ridiculous to attempt to divide him from Eve,
for their affection for each other was too strong
for it to be possible to keep them apart, that it
made his heart ache to see how pale and thin
the poor child had become with pining since
she had been so cruelly separated from him,
and that, if she did not at once allow him to
approach her, she might have to endure the
terrible and lifelong remorse of knowing that
she had broken her child's heart.

It was a very vehement epistle, decidedly
ungrammatical, and containing some curious

specimens of orthography, but he was very
well pleased with it, and considered that it
could not fail to have the desired effect.

When Mrs. Plejdell read this violent missive,,
she was greatly annoyed, but still could hardly
refrain from laughing ; Laurence wrote so
much with the air of a sultan accustomed to
be obeyed, and unable to realise that anyone
could seriously intend to deny him anything he
wished for. She debated for a few moments
whether she should answer it, and then, deciding
that it would be better not to do so,
enclosed it in an envelope, wrote inside " with
Mrs. Pleydell's compliments," and returned it
to him.

If even Eve cared about him," she thought,
"I could not hear of it at present. But she
does not ; the only person I have ever seen her
appear to care about is that Mr. Urban, and
even he seems to have disappeared without
seriously disturbing her philosophy. I wonder
if we shall see any more of him. I certainly
thought he was in love with her and she with

him ; but still he told her he should be in London
by the 1st of May, and he has not made
bis appearance. Well she does not seem
broken-hearted at his absence."

CHAPTER VII.

Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,
And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind.

Midsummer Nights Dream.  Act iii, Sc. 2.

On you, most lov'd, with anxious fear I wait,
And from your judgment must expect my fate.

Addison.

fT\HE last week in May was the time which
 Mrs. William Pleydell had fixed for her
marriage. Mrs. Pleydell had tried gently to
persuade her to wait till October, when the
first year of mourning would be over ; but she
replied that Mr. Francia was very impatient,
and that there were circumstances which she
could not explain.

The ceremony was of course very quiet, no
one being present excepting Tom Pleydell 
who, sorely against his own inclination, gave
his stepmother away  Mrs. Pleydell, Iris, and
Eve. There was no attempt at a breakfast,
and the bride and bridegroom went away direct
from the church to spend a short time at
Malvern.

I declare I shouldn't feel married with a
service like that," Eve observed, as they walked
home.

"I think it would be very much more
sensible if all weddings were as quiet," said
Tom.

Well, I don't. Lady Diogenes will be a
relief after anything so dull."

"Imogene hates the thought of all the
bustle' said Iris ; " it is to please Lady Beechmont
and Hildegarde, not herself."

'* Well, I am glad it is to be, whoever it is to
please."

Tom Pleydell was a frequent guest in Upper
Grosvenor Street, and his love for Eve lost

none of its intensity, though he realised its
hopelessness almost as thoroughly as Mrs.
Pleydell herself. Ordinarily clear-sighted, and
a very keen judge of character, it was curious
how completely love blinded him to all Eve's
faults. He still honestly believed her to be
loving, affectionate and tender, and lamented
that her mother, though undoubtedly kind to
her, still judged her harshly.

Mrs. Pleydell had ceased to argue the point
with him ; she had candidly told him her convictions,
and she knew that he had little or no
hope of winning Eve ; if, therefore, he deliberately
chose the painful pleasure of seeing her
making herself agreeable to others, it was not
for her to prevent him, whatever she might
think of the wisdom of his conduct.

Tom knew that he was foolish ; he knew how
his heart ached after every hour spent in Eve's
company, how wildly he envied the men who
were free to woo and win her. Perhaps if he
could speak to her now he might have some
chance, but marriage was not for him till his

father's debts were all paid, and that, even
with his present improved prospects, could not
be accomplished for some years. Before he
was free, Eve would of course have been long
a wife. Nos it was of no use hoping in that
direction, and poor Tom, with a deep sigh,
would plunge into business as the best means
of distracting his thoughts.

The day of Lady Imogene's marriage was a
lovely one, and everything was as gay and
successful as heart could wish. Lord Rootley
took Iris in to breakfast.

I am really going this afternoon," he said
to her, when they were comfortably established
at one of the small tables.

This afternoon ! That is sudden is it
not?" and Iris was surprised to find what a
blow it was, how all the brightness seemed
suddenly to have gone out of the day.

She had known he was going, and they had
discussed over and over again all that he had
to do at Pinefield, and the time that he would
be obliged to remain there, which was variously

estimated at from a fortnight to six weeks.
But she had thought that there were still two
or three days before his departure ; the announcement
that he was going that afternoon
quite disconcerted her.

He was watching her narrowly, and saw her
countenance change, but she said quite steadily,
after the first exclamation,

You will find a great deal to do."

Yes, how I shall miss you and Imogene to
talk it all over with !"

But I thought Imogene was going to
Pinefield after a little."

Not for three weeks, and by that time "

I thought yesterday you fancied it would
take six weeks to do all you wanted."

Perhaps it would. But I doubt my staying
anything like that time," and he gave her a
look which, to her infinite annoyance, brought
a vivid blush to her cheek.

Eager to change the conversation she hastily
began to talk of some other topic, and he
followed her lead, so that in a few moments

she was at her ease again. But when the
happy couple were leaving, and all the bridesmaids
were assembled at the door to wish the
bride God speed and throw the traditional
shoe, he was standing just behind her and
whispered,

I must go now. Good-bye. Will you say
that you will be pleased to see me back ?"

I " she blushed and stammered.

'say you will not be sorry."

*' No  no ;" then, without raising her eye
and still blushing : " I  shall be very glad."

He gave her hand one fervent pressure and
disappeared.

On plea of fatigue, Iris, on their return home,
shut herself up in her own room and sat down
to think. With the darkening of the sky,
when Lord Rootley announced his immediate
departure, had come to her the conviction that
she loved him. Not a suspicion of it had ever
entered her mind before : she had only thought
that she liked him excessively, agreed with his
views, honoured his principles, considered him-charming

as  Imogene's brother : that he could
have anything to do with herself had never
once occurred to her. But surely that whisper,
that earnest pressure of the hand meant something
 nay, from one so undemonstrative
meant much. " Will you say that you will be
glad to see me when I come back ?" Ah ! he
did not know how glad.

Was she very fickle? Iris wondered, as she
moved slowly backwards and forwards in her
room ; somehow it seemed quite impossible to
her to sit still. It was but five months since
she had loved Laurence ; did it show great
unsteadiness of purpose that she had so soon
learnt to love another '?

Fickleness was a characteristic which had
always been abhorrent to her ; she had hoped
that her nature was steadfast in all things.
Had she been all the time deceiving herself
Was she a weathercock like the women she had
so bitterly despised when she read of them in
novels ? It would indeed be bitter to her to
think that she was no better than they !

But was it jSckle to withdraw her love from
one who scorned it, and to bestow it on another
who seemed in every respect more worthy?
Now that the glamour of love was no longer
before her eyes, Iris saw Laurence as he really
was rather than as her fancy painted him, and
her strong good sense enabled her to see that
she had loved rather the creature of her own
imagination than the man himself.

She felt that Lord Rootley was a character
of a totally different type ; then, too, her sad
experience had caused her to become more
clear-sighted, to distinguish better what was
real and what her own fancy. She was very
glad she had seen Laurence. If she had not,
she could not have felt so certain that all feeling
for him was dead. If only she could feel
assured that it was not fickle, did not show
her to be frivolous and weak to be able to
love again so soon ! For, if she were vain
and frivolous, she would not be worthy of
him.

Then she told herself that it was weak of

her to distress herself thus. Had she not always
felt a certain contempt for the heroines
who, deserted by their lovers, had refused to
be comforted, and remained faithful to the
memory of those who had tired of and left
them ? Had she not always maintained that a
woman who could mourn for a man who no
longer cared for her had no proper feminine
pride ?

And why should she now doubt the propriety
of acting fearlessly on her own heartfelt convictions?
Her mother, she knew perfectly,
agreed with her, and what she thought was
sure to be right. And so Iris, comforted as to
her own conduct, walked happily downstairs to
tea.

"Ah, here is Iris, after all," said her mother.
I would not send for you, dear, as you said
you were tired, but I am glad you are come.
Here is Lady Netherleigh."

After an affectionate embrace. Iris perceived
Mr. Thornham standing behind Lady Nether-leigh,
and gave him a most cordial greeting,

little suspecting the false hopes she was raising
in his mind.

Ah !" said Lady Netherleigh, " I have heard
a great deal of your Roman experiences : Mr.
Thornhani has been with us for the last fortnight
down at Netherleigh, so we have had
time to talk comfortably. It must all have
been very delightful."

Indeed it was' said Iris, earnestly ; *' and
Mr. Thornham was the most wonderful cicerone,
and showed us everything; It would not have
been half so pleasant without him."

Mr. Thornham coloured a little with pleasure,
and his heart throbbed with hope. Lady
Netherleigh, who was in his confidence, was by
no means so sanguine.

She would never have said that if she had
cared for him," she thought ; " she spoke as
composedly as if she were talking of the
courier. No, poor Frank has not made the
impression he hopes for yet. What he may
do if there is no one before him in the field,
of course I cannot say. Well, I will not inter-vol.

III. M

fere ; he is old enough to manage matters for
himself; but I'm sure I wish him success. He
is charming, and she might do very much
worse."

There were several other people present, and
the conversation was very general ; but Mrs.
Pleydell noticed that Mr. Thornham never left
Iris's side, and that, when she was talking to
others, he sat silent and watched her. It was
evident that the devotion she had observed
in Rome was no passing feeling, but that he
was still in the same mind ; but what Iris's
views in the matter might be she did not
know.

Mrs. Pleydell had been better pleased with
Eve's conduct than she had at all anticipated
that she should be  at least, with respect to
Laurence. She carefully confined herself to
bowing to him, and her mother naturally knew
nothing of the meaning glances which she
threw at him over her partners' shoulders, or
of the hand thrust into his when passing in a

crowd, and pressed with a fervour which gave
exquisite pain.

Not knowing of these small encouragements
accorded to his passion, it naturally amazed
Mrs. Pleydell to see that he haunted Eve like
her very shadow. He was at every party, and
certainly at every ball, to which they went ;
he spoke to few people, and danced with none,
but stood patiently all night with his eyes
fixed on Eve.

Not, as we say, knowing of his slight encouragements,
she marvelled greatly what
satisfaction he could possibly derive from the
contemplation of the girl he professed to love,
flirting as Eve seemed unable to help doing.
It was quite useless to speak to her on the
subject. She would open her blue eyes, look
as innocent as a child, and ask what she was
to do. People could be pleasant to her, and
she really could not snub everybody even if she
knew how.

Her mother would sigh and marvel what
would be the fate of this most tormenting

M 2

child. She wondered very greatly what had
become of Mr. Esmond. She listened eagerly
to the names of the partners that Eve introduced
to her, but his never appeared. She
could only imagine that the supposition in
the country was true, that he was really married
and that he had only been amusing himself
with Eve during the dulness of a summer
on the Banner.

But then there was the letter that led to her
journey to London, and the two others she
had opened during the child's illness. Well I
she could only conjecture that on finding
that the girls family was cognisant of the matter,
and that she would in future be better
watched and guarded, he had given the matter
up. Eve had taken it very coolly  especially
after the strange way in which she had at first
sobbed and raved, but that she could have had
no communication with him her mother felt
quite sure, she had taken such infinite precautions
respecting the letters.

Poor Mrs. Pleydell, turning all this over in

her mind before going to dress for a ball on
the night of Lady Imogene's wedding, would
have been considerably startled had she been
told that the very man of whom she was
thinking was within a few feet of her  absolutely
dining in the next house.

When Eve entered Mrs. Battlement's ballroom
that evening, she gave a sudden start,
for the first person she saw was  Claud Urban.
He joined them at once, saying in a pointed
manner to Mrs. Pleydell that he had hoped to
see them again much sooner, but that the disturbed
condition of Ireland made it necessary
for him to remain there much longer than he
had at first intended.

Eve was at once carried off by a partner who
had engaged her before she saw Claud, and who
found her unusually dull, for not knowing, as
Iris did, of Lord Rootley's departure, she was
in momentary fear of his making his appearance
and spoiling everything.

Mr. Urban remained with Mrs. Pleydell, and
by the attention he paid her she felt tolerably

sure that her impressions as to bis feelings
towards Eve were correct, more especially
as he took occasion to mention some of
his relatives with whom she happened to be
acquainted.

Laurence was as usual leaning against the
wall with his eyes fixed upon Eve. He had
at once recognised Mr. Urban as the man who
had paid her so much attention in the winter
at Beechmont, and whom he believed he had
seen kiss her on the night of the skating
fete; he was therefore keenly on the watch
for any sign of good understanding between
them.

During her first dance with Claud, Eve was
far too fall of the satisfaction of the moment
to think of Laurence or of the eloquent glances
wherewith she was wont to gratify him, and it
was not till they stopped nearly opposite to
him, and she observed his moody, suspicious
countenance, that she even remembered his
existence.

I thought you had forgotten all about me

and were never coming back," she said, with a
pretty pout.

"No, Eve, you thought nothing of the sort,
you knew I should come the minute I could.
And now I shall speak to your mother at
once."

*' If only she once says yes before she knows
who you  were."

Who is there to tell her ?"

' I don't know anyone but Lord Rootley.
He and Iris are such friends he'd be sure to tell
her, and shed ' think it her duty ' to make
mischief."

Well, he doesn't seem to be here to-night,
and I shall ask Mrs. Pleydell if I may call and
see her tomorrow morning, so after all we
shall get a start."

And I believe he goes into the country tomorrow.
Oh ! Claud, mummy be awful if she
knew !"

"Don't distress yourself, little Birdie, she
never need know anything about it. I say,
does the bucolic swain always stand glaring at

you like that ? He looks as if he were trying
to mesmerise you."

*' I mayn't speak to him, you know, and he
goes everywhere we do, and never dances
or does anything but stand and look at
me."

Very pleasant it must be for him to see you
dancing and laughing with everyone else I I
think, Eve, even your vengeance must be
satisfied."

'' No, not yet," said Eve, with a laugh. " I
know some day before long he won't be able to
help speaking, and then I shall have the pleasure
of telling him the truth," and, as they again
entered the circle of dancers, she gave Laurence
one of her most speaking glances.

But, in spite of all such consolation as she bestowed
upon him, Laurence was more unhappy
that night than he had yet been. He watched
every variation of Eve's face and manner, and,
being a person interested, came to the conclusion
that there was something very different
between her and Claud from what there was

between her and any other of her partners.
Yet so complete was his infatuation, his belief
in her love for himself, that he never thought
of blaming her, but settled that her mother
insisted on her being civil to this man, who
was so evidently in love with her, and she
had to pretend to like him for the sake of peace
at home.

Poor little Eve ! what a mournful glance her
blue eyes had given him more than once that
night, as if begging him not to judge her
harshly. As if he were likely to do so !

But he could bear the present state of things
no longer. At a water-party to which he knew
she was going he would contrive an opportunity
of speaking to her, of telling her he
could live no longer without her, of suggesting
an elopement. Among the trees at Clieveden
there was sure to be some opportunity of
getting speech of her.

Another person was looking forward to that
same water-party as the crisis of his fate. Mr.
Thornham had determined that he must put

his fortune to the touch, and the fact  which
he had heard casually that evening  that Lord
Rootley had left town an hour after his sister's
wedding, gave him some hope. If he had been
his rival, as he had so greatly feared at Florence,
would he have left London, unless, indeed, he
had been refused? It seemed improbable.
And, if he were not the favoured one, why
should there not be a chance for him '? He and
Iris had been great friends both at Nether-leigh
and abroad, she had greeted him warmly
on his arrival in London  he would not fear his
fate.

May I come and see you early tomorrow f'
said Claud Urban to Mrs. Pleydell, as he took
her down to supper. " I have something to
say to you, and would rather run no risk of
interruption."

Any time after eleven will suit me," replied
Mrs. Pleydell, smiling, and thinking it was easy
to guess the subject of his interview.

After she reached home she began to meditate
on a point that had already given her some

anxiety. Should she or should she not say
anything* to Mr. Urban respecting Eve and Mr.
Esmond ? According to her views of the perfect
openness that ought to exist between husband
and wife it was absolutely necessary that
he should know it ; besides, it would show him
what a careless child he proposed to marry, and
would incline him to be more careful of her 
and Mrs. Pleydell felt that Eve would indeed
require the most jealous care  but of course
the information should not come from her, but
from Eve herself.

But could Eve be trusted to tell him '{ Her
mother feared not. The girl was always most
careful not to reveal anything that in the smallest
degree told against herself, and she felt
sure that, even if she could be persuaded to tell
him anything at all, she would so alter
and embroider the story that he would
have but a very faint idea of what had
occurred.

If it had been Iris she could have trusted her
to tell any man she was about to marry whatever

she considered it right that he should
know ; but Eve was different. Yes, disagreeable
as was the task, she thought she must tell
him herself, and with this unpleasant conclusion
she at length fell asleep.

It was very little past eleven when Mr. Urban
was announced.

I fancy you pretty well know the object of
my visit' he said, as soon as they were
seated; "it is to ask you to give me
Eve."

Yes, I thought so. I suppose you have her
consent, though she has said nothing to me."

*'I wonder at that. Mrs. Pleydell, I love
her very dearly, and I think and hope I can
make her very happy."

She is terribly young."

Past nineteen  besides, that is a fault that
grows less every day."

I think," said Mrs. Pleydell, with an effort
that brought a bright colour into her usually
pale cheeks, "that, young as Eve is, there is
something in her history that you ought to

know before we go any further. She is so
young that possibly the necessity, or, at any
rate, the propriety of telling you herself might
not occur to her, and if you were to discover it
later you might very reasonably be displeased
at its having been kept secret."

*' If'' said Mr. Urban, speaking gravely, but
almost irresistibly struck by the absurdity of
the situation, "if the matter you refer to is
Eve's acquaintance with Mr. Esmond, I know
everything about it to the minutest detail. 1
also know that it was on her account that the
marriage of Miss Netherleigh with Mr. Furnivall
was broken off."

Then she has told you everything P' cried
Mrs. Pleydell, in extreme surprise. ' I have
done the child injustice ; I feared she would not
tell you, and T felt it was rights nay, necessary
you should know. Eve is very young, Mr. Urban,
and will require very careful guidance. I
really believe she flirts almost without knowing
or intending it. You must not leave her to herself;
you must promise me to watch over her."

You may depend on my doing that."

Claud did not believe in Eve's involuntary
flirtations ; he thought very few girls knew so
accurately what they were about, but he was
quite in earnest when he told Mrs. Pleydell he
should watch over her. He had not the least
intention of having a flirting wife, but he never
for a moment doubted that he could control
Eve whenever and however he chose.

' I am glad of it. I cannot tell you what a
relief it is to my mind to think that she told
you everything."

Mr. Urban said no more on the subject, but
proceeded to talk of business. His views were
very generous, and Mrs. Pleydell was amply
satisfied. At the close of the interview she left
the room to call Eve.

I am greatly pleased with him, dear," she
said, kissing her ; "" and, Eve, I am more glad
than I can say to find that you had told him
all about Mr. Esmond. I feared you might
not, and thought it right to do so, but he

stopped me at once, saying you had told lira
everything."

Poor Mrs. Pleydell would have been both
astonished and dismayed had she known the
immoderate mirth to which her mystification

CHAPTER Visit.

If you oblige me suddenly to choose

My choice is made  and I must you refuse.

Dryden.

1ITR. and Mrs. Francia returned that day
 from their honeymoon, and Mrs. Francia,
coming directly after luncheon to see
her sister-in-law, was informed of Eve's
prospects.

Well, it is pretty good, I suppose," she
said, after hearing what Mrs. Pleydell had to
tell. " 1 think, if all had gone well, and she
had stayed with me, I could have done better
for her ; but it is no use to think of that now.
But you talk of Irish estates ; I hope he has

something besides that. It is not much to trust
to in these days."

'' Oh ! he has plenty besides."

"And when is it to be?"

My dear Louisa, I don't in the least know ;
it was only settled this morning. She is so
very young and childish, I wish he would wait a
year !"

'' But you may be sure he won't. Nonsense,
Grace ! announce it at once, and have it in
July ; the child wall have so many more
presents if she is married in the season."

"I can't look upon that as a reason," said
Mrs. Pleydell, laughing ; " I shall want a little
time to accustom myself to the idea. Well,
when it is once announced there is one comfort,
we shall no longer be haunted by Mr. Furnivall,
who has been Eve's shadow ever since we
came home. That will be rather a relief
to me."

Can I see Eve ?"

** Not now ; she is lying down. When Mr.
Urban went away, she said she was very

VOL. HI. N

tired, and went to lie down. I saw her asleep
just now."

"Will you come down with me to Belgrave
Square, and see how the decorators have progressed
in our absence ? There are one
or two things I want to consult you
about."

Mrs. Pleydell agreed, and spent the greater
part of the afternoon endeavouring by her
suggestions to tone down Mrs. Francia's somewhat
pronounced taste. When she returned
home, Eve was in the drawing-room.

Mummy, look at my ring. Is it not a
love?"

It was indeed a beauty : a superb ruby set in
diamonds.

'' And you are happy Eve ?"

Oh, yes, very. And  mummy  Claud wants
it  to be very soon."

What does he call soon ?"

Oh, he talked nonsense about next week,
but of course I laughed at that. How could
my trousseau be ready 1"

"It was nonsense, of course. This time
next year would be more like it."

'next year!" cried Eve, in alarm. "Oh,
no, mummy ! I promised him the second
week in July, if Madame Verdure could be
ready."

'' There is a good deal to be said and done
before it is settled, Eve."

Yes, of course, I know ; but, mummy,
you'll come to Madame Verdure the ver-y first
thing tomorrow, won't you ? There's no time
to lose, she's so awfully busy ; and, you know,
there is Lady Vortigern's party tomorrow,
and we start for Maidenhead at twelve
o'clock. Oh, and, mummy," and she paused
and blushed.

Well, Eve, what ?"

If  if tomorrow poor Laurence is there,
mayn't I speak to him ? I should like to tell
him myself."

Mrs. Pleydell paused for a moment.

Very well  yes, if you very much wish
it  that is to say, Eve, if Mr. Urban has

N 2

no objection. Remember yon are to ask him."

"Oh, Claud will be all right' said Eve,
complacently.

Iris was feeling more than ever how completely
Lord Rootley had won her heart. The
blank left by his absence was greater than
she could have imagined possible. She was
constantly following in her thoughts his proceedings
at Pinefield, which she could pretty
well guess from the many talks she had
had on the subject with him and Lady
Imogene.

All the affairs of the night-schools, the
labourers' clubs in the different villages, the
lending libraries, and coffee-houses had been
discussed with her so often that she almost
seemed to understand the idiosyncrasies of
each village, and the peculiar difficulties to
be encountered from the opposition, or want
of comprehension of the clergyman in one
parish, the doctor in another, and the schoolmaster
in a third.

He had said how terribly he should miss

Imogene, that a woman's help was often so
essential, and she wished with all her heart
she could be with him and supply his sister's
place. It would be far preferable to this
London life, of which she was heartily weary.
pup to the moment of hearing of Lord
Kootley's immediate departure, Iris had thought
London absolutely delightful.) Where was
the use of going out ?

There was no one she wanted to see ; she
would far rather stay at home and read. She
wished they were not going to this water-party,
though only two days before she had
been full of delight at the thought of seeing
some of the beauties of the Thames, but then
she had expected that he would be there to
enjoy them with her. Altogether, Iris was
far from happy when they set out, and but
little inclined for a day's pleasure.

Eve had carried her point, and dragged
her mother off to Madame Verdure in search
of the trousseau; and, though Mrs. Pleydell
still persisted that she had by no means

bound herself to consent to the date which
the young people had fixed, Eve announced
it to Madame Verdure, and insisted that everything
must be ready by that time. She chattered
about dress the whole way to Padding-ton,
till Iris felt that any change of company
and topic would be a relief.

Sir Charles and Lady Netherleigh, and Mr.
Thornham were of the party, and went down
in the same carriage. Mr. Thornham contrived
to sit next to Iris. She was always glad
to talk to him, and, when they left the train,
she fell almost as naturally to his charge as
Eve did to Claud's Sir Charles taking Mrs.
Pleydell, and a young man who had made
the eighth in the carriage Lady Netherleigh.
They were towed, in a great river barge, upto
Clieveden, and, while the luncheon was being
spread, no one was inclined to strays far.

'' Claud," said Eve, " after lunch I mean to
have it out with Laurence. I shall be easier
in my mind when it is over and done
with."

Better leave the poor fellow alone ;
you've made him quite miserable enough
already*

No, no, I've set my heart upon it."

I thought Mrs. Pleydell had forbidden you
to speak to him ?"

Yes ; but I told mummy I must just this
once, to tell him about  us."

"Well, wilful woman must have her way,
I suppose ! What is it you want me todo?"


Why, to go away a little after luncheon,
and I will go a little way apart and give him a
tiny nod of encouragement. It will not take
long."

*rand what does your mother say to
July?"

"Oh! it will be all right. We went to
Verdure this morning. Fancy,, Claud ! at first
she talked of this time next year !"

That was only to tease you, my pet."

"Mummy wouldn't put it in the Morning
Post. So I wrote it myself; it will be in tomorrow.

That is why I must speak to Laurence
to-day."

I cannot think why you are so set upon
it," he said, almost testily. 'swell, all I can
say is I hope it will relieve us from his constant
espionage. Look how he is glaring at me
now."

'I fancy he is very jealous," said Eve,
coolly. " Now people are beginning to move ;
you stroll away presently, and leave the rest
to me."

Very gradually and naturally Eve withdrew
herself from the surrounding groups after
Claud had left her, according to her bidding,
and, turning at the edge of the wood, made a
slight sign to Laurence, who, as usual, was
watching her closely. He sprang forward, and
she led the way into the wood.

* Eve ! darling ! at last I"

Yes, I said I could bear it no longer ; I
must speak to you."

"My own darling! these weeks have been
very hard to bear, have they not ?"

"And I do not see any such great harm.
Surely it was better that you should not marry
Iris when you found out you did not care for
her?"

'* And when I had found the only woman I
could ever love. Eve, my darling, you are
mine, whatever happens, of course ; but what
are we to do about your mother ?"

When I told her I must speak to you today,
she said I might if "

Then she is relenting I Eve, let us go to
her together and say that we will never be
separated again. But what condition did she
make ? You say she said ' if f

Oh, yes  that I might, if Claud had no
objection."

She was sitting on the trunk of a fallen tree,
he was half lying, half kneeling on the grass
bank beside her. At her words he raised
himself till his eyes were on a level with
hers.

'what do you mean? Who is Claud?
What has he to do with us ?"

Don't you know I" said Eve, opening her
eyes and looking very innocent. " It is Mr.
Urban ; he was at Beechmont, you know, in the
winter."

What has he to do with your speaking tome?"


"Mummy thought he mightnt like it, because
I am engaged to him."

You engaged ! Great heaven, what does
this mean ? Eve, you are engaged to me ; no
one shall take you from me !"

Engaged  to you !" said Eve, opening her
eyes to their widest extent, as if no such possibility
had ever occurred to her. *' Oh, dear,
no, Laurence ! I never even thought of such a
thing."

He seized her hands and held them in a grip
of iron.

"Eve, that is not true; you knew I loved
you. Why else was my marriage with Iris
broken off?"

"Yes, of course I knew that' was the
composed answer.

"And do you mean to say that you did not
lead me on? did not compel me to love you?
I loved Iris till the time that you, Eve, began
to tempt me, to let me see you cared for me, to
make yourself indispensable to me. That night
you let me kiss you  you kissed me in return 
you do not mean to tell me that you do not
care for me, that you love another? You cannot
have changed so soon. Besides, those
speaking, loving looks you have given me
every night, that I have lived on for weeks
past, what did they mean if you do not care
for me?"

They mean neither more nor less than anything
else," said Eve, coolly. " You gossipped
to Iris about me, just as any spiteful old woman
might have done  I mean about having
seen me by the river ; and then she, after
promising to say nothing, went and told mummy,
and made no end of mischief. I was
scolded just like a naughty child, and watched,
and not allowed to move by myself : that was
why you met me with Rogers. Of course, you

were rather more amusing than she was, so I
was glad of the exchange of gaolers for that
reason, but still more because it gave me the
opportunity of being revenged upon you both
you and Iris, I mean. T knew there was no
difficulty about making you fall in love with
me  I had only to flatter your vanity enough,
Which Iris never did ; if she had, she would
never have lost you, but she was too proud or
too stupid, or something. You fell into the
trap very easily ; there was no trouble or even
excitement about it, and you really believed I
was in love with you, though you knew how
I used to laugh at you when I first came
home. How you did dislike me then, to be
sure !"

"Do you mean me to believe"  his voice
was hoarse and husky  " that you never meant
to marry me? Why, you talked of Rookwood,
and of the delights of living there, till 
till "

'' Till you absolutely believed me, and I
nearly died of laughing at the thought.

What ! / marry a man who hasn't an idea in
his head except horses and dogs, and who
asks nothing better than to live in his stupid
country place from January to Christmas !
No, thank you. The only thing I regret is
that I have only punished you for meddling
with my affairs, not Iris. I thought her pride
would be so hurt by all the gossip in the
county, and mummy got her away before anyone
knew. I have saved her from perpetual
imprisonment at Lockwood, and she had the
delight of three mouths in Rome. Very dull,
1 thought it. but she was in the seventh
heaven."

Whatever your faults may be Eve' said
Laurence, with a haggard smile, " no one, in
this interview, at least can accuse you of want
of frankness. You have poured out all your
bitterness upon me, and now we had better
part. It is a just retribution to me for my
conduct to Iris ; I have been so besotted by my
passion for you that till this moment I had
hardly realised the enormity of my conduct to

her. I have been a blind fool  I have lost the
substance for the shadow. But for one thing,
Eve, I thank you, and that is for your plain-speaking.
You have shown me your character
in its true colours, and from the bottom of my
soul I pity your future husband. If there were
not another woman upon earth, I would not
marry you now."

' It is so easy to say that the grapes are
sour' said Eve, sharply.

She had expected reproaches, bursts of anguish,
passionate entreaties, all tributes to
her power, and instead she was receiving a
lecture  it was most mortifying. The sweets
of this revenge, too, seemed about to fail
her.

He smiled sadly.

No, Eve, the grapes are not sour, though
it may please you to think so. I believe I
ought to thank you cordially for the lesson you
have given me ; it will be strange if I am led
astray by my vanity a second time. You are
quite right  it must have been egregious. I

can see it now. But who could ever have
suspected a girl like you, little more than a
child, of such finished scheming, such bitter
malice ?"

' Well, I have not done you much harm, it
seems," said Eve, sulkily.

*' No  as I say, I ought rather to feel indebted
to you. But there is nothing more for
us to say to each other. Shall I take you back
to Mrs. Pleydeirr'

Eve rose sulkily from her seat. This was a
worse disappointment to her even than the
failure of her revenge upon Iris. She had made
so sure of it, had gloated in anticipation over
her triumph, and it was bitter to lose
it.

She walked in silence by Laurence's side
till she reached the lawn where Mrs. Pleydell
and Lady Netherleigh were seated together,
and, with a bow to her and her mother, he left
her without a word.

You don't look as if the interview had been
productive of all the satisfaction you anticipated,

Birdie," said Claud, when he re-joined
her.

*'He is odious!" said Eve, vehemently 
*' simply odious ! I never want to see or hear
of him again !"

Mr. Urban smiled to himself. He was quite
aware of Eves overweening self-love, and he
guessed that in some way or other the disappointed
swain had wounded it somewhat
severely, but in what manner he was too discreet
to inquire. He was of a very indolent
temperament, and dearly loved that everything
should go smoothly. He was not a man of
high principle himself, and did not either demand
or expect it in his wife ; all he asked was
that she should be pretty, piquante, and in
love with him, and these three qualifications
he believed himself to have secured in
Eve.

He had been in love many a time before,
many girls had believed themselves sure of his
preference, but  the magic words had never
been spoken, and they had seen him slowly but

surely drift away from them to some one else.
It was hard to say why Eve had been more
successful than others, perhaps he hardly knew
himself. It might be the unconventionality of
their first meeting and subsequent interviews,
or else the piquancy of the situation of causing
Mrs. Pleydell to receive unconsciously as an
accepted son-in-law the man with whom she
had so peremptorily refused to hold any communication.


At any rate he was well satisfied. He supposed
he must marry some day, and Eve had
somehow, rather to his surprise, not only made
him fall in love with her, but absolutely had
not wearied him in the least during the time
they were together in Rome. Generally he
tired of people so easily ; there really must be
something in the girl, and he was a very lucky
man. Altogether a different sort of devotion
from that with which honest Tom Pleydell
still worshipped Eve, and which, being un-gilded,
was so absolutely uninteresting to
her.

VOL. III. O

While Eve and Laurence had been engaged
in one portion of the wood, Iris and Mr. Thorn-ham
had been together in another. He had
suggested that, as she had never been at Clive
before, she was in duty bound to climb upto
the terrace and enjoy the view, and they
had started in that direction in company with
Sir Charles.

Iris had no idea that he did not intend to
accompany them the whole way, but Sir Charles
was somewhat slow in his movements, and
averse to hills, besides having a very clear perception
that his society was not required by
one of the party, and that this was emphatically
one of the occasions when two were better
company than three.

So before they were half-way up he pleaded
fatigue, seated himself on a bench, and told
them to go on, he would follow presently. Iris
suggested waiting for him, but this he would
not hear of; indeed they were no sooner out of
sight than he quietly retraced his steps to the
lawn below.

Iris suspected nothing of his manoeuvres,
though her companion did, and was duly
grateful to him ; however she was not in the
least shy, having not the faintest suspicion of
Mr. Thornham's feeling for her.

They admired the view for some time, and
thence strayed naturally to reminiscences of
fiome of the expeditions they had made together
in Rome, discussing the views from Albany and
Rocca di Papa, the expanse of the Campagna,
the difference between Italian and English
colouring, and many other similar topics.

Ah ! those were pleasant days," said Mr.
Thornham, with so deep a sigh that Iris replied,
with a smile,

"But why should you sigh so profoundly at
a pleasant memory? There will be plenty
more days equally agreeable. Take to-day for
instance."

Yes, it is very charming," said Mr. Thorn-ham
; ' but I think that the charm of those
Roman days was that I then ventured to be
more hopeful."

o 2

** Hopeful?" and Iris looked at him inquiringly.


The completely unembarrassed manner in
which she asked the question should have been
warning sufficient to him that she was quite
unconscious of his meaning, and that there was
therefore little or no ground for him to hope.
But his agitation was too great for him to
perceive this, and he said, abruptly,

Yes , Miss Netherleigh ; then, when I saw
so much of you, I ventured to hope that I 
that you  that is -that there might be a chance
for me."

There could be no doubt of the fact that Iris
was thoroughly taken by surprise ; she half
started from her seat, and turned from white to
red as she said,

Oh ! Mr. Thornham, I am so sorry, so
distressed ! indeed, indeed I never thought of
this !"

"Don't tell me I may not hope," he said,
laying his hand for a moment on hers.

Oh, but I must  it is impossible !" she said.

* Oh ! forgive me if I have misled you, but
indeed I never thought of such a thing."

But will you not think of it now ? Oh !
Miss Netherleigh  Iris "  taking her hand,  " I
have loved you ever since we first met at
Netherleigh, and since I knew you were free 
above all, since that happy time in Rome  I  "

'' Do not let us talk of it," said Iris, gently,
disengaging her hands ; " indeed it is of no use.
I can give you no hope. 1 am only so very,
very sorry that this has happened, and, if it
has been occasioned by anything I have done, I
can only ask you to forgive me, and assure you
that indeed I never thought of your caring forme."


Do not imagine I blame you, that is the
thing farthest from my thoughts. It is only 
so  so terrible a blow. Oh ! forgive me  don't
think me impertinent, but  if  if there is no
one else  I  I would wait for years, if you
could give me the least hope."

The tears flowed down Iris's cheeks. She
put her hand on his.

"Please say no more," she said, earnestly;
you are very good not to blame me, but I
can't help feeling as if I must have done very
wrong  must have done something to mislead
you. Oh, if you could know how very, VERY,
VERY sorry 1 am !"

'but  but, Iris, is it so utterly hopeless V

Yes' she almost whispered : '' yes, it is
indeed."

"Then I will vex you no more. And you
are not to trouble yourself. Oh, my darling,
my darling !" and he saw how bitterly she was
weeping : " forgive me for calling you so this
once, but I am more sorry than I can say to
have made you unhappy. If you can, forget
what I have said."

"But I cannot," said poor Iris, who, quite
unreasonably, felt as guilty as if she had acted
the part of the veriest coquette. " How can I
forget that you, whom 1 like so much, are
unhappy  and  about me ?"

You must remember that I owe my unhappiness
to my own presumptuous folly, and to na

fault of yours. I am more sorry than I can say
that I spoke at all  you must forgive me that
I could not help it. And  forgive me if I
leave }'ou now  I cannot face all those people
again."

He pressed her hand fervently to his lips,
wrung it with a force that was excruciating
pain, and was gone, leaving Iris to find her
way back to the rest of the party alone.

It was some short time before she was sufficiently
composed to set forth on her return
journey; when she did, it was a very great
comfort to encounter Sir Charles just at the
bottom of the path before she emerged on to
the lawn. He had not quite shared his wife's
certainty as to Mr. Thornham's success, and had,
therefore, rather kept in the way in case Iris, as
proved to be the case, might be thankful for his
escort. He made no remark upon her appearing
alone, began to talk on indifferent subjects,
and only revenged himself by saying to his
wife that night,

"Well, Silly, confess that I knew which

way the wind blew better than you did."
Laurence and Mr. Thornham went up to
town in the same train considerably before the
rest of the party, but they carefully avoided
entering the same carriage.

CHAPTER IX.

Money and man a mutual falsehood show,
Men make false money, money makes men so.

Henry VIL C. Aleyn.

If RS. Pleyel was struck with the 
pression of Iris's countenance when she
re-joined her, and remarked that she was particularly
silent and distraite during the rest of
the afternoon ; but, strangely enough, she did
not connect it with Mr. Thornham's disappearance,
though both Sir Charles and Lady
Netherleigh did so at once.

Mrs. Pleydell had imagined in Rome that
Mr. Thornham cared for Iris, but her belief had

been rather shaken by his choosing to leave
their party at Florence and return home by a
different route. And in the bustle in which
they had lived since their arrival in London
she had hardly given him a thought, having
decided in her own mind that she must have
been mistaken, or he would certainly not
have disappeared for such a length of
time.

Neither had her suspicious been awakened
with regard to Lord Rootley. He and Iris had
certainly had a great deal to say to each other,
but they had talked quite openly, without any
appearance of a tete-astute, and her mother
hardly realised how much they had seen of
each other in London when Iris was visiting-lady
Iraogene. She saw that her beautiful
eldest daughter received her full share of admiration,
but she did not perceive that she
distinguished one of her admirers above the
others, and was not greatly surprised, attributing
it to her inability to care for anyone so
soon after Laurence's defection.

Iris was very thankful that her mother made
no remark either on her long absence or upon
her disturbed appearance. She felt sure that
her countenance must bear the traces of tears,
and knew that any inquiry as to what was
the matter would be more than she could bear,
more especially as she could not of course
reveal the real cause of her agitation ; the secret
was not hers to tell. She was very glad when
there was a move homewards, and felt it quite
a relief that they had no engagements for that
evening.

Mr. Urban dined with them quietly, and
made himself as pleasant as he well knew how
to do. What did he see in Eve 1 Mrs. Pleydell
asked herself with surprise ; he seemed so
superior to her frivolous little daughter. Well,
she supposed it was the great contrast that
formed the charm, and certainly she showed to
considerable advantage in his presence, and
appeared  Mrs. Pleydell half unconsciously
never committed herself even in thought to
saying more than that Eve seemed to think ordo

anything  to be extremely attached to
him.

After all, as he seemed to be quite awake to
the fact that she would require careful watching,
and not in the least inclined to shirk his
responsibility in the matter, she began to feel
that it would be a great relief to her to know
that Eve was safely married ; and, as all appeared
to be satisfactory, there really seemed
no tangible reason for postponing the marriage,
and therefore, when attacked by both Claud
and Eve after dinner, she yielded after a very
faint show of resistance, and agreed that the
wedding should be fixed for the second week
in July.

She was somewhat surprised, on taking up
the Morning Post the next morning, to find the
announcement of the marriage, and of its
probable date, but she attributed it to Claud
rather than to Eve, and really, now that it was
settled, she had no objection to its being
generally known.

Eve ran in presently to ask if she might goto

Aunt Louisa ; she wanted to " tell her all
about it, and be congratulated," and, having
received permission, set forth attended by her
maid.

Iris, as usual in the morning, was reading in
her own room, and Mrs, Pleydell settled down
to a long morning of necessary letter-writing.
She had been thus engaged for more than an
hour, when the door opened, and looking up
she saw Tom Pleydell, looking so pale and
dismayed that she at once started up in
alarm.

' Tom, what is it ? For heaven's sake, tell
me at once ! Is it Eve ?"

He gave a sort of ghastly smile.

It is nothing about Eve, Aunt Grace, and
it is no accident to anybody, only I have
just discovered something very extraordinary,
and you are the only person I can talk to about
it."

"It is something that has upset you very
much, at any rate'' said his aunt. " Sit
down, Tom, and tell me all about it."

He sat down, and made two or three efforts
to speak, but without result. At last he
said,

'' You know Mr. Francia has gone away fora
day or two ?"

'' Yes. Louisa told me there was some business
at Liverpool. I wondered at his going
so immediately after their return home, and
she said it was quite imperative, as it was
most important business that no one but himself
could transact, or else, of course, he would
have sent yon. Oh, Tom ! I do hope there
is nothing wrong about the business just as
you have so advantageous a start."

'It is not exactly about the business. It is
worse. Aunt Grace, Francia is not Francia at
all."

My dear Tom, what do you mean ? If
he is not Francia, who on earth is he ? And
if he is living under an assumed name, surely
the business must be  cannot be all right."

You remember the telegram about my
father's death from San Francisco V"

Of course, but what has that to do
with Mr. Francia, or whoever he maybe?"


' Aunt Grace, that telegram was sent by
Francia  and  it was untrue."

*' Untrue! Do you mean your father is
alive ? How was the mistake made ?"

** It was no mistake  it was  a fraud."

But, good heavens ! Louisa ! She has
married this man ! hind, if William is alive
it is  bigamy  though, of course quite unintentional
on her part ! Tom how very,
very shocking ! What could have been the
motive? And what can be done?"

Tom rose from his chair, and took two or
three turns up and down the room, then he
said,

Aunt Grace, has not Francia ever reminded
you of anyone? I don't mean of anyone in
particular, but have you not felt a certainty
that you had either known him before, or else
been very intimate with some one of whom he
reminds you strongly ?"

'' I have not seen much of him, you know,
but, now you mention it, I remember that
the first time I met him in Park Street something
in his eyes  which are very peculiar with
his colouring  gave me something of the feeling
you describe."

I cannot think," said Tom, speaking half
to himself. " I cannot conceive now how I
could have been deceived for a moment."

Why, you do not mean that Mr. Francia
is anyone we know ?"

"Aunt Grace, cannot you guess? Not after
what I have told you?" And then, seeing
that she still looked hopelessly bewildered,
he continued, " It is my father himself."

Your father !"

Mrs. Pleydell stared at him as if believing
that he had taken leave of his senses. Indeed,
at first, such was her firm belief, but gradually
she saw that he was completely in
earnest, and continued :

*' But how  why  what possible motive ?
How did you discover it T

"He left me directions to open all letters
that came to the City. He said all private
letters were always sent to his private address,
and so I was to open all that were directed
to him. This morning I was doing so as
usual, had gone through about a dozen, and
made marginal notes of the necessary answers,
when I came to one which startled me by
beginning, *Mr. Pleydell.' I looked again at
the address  it was to F. Francia, all right,
so I concluded the correspondent had directed
it to the senior partner by mistake, while
really writing to me, the junior. So I began
it, and, by the time I had read the first page,
I knew that it was not meant for me, but
that I had a right to read it  that it was
addressed to my father, who had circulated
a false report of his death, and returned to
trade under an assumed name and personality
in London with the money he fraudulently
carried off from his creditors. The object of
his visit to Liverpool is to negotiate with a
man Who is cognisant of the fraud, to buy his
VOL. III. P

silence in short. The man who wrote the
letter is in San Francisco, and, as far as I can
make out, he was for some reason supposed to
be dead, and my father believes that there is
only the one witness he is now interviewing at
Liverpool. I have all along thought it very
strange how completely Francia's mode of
thought and views of business coincided with
my father's; now I know the truth, I cannot
conceive how I have been blinded so
long."

"It is the most wonderful history," said Mrs.
Pleydell. " I can hardly realise it now. Then,
of course, Louisa knew !"

Of course. I can quite understand now
why she was so nervous the first time I met
him there. It certainly is a most wonderful
disguise."

The colour of the skin V'

"Yes, you know what a clear, fresh complexion
my father had ; that, of course, is
stained ; then that short, stubby beard, instead
of his clean-shaven face, alters him immensely ;

of course, that is dyed black, and that black
hair is a wig ; you know he was quite bald ; the
only things he could not change were his eyes.
And now, Aunt Grace, what do you advise?
What am I to do?"

*' Of course you will tell him what you have
discovered ?"

Of course. But after that ? I cannot lend
myself to a fraud. I cannot go on as a member
of the firm and see sums which belong to
the creditors expended on entertainments in
Belgrave Square."

'' Then what do you propose doing ?"

That is just what at present I cannot tell ;
I cannot denounce my father, and give him upto
certain conviction and imprisonment. On
the other hand, I cannot join him in defrauding
the creditors. I am on the horns of a dilemma,
and he knew perfectly well that I should be soif
ever I discovered his secret."

*' But, if these two men know it, how can he
ever be safe ?"

He never can feel so, but  I don't know,

p2

Aunt Grace, if it is very unfeeling  but I cannot
pity him. If he had only been honest and
straightforward he would never have been in this-most
painful position, with discovery and disgrace
hanging over his head by a single hair.
But I could not be the one to cause the blow
to fall."

No, no, of course not. Suppose you insisted
 you can speak with authority, Tom, for
you have the power' of exposing him  that you
insisted on whatever proportion of the receipts
you think right being given into your hands for
the creditors? That seems to me the only
practicable arrangement. And the house
in Belgrave Square  that can be sold at
once."

'' But suppose he refuses ?"

' You mean that he will be sure that you
would not betray him f

'eyes, and then his wife's influence, she will
be furious at the money being diverted into
another channel."

'' But can you suggest any other plan f

No, 1 cannot. And it is feeling that, and
that this one will most likely fail, that makes me
feel so desperate. If I cannot prevail I must
leave England."

Not without consideration, Tom. Think
for a moment. How infinitely better off the
creditors are now, with nearly all your share of
the proceeds of the firm going to them, than if
you were to go away and leave the whole in  in
your father's hands."

*' There is something in that, certainly," said
Tom, musingly.

A good deal, I think."

But still, Aunt Grace, I couldn't stay and
countenance the imposture, the fraud. Think I

Could I r

"I would do nothing precipitately, and make
no rash decisions. Do you think it would do
any good my expostulating with Mrs. Francia ?
It might have a good effect that she should
Tinow that I know the whole story."

Tom sat and considered for sometime.


'I almost think it might. Would it be
better you should speak at the same time that
I do, or before V'

Mrs. Pleydell paused.

"I don't think they ought to be able to
confer together afterwards. Suppose you tell
me when you are to have your interview at the
ofiSce, and send me a telegram ' Yes ' if he
agrees to your plan, ' No ' if he refuses. If
the latter I would go to Park Street at
once''

You have something of the conspirator's
instinct in you, Aunt Grace," said Tom, with
a faint smile : ' I cannot improve upon
your idea, of course you will tell no
one."

Of course not."

1 almost despair, I confess."

Never despair, Tom  always hope."

He smiled sadly.

You did not say that to me about Eve,.
Aunt Grace."

*' Because I always knew there tuas nothing
to hope, Tom. And, now that she is going to
be married so soon, I do trust you will soon
shake off the fancy."

"Married!"

He sank into a seat and turned so deadly
white that Mrs. Pleydell's heart smote her for
her abruptness.

"I thought you knew. I have expected it
some time, and forgot that it was only settled
the day before yesterday. Yes, she marries
Mr. Urban in July."

God grant she may be happy !"

He was beginning to look more like himself,
and his aunt laid her hand on his
arm.

Forgive me, Tom, I ought not to have been
so abrupt."

He raised her hand to his lips.

** You are always kind to me, Aunt Grace, I
was foolish  I knew it must come some time.
Now I will go. I am not in tune for congratulating

Eve to-day ; besides, there is a lot of
business awaiting me ; the clerks must be wondering
where I am. He comes back tomorrow.
I will speak to him on Monday
morning and let you have the telegram.
I am afraid you will have to help
me."

On the Monday morning when Mr. Francia
walked into his private office, he was surprised
to find Tom awaiting. Generally the junior
partner sat in his own room, and only made
his appearance when sent for.

Good morning, Pleydell, very hot, isn't it ?
The dog days come before their time elf What
is it this morning? anything of consequence ?
I have an unusual quantity of correspondence
to get through."

It is of the first consequence, Mr.  Francia,"
with an intentional pause before the name,
it is respecting one of the letters that arrived
in your absence," and he placed the letter
before him.

Even beneath the skilfully stained skin it

was easy to see that Mr. Francia paled
as he read, but he tried to laugh it
off.

"A queer attempt at extortion," he said,
*' curious, Pleydell it should have been addressed
to me, not to you. I fancy the wisest plan
is to take no notice of it."

''Do you deny its truth, father T' said
Tom.

Mr. Francia started violently.

You don't mean to say, Pleydell," he said,
quickly, " that you for a moment believe this
cock-and-bull story ? It is too absurd ! Why,
in the name of common sense, were two
people ever more unlike ? Think of his fair
skin and fair hair and whiskers I it is too
ridiculous."

But your dark skin does not accord with
your very light blue eyes, ands' here he suddenly
approached his companion, and before
he could defend himself twitched off his wig;
* here above your left ear is the scar of the stone
where you fell from your pony as a boy, and

that you have often shown me. Oh father!
father ! why have you done this thing f and he
covered his face with his hands.

Come, Tom," said his father : " don't
make a fuss. What after all is there to make
yourself miserable about ? Surely it is much
better for me to come back and live comfortably
in my own country with my own wife?
I did think of sending for her to America,
but I was afraid it would be a clue to my
identity; besides, I don't think American
society would suit her. Come, Tom, you don't
mean to say you're sorry to see me back
again."

He laid his hand on his son's and looked up
into his face with a smile, but Tom withdrew
his hand and did not smile in return.

*' I am very glad indeed to see you again,
but not in this way."

Bless me, boy, what is it you want of
me?"

'* Father, you know very well. You know

what I said to you when, as Mr. Francia, you
took me into partnership at Christmas. I told
you I must decline living in any way that by
making a show could advance the interests of
the firm, because every sixpence I could spare
from the absolute necessaries of life must be
devoted to retrieving my father's name. You
said you quite understood my feeling and
honoured it, and yet  you are embarking on a
large house in Belgrave Square, and a pretentious
style of living. I cannot and I will
not aid and abet such dishonesty."

'* What do you mean?"

Mr. Pleydell looked considerably disturbed.

'' You know quite well that one word would
consign you to a felon's cell."

Yes, but a son could hardly whisper that
word of his father."

Yes, if that father refuses to make the
restitution in his power,"

'' Torn,, be reasonable. Talk sense if you can
instead of heroics, and tell me what it is you
want me to do."

''I want you' said Tom, standing before
him and looking him straight in the eyes, *' to
sell the house you have just bought inBelgrave
Square, and to apply the money and all the
surplus profits of the business to the purpose
of paying off to the uttermost farthing the
people you defrauded. I ask you to do this
through me as then no suspicion will fall upon
yourself. It will entail upon you no privation,
for Mrs. Pleydell's settlement is ample for all
your wants."

But, my dear Tom, you are very unreasonable.
We have got the house in Belgrave
Square, and want to enjoy it."

*rand can you enjoy anything with the
knowledge of the many you have injured preying
upon your mind? Can you know a moment's
peace while two men, like the writer of
this letter, and the other whom you went to
Liverpool to bribe, are the possessors of your
secret? Every year their demands will increase,
and that is not the worst of it. You
are never sure that, in an unguarded moment,

under the potent influence of the cock tails and
eye-openers of American bars they may not let
slip your secret. But do as I urge you ; work
heartily to make restitution, and before very
long you may venture again to be known by
your own name, and it will be realized that you
came back under an assumed one the better to
indemnify those you had caused to suffer. If
you do as I suggest, in three years' time
Francia and Pleydell may be known as Pleydell
and Son, and the romance of your return under
an assumed name will be told in your favour
instead of to your disgrace."

"But," said Mr. Pleydell, peevishly, "this is
all very fine, but for the present I lose all my
pleasure, and have to slave at business for no
return. It is all very well for a young manlike
you to talk coolly of three years' time ;
you are young and can afford to wait; now
every year will take from my power of enjoyment.
Besides, one of your arguments is very
feeble. You talk of the danger of Joyce or
Behind betraying me; that will be just as

great if I pay away all my money as you
wish."

Their power of exacting black mail will be
materially curtailed : it will only be for a
period of three or four years, instead of for the
term of your life. Besides, supposing that they
did denounce you, if your creditors found that
by allowing you to trade as Francia they were
having what they have all regarded as hopelessly
bad debts steadily paid off, they would
be far too wise to move in the matter, but
would steadily ignore your identity. Your
acceptance of the suggestion I make is the
only condition on which I will remain with
you."

Tom, you do not mean that you my only
child, would turn against me !"

Tom hesitated : he almost feared that
nothing but the fear of being denounced to the
police would induce his father to agree to his
terms, yet he could not deliberately say what
was not true. So he answered, slowly,

' Not to the extent of betraying your secret,
but I should retire from the firm and leave
England never to return."

'' Nonsense ! where would you go ?"

I do not know and should not care, but my
decision is irrevocable."

I would do as you wish," said Mr. Pleydell,
in a complaining tone; *' I really would, Tom,
though I think you are quixotic, and go too far
and ask too much ; but you see  there is Mrs.
Pleydell to be considered. She has quite set
her heart on eclipsing all that she did in Hyde
Park Gardens by her entertainments in Belgrave
Square."

"Does she know the danger of exposure?
That there are two unscrupulous and greedy
men in your confidence ?"

'' No, I can't say that she does."

Tell her that, and that my plan will bring
a speedy release from their terrorism. If that
does not suffice, let Aunt Grace talk to
her."

'' Your Aunt Grace ! Good Heavens, Tom !
are you mad? How can you talk so coolly of
taking a woman into our confidence ?"

'I have done so. Aunt Grace knows all,
but she is a person who is thoroughly to be
trusted. If Mrs. Pleyel will not listen
to you, let Aunt Grace try her powers of
persuasion."

Well," said Mr. Pleyel, in a weary tone ;
I suppose I must give in to you. I could not
bear your going from me in my old age. Yes,
Tom, it is very hard, but I will do what you
wish."

My dear father' cried Tom, wringing his
hand ; '' you have made me very happy. I
will work night and day to make the time as
short as possible till you are free."

*' But I shall never go back to the old name.
I have no fancy for being a nine days' wonder ;
Francia I am and Francia I shall remain all the
rest of my life."

There will be plenty of time to settle that,"

said Tom, and he left the room with a light
heart, to send to his aunt the unexpected
telegram, " Yes !"

VOL. III.

CHAPTER X.

She was his life,
The ocean to the river of his thoughts,
Which terminated all.

The Dream. Byron.

Earth holds no other like to thee.
Or if it doth, in vain for me.

The Giaour. Byron.

A GOOD deal of Mrs. Pleydell's persuasion
- was required to iudace Mrs. Francia to
accede to Tom's views of the situation. She
had greatly looked forward to beginning once
more her career as a fashionable hostess with
the advantage of a house in Bel grave Square
and the acquaintance of some of Mrs. Pleydell's
Netherleigh connections, and it was a great

mortification to find herself doomed to remain
in her pretty but small house in Park Street,
and to derive no advantage from her husband's
very flourishing business.

Mrs. Pleydell contrived to say as much as
possible of the danger of the two American
accomplices, and succeeded in making
her sister-in-law thoroughly nervous and uncomfortable
on that score, but the greatest
success was effected by a perfectly casual
remark which Mrs. Francia at once interpreted
as meaning that Mrs. Pleydell, in case of her
refusal to do as Tom wished, would not consider
herself bound to keep the secret. Of
course nothing was really further from Mrs.
Pleydell's intention, but seeing the effect of the
belief she did not think it necessary to contradict
it, and eventually extracted a somewhat
sullen assent.

It is done, Tom," said Mrs. Pleydell, when
he came to see her that afternoon ; '' I am
very glad. I confess at one time I despaired.
And after all my success is due to a miscon-

q2

caption ;" and she repeated to him the speech
which Mrs. Francia had understood as implying
immediate intention of informing Lady
Beechmont of the facts.

'' Well, so long as it is settled, it does not
matter," said Tom, 'ewe never could have done
without you, Aunt Grace. Do you know, now
that it is settled, I really believe my father feels
it to be a relief."

Yes, I daresay. But of course you have
still to bribe those Americans ?"

"Yes, until we have cleared off the debts
then we can defy them to do their worst,
and they are not likely to get very extortionate
before that time."

A fortnight, during which Eve and her
trousseau, her congratulations, and her presents
kept the house in a constant bustle,
had passed since Lady Imogene's marriage,
and Lord Rootley's departure. It seemed at
least two months to Lis, who missed him
more and more every day, and felt that all
the going out which she had so greatly enjoyed

when she met him everywhere, was flat,
stale, aud unprofitable.

She took care not to betray the fact, however.
Her mother, she knew, thought that
society was good for her, and would be both
surprised and disappointed if she avowed herself
tired of what she had at first so greatly
enjoyed. Besides, her mother would naturally
seek for some reason, and Iris shrank
with horror from the thought of her guessing
the real one. She had, as she told
herself, no reason to believe that her preference
for Lord Rootley was returned. He
had talked to her so much because they were
interested in the same subjects, and also
because she was a friend of Lady Imogene's,
but she had no reason to believe that there
was anything further in his feeling for her.

It was true that, when he took leave of
her, his manner and the words, " Say you
will be glad to see me when I come back,"
had made her heart beat high with the hope
that he cared for her, though at that time

{?he hardly realized how much she cared for
him ; but now that his voice was no longer
in her ears, that his dark eyes no longer
made her colour rise and her heart beat,
she had learnt to fancy that she had exaggerated
his meaning ; that his farewell was, after
all, but that of an intimate friend. She must
be doubly on her guard on his return, lest
any evidence of her feelings should escape
her, and he should fancy she had attached
a meaning to his words which he had never
intended.

But very possibly he would not return to
London. He was sure to find a great deal
to do at Pinefield, and it was not likely he
would leave it before Lady Imogene's visit.
She would not be there till three weeks after
her marriage, and would probably stay a fortnight,
and by that time it would hardly be
worth while to come back to town. And then
as Lady Beechmont had announced that Coal-shire
did not agree with her, which was her
way of saying that she found it dull, in all

probability they should not meet again forages,
and, before they did, he would have
forgotten her, or very probably married someone
else.

Even if he did come down to stay with
Lady Imogene, Elmhurst was a very long
way from the Gate House, and it was most
likely that they should not meet. And, having
decided that the sooner she made up her
mind to this the better, she began to fulfil
her intention by dwelling on every word he
had ever spoken to her, his last words being
repeated again and again.

Meanwhile, Lord Rootley was also in a very
disturbed state. Of course he was less to be
pitied than Iris, for he had a good deal of
business which he was obliged to get through,
and which served in a measure to occupy
his thoughts, but, in his solitary evenings.
Iris, and Iris only, was the subject of his
meditations.

It was true that he believed that he had
every ground for hope : her agitation when

he wished her good-bye could, he thought,
have but one meaning. Still he could not
be sure  perhaps she might not have understood
him. AVhat a fool he had been to
leave town without knowing his fate! Half
a dozen times at least during the first ten
days of his stay at Pinefield he was on the
point of rushing up to London to ask the
question on which all his hopes of happiness
depended, but he forced himself to remain.

He had settled in his own mind when he
went down that he would remain away a fortnight,
and he forced himself to complete his
allotted period. If he was right and there were
hope for him, he would not, as he very sensibly
told himself, impair his chance by remaining
absent for so short a period, while if he were
doomed to disappointment  it was, at any
rate, something to have a little longer to
hope.

Perhaps the objects of his journey suffered
somewhat by his pre occupation. The clergyman
, agent, and others with whom his business

had to be transacted, all observed that he
hardly seemed so interested in the work as
usual, and that it was often necessary to tell
him things more than once, thus showing that
his attention could hardly have been fully given
to the first recital.

At length the end of the fortnight came ; he
would have been ashamed to confess how he
had counted the hours of that last week which
had seemed to him never ending ; he knew that
that night there was a ball at a house where he
was sure to meet her there he should learn his
fate.

His family happened to dine at home that
night, and his mother and Hildegarde gave him
a great deal of miscellaneous information. As
has been before said they were not good
correspondents, and a few lines from his father
in answer to letters on business were all
that had reached him while he remained at
Pinefield.

One piece of information astonished him
greatly.

"Only think," said Lady Hildegarde, "just
conceive that Eve Pleydell's luck. Claud Urban
came down to us at Beechmont for the
New Year's ball, fell desperately in love with
her, followed her to Rome when they ran off
in such a hurry to let the row about Iris and
Laurence Furnivall blow over, and they are to
be married the second week in July."

'* I must say I was surprised," said Lady
Beechmont, languidly ; ''I wonder what he saw
in her. He might have done so very much
better' and she glanced involuntarily at her
daughter.

Lord Rootley was surprised. He quite remembered
all the episodes of Mr. Urban's
visit under an assumed name to Coalshire, and
wondered much that he should have ventured
to stay at Beechmont under his own name :
there must surely have been some danger of
recognition.

He was heartily glad that the danger which
had at one time appeared to him imminent of
Mr. Urban's marrying Hildegarde was averted ;

but he did not feel very comfortable respecting
Eve. What had become of the lady who had
lived at the cottage and been known as Mrs.
Esmond He must warn Iris, it would never
do to let Eve marry without some investigation.
For, as Lady Hildegarde spoke of Mr. Urban's
visit to Beechmont as his first meeting with
Eve, it was to be presumed that she had said
nothing of his identity with the man she met in
secret on the river.

But he had not time that evening to give
very many thoughts to Eve and her concerns.
It seemed to him as if time stood stilly as if the
hour would never come at which it was possible
to go to a ball. His mother and Hildegarde
were going to two or three other places
first, and wanted him to come with them,
but his impatience was too great, and he
declined.

You can't go yet ; you'll help to light the
candles," said Lady Hildegarde, laughing.

He certainly was very early, and he had a
long time to wait before his eyes were rejoiced

by the sight of Iris's stately figure following
her mother into the room. They were alone,
for Eve had gone to bed with a headache,
the only malady to which she ever seemed
subject.

He stood for a few minutes unseen, watching
Iris. He thought he had never seen her
look so handsome, but  was it fancy, and was
it the case that she seemed somewhat pensive
and out of spirits ? Certainly there was a sort
of weariness in her manner which he had never
observed before. Dare he hope that this was a
favourable omen for him ? that it was caused
by his absence ? that she was thinking of him ?
It was with the hope in his heart that it was
so, that he stepped forward and stood before
her.

Iris gave a violent start, and her face and
neck became crimson, but she recovered herself
very quickly, and contrived to say, with very
tolerable composure,

Lord Rootley, this is a surprise ! I thought
you were to be at Pinefield at least six weeks."

He made no direct answer, but, when the
dance for which he asked was accorded to
him, he led her straight away from the dancers
into a tiny conservatory which happened to
be vacant. There he took in his the hand that
rested on his arm.

"Miss Netherleigh, he said, "do you remember
the question I asked you when we
parted?"

She blushed and looked down, answering, in
 a very low voice,

Yes, I think so. "

*'I asked you if you would be glad to seeme
when I came back, and you said * Yes.'
Are you ?"

Yes," in a still lowers voice.

' It depends solely on you whether I go
away again."

On me ?" But, though she asked the question,
Iris could not affect any doubt of his
meaning.

*' Yes, on you. Iris dear, you know what I
mean, that I love you with my whole heart,

that I want you to be my own dear wife. You
will, won't you ? Your eyes say yes."

Her tongue could not, but she put her hand
into his.

*' God bless you, dear," he said, quietly.
*' He knows that, if you are not happy, it shall
not be my fault."

I have no fear," whispered Iris.

It was a very happy time that they spent in
that tiny conservatory, though neither spoke
much, and they were quite unaware how long
they stayed there.

Mrs. Pleydell, who had no suspicion of the
state of the case, and who was not accustomed
to Iris's remaining long away from her side,
was very considerably puzzled ; but, when at
last she saw them approaching her, she did
not need to be told what had occurred. Lord
Rootley's proud look of proprietorship and
Iris's blushes told their own tale.

Mrs. Pleydell was more glad than she could
say. Here was a man to whom she could
entrust her child without any of the misgivings

as to suitability and her future happiness that
had always troubled her even at the happiest
period of her engagement to Laurence. But
of course nothing could be said at present, and
she could only give Iris a look which the girl
well understood.

Mrs. Pleydell was a happy woman as she sat
meditating on what had occurred, after assuring
Lord Rootley that she should be glad to
see him the next morning. This was indeed a
happy ending to all her fears respecting the
effect that Laurence's desertion would have
upon Iris.

It had been a painful blow to her, of course,
for the time, but how infinitely greater washer
prospect of happiness now than it had been
before ! Lord Rootley was not merely in love
with her, he appreciated her ; they cared for
the same things, and would have all their
interests in common. It was all her heart
could wish. How pleased Aunt Rachel would
be!

Iris was eager to go home as early as possible.

She had danced two or three times with
Lord Rootley, but she did not wish to make
herself conspicuous and the dances with others
were a weariness to her. She was glad when,
with a last lingering pressure of the hand, he
put her into the carriage, and in the darkness
she laid her head on her mother's
shoulder.

My darling, I am more than glad for
you."

Oh, mamma, I am so happy !"
I knew it, dear ; your face told me."
Mamma, there is only one thing  you don't
think me very fickle  you don't think it possible
that  some day he may think so ?"

Certainly not, dear. Your love died because
you could not esteem the person for
whom you had felt it ; it was certainly not you
who were fickle."

They reached home, and with a fond kiss
Mrs. Pleydell wished Iris good night. She
would not let her come into her room, saying
laughingly that if she did they should neither

of them get any sleep, and should be perfect
scarecrows when Lord Rootley made his appearance
in the morning.

Eve was apt to be very late in the morning,
more especially on the rare occasions when she
had had a headache the day before. There
was nothing to incline her to be early this
morning, for Claud was gone out of town for
the day to see a horse of which he had heard,
and which he thought would suit her.

It was nearly one o'clock when she sauntered
into the drawing-room and found her mother
alone. Lord Rootley had had a very satisfactory
interview, having been able to announce
the complete satisfaction of his father and
mother at his choice. Lord Beechmont had
declared that nothing could possibly have
given him greater pleasure, and had already
suggested assigning Beechmont to the young
people as a residence. Lord Rootley had now
carried Iris off to Grosvenor Square, that she
might be received in due form as a daughter.

Well, mummy," said Eve, yawning, " what

VOL. III. K

sort of a ball was it last night? It was an
awful bore missing it."

How is your head this morning?"

*' Oh ! all right, only I feel very tired and
stupid. Did anything particular happen?"

"Yes, something very particular, and that
gives me the greatest pleasure. Iris is going
to be married."

"Iris! Whom to? Mr. Thornham, I suppose."


'No, to Lord Rootley."

Lord Rootley !" and Eve's face clouded
over. "I thought he was safe down in Firshire.
Why did he come back?"

To ask Iris to marry him, I suppose."

"Well, she hasn't lost any time in consoling
herself, at any rate. I should have thought
she might have waited a little longer."

Happily, Eve, your opinion is of little
consequence, but, for your own sake, I should
advise you to keep it to yourself."

Eve said no more, but sat in gloomy and
sulky meditation. What would be the result

to herself of Lord Rootley's return ? Would he
tell Iris of the identity of Claud and Mr.
Esmond, and, if he did, would she think it
necessary to make mischief? Yes, that of
course she would, in revenge for Eve's having
robbed her of Laurence.

Of course she would be spiteful about anything
so mortifying, though she ought to thank
her stars for the good luck that had enabled
her to make such an infinitely better marriage.
Still, if Iris once knew the secret, there was no
hope of her keeping it. She would talk about
'' duty," and " her conscience," and go straight
to her mother. The only hope was to work on
Lord Rootley's good nature, and there was just
the chance that they would have been too
much occupied with their own affairs for him
to have told Iris yet.

She schemed in vain for an opportunity of
speaking to him alone ; he dined with them
that night, but he had neither eyes nor ears for
anyone but Iris, and when he attended them to
a ball he simply stood still when not dancing

b2

with her. At length Eve grew desperate and
asked him point-blank to dance with hers
adding, in a low tone,

There is something I must say to you."

He looked surprised, but of course he could
not refuse. After the first turn, she drew back
into a quiet corner.

Of course you know," she said quickly
that I am engaged to Mr. Urban ?"

*' Yes,, Hildegarde told me."

Well, you remember speaking to me about
him when  when he was staying at the cottage?"


As Mr. Esmond? Yes. You made me a
promise ; did you keep it ?"

For a little ; but  there were circumstances
I couldn't help myself. Now what I want of
you is not to tell Iris or anyone that Claud
was ever called Mr. Esmond or stayed at
the cottage. If you do there'll be such a
row."

He paused for a moment.

"I am afraid I could not have given the

promise you require," he said, gravely, *' even
if it had been in my power ; there were circumstances
about Mr. Urban's visit to Coalshire
which, in your own interest, ought to be
investigated and "

"You mean the rumour that he was married,"
said Eve, eagerly. " I know all about
That. She was his sister  Mrs. Esmond, the
widow of his cousin. She was out of her mind,
and he was taking care of her, and now she
is worse, and in a lunatic asylum. Now do
promise me not to say anything to Iris  she
will make such mischief."

Whatever Iris does," he replied, coldly,
'' she will never voluntarily make mischief,
though, of course, she will think it right tolet
Mrs. Pleydell know the truth. I told her
of Mr. Urban's identity to-day."

Then there's an end of everything' observed
Eve ; and she said not another word
till the dance was concluded.

As Lord Rootley said, he had told Iris of
Claud's identity.

*' I say, Iris," he observed, when there was a
pause in the discussion of their own concerns,
when did Eve tell your mother about her
flirtation with Urban on the river ?"

What do you mean V asked Iris, looking
surprised. " Mr. Urban came to Beechmont
just at the time of the skating, and they fell
in love at once."

Then she never has told ! I fancied as
much. Iris, she used to meet him on the
river in the autumn. He was staying at Sir
John Dibbletons cottage under the name of
Esmond."

Iris looked aghast and turned very pale.

Esmond !" she exclaimed. " Oh ! it can't
be ! Surely you must be mistaken."

"Not I I know Mr. Urban fairly well. I
saw Eve with him under the oak at the cottage,
and I spoke to her, telling her that Esmond
was not his real name  which, by the
way, she then believed it to be  and exacted
a promise from her not to see him again without
your mother's knowledge, on pain of my

telling Mrs. Pleydell all that I had see."
*' And she promised?"
Yes, reluctantly, but she promised."
*' And broke it  Mr. Furnivall saw her with
him too, and told me. I knew you had spoken
to her," and Iris proceeded to relate the story
of Eve's journey to London, and all the rest
of the Esmond episode. " Now what am I todo
?" she asked, piteously. " I would give
anything not to interfere in Eves concerns,
but it would not be right to mamma ; and besides,
if he could be so deceitful as to meet
Eve as a stranger, and pretend to fall in love

with her again, he might Rootley, do you

think it possible he  he was married?"
He paused a moment, and said slowly,
Possible, but I think far from probable.
He evidently intends to marry Eve now, and
I do not think he is likely to put himself in the
way of being tried for bigamy."

"But if I tell mamma she has declared
positively that nothing shall ever induce her
to allow Eve to marry Mr. Esmond  the marriage

will be broken off, and Eve will be
miserable."

But that does not alter the question of
right and wrong, dear. All you have to ask
yourself is what it is right to do, not what you
would like."

It isn't because I dislike it, but my horror
of making mischief."

Suppose silence made matters worse? Suppose
the handsome gipsy with the pony-carriage
were Mrs. Urban ? It would not be mischief
then to break off the marriage."

No, of course not. We come back, as usual,
to your favourite motto, ' Fais ce que dois
advienne que pourra I will tell mamma tomorrow
morning."

*' That is right, Iris."

Poor mamma ! it will be a great trouble
to her. She likes Mr. Urban so much, and she
was so happy thinking Eve had chosen welland
would be so safe with him."

'* I should think Eve was rather a trouble
to her. Iris I have a confession to make.

Once, when I first knew her  before I knew
you, darling  I very nearly, not quite, fell
in love with Eve. Luckily, I was wise intime."


'there must be some affinity between us,"
said Iris, smiling ; " it was love for her that
took Mr. Furnivall away from me."

He could love her after knowing you !
Well, Iris, I owe Eve a debt of gratitude I
can never hope to repay."

CHAPTER XL

Heaven knows how loth I am to part from thee ;
So from the seal is soften'd wax disjoin'd,
So from the mother-plant the under rind.

Dryden.

TRIS, you must surely be dreaming ! You
-* cannot mean that Mr. Urban is Mr. Esmond?
That he actually had the audacity,
when I was going to tell him about the
adventure, to stop me and say that Eve had
told him everything."

Do you think it is likely that she would
have told him everything if he had not known
it, mamma ?''

* Well, I confess I did not expect it of her,
and it surprised me very much. But his conduct
is positively monstrous. Of course the
marriage must be broken off."

'* Oh, mamma, do you think that is
absolutely necessary? It will make such a
fuss, and I really do think she does care for
him."

I don't like the fuss any better than you do,
Iris, but to let her marry him is quite impossible.
A child who requires such careful guidance
cannot be given over to the care of anyone
so manifestly devoid of principle. Besides,
you know the rumour that he was married, that
must be cleared up."

'ras Eve knew of that, he must of course
have been able to explain it to her satisfaction.
Don't you think, mamma, that, if he satisfies
you that it was all right, you might forgive
him and let things go on quietly ?"

No, Iris, I do not. I really could not reconcile
it to my conscience."

'but indeed I think she is fond of him.

Don't you think that marrying anyone she loves
is the best hope for her f

You are a skilful advocate, Iris, and there
is something in what you say, but I cannot
consent to an immediate marriage ; there must
be some probation."

*' Six months would be enough, mamma,
would it not T'

"No, a year at the very least. I really
don't think," Mrs. Pleydell spoke, for her,
almost fretfully, ''that you at all realize the
enormity of the deception ! Remember that I
myself wrote to this man telling him that
with my consent he should never see my
daughter again, and that he and Eve have
absolutely duped me into admitting him as a
constant companion, and even accepting him asa,
son-in-law ! It is of no use your pleading,
Iris, it is very amiable of you, but I cannot
listen."

I am so sorry you should be so worried,"
said Iris, stooping down and kissing her
mother's cheek.

Go now, dear, and send me Eve."

'-' Shall I tell her you know ?"

"No, you had better not."

But when Iris tapped at her sister's door, and,
putting in her head, said, " Mamma wants to
speak to you in the drawing-room at once," Eve
immediately knew what had happened, and
said sneeringly,

'' Oh ! I suppose you've been telling tales
and making mischief again."

Iris did not reply ; the soft answer which is
popularly supposed to turn away wrath had
never the smallest effect upon Eve.

"I really can't see why you should be so
spiteful," the girl continued, angrily, " anyone
else would have been obliged to me for freeing
them from a clod like Laurence, and leaving
them free for such an infinitely better match,
to say nothing of having enjoyed yourself in
Rome all the winter, which you'd never have
done but for me. But you can't be thankful
for or satisfied with your own good luck, but
must upset mine. And then I suppose you'll

talk about your ' duty ' and your ' conscience !*
How T bate goody people !"

Mamma is waiting, Eve, you bad better goat
once," was all that Iris said, and sbe shut
herself into ber own room.

Poor Mrs. Pleydell bad not a pleasant interview
with ber youngest daughter. Being
very angry and not a little unhappy, Eve was
extremely cross, abused Iris and Lord Rootley
violently, and absolutely refused to listen to
ber mother's representations of bow very bad
ber conduct bad been.

Sbe would marry Claud on the 12tb of
July, no matter what anyone said," and, when
told that sbe was a minor and could not do as
sbe pleased, sbe rejoined that at any rate sbe
was not going to stay at bone to be bullied,
sbe should go to Aunt Louisa, sbe was
sure that sbe and Mr. Francia would be kind
to her.

At length, quite worn out, ber mother sent
ber to her own room, and gave orders to

Rogers to see that she remained there.
She felt there was hardly any folly that
Eve was not at that moment capable of committing.


Of course Eve had given Claud's version of
the lady who had accompanied him to Coal-shire,
but it sounded to Mrs. Pleydell so very
melodramatic that she felt doubtful as to its
credibility and awaited with considerable impatience
Mr. Urban's arrival.

When he came, she greeted him distinctly
with 

Good morning, Mr. Esmond."

He started violently.

You are surprised to find that your fraud is
discovered."

"Fraud is a strong word, Mrs. Pleydell."

hardly too strong, I think, Mr.  is it to be
Urban, or Esmond?"

Both are my names," he said, shortly.
Esmond was my mother's name, and is my
second Christian name. However, I think we
had better say Urban."

"As you please. Of course, Mr. Urban,
you must be aware that your marriage with
my daughter cannot take place."

"Why not r

He spoke as coolly as if they were discussing
the most trivial matter.

I should have thought it was hardly necessary
to ask. Even if I could overlook the
gross deception, you must remember that when
I returned your letters I told you that I
could not allow you ever again to approach
ive. Besides, there is the unexplained fact
that when you were at Oak Cottage you were
supposed to be married."

"I can easily explain that," and he proceeded
to relate exactly the story which Mrs.
Pleydell had already heard from Eve.

"It is a very remarkable story," she said,
drily.

He turned upon her indignantly.

"You don't mean to say you doubt my
word r

*'l should certainly require ample verification.

You can hardly be surprised, I think,
when you consider the fraud that you have
practised, and caused my daughter to practise
upon me. Perhaps you may remember that
in this very room you told me that Eve had
confessed to you all about Mr. Esmond.
After such a statement, how am I ever to
believe anything you may say ?"

But you forget. I never said anything
of the kind. I merely let you believe it. I
only said I knew all about Mr. Esmond, and
that certainly is true."

You cannot, I think, be surprised that
T can no longer countenance your marriage."


*but I am very much Look here, Mrs.

Pleydell, it is a matter of common sense.
I love Eve, or I should not have taken all
the trouble I have to keep the name of
Esmond from your ears. Eve, I think, loves
me. I am sure I can make her happy, and
you know I can give her good settlements.
Surely it would be very unreasonable to

VOL. III. S

throw away a well-assorted and suitable marriage
just for a temporary anger at our having
been able to keep our own counsel V

He was certainly cool and audacious enough,
and Mrs. Pleydell almost gasped for breath, but
she replied,

"Mr. Urban, T look upon marriage as a
much more serious matter than you do. It
is of far more consequence to me that the
man my daughter marries should be good,
honest, and honourable than that he should
be rich. And how can I possibly trust you ?
You have deceived me for six months ; how
do I know that, after marriage, you might
not deceive Eve, and wreck the happiness of
her life ? You spoke well enough the other
day of taking care of her, but what will bethe
care of a man so devoid of principle as
you have shown yourself? Eve's character
wants strengthening and elevating ; what sign
can I find in your conduct that you are to
be trusted even to attempt to improve her ?

Marriage means, for a girl with so little
steadiness as Eve, either possible elevation
or certain deterioration, and I do not see
on what grounds you can claim to be her
mentor."

Do you think nothing of our love ?" he
asked, imploringly.

Do you call it love to encourage a girl
deliberately to deceive ber mother?"

AH is fair in love."

*' Many sins have been committed under the
shadow of that silly saying. If you loved Eve
truly, you would not have endeavoured morally
to injure her."

Look here, Mrs. Pleydell," said Claud, " it's
of no use your talking metaphysics like that tome.
I love Eve and she loves me, and I
don't think you can be so cruel as to
say we shan't marry. What does Eve

Eve is not in the least ashamed of the
deception," owned Mrs. Pleydell, reluctantly.

s2

I didn't think she would be ; she arranged
it all. Now surely you can't make us both
miserable. I'm quite ready to say that I'm
very sorry you should be so annoyed, and to
promise you that, bad as your opinion is of me,
I really will take the greatest care of my darling
little Eve."

Mrs. Pleydell was silent and after a pause he
went on :

*' You know Eve is neither happy nor easy to
manage at home ; I feel sure she will be both
with me. At any rate, you cannot know to the
contrary."

There can be no true love without esteem,
and Eve can never respect you, her accomplice
in deception."'

' ' No love without esteem ' sounds like Sir
Charles Grandison ; I am sure it never once
entered Eve's pretty little head to think
of esteeming me ; but she loves me very
much."

And, with no secure basis, why should you
think it would last?"

' I'll take my chance of that. Come, Mrs.
Pleydell, say you forgive us, and that all shall
go smooth."

I will concede this much," said Mrs. Pleyel,
after a pause, " if you are both in the same
mind in a year's time, and if you perfectly
satisfy me as to the truth of the story respecting
Mrs. Esmond, I will give my consent. It
must be clearly understood that there is no
engagement. It is no use your protesting," ashe
began a hasty speech ; ' my decision is irrevocable.
She must give you back your ring.
The only alternative is your marriage being
definitely broken off."

Claud Urban was not accustomed to be
thwarted, he felt very angry, but he saw that
Mrs. Pleydell meant what she said, and that it
was of no use combating her decision. Besides,
an idea struck him of something that might be
arranged with Eve, and he should be debarred
from all communication with her unless he at
any rate seemed to bow to her mother's decree.
So he said,

*' Well, Mrs. Plejdell, I really think it is very
hard, but of course the power is in your hands.
As to giving Eve up that is out of the question.
So I suppose we must agree to wait for this
interminable year, unless you relent before it is
over. As to my poor sister, you will have no
difficulty in assuring yourself of the absolute
truth of her sad story. Now may tell Eve of
your decree? Perhaps I can make it seem
less hard to her, poor child, than it does tome."


I will send her to you," said Mrs. Pleydell,
leaving the room.

She was by no means satisfied with the
result of the interview. She was angry with
herself for her own weakness in yielding when
she had been so disposed to dismiss him forever
; and he had certainly shown no proper
penitence, or even sense of the enormity of his
conduct.

Was it possible that she could have been so
weak as to yield because he had reminded her
how difficult Eve was to manage at home, and

she had realised how much worse she would
be if this love affair were definitely put an end
to ? She hoped not, and yet it certainly looked
very like it.

If dear Aunt Rachel were only in reach!
What she would give for a quiet hour's talk and
the opportunity of listening to her commonsense
views ! Talking was so different from
writing. It would take a volume to express all
she wanted to say, and even then it might not
be fully comprehensible, whereas an hours talk
would make all clear.

Mrs. Pleydell did not say anything respecting
what had passed to Eve, but merely told her
that Mr. Urban was in the drawing-room and
would like to see her. She ran quickly downstairs.


Well, Claud, you know Iris has been making
mischief. What did mummy say? Was she
very angry ?"

Well, yes. She preached me a very long
sermon."

"But you have made it all right?"

'not quite, but better than I thought it was
going to be at one time. But we have been
very naughty children, Eve and we are not to
be let off our punishment."

Do be serious, Claud. What did she
say"

A great deal of virtuous indignation which
you would not care to hear, indeed I daresay
you have had it already. Then the decree is
that we are to disengage ourselves that you
are to give me back my ring -this was particularly
specified,  and that if a year hence we are
both in the same mind she will not oppose
us."

Eve burst into tears. He knelt down by her
and put his arm round her waist.

' Don't cry, my sweet, little bird ; after all,
you know, we shall be all the same to each
other though we are disengaged, and, sad as it
is, a year will soon pass."

Oh, it is very easy for you !" sobbed Eve.
You can go about, and be amused, and enjoy
yourself, and the time will go very quickly.

But think of my life at home with mummy,
being scolded, and preached at, and told to
improve my mind all day long. A whole year !
I shall die or go mad long before that. Oh I
Claud, if you cared for me only half as much as
you say you do, you never, never would have
agreed."

My dear Eve, I fought as well as I could,
but you know how cool and imperturbable
your mother is ; I might as well have flung
myself against a rock. All I got was that, if I
did not agree, our marriage must definitely be
broken off. So there was no use in my
persevering. You know, half a loaf is better
than no bread."

I know that everything is odious, and that
I am miserable," said Eve, plaintively, turning
her engagement ring round and round on her
finger, and ready to bm'st into tears again at
the mere thought of parting with her beautiful
ruby.

He drew her close to him, kissed her fondly
and almost whispered,

My little Eve, there is one way of settling'
matters in our own way."

"What is that?" said Eve, raising herself
and looking at him with lively interest.

We might elope, little one. If you have
the pluck to venture, I'll manage it all
right."

Oh !" was all Eve could say.

The idea for a moment paralysed her, and,
before Claud had finished the hurried sketch of
his proposed plan, which he hastened to pour
into her ear, there came back to her Lady
Hildegarde's words relating to Captain Severely
 *' It's all very well being in love, but one
knows it won't last," " If we eloped, I should
have no settlements, no pin-money, and, if he
died, I should be left without a jointure." She
heard these words clearly ringing in her ears
through Claud's animated description of his
plans, and when at length he paused and said,
somewhat triumphantly,

' Well, Eve ?"

She stammered,

' Oh, Claud, I'm afraid ! that is, I think I
don't think it would do at all."

"Not do? Why, Eve, you don't mean to
say you're afraid? Not with me, surely?
Why, you know I should make everything
safe."

Oh ! yes, I am sure you would Claud, but I
think  that is, I'm sure I could go through
with it."

' You little goose, why ? You only have
to do just as I tell you."

' But I could Claud, indeed."

Mr. Urban was very decidedly puzzled. He
did not like being thwarted, and his handsome
face began to lower. Suddenly the thought
occurred to him of what Lady Hildegarde had
said to Eve.

It must not be supposed that Eve had
betrayed confidence ; to do her justice, she was
very loyal as to her friend's secrets. She had
not mentioned Captain Deverell's or Lady
Hildegarde's name, but she had asked him
whether it was true that people who eloped

had no settlements, and, on his inquiring what
on earth had put such a question into her head,
replied that some one had said so, on which he
had observed with a laugh that 'some one"
was wise in her generation, for that certainly,
when a man had once got his wife, he was not
likely to be so foolish as to hamper himself
with settlements.

It began to dawn on him that this was what
was in Eve's mind. But it was a very different
matter indeed praising the worldly wisdom of
some persons unknown, and being himself refused
what he wanted for fear settlements
should not be forthcoming. How hideously
mercenary all women were, to be sure ! and his
lip curled as he said,

"You are prudent. Eve ! I see you have not
forgotten your friend's good advice."

Eve saw at once it would never do to let him
really believe that this was the truth ; so, feeling
that she was blushing violently, she assumed a
tone of indignation as she exclaimed,

Claud, how can you ? As if I was thinking

of such a thing ! I'm sure I'm unhappy enough
without jour suspecting me of anything so
odious!" and she burst into a flood of
tears.

He was only half convinced, but he kissed
away her tears, and for the present said no
more about the elopement. He put the ring
which she surrendered with infinite sorrow on
his little finger, and vowed it should never
leave it till he replaced it on her hand.

When at length he departed, and Mrs.
Pleydell, hearing the door close, returned
to the drawing-room, she found Eve lying
face downwards on the sofa, in such a paroxysm
of sobbing that it was some time before
she could reply to her mother's attempted
soothing.

"Go away! Leave me alone! You hate
me or you wouldn't make me so miserable ! I
hate everyone who has come between me and
my darling Claud !"

Eve was persuaded such an utterance would
have a great effect, but her mother was too

uncertain whether her sobs proceeded from
sorrow or temper to be adequately impressed.


CHAPTER XII.

The world may scoff at " broken hearts,"
But hearts may broken be ;
Or bear through life a crushing weight
Of care and misery.

Anon.

To run away
From the world's ills, that, at the very worst,
Will soon blow o'er, thinking to mend ourselves
By boldly venturing on a world unknown,
And plunging headlong in the dark !  'tis mad !
No frenzy half so desperate as this.

The Grave. Blair.

rpHE tidings of Iris's engagement had given
-*- old Miss Netherleigh infinite satisfaction.
She had taken a great fancy to Lord Rootley
from the first moment of seeing him, and was

decidedly grateful to Eve for the mischief she
had made, which had saved Iris from what she
felt sure would have been a most uncongenial
marriage.

I suppose," she wrote to Mrs. Pleydell,
that the announcement of Eve's engagement
has been a great shock to Mr. Furnivall, for it
seems quite to have changed him. His mother
is, I hear, quite in despair ; he has announced
his intention of selling off his hunters, and of
leaving home for two years at least, during
which he means to travel. No doubt seeing
the world will do him good, and teach him that
the master of Rookwood is not quite so important
a person as he has always been accustomed
to think himself. How curious that such
a frivolous little thing as Eve should have
worked such mighty results !"

Miss Netherleigh spoke, of course, according
to her lights; it was only natural to suppose
that Laurence sudden determination to go
abroad was produced by the engagement of the
girl for love of whom he had broken off his

marriage within three weeks of its accomplishment.


But it was not Eve's faithlessness that had
determined him. With her calm avowal of the
motives that had induced her to encourage him
all his love for her had died ; had indeed left
in its stead a feeling of positive repulsion. And
it was for this heartless scheming little girl,
who was manifestly disappointed that he did
not appear crushed to the earth on finding that
she did not love him, that he had separated
himself from Iris, whom he was fast learning
again to think absolute perfection.

If Eve could have seen into his heart, she
would almost have been satisfied at the mortification
which he felt, not indeed at her desertion,
but at his own insane folly.

In his own mind Laurence felt thoroughly
humiliated, and to anyone of his disposition,
and brought up as he had been, this was the
first step towards any improvement. His
mother, who thought him and everything he
did perfect, was much disturbed at his profound

VOL. III. T

melancholy on his return from London, which,
knowing nothing about Eve, she attributed
entirely to Iris, and said many bitter things of
her in consequence, more especially when
her engagement to Lord Rootley was announced.


It was a mortification to her that another
should be preferred to her son, and it made her
proportionately bitter. But, when he broke to
her the fact that he intended to go abroad, her
dismay knew no bounds, and her invectives
against Iris were so loud that they reached his
ears. And so at last he spoke.

Mother," he said, " I must beg that you
will never again speak a single word against
Miss Netherleigh. In all that has happened
she has been absolutely innocent ; it is I who
have behaved ill, and have been deservedly
punished. It was not, as you seem to imagine,
any caprice of Miss Netherleigh's that separated
us ; she overheard me speaking words of
vehement love to another woman, and vowing

that nothing should induce me to fulfil my
engagement. You can hardly blame her, I
think, for releasing me."

Laurence, are you serious ?"

Quite. It is scarcely a matter for jest."

But  then are you engaged to some one
else f "

"Xo."

' But why?"

Don't ask me mother ; it is a humiliating
story, and one I prefer to keep to myself. It
is never pleasant to have to own oneself a vain
fool. Perhaps now you can understand my
desire for change. I should never have told
you this, but that I was anxious to prevent you
from, in your ignorance, saying a word derogatory
to Miss Xetherleigh."

She has consoled herself pretty quickly, at
any rate."

I am not vain enough to fancy that she
stands in any need of consolation. Her only
feeling for me must be one of contempt and I

T 2

am heartily glad she is going to marry so good
a fellow as Rootley ; he will suit her far better
than I should have done."

Well, you know, I never did think the
marriage a suitable one for you," said his
mother ; but to this he made no reply, and
after a short pause left the room.

A very few mornings after, Iris received a
very beautiful bracelet, consisting of a row of
large sapphires separating two rows of fine
brilliant. On a slip of paper were the words,
With the sincerest wishes for your happiness
from one who realises too late what he has
lost," and on another scrap, " Please neither
refuse this nor thank me for it. Before you
receive it I shall have sailed for New York. 
L. F."

Iris was much touched, though she could not
deny the justice of her mother's observation
that " his discovery of the value of what he had
lost seemed to date from the time of some one
else having appreciated the treasure."

Sir Charles and Lady Netherleigh had made

a great point of Iris's marriage taking place at
Netberleigh, and, after a little hesitation, Mrs.
Pleydell had agreed. It would certainly be
pleasant not to have it in Coalshire, where
Laurence's departure had probably renewed all
the gossip of the previous winter, and Nether-leigh
would be quieter and more agreeable than
London.

Lady Netherleigh, who was devoted to Iris,
was delighted, and, Aunt Rachel having written
to decline being present on account of her age,
she and Sir Charles went down for the day to
Bannerton, and finally, by their entreaties,
overcame her reluctance.

"Iris wouldn't believe herself married without
you' said Lady Netherleigh ; " and we
will take such care of you that you shall not
have a chance of being tired. You will be
such a comfort to Grace, too ; she always seems
to look to you for everything."

It was a trial to ]airs. Pleydell to see Nether-leigh,
the home of which her dearly-loved Arthur
had talked so much and with such affection,

for the first time. His image seemed ta
greet her everywhere, and it was only by a
violent effort that she choked back the tears
that threatened to blind her.

Her host and hostess, kindly, sympathetic
people, guessed something of what she must
feel, and had taken care that for the first week
they should be quite alone, with no guests but
Aunt Rachel and Lord Rootley. Sir Charles
devoted himself to her, showing her everything
about the place himself, and pointing
out anything that he could recall as having
been a favourite of his brother's. That quiet
week quite restored Mrs. Pleydell to her usual
calmness, and before the house began to fill
she was quite herself again.

Eve, who had been moping and miserable
during the quiet week, revived the moment
that there was " anyone to talk to," and began
to flirt as vehemently as ever, causing her
mother to remark to Iris that she need not
have distressed herself so much as she had

amiably done about Eve's unhappiness at
being separated from her lover  really anyone
else seemed to answer quite as well.

I really think she does care for him,
though," said Iris ; but Mrs. Pleydell shook
her head, and would not be convinced.

She had allowed the lovers to meet in London
as acquaintances  that is to say she
placed no restriction on their intercourse at
balls and parties beyond the decree that Eve
was not to be made conspicuous  but Claud
"was no longer allowed the free range of Grosvenor
Street, nor, when he did call, were he
and Eve left alone together ; he was asked
to dinner once or twice, but only when there
was a party, and correspondence was entirely
forbidden.

You may think it very hard," said Mrs.
Pleydell, when he remonstrated : " I cannot
help that. If I had not wanted to try you
both to see whether you could be depended
on to care for each other in a year's time, I

should not have said that you must wait. It
would be no proof of constancy if you were
to meet or write to each other every day.
Absence must be the test."

* Absence makes the heart grow fonder,' "
he quoted, with a smile.

*' ' Out of sight, out of mind,' and ' Les absents
ont toujours s tort counterbalance that," she
replied.

Do you mean that I am not to see Eve
again after you leave London until next
year?"

' Not unless you meet accidentally. My
plans are quite uncertain  I do not even know
where we shall pass the winter."

And you forbid correspondence ?"

Yes, I do, and shall take precautions to
enforce my wishes."

*' You are very hard upon us."

Do you think so ?" very coldly. * For my
part, I think I have been far too lenient."

As has been said. Eve was very downcast
while they were alone at Netherleigh, but the

moment the party began to assemble she was
as bright and gay as ever.

Tom Pleydell, who came down a few days
before the wedding, and was at once established
as a great friend by Lady Netherleigh,
found Eve as fascinating as ever, and could
not resist the temptation of once more becoming
her shadow, though he was of course aware
that there was no hope for him.

'' I say, Eve, you don't seem very down at
your wedding being put off," observed Lady
Hildegarde, when they arrived two days before
the wedding, at which she was of course to be
bridesmaid.

'* Where's the stood ?" asked Eve. "1 don't
see that you look very wretched about Bertie
Deverell."

What is it somebody says about not wearing
one's heart on one's sleeve ?"

Hildegarde !  you growing poetical ! Wonders
will never cease."

It's all talk, my dear  I don't mean a word
of it."

'but about Bertie?"

I told you there'd be a bad Derby or
something some day."

"Weir

'' Well, there has been a bad Ascot and I
suppose the heiress is imminent. It's only a
little sooner than we expected."

'then it's all over?"

I suppose so. I told you it could never
come to good. Are you very wretched without
the adored Claud and at being disengaged
again ?"

Oh ! it's very fair fun here. I'm amusing
myself capitally."

So Lady Hildegarde saw ; she also saw that
a certain Lord Albert Milton was greatly
smitten with Eve, and that she gave him every
encouragement.

The wedding-day was all that could be
desired, and Iris was a lovely bride. The breakfast
was mercifully short, for the happy pair
were obliged to start early to reach Pinefield,

where they were to spend the honeymoon, that
evening.

At night there was a dance, at which Lord
Albert was so devoted, and Eve encouraged
him so openly, that, as they went upstairs,
Lady Hildegarde said,

"I wonder what Mr. Urban would have said
if he had seen you to-night ?"

What does it matter ?" laughed Eve, recklessly.
" Quand on na pas ce quod aime, il faint
aimer ce quod a /"

After the wedding, Mrs. Pleydell and Eve
paid a good many visits to various members of
the Netherleigh family, and only returned to
the Gate House for a short time before paying
a long visit to the Beechmonts at Pine-field.


In one or two houses where they had
stayed they had met Lord Albert, and Lady
Hildegarde had insisted on having him at
Pinefield, where Eve's demeanour caused Iris
to think that her mother was right, and

that, after all, Eve could not care much for Mr.
Urban.

The doctors had decided that Lord Rootley
was to spend the winter at Madeira, more as a
precaution than because there was anything really
the matter. The young couple suggested that
Mrs. Pleydell and Eve should accompany them,
but Mrs. Pleydell was far too wise, knowing
how much better it is to leave young married
people to themselves, more especially at first,
and she at length decided that she and Eve
would winter at Pau. She herself did not wish
to return to Coalshire at present, and Eve took
kindly to the idea of Pau, which she heard was
very gay and pleasant.

They started about the middle of November,
spent a short time in Paris, and reached Pau
the beginning of December.

A little after (Christmas Lord Albert made his
appearance, and his name occurred so often
in Eve's long letters, describing all the gaieties
to Lady Hildegarde, that it was not wonderful
that the latter, in one of her rare epistles,

observed that '' she supposed it was a case,
and that she should soon be called upon for
congratulations."

She said in the same letter that they had
met Mr. Urban several times lately in different
houses, and that he was then staying at Pine-field
for some balls. There was no word,
however, or message to Eve, no sign that he
had even asked after her. Captain Deverell, it
appeared by a postscript, was engaged to the
heiress, and Sir Charles was delighted.

It was the first week in March when Eve
received another letter from Lady Hildegarde.
She found it awaiting her on her return from a
long ride, during which Lord Albert had contrived
to detach her from the rest of the party
and to propose to her. She had refused him,
and he had not taken his disappointment well,
but had reproached her so vehemently with the
encouragement she had given him that he had
quite upset her, and she returned very tired
and went up at once to her own room. There
when she had made herself comfortable in her

dressing-gown, and settled herself in her armchair,
she opened the letter.

Dearest Eve,

Of course I've been expecting it all
this time, still I do think you might have let
me know yourself, instead of leaving me to see
it in the Co7iH Journal. We all wish you joy.
Lord Albert is very nice, and when you were
here everyone saw what was coming. Who
do you think showed me the announcement?
Mr. Urban. He was staying here again for a
few days, and he asked me to come into the
library on Sunday afternoon and showed it me.
I couldn't help saying I had rather expected it,
and then he said so had he from all he had
heard,  and he hoped you would be happy, he
believed Lord Albert was a very good sort of
fellow. And then  oh. Eve, what will you
say ? but there of course it's nothing to you
now  then he asked me to marry him ! He had
been wishing to do so some time, he said, but

had felt that, though not formally engaged, he
was still in honour bound to you. Now, of
course, that was at an end, and would I make
him happy?

I thought I would be honest at once, and
so I told him that I had cared very much for
some one else, but that it was all over , and that
if he did not mind that I Avould marry him.
And he said very gravely that it would hardly
be for him to object, for he had cared for you
very much  how much you had never known 
and so  it is all settled, and papa and mamma
are very pleased. But I can't forgive you for
not writing to tell me yourself.

-' Yours, H."

Eve sat absolutely stunned. So there was
the end of it all ! She had loved Claud so
much, and he had left her for  her own great
friend ! And she had never thought of anyone
else, though she had flirted with Lord Albert to
amuse herself,  had never once dreamt of his
proving disloyal to her ?

And without waiting for confirmation, without
even asking if the announcement of her
marriage was true, he had left her for another I
And he had been wishing to do it for some time,
and had only been restrained by feeling bound
to herein honour!" He who had vowed so
often that he had never loved before and could
never love anyone but her !

It was all gone! all over ! and Eve, stunned
and miserable, covered her face with her hands
and wished she were dead.

A tap at the door, and Rogers appeared.

*' Will you wear the mauve or the green
to-night. Miss Eve T'

Neither. I am very tired, I shall go to bed
at once.'

But, Miss Eve, you are to dine out, you
know, your mamma is nearly ready."

Tell mummy I'm ill  no, not that, I'm tired
and have a bad headache ; I really can't

go."

In a few moments Mrs. Pleydell appeared.
What is this, Eve ? You really must make

an effort, it is wrong to disappoint people at
the last moment."

I wouldn't, indeed, if I could help it," Eve's
tone was very low and subdued ; " but I can't
hold up my head's

You do look ill," said her mother, looking
in surprise at the white drawn face ; " what is
the matter, child ?"

*' It is my head, and I am so tired and cold,"
and she shivered.

'' Well, you really are not fit to go out ; it is
no fancy, I see. I must take your excuses. Goto
bed at once and have some soup, and if you
are not better tomorrow we must have the
doctor."

Give me a kiss before you go, mummy."

It was so unusual a request for Eve that her
mother felt a thrill almost of alarm. She kissed
her and said, anxiously,

"Youfeel very ill. Eve?"

'' No, only just one of my bad headaches, and
it is so cold."

Get her to bed at once, Rogers, I must go

VOL. III. U

now, or else I shall be late. Good night, Eve
dear," with another kiss, which was fervently
returned.

I don't want any soup, Rogers," said Eve,
when she was undressed; "I only want to sleep.
Don't come back again, and I shall lock my
door, lest mummy should come in when she
comes home and wake me. I shall be  all
right in the morning."

When Eve heard Rogers, having put away
all her mother's things, pass along the corridor
to her own room, she slipped out of bed, and
glided along the passage to Mrs. PleydelPs
room. There was only firelight, but that was
enough for her purpose ; she knew where her
mother's keys were kept, and in a moment she
had opened the dressing-case and seized the
bottle she wanted. Noiselessly she replaced
everything, and returned to her own room.

I cannot bear it," she said to herself, '' I love
him so ! and to see him married to anyone else !
And I could not bear to be pitied. Good-bye,
Claud."

When the next morning Eve's door was at
length broken open, she lay as if asleep, but
every trace of life had long fled. On the table
was the empty bottle of chloral, in her hand
Lady Hildegarde's letter.

Poor pretty, selfish, undisciplined Eve had
passed away for ever !

