CHAPTER I.

 Reverse the glass of the nineteenth century, let

the sands of time sift swiftly backwards for nearly

,'' thirty-four years, and I will show you a tiny

1 village nestling among the green slopes of Down.

But the merest hamlet ! Spite of the railway

station less than a mile distant ; the post-office

and public-house combined, situated just where

the Comber Road branches off from the New-towards

; the smithy hard by ; the church, perched

aloft on one of those quaint low hills that have

won for the county a not inapt comparison to a

basket of eggs ; the police barracks, the 

Rectory, the mail-car running along

VOL. I. B

the highway twice a day, the Presbyterian meetinghouse
 surely, the smallest and most unpretending
of picturesque villages !

Only one side to it, and that extremely imperfect!
First a row of one-storied cottages,
where dwelt the local cobbler and tailor, both
deadly jealous of town ways and town notions.
Then fields advanced boldly to the front, succeeded,
after a short space, by the police barracks,
a couple of its occupants, privates in the Irish
constabulary, being generally encountered lounging
on the footpath opposite. A little further, a
few more cottages were scattered beside the road ;
at the extreme end of the village, beyond the lane
which still winds up to the gate of the graveyard,
stood proudly forth the shop, where nothing could
be bought, it might have been supposed, that
any human creature would desire to purchase.
Close to the turning leading to the Rectory was a
second smithy, for the neighbourhood was (and is)
one much given to farming, and found constant
need of a farrier's services; a few detached houses,
farm and otherwise, lay back from the left-hand

side of the road  the right being skirted, as stated,
by humble cottages; the whole place looked
green and white by reason of the green fields and
the white-washed houses. Up on the hillsides
lay great masses of trees and belts of plantation,
and higher still you could see roads winding over
the heights whence lovely views were to be obtained
of Belfast Lough, and the Antrim mountains,
of Strabo close at hand, and, on a clear
day, a glimpse of Scotland  as the crow flies,
little more than twenty miles distant from that
extreme point of the county Down, close to which
the English steamers plough their way, while,
keeping between the Copeland and Donaghadee,
they shape an almost direct course southward
down the Channel.

It was a summer's morning in the July of
1850 ; the barley and the flax both needed sun ;
the potatoes, anxiously watched for signs of that
fatal blight, could have borne any amount of heat
and been the better for it. The grass had grown
well and was more than ready for the scythe, and
the rain was coming down in torrents. It was

a morning to make sad the heart of any farmer.
All through the district, from the Rectory to the
hovel, there was " mourning and lamentation and
woe :" the labourers could not work ; the horses
were standing idle in the stable, eating their
heads off. Masters and men, for once of one
mind, looked mournfully out at the weather.
Steadily the rain held on  dripping through the
leaves, plashing into the pools, swelling the
streams, soaking the earth. In the whole of that
village there were no creatures happy but the
ducks, which waddled about quacking, literally
embarrassed by the wealth in the way of dirt
Providence was providing for them.

About a mile out of the village, in the Craig-anthem
direction, which is the nearest route to
Bangor  not on the crest of the rising ground,
that opens to any one who has patiently toiled up
the long incline such an unexpected and magnificent
stretch of sea, and mountain, and headland,
and smiling, restful land; but admirably
placed on the slope of the hill, so as to be protected
from the north-east wind  stood a house of

some pretension. It was embowered in trees.
It was approached by an avenue upon which the
foot fell almost as noiselessly as on the turf of the
lawn. There was a great silence about the place.
Ashen you entered the gate the world seemed left
behind. It was an old mansion  once the Dower
House of a noble family  but it had descended in
the social scale, till it simply " went with the
land "  was thrown in as a mere makeweight
with the farm. Scarcely charged for in the rent
the tenant was continually grumbling concerning
the expense entailed upon him by the ' tumbledown
old barrack "  where ladies in stomachers
and farthingales, and patches and high-heeled
shoes, and powdered hair, once rustled through
the wainscoted rooms ; and handsome gallants
came wooing, and dark deeds, it was said, were
done  notably one which caused the imprint of a
blood-stained hand on the wall, and the drip of
blood on the black oak staircase ; and the legend
that now and then the ghost of a murdered
woman might be seen by some human being more
especially favoured than his fellows.

Through the years the house had been persistently
falling from its once high estate. As the
family to whom it belonged grew greater it grew
less. Time went on, and the mansion, as the
winters and summers came and went, got more
and more dilapidated; each successive tenant
refused it even one poor coat of paint ; each occupier
left it in worse plight than his predecessor.
The ladies of the great family had long ceased to
inhabit a nook so utterly out of the world. In
London, or Bath, or Paris, or any other favourite
resort, they spent the few pounds the Dower
House brought them by way of rental. The
memory of man could not extend to the time
when a Dame Bountiful, residing under the
shadow of those ancient trees, blessed the neighbourhood
with her gracious presence.

The former days were gone, and the prestige
of the old Dower House with them. It had sunk
surely, if slowly. First it was let to a New-towards
man, who, having gone out to India
without a penny, came back, to quote the countryside
gossip, possessed of " millions and millions."

Unfortunately, he brought back in addition a
native wife and half-a-dozen dark-skinned black-eyed
children, all of whom, being regarded as
intruders, and treated as such, the "rajah"  so
his neighbours generally called him  sold off his
furniture, packed up his belongings, and took
boat for England. Then a sporting character, in
great request at mess and bachelor dinners, who,
it was credibly asserted, fought mains of cocks in
the dining-room and had boxing matches in the
great barn, remained in Ardilaw for the space of
two years, at the expiration of which term he
drank himself to death, greatly to the satisfaction
of many worthy people. After that the place was
let for the summer to persons able to drive across
to Holy wood " for the bathing." Then it went
down another step, and was rented by a Belfast
shopkeeper, who wanted country air for his
children, and grass where those children could
tumble about and grow up wild.

When it had been knocked almost out of
human recognition by the young fry, their papa
died; his business collapsed, and Ardilaw was

again in the market. This time a gentleman
farmer thought he would essay a wrestle with the
poor hillside land, and a contest with ignorance
and the elements ; but five successive bad seasons,
to say nothing of relays of incompetent labourers
and dishonest bailiffs, compelled his departure.

For a year and four months the house stood
empty. Weeds grew rank in the orchard and
kitchen garden, roses bloomed and faded in the
parterres once tended by My Lady, moss covered
the drive, the leaves lay where they had fallen
on the lawn, from the windows no men or
women's eyes looked out upon a landscape
destitute of the attraction of human life and
human movement. Some few persons came to
view, but no one remained to rent. Then
suddenly the whole village was astounded, and
possibly shocked, to hear Hewson Muir, of Kil-moon
Farm, had rented the Dower House  stock,
lock, and barrel ; land, water, wood, and bog  as
tenant-twill, under the great family, who
ought to have known better " than let the "old
place to a man little more nor a labourer." Presumably

the great family, like lesser families,
understood its own business at least as well as its
critics. It was a family which had its personal
interests at heart, and always found a way, spite
of settlements and entails, of getting rid of unremunerative
and troublesome property. To cut
a long story short, before Mr. Muir had been a
year in possession, Ardilaw changed hands, and
passed into the keeping of a certain Lyle Darnley,
commonly reported to be the " wickedest
man in the county."

The sinister reputation of that gentleman who
fought cocks in his dining-room, and hob-robbed
with the Heenan of his day, paled when contrasted
against the scorching sins of Lyle Garnsey. In
Mr. Garnsey's case distance lent enchantment to
the view : what were a few cocks mangled and
bleeding near Belfast in comparison with crimes
committed in Dublin and London and ''furrin
parts "?

Over many a turf fire the misdoings of '' the
Squire " were spoken of with bated breath, the
future of his only child, a daughter, discussed,

and his own eventual destination more than
hinted at.

Between this new landlord and Mr. Muir the
most friendly relations were soon established;
though the former was almost an infidel and the
latter a red-hot Orangeman, though one was a
Liberal and the other a Tory, Mr. Muir sternly
maintained " ye might chance to meet worse nor
Lyle Garnsey," while Mr. Garnsey was wont to
declare he considered '' Mr. Muir a most excellent
person." Twice a year, when he went to pay his
rent, Mr. Muir dined at Beechfield, and it was a
sight to behold him gravely accepting viands he
did not like, served in a fashion to which he was
not accustomed, from the hands of a footman who
had much ado to conceal the disgust he felt at
having to wait " upon such a fellow."

The years went by, and Mr. Muir, at all
events, made money out of Ardilaw. If nobody
else had ever managed to extract a profit from the
land, Mr. Muir did. He rarely worked himself,
but he was without peer in the matter of seeing
that other people "wrought" as they should.

Sometimes he might have been seen guiding the
plough, dressed in decent black, bis coat a
swallow-tail, and his shirt white as snow ; but, asa
rule, he preferred watching the turning up of the
clods, and following while some one else harrowed
and cast seed into the ground.

He was tall, over six feet in height  " six
feet two in my stocking soles," he often stated 
of spare habit, long limbed, loosely made, with no
depth in his shoulders and no width across his
chest; a man who looked as if he had been
thrown together instead of built ; a person no
human being could have called handsome.

On that wet July morning he stood beside one
of the windows in the old wainscoted dining-room,
splicing the handle of a gig whip and looking out
at the weather. It was indeed, as has been said,
a day to try the faith of any farmer. Ordinarily,
Mr. Muir  as became a man who hated the Pope,
and loved " Protestant Boys," Orange Lilies, and
the rousing cry of "No Surrender!"  had sufficient
faith in the wisdom and justice of his
Maker; but as he watched the rain coming down

faster and faster, the avenue getting wetter and
wetter, the heavens growing darker and darker, he
felt there must he something utterly wrong somewhere.
Could it possibly have happened (trying
circumstances will give rise to doubt even in
minds not ordinarily prone to scepticism) that
Providence, finding the whole scheme of creation
too vast for individual attention, had given Ireland,
as regarded its weather, over to a sort of
Vicegerent, who was making as great a mess of
physical matters as Lord Lieutenants usually do
of political ?

This was a view of the question which in the
then state of the hay crop seemed to Mr. Muir so
extremely probable, he felt he should have liked
to *' three " it out with '* some sensible person ;"
but as there chanced to be no human being in
the room except his eldest daughter 'bell," the
farmer, though big with thought, decided he had
best hold his tongue, 'women folk being as a
rule fools to talk to."

Miss Bell Muir was a lady who might have
been guessed at any age, according to the fancy

of the spectator. Really but six-and-twenty, she
had that hard and battered appearance it is competent
for even quite young women to assume
who have always cultivated the utile to the exclusion
of the dulce. There was not much dulce
about Miss Muir. She never could be considered
happy except when half-killing herself, and harassing
everybody about her, with a perfect plague
of labour. Like her father, she loved to see
other persons hard at work ; unlike her father,
nothing pleased her better than to work harder
than them all. About the house she was a
besom of destruction." She thought it the
height of bliss to spend hours in a hurricane of
sweeping, scouring, bustling, grumbling, scolding.
On those evil occasions the cats were harried
from the hearth ; the dogs, if they put their
noses inside the kitchen door, were received with
the contents of a pail of water ; chanticleer, leading
his wives across the threshold with great 
and much uplifting of his feet like a
high-stepping horse, had to retrace his way at a
different pace and in a different fashion; while

Mr. Muir himself was constantly asked "if he
couldn't come into the house some different road
nor across the wet flags."

Not a labourer on the farm but knew and
detested Saturday  till the evening, that is to
say  when Bell, refreshed and satisfied with the
results of her campaign against the powers of
dirt, either took to baking griddle-bread, which
scented the whole neighbourhood with a sweet
wholesome smell ; or else, when one of her
sisters offered to make " fadge," or wheaten or
oaten cake, sat down to knit coarse stockings ina
leisure so thoroughly earned.

On that particular wet morning in July, Miss
Muir, occasionally looking at her father askance,
the while a certain bright and brisk number
seven needle glanced in and out of some fine
white "shirting," was adorned in the fullest war-paint
she had ever assumed when merely arming
herself for domestic conflict.

It consisted of a clean and stiffly starched
print dress  colour, lilac ; tone, dark ; pattern,
hideous ; a calico apron, white as soft water and

grass-bleaching could make and Iccep it ; a small
woollen shawl, checked black and red, pinned
securely across her bosom ; and a linen cap with
two offered borders made of the same uncompromising
material, tied under her chin by a pair
of linen strings about two inches wide, drawn into
a cravat bow, framing her face till she looked like
some sunburnt old baby.

This was Bell  the eldest female hope of Mr
Muir's three matrimonial essays  this was Bell,
secretly dreaded even by her stern papa, who had
not 'much opinion of any of the sex"  meaning
the softer portion of creation  this was Bell, so
famous through all the country-side for her
powers of work and management, that many a
man had cast sheep's eyes upon her, and would
have proposed long enough before, but for the
knowledge that Miss Muir had a high opinion of
her value in the matrimonial market, and for a
doubt as to the amount with which Mr. Muir
meant to endow her.

Carry's first steed in his stable," said many
a canny father and mother, when discussing

matters over with sons anxious to better their
position; *' Carry and Robert '11 have the pick
off Ardilaw. For all she's been to him, for all
she's done for him, the old man hasn't the heart
for Bell Muir he ought, considering there's not
such a hand for butter in the county as hers."

It was the butter question Miss Muir was
considering, while she sat ' working on" anew
shirt of her father's. Nevertheless, magnanimously
ignoring her own anxieties, she essayed
to converse with her parent as he stood beside
the window commanding a comprehensive view
of the village, the lawn, the trees, the drive, and
the rain.

"Have you had any further word from Sam
Dopp about the cottage ?" she asked, her voice
sounding much older and harsher than the voice
of so young a woman had any right to sound.

Ay  his brother came over yesterday between
the lights, and said Sam would agree to
rising the pound there was between us if I would
put him up a pigsty ; but I told him I would
do no such thing; that if Sam wanted to keep

pigs he must do it some place else than at my
cottage."

Why, what ails you at the pigs, poor
things ? What would the Dopps do with all the
leavings from so whig a family without a pig to
eat them up?"

"I don't know, and I don't care," answered
Mr. Muir defiantly. 'i'll neither have pigs
rooting up the garden nor children destroying
the clean papers and the fresh paint in the
house. Mr. Orr made a sort of small paradise
of the place, and if I can't get somebody that
will keep it as it ought to be kept, why, it shall
stay empty, that's all."

Miss Muir put in a few energetic stitches
before she observed,

"You set great store by the cottage."

*' And what would hinder me to set great
store by it ? Where could you find its like  a
picture inside and out ? I just stood and looked
at it the other day, and thought the man did
right well to call it Clear Stream. The birds
were singing, and the flowers were all bloom,

VOL. I.

and the air was scented with them, and the bit of
grass was green as a fairy ring, and smooth and
soft like the velvet in Miss Garnsey's mantilla,
and the stream was running away under the
plank bridge as hard as it could go, laughing
back at the sun and making merry as it went ;
and the myrtle-tree was a sheet of blossom  it
looked for all the world as if there had been a
heavy snowstorm ; and tufts of it were hanging
so thick as to hide the polished green leaves 
the very ground below the tree was white. I
made up my mind at that minute Dopp and his
swarm of children should never spoil what Mr.
Orr spent such a lot of time and thought over."

"What are you going to do, then? Let it
stop idle till the wet is running down the walls,
and the garden is a wilderness, and you might
stand up to your middle in the grass ?"

Mr. Muir winced a little ; he knew such
things had happened before, and he saw no great
cause to doubt such things might happen again ;
but still he replied with dogged determination,

I have not wholly decided ; only Dopp's not

going to be any tenant of mine, and I told John
as much."

'* Sam will be finely pleased when he hears
the notion you have taken."

I don't care whether he's pleased or displeased;
and there's no reason that I'm aware of
why I shouldn't have my way as well as another."

You're right there ; there is no reason at all."

Still, there is no call why the house should
stand empty, if that can be helped; so I've put
an advertisement in the News Letter that Clear
Stream Cottage, Dundonald, is to be rented by
the year."

The whole of Belfast will be running after
it," commented Miss Muir, with a fine sneer.

"It may, but I hope it won't be on a day like
this;" and, having got a confession off his mind
which had been weighing upon it, Mr. Muir
resumed his occupation ; while Miss Muir, proceeding
with her sewing, considered how she
could " pay her father off for not letting the
cottage to that decent man Sam Dopp."

"It's * teeming* still," she began, seizing the

opportunity threading her needle afforded for
changing her attitude and "looking fair" at
the author of her being.

"An' the Lord alone knows when it intends
to leave off," said Mr. Muir, so entirely suspending
the business of splicing that the released
length of string immediately uncoiled itself.
But what the deuce can ye expect when it rains
on Sant Sweden's Day  Devil take him, whoever
he was ! He couldn't have been much of
a Sant, in my opinion, or he'd have given a
thought to honest folk trying to make an honest

living between and the north-east wind, as

somebody says."

"You don't believe in all that old story, I'm
very sure, father," observed Miss Muir, who, like
her surviving parent, had her own special form
of scepticism.

What would hinder me believing it ? My
father and my grandfather, and, I'm very sure,
my great-grandfather before that, believed in St.
Sweden's Day ; and I never was one to fly in
the face of my elders. Why wouldn't I  "

It's just a legend got up by the Romans for
their own ends," persisted the lady.

"Have your way in the matter, as I'm very
sure you will," said Mr. Muir; "but ye can't
deny it mostly does rain on the fifteenth of July,
Old Style"

"Ay, and it rains many an odd time besides,"
retorted Bell.

Well, it's an ill wind blows nobody good.
If it hadn't been for the wet, you and Carline
and Sail would have had to do the churning
among ye this morning."

Me and Sail you mean ; it's little help, but
disturbance, we'd have got from Carline."

"What's the young officer doing with himself
now he can't limp out to the lawn or down to the
river ?" asked Mr. Muir, discreetly changing the
subject.

He's just painting the beech-tree from the
passage window ; Carline carried him out a table,
and set his things ready after breakfast ; and as
for limping, he can put his foot to the ground as
well as either of us when he likes. I saw him

yesterday going up the stairs three at a time, but
he didn't know I was near. If he had, it's holding
on by the baluster he'd have been, and groaning
with the pain."

Having completed which vivid outline, a vast
deal more true to nature than any Ensign Ludham
ever sketched. Miss Muir proceeded with her
work, and left her father to fill in such details as
pleased, or did not please, him at his leisure.

'' It's just awful to look at yon rain," observed
the farmer, when he had quite finished splicing
the whip, and stood, idly twisting the lash round
the handle, looking out at the steady downpour
which bade fair ere long to swell the rivers, and
bring a second curse of water over the land.

'rit is that," agreed Miss Muir. *' What a
pity you would mow that grass in the long
meadow ! it'll every bit rot on the ground ; I
doubt if it'll even come in for litter."

*' We've a pleasant way of putting things, my
woman."

Well, what I say's true. You wouldn't
have me tell you a lie, would you ?"

'' I'm not just so sure it's always agreeable to
hear the truth."

"We're not of the same way of thinking,
then," observed Miss Muir, in a spirit of the
sternest virtue.

"I don't know that, either. Bell. For instance,
if one said you were a very ordinary sort
of woman to look at, it wouldn't be a lie ; but I
doubt if you'd be best pleased, after all."

I never did set up to be anything beyond
the common," returned Miss Muir, with a sublime
composure, though her father's remark cut her to
the quick.

Maybe it was just as well," retorted her
father.

On hearing which remark, Miss Muir  Christian
name Isabella  rose with great dignity, and,
observing, " As you are in the mind to pay me
such fine compliments, I think I'll go and print
the butter; my hands are cool now," left the
room.

'your hands may be cool," soliloquised Mr.
Muir, " but your temper isn't." An idea apparently

so comforting that though, looking at the
sodden earth, he again anathematised the good
St. S within, it was not with half the fervour
which distinguished his previous utterances.

A DELUGE of summer rain was sweeping the Belfast
streets clean. Dawn bad appeared, clad indelicate
gray wrappings of sad misty cloud, and it
is only fair to say the fulfilment of day did not
belie the promise of morn. The sun remained
resolutely ought of sight, the heavens were leaden,
the earth was sodden ; Devis, the Cave Hill, and
the Black Mountain had not merely " put their
nightcaps on," but retired altogether from view.

A good stream, swift as a mountain torrent,
was running down each filthy gutter. On Lettuce
and Carrick Hills rosy, curly-headed, barefooted
children were in the turbid water which rushed to
flush the sewers, disporting themselves like ducklings.
Upon the Kremlin Road, past the Courthouse,
where Justice  her eyes bandaged with a
stone fillet  sits high aloft, holding her scales,
utterly crooked, car-drivers, with shout and whip,

urged fast horses recklessly; Hercules Street,
then lined with butchers' shops, was foul with
garbage, borne onward to the gullies; in Sandy
Eow peace reigned ; the weather was so bad the
Orangemen had not a thought to spare for their
friend Pious William or their foe the Pope; at
the Docks wretchedness unspeakable prevailed,
miserable cattle awaiting shipment were .penned
together in sheds open to wind and rain ; in the
air there was that raw, moist chilliness which
makes the Irish climate so trying; the Lough
resembled a sea of liquid mud, where white-crested
billows tossed restlessly ; the soft green slopes of
Down and the bold scenery of Antrim were alike
impartially hidden from mortal eye. Belfast was
looking its worst  and that worst can be very bad
indeed  on the dreary summer's morning when
Mr. Muir stood splicing the handle of his whip
and contemplating the pouring rain, and thinking
of his rotting hay, and saying injurious things
concerning St. Swithin.

In a room on the first floor of Cunningham's
Hotel, which commanded the spectacle of York

and Donegalll Streets being swept by "sheets" of
rain, sat two ladies dressed in deep mourning.
Not the slightest likeness could be traced between
them, yet they stood in the relation of mother
and daughter. The latter was tall; her complexion
pale, with the delicate creamy pallor of
Mary's lilies ; her eyes large, liquid, and of that
dark deep blue rarely seen out of Ireland, shaded
with long brown lashes that would have made
them at times look black, had it not been for
their tender melting softness ; her face was of the
truest shape of Irish beauty, narrowing somewhat
to a perfect chin. (Those of my readers who have
seen at Hardwicke Castle the portrait of that
famous lady, Georgia Duchess of Devonshire,
will understand what I mean.) Her forehead was
broad, not high ; her nose short, straight, and
decided ; her upper lip short also, and perhaps a
trifle scornful, telling of a latent pride which
might have been fully developed in her character
had circumstances proved propitious ; her mouth
but ah, how can I  with the mists of years
rising between that frank sweet mouth, with its

thousand suggested loves and griefs, and to-day 
hope, through the cold, hard medium of pen and
ink, to do justice to that most exquisite mouth I
The light and shadows playing at hide-and-seek
on a hillside, or chasing each other over the
water, or coming and going, flickering and changing
on the turf through a tracery of green leaves,
could not have told more surely the story of cloud
and sunshine than did the sweet lips and the sensitive
curves reveal, to an understanding eye, the
joy or the trouble agitating the girl's young heart.
For though she had known bitter sorrow, and
shed those salt tears wrung from the deepest
depths of human suffering, the anguish of which
can never be quite forgotten during the happiest
after experience, she was still young  little more
than seventeen  with only her face for her fortune,
a face which, in the opinion of her mother,
could by the most partial individual only be considered
a most contemptible dowry.

Twenty years previously Mrs. Boyle's beauty
had been of the pink shepherdess type ; what it
was on that wet morning when, after an absence

long as the period of her married life, she sat
looking at the dreary vista of York Street, swept
by driving rain, might have tried the courtesy of
her old admirers to say. Under the most favourable
circumstances it is a style too apt to fade,
and certainly the widow had faded a good deal.
The delicate rose-pink of her earlier womanhood
having left her cheeks, and settled in the tip of
her nose, gave to that feature a somewhat exasperating
prominence not originally contemplated
by Nature; her eyes, once "blue as harebells,"
had, with twenty years' hard wear, become, as
regards the iris, well-nigh colourless ; there were
at the corners of her mouth and across her forehead
suspicious lines, strange to see in a woman
who professed to have got only half-way through
the seventy years allotted to man. For thirty-five
she looked extremely old ; but then some persons,
many persons, do look older than their actual age.
Besides, she might have made a mistake concerning
the date of her birth. It is only charitable to
suppose she was eternally making mistakes on
this subject, since, while that awkward entry in

the baptismal registry showed a steady tendency
to advance, the years to which she owned exhibited
an even greater decision in the matter of
retrogression.

Her figure was light and trim as in the days
when she never lacked partners at the great
Dublin parties so often referred to in the paternal
home near Ballyclare ; or when, in the Belfast
streets, she was viewed and admired afar; and
many men would have proposed to a girl who
fulfilled their idea of feminine loveliness, had
they been sure of the fortune with which her
father  an exceedingly vulgar attorney, in rather
shady practice  meant to endow his charming
daughter.

The deep crape she wore " out of compliment "
to her dead husband was almost new, yet already
she had begun to consider his possible successor.
Belfast having been the scene of her earliest conquests,
she felt an assured conviction the moment
Bridge Street and Donegalll Place knew her once
more, fresh victories would follow.

Twenty years' daily association with persons

well born, well educated, well mannered, and well
cultured had failed to refine Mrs. Boyle's accent
or tone of thought. Good books might never
have been written, good music never composed,
good pictures never painted, high aspirations
never conceived, for all contact with them had
done for her.

In every essential, save appearance, she was
still the Milly Vince who had, between the years
of grace 1820 and 1830, laughed and coquetted
and giggled, and, in her own exhaustive phraseology,
"put her best foot foremost," till, at the
mature age of nine-and-twenty, she snared, by
means of her " endearing young charms," the
susceptible heart of Ulick Boyle. Whether those
charms alone would have ever carried the affair
beyond the confines of flirtation is open to doubt ;
but backed by a stern parent, who, declaring he
did not mean to stand any shilly-shallying, threatened
an action for " breach," they proved irresistible.
Some women might have felt a delicacy
about marrying when the man had to be brought
to church only by dint of a legal pistol held at his

ear. But the fair Milly, spite of her pink-and-white
complexion and blue eyes, and fragile
person and little affectations of timidity, did not
allow any scruples of that sort to come between
her and happiness. *' Though, indeed, taking
Ulick Boyle was the worst day's work I ever did,"
she had said not less than three hundred and
sixty-five times a year during the course of her
married life. " I often wonder he has the face to
look at me, deceiving a girl as he did. If my
poor father hadn't thought he was just rolling inriches
he'd never have let me said a word to him;"
which was, indeed, a most unjust libel on the
excellent sense of that astute individual.

'' I wonder if Richard's never coming," began
Mrs. Boyle, after vainly craning her head so as to
try to obtain a glimpse of the open door below.
I am tired out waiting for him."

It is not twelve yet, mamma," answered
Miss Boyle ; " and Mr. Yince's note said he
could not possibly call before noon."

There you go with your mammas, and your
noons, and your Mr. Vinces. Why can't you

talk plain English, and speak as I do ? and if
I've told you once I've told you a hundred times
not to be calling me * mamma, mamma, mamma,'
for ever and ever. What's the good of setting
people wondering to see a young woman like myself
with a great maypole of a girl by my side ?
I can't be telling every stranger I was married at
fifteen, and indeed before."

I am very sorry," murmured the " maypole."
"I forgot."

*you forgot, indeed! it's always forgot, forgot,
forgot with you. If I forgot as you do I
wonder what would become of us. It's well I
have head enough for a dozen ; and that minds
me, I'm fairly starving with the hunger. Fetch
down that bone of the turkey. I had scarcely
a bite at breakfast. I've got bread I cut before
the waiter came up to take the things away.
You'd never have thought of doing that, I'll be
bound."

"I do not think I should," answered Miss
Boyle.

You won't do much good in the world if

VOL. I. D

you do not keep your wits about you. There
never was a Vince yet hadn't more than his
share. Put them where you like they're sure to
light on their feet. Now run up-stairs and fetch
that morsel of food. I'm fit to faint. What are
you waiting for ? You've got the key of the box."

Do you think it would be well to bring it
down just now ? Supposing Mr. Vince came  "

Well, supposing he did ? The man is aware
we must eat sometimes  though it's little enough
contents me, goodness knows; and don't anger
me by calling him Mr. Vince. He was christened
Richard, and nobody I ever heard of, except my
father, shortened the name to Dick."

*' But I really could not"
** Why couldn't you ? What would hinder
you?"

It would seem such a liberty."

Liberty, indeed!" repeated Mrs. Boyle, with
a sarcastic laugh. " Liberty ! and Richard Vince
my own father's brother's son !"

"Yes; but I have never seen him, and he
must be years older than I am, and  "

"0! get along with you, do; never let me
hear you talking folly like that again ; and don't
he putting affronts on my relations, who are the
only people now alle and willing to help us.
Where would you he at this minute, I should
he glad to know, if it wasn't for my cousin
Richard?"

Judging from the expression of Miss Boyle's
face, she would have preferred almost any other
place to that precise portion of the earth where
she stood, through no wish or fault of her own.

** Shall I get the turkey?" she inquired, in
the tone of a person who did not much relish the
commission.

'shall you get the turkey?" repeated the
widow, with withering scorn. "Yes, you will
get the turkey, if you don't want to see me drop
down with exhaustion ; and when you come hack
shoot the bolt, that Richard mayn't catch us.
Now make haste, and don't let me have to speak
to you again."

Facing the inevitable as if it had been a tiger.
Miss Boyle braced her courage for the event, and

proceeded in search of the remains of that
Stretched bird, for twenty-four hours previously
the cause of much care and trouble. Less
diplomacy has served to annex a state or cede
a territory than was rendered necessary by Mrs.
Boyle's determination at once to eat fowl and yet
keep it out of the hotel bills.

Her daughter could not have touched a morsel
of the creature had even great interests depended
on her doing so ; while the widow considered it
the correct thing largely to partake of the delicacy.
Most of the bird was gone  indeed, the whole of
it, except one leg of goodly proportions, and Mrs.
Boyle had herself consumed the whole, save the
bones, which she in an unpretending and primitive
manner picked very bare indeed.

Do have a bit, Berna," she hospitably
entreated, unfolding a newspaper wrapping up the
bird, and spreading it like a tablecloth over her
knees. ' It's a beautiful turkey, and we needn't
be leaving any of it over. We'll be in clover now,
we are here. Richard '11 see to us. I wouldn't
wonder if he took us straight off in a covered car

to Craigvallen. I've told you before he has a
place there just a very sight for beauty, lawns as
smooth as velvet, flowers the scent of which is
enough to take away your breath ; fishponds, as if
there were not fish of all sorts and to spare in the
Lough. You've heard talk of Carrick oysters ;
you'll taste them now. 0, there are grand times
in store for you if only you won't be turning your
back on good luck, as your father was so fond of
doing ! Well, as I was telling you about Craig-fallen,
there's not a tree or shrub you could name
but's in the grounds. They're just for all the
world, as far as I can understand, like the garden
of Eden, only Eichard has no wild beasts. Why
don't you eat, girl, and get some colour in your
cheeks? I'm sure I dread my relations seeing
you  they'll say you can be no child of mine.
But that you're well grown  though you're slight
and useless as a willow wand  I'd think the
fairies had changed you in sour cradle. There
now, take that away; why don't you heed what I
say, and your cousin's foot on the stair? For
goodness' sake, Berna, put the bone somewhere

anywhere ; and, stop a minute ; is my hair
smooth ? this cap  this cap, that makes the
best of looking women frights, weary on it, and
just when I was wanting to he at my best, too !
Do you mean to open that door to-day ? Don't
you know the man's bruising his knuckles rapping?
and all the Vinces had nice hands.  I'm
so sorry, Eichard, you were kept waiting. There's
something wrong with the catch, I think;" and
uttering this huge falsehood, Mrs. Boyle, simpering
coquettishly, ambled up to her cousin and
presented her hand for his acceptance, a kindness
she would have supplemented with the addition of
her cheek, but that Mr. Vince looked so unlikely
a person to feel grateful for such an attention, the
delicate idea was nipped in the bud.

*' And so here's yourself at last," said the
widow, in a light and sportive manner. " How
are you ?"

With grave deliberation Mr. Vince intimated
he was pretty well; he considered the weather
trying, but, upon the whole, he felt thankful to say
he could give a tolerably good report of his health.

I wish I could say as much," sighed Mrs.
Boyle, with a downward glance at her crape : ** I
have had so much to go through, I wonder I'm
alive."

I was very sorry indeed to hear of your
loss," said Mr. Vince  he had previously written
to state as much, and he now most heartily wished
that rash proceeding could be undone.

You needn't tell me you were sorry," cried
the widow effusively; " all my family had feeling
hearts. 0, this is Berna  his daughter, you
know ! You did not see her when you were
with us."

No, Mr. Vince had not seen the young person
thus introduced; and something in his tone, and
the way he shook hands, conveyed the idea that
if he had not seen her then he could have
survived the disappointment.

I was greatly surprised to find you were in
Belfast," he remarked to Mrs. Boyle after these
amenities, at the same time, in compliance with
that lady's earnest entreaties, "sitting down off
his feet."

"And where else could we come except to
Belfast ?" asked the widow.

Rather a difficult question to answer offhand
; but I should have thought there were
many places more agreeable and attractive."

''My own notion," retorted Mrs. Boyle, 'ris,
no place is so pleasant as among your own people,
if you are rich; and I don't consider any place
can be so suitable if you are poor."

I trust the latter is not your case," said Mr.
Vince, who was becoming seriously uneasy.

"Why, don't you know?  haven't you
heard V"

Certainly not ; how should I know or
hear ?"

I made sure somebody had told you I was
thrown on the world without a sixpence. As I
said to Bern a when your letter came, apologising
for not attending the funeral, and trusting I would
write if you could be of any assistance, ' Now,
that's the Yinces all over  they're never behind
when any friend is sick or sorry.' "

To judge from the expression of Mr. Vince's

grim face, no man ever lived less desirous of
playing the part of *' Good Samaritan."

*'I scarcely understand," he remarked, ignoring
the inferred compliment to his own excellent
qualities. " Do you mean that Mr. Boyle made
no provision for you in the event of his death ?"

That's just what I do mean  and I don't
wonder at your being indignant at the way I've
been treated. If I'd only known  but there's no
use fretting over spilt milk; and nobody can
deny it's spilt milk for me to be left a widow
with a great girl to keep, on a paltry sixty pounds
a year."

But I thought you said you had nothing ?"
And what's sixty pounds ?" '
Over twenty-three shillings a week  '*
Just about enough to buy boot-laces  "
I think you could scarcely spend twenty-three
shillings a week on boot-laces," remonstrated
Mr. Vince, with the most absurd and
anxious gravity. " Many persons live on less."

And I wouldn't have had even that pittance
if it hadn't been for my father," explained Mrs.

BEKNA BOYLE.

Boyle, who felt the aspect of affairs was getting
serious ; "he insisted  0, he knew the nature of
the man I was marrying !  that Ulick should
insure his life. He didn't want to do anything of
the sort, and he wouldn't put his money like
another person in the office the old man recommended.
No. The ' Scottish Widows ' was the
only thing that took his fancy.

It seems to me, Boyle,' said my father  you
know he always would have his joke  * you might
just as well put your premiums at the back of the
fire. I don't know about Scottish widows, but I
don't think an Irish widow would stop one long.'
It was just a harmless piece of fun, but Ulick
sulked for a week about it."

Involuntarily Mr. Vince turned towards the
sofa where Berna sat, leaning against the cushion
she knew concealed the bare thigh-bone of that
horrible bird. He fancied she had spoken; but
she was utterly still, her head turned towards
the window, her hands clasped tight together in
her lap.

I do not suppose the question of marriage

would affect your annuity," he remarked ; beyond
all other things Mr. Yince was practical  " business
to the backbone " declared his admirers.

0, it is not of myself I'm thinking !" explained
Mrs. Boyle ; " it's that girl. What would
become of her if I was taken  and as the Holy
Bible truly says, * In the midst of life we're in
death '  I can't imagine ; she hasn't a bit of
pluck in her."

Do not trouble yourself about me, mamma,"
entreated Miss Boyle, again forgetful of the maternal
mandate.

** It's all very well to say don't trouble, but
how am I to help troubling ? If you can tell me
that, I'll be very much obliged to you."

Will not your husband's grandmother ?  I
always thought  " hesitated Mr. Vince, finding
the girl seemed unable or unwilling to solve the
conundrum proposed.

"And you thought right enough," said Mrs.
Boyle ; " the old lady is just rolling in wealth.
She has her servants, and her carriages, and her
fine house, and her gold, and her silver, and her

plate, and her jewels ; and is wrapped up in her
money, when she ought to be considering her
sinful soul, and how soon she'll have to appear
before her Maker. And Berna had the finest
chance ever was of coming in for the whole of it.
I declare when I think of her foolishness I could
sit down and cry my eyes out. When she wanted
a day or two of sixteen she had her choice. All
the Dowager asked her to do was to give up her
home and me and be made for life ; and she
wouldn't. As if I hadn't trouble enough without
her making more for me."

But, surely, you cannot find fault with your
daughter because she refused to give up her
mother," expostulated Mr. Vince, who felt, however
extraordinary Miss Boyle's preference might
be, it was one he ought to commend.

*' I'm not finding fault with her for that ; as I
told her, where would you find a mother like me ?"

Mr. Yince was about as destitute of all sense
of humour as an Irishman ever can be. Yet
Mrs. Boyle's question tickled his fancy to such a
degree he could not avoid smiling as he said,

** There is a good deal in that, to be sure."
"There's everything," answered the widow;
*' and for that reason she ought to have taken
advice, and been led by one a little older and ever
so much wiser than herself. But she's her
father's daughter all over  looks and nature 
headstrong as he was. If he'd only listened tome
he might have been spared to see whether
there was nothing he could for us ; but he never
thought of anybody but himself  "
** Mamma !" interposed Berna.
"You needn't fire up. I'm not speaking
against him. Only if he hadn't, just for contrariness,
ridden that chestnut  "

Really, I do think, Mrs. Boyle"
And you call me Mrs. Boyle  me, your
father's brother's own child  that'll become of
us !  and I made sure you'd be as glad to see meas
my husband was you. Why, if I'd let him,
he'd have turned the house out of window to do
you honour, he was that pleased to see one belonging
to me inside his doors. Not ten minutes
ago I was saying to Berna, Richard 11 be ordering

an inside car and taking us straight off to Craig-fallen,
and showing us his grand place, and making
us acquainted with his fine wife."

The peril was so imminent, Mr. Vince felt he
dare not lose a moment.

I am excessively sorry," he said, " but it's
quite impossible I should ask 3'ou to my house.
Mrs. Yince would not hear of such a thing for a
moment."

For about the space of time it could have
taken any one to count five, Mrs. Boyle remained
gazing at her kinsman with wild incredulity,
then exclaiming, " And here am I stranded
on the faith of what you'd do for me," she burst
into a perfectly real and unaffected passion of
tears.

Mamma, mamma !" cried Berna, and, forgetful
of the dreadful thing wrapped up in newspaper
buried beneath the sofa pillow, she hurriedly
crossed the room, and, kneeling on the carpet,
threw her arms around a mother whose " like "
she would, happily, have found it difficult to find.

Mr. Richard C. Vince was a gentleman " universally
respected." In other words, he had done
remarkably well.

"By dint of indefatigable industry and an
extraordinary aptitude for business "  vide the
local papers when on one occasion it became
expedient for them to laud their respected 
 "he had raised himself from
comparative obscurity to the topmost rung of
the commercial ladder. Men such as he had
made Ulster what it was. Men such as he would
preserve Ulster as it was. So long as men of
the stamp of Richard Charles Vince remained in
their midst," editors felt there " could be no
reason to despair of the future of Ireland."
"Public spirit, private charity, a generosity as
unstinted as unfailing," were all united in the
person of Mr. Vince ; and when that good man
and true gave a fete and threw his grounds open

to the masses, on the "never-to-be-forgotten occasion
" of his entering into possession of Craig-fallen,
a correspondent of the Lagan Flying Post
actually drivelled while shedding inky tears over
the wealth and virtues of Richard Charles.

If there were persons who, in narrow town
houses and small suburban villas, said Mr. Yince
had on occasion sailed remarkably near the wind,
the observation proved nothing, except that they
were poor and non-successful. All great men
have their detractors ; and, in his way, Mr.
Vince was a very great man indeed.

Whatever the course he sailed may have been,
it enabled him to arrive in port with a rich
cargo. When first he took his seat on a stool in
the office of Messrs. Hughes, the great corn merchants,
his weekly stipend only amounted to five
shillings ; and less than thirty years later he was
in a position to buy Craigvallen from Sir Humphrey
Trepan, Baronet, and to marry Marcellus
Robins, third daughter of the late Theophilus
Carpenter, Esq., of Cherryfield, a gentleman who
travelled the road to ruin in a coach-and-four.

It was this lady, popular opinion believed,
who " turned " Richard Charles from Presbyterianism
to the "Establishment;" but that
estimable man's enemies sneeringly said he was
glad enough to go the way he wanted under
shelter of a woman's petticoats.

The Eev. Dr. Cooke  affectionately nicknamed
"the Cock of the North"  declared that
"when people got rich enough to set up a
jaunting-car, they ceased walking to meeting and
drove to church."

Mr. Yince's conversion was delayed till after
the purchase of a carriage-and-pair. If he could
have combined the society of great persons and
the Westminster Confession of Faith, it is possible
he might never have left his old religion ;
but it was easier to step from church into the
grand houses, the doors of which were opened for
him and his wife ; and he retained the good
word and will of the Presbyterians by benefactions
which they styled "princely," and deeds
properly described as " worthy."

His life was, indeed, spent in "conciliating"

VOL. I. E

irreverent persons said something about Vince
trying to hedge for this world and the next, and
quoted that text which warns a person to fear
when all men speak well of him ; but there can
be no question Mr. Vince did an enormous
amount of good, and charity is a gift-horse that
certainly ought not to be looked too closely in
the mouth.

Sprung almost from the people himself, his
greatest pride was to associate with those vaguely
designated by the lower orders in Ireland " the
quality." He did like a man able to trace a long
line of aristocratic ancestors. Ulick Boyle, of
Boyle Court, county Mayo, had always been a
great feather in his cap ; and when he wrote to
his cousin, whom he had never, even in his
youngest and her best days, either liked or
admired, offering his condolences on the death
of a man descended not merely from an old buta
wealthy stock, he was perfectly sincere in saying,
if he could take any trouble off her hands
she might command his services. What he
meant was that as the Boyless had property in

the county Down he could see to anything connected
with it for her ; the idea that she would
come rushing to Belfast herself never entered his
mind. The imagination of woman is, however,
quicker than that of man ; and the moment Mrs.
Vince heard of Mrs. Boyle's advent, she said,
She has come intending to plant herself on us
for a long visit."

"Then her expectations will be disappointed,"
thought Mr. Vince, but he possessed his soul in
silence.

He had known his cousin Milly as maid and
matron, and he did not wish his wife to know her
as a widow. He had seen her giggling, flirting,
coquetting with many sorts and conditions of
men ; and he secretly determined the sacred
threshold of Craigvallen, once inhabited by "the
best in the county," should not be crossed by
her profane feet. Without ever actually turning
a cold shoulder to the whole dreadful Vince connection,
he had managed to keep his many, many
relations at arm's length. He helped, advised,
and occasionally found money for them ; but they


 Illic'

thoroughly understood such benefits were not to
be presumed upon, or made the excuse for any
*hail, fellow, well met" sort of familiarity.
Eichard Charles was Mr. Vince to them all
round ; indeed, Richard Charles was Mr. Vince
to most persons except Mrs. Vince, who, considering
formality between man and wife bad
form, called him Richard from the day she consented
to be his.

I am very sorry, Mrs. Boyle," he began, a
little awkwardly, for the spectacle of Ulick Boyle's
widow dissolved in tears, and the sight of Ulick
Boyle's generous heart looking at him through
the dead man's daughter's eyes, seemed for the
moment rather more than he could bear.

No, Richard Vince, you are not sorry,"
sobbed Mrs. Boyle ; *' and it is no use your
sitting there and telling me what you know is
not true. All you want is to give me the cut
go-by ; and you ought to be ashamed of yourself,
sitting there calling your first cousin on the
father's side Mrs. Boyle. But it is just what
I might have expected ; when poverty comes in

at the door, friends jump out of the window.
They do, as if it was a fire. Get up, Berna;
don't be kneeling there, spoiling your crape on
the dusty carpet; you'll have to be careful of
your clothes, for dear only knows when you'll
get any more."

"It is a very hard position," ventured Mr.
Vince, who felt it was exceedingly hard for him ;
"but if you would only look it sensibly in the
face, we  "

Talk's cheap," interrupted the widow.
"From a boy you'd always a gift of the gab.
No, it's no use, Berna; 111 just say out what's
in my mind, and then if I'm no richer I'll be
easier  for goodness' sake, girl, let go hold of
my arm, you'll have it black and blue, pinching
it like that ; you know a fair skin like mine
marks in a minute."

"I assure you  " tried Mr. Vince, in vain
expostulation.

I tell you it's no manner of use thinking to
deceive me. I have known you all my life, and
I never knew much good of you ; and it is a

burning shame for you to treat your own full-blood
cousin, whose father gave you the first
shove you ever had from shore, as if she was dirt
under your feet, not fit to be spoken to. I
wouldn't be as unkind to a dog as you have
been to me ; and after me always sticking up
for my own family too. I never said an ill word
about one of the Vinces. Did I, Berna?"

"I never heard you, mamma," agreed Berna,
who had, after that little misfortune in regard to
her mother's " fair skin," risen from the floor and
resumed her seat beside the turkey's thigh-bone.

There now, you hear what she says ? You
oughtn't take my word, but you can't be off
believing her. Not but what I could have found
plenty bad to tell if I'd liked to tell it. I haven't
forgot how your father took Cripple's Farm over
the head of that quiet decent woman, Tom duncan's
widow; ay, and sure enough he hadn't a
day's luck after it, and maybe your luck, Richard,
may turn yet. And I mind me how Tim Vince 
that's your uncle and mine, you know  cheated
young Craig over the black mare he sold him at

Strait, and how if it hadn't been for my father,
whose daughter you think so little of  "

If you have the slightest influence over your
mother," said Mr. Yiuce, addressing Berna, and
drowning the final portion of Mrs. Boyle's denunciation
with his harsh deep tones, "will you
advise her to cease this crazy rambling, and let us
discuss her future plans in a reasonable spirit ?"

The sneer with which his kinswoman greeted
a suggestion, by no means ridiculous, amounted
to a snort. Construing the words of Eichard
Charles into a sign of weakness, she determined
to have another round, and accordingly recommenced.


*' It'll be a fine story for me to tell Matilda
Sheill, and the rest of them, how, not content
with turning up your nose at me yourself, you
tried to set my own child against her mother.
She was self-willed enough, goodness knows,
before. I don't know what she'll be like now
she's got the master of Craigvallen and the husband
of old Theoph. Carpenter's daughter to back
her up in her undutiful ways."

''0 mamma, I'm not undutiful; indeed,
indeed, I am not !" said the girl.

And lest I should, for the second time,
prove inadvertently the cause of arousing your
resentment against a young lady I most sincerely
laity, I will bid you good-morning," remarked Mr.
Vince, in his best and most stately manner.

*' You're not going off in that way!" cried
Mrs. Boyle, jumping up as she saw Richard
Charles advancing to shake hands with her
daughter, whose eyes were swimming in tears.
'you're never going to leave me, without a
friend in the world I can turn to, and with a child
who hasn't the faintest chance of making a good
match and setting us all up again ! I didn't
mean to anger you. I wouldn't give 'Tilda
Sheill, or one of them, the satisfaction of saying,
The Vinces have been at it again. It's Milly
and Richard aren't on speaking terms now.' "

I am afraid, if your friend Miss Sheill confines
herself to the truth, that is precisely what
she will have to say," retorted Mr. Vince.

"Don't go !" entreated the widow; " don't go

for any sake, and don't be vexed with me. Sure
that was only my fun about Craigvallen. I.
wouldn't be paid to drive out there  tiring myself
looking at things that can never do me any
good. All I want is a roof to cover my head and
put my boxes under. I was thinking we, maybe,
might get some quiet lodging at Mount Porringer,
or along the Botanic Eoad. I don't care what it
is like, so that we can just turn ourselves round."

Instantly there arose before Mr. Vince's mind
a vision of the fascinating Milly, as he remembered
her in that evil time departed, ere Mr.
Ulick Boyle at one and the same moment tied
such a millstone round his own neck and relieved
the Yince connection from the burden of a woman
who had rendered the lives of all her relations a
weariness and a terror.

He could see again her veil floating in the
wind, her scarf dropping off her shoulders, her
unduly short and scanty skirts, beneath which
sandalled shoes and " clocked " open-work stockings
were as much in evidence as her pink cheeks
and golden curls, and " heavenly " blue eyes

under the brim of the enormous bonnets in vogue
when she was in her teens, and long after. She
knew a family resident in the Sandhill Road,
and from the fastnesses of that locality she was
wont to make desperate descents on the youth
and manhood of Belfast.

Twenty times a day she was to be seen in
company with two or three girls of her acquaintance
passing and repassing the news-room. Hercules
Street, High Street, Bridge Street, Donegalll
Street, North Street, Rosemary Street, and High
Street again, that was the usual round of the
charming damsels, with occasional forays along
Donegalll Place and a rush for raspberry-puffs into
the Corn Market and Kitty Linden's, from whence
a strategic movement was often made into Ann
Street, in order to see whether any fresh supplies
could be wrung from papa.

And now she was a widow, and the world had
gone on; and poor Mr. Vince, compelled constantly
to frequent all these places of public
resort, thought how awful it would be to meet a
streaming crape veil, and a voluminous black

shawl, and that little lithe figure, and that washed-out
complexion at high noon " where men do
congregate."

He could not do it. Life would not be worth
having. He must make some terms with her;
money was no object in comparison to getting rid
of Mrs. Boyle.

** There are many places," he began, " where
living is so much cheaper than in a large town,
that"

*'No, thank you," interrupted the widow;
*rit was bad enough when there was plenty and
to spare, where we'd be a month at a time without
a soul, besides beggars coming to the house,
except the priest and the rector ; and now I'm ina
manner destitute, I don't mean to settle myself
down where there's not a creature to speak to,
and not a thing to see but bog and the Atlantic."

Then why not go to Dublin"

Why not go to New York ?"

"Why should you not?" asked Mr. Vince
eagerly, too eagerly by far.

For the same good reason I'm not going to

Dublin. What should become of me, where I
don't know man, woman, or child? No, I've
friends here, and here I mean to stay ; and whenever
it clears up a bit I'll put on my bonnet and
call on a few I know, and maybe they'll put me in
the way of getting a couple of cheap rooms, for an
hotel is ruin ; there's no other name for it."

' My time is valuable, and as I cannot possibly
assist you in your search for lodgings, I will bid
you good-bye," said Mr. Yince, with great decision.


Well, you have the temper !" exclaimed Mrs.
Boyle. ' I wouldn't own one like it for all the
money in the Bank of Ireland ; ay, that's the way
your father went off the morning  " But her
words fell only on Berna's unwilling ears  Mr.
Yince, in despair, had left the room, and was
half-way down-stairs. The widow was too much
for him. What sin could he have committed to
call down this judgment? He had been too
prosperous, too much uplifted ; he had gone once
to a Catholic church in Paris ; he had discharged
a clerk in anger, and refused to give him a

character, and he believed that man was now in
the workhouse.

He would see what he could do for him ; he
would try to get into Parliament, and move
Heaven and earth, to rush a bill through the
House doing away with all relationships except
those of man and wife, parent and child. He
knew he could make a telling speech on such a
subject. It was awful, it was most unjust, that a
man like himself, who had worked hard all his
life, and been reasonable, and made the name of
Vince respected and respectable, should, now he
was past fifty, have such a cousin as Mrs. Boyle
planted down in his locality. It was horrible.
Even in a nightmare he had never suffered such
agonies, and all because he would not ask her to
Craigvallen. He felt he should prefer, if it came
to that point, to sell Craigvallen and go abroad,
rather than have the dread and fear of his cousin
Milly on his mind. That day all things went
wrong with Mr. Vince. If the ever-vernal Milly
had come into Belfast with sound of trumpet and
beat of drum and proclamation of herald he could

not more utterly have been possessed by the
feeling that the whole Corporation was aware of
the fact the charming widow was stopping in
Cunningham's Hotel. It would not be long at
all events, his reason told him so  before half the
town was aware of her presence.

He had boasted about the Boyle connection;
he had talked familiarly concerning the view from
Boyle Court ; the speed and stay of Mr. Boyle's
hunters, the number of acres he owned, his shore
and mountain rights, his tenants, his grandmother,
his second cousin, Sir Herbert Boyle,
who, having done great deeds out in Afghanistan,
was knighted by her gracious Majesty Queen Victoria
; and now here was the widow of that same
Mr. Ulick Boyle back again in Ulster, lacking a
penny, figuratively speaking, to bless herself with,
and by far a greater fool  so it seemed to the
unhappy merchant  than before her marriage.

Richard Charles felt that altogether the
humiliation was more than he could bear; the
business salt even lost its savour, and there
seemed nothing left wherewith the desert of his

life could be fertilised. As for blossoming like
the rose, that was now impossible. Never  never
since Good Fortune (seeing what a nice, steady,
sanctimonious, utterly respectable young man had
come up from Ballynure) adopted him for her
own  did a sensation of more utter wretchedness
paralyse all his energies. Irritable himself, he
was the cause of irritability in others. " The
weather had got into his temper," the clerks
declared ; and then they cursed the weather in a
most improper manner, and made the office-boys
scapegoats on whom they laid all manner of
crimes and shortcomings, and drove them out into
the rain without compunction, as, of old, the
Israelites cheerfully sent the sin-laden beast over
the burning sands of that terrible wilderness their
own feet had trodden.

You poor dear man !" said Mrs. Vince, when,
after dinner, she was told the whole story (Mr.
Vince did not even try to keep the full horror of
what had come to town from his wife's knowledge).
" Somehow you have managed to totally
mismanage your delightful relation. I shall go

BERXA BOYLE.

and see her. I am very, very sure she won't
talk that sort of nonsense to me."

"But, Marcella, I really do not like your
coming into contact with such a woman," replied
her husband.

*' Leave all that to me," was the cheerful
answer; and happy now he had confessed the
worst, and feeling assured he could not possibly
leave the whole matter in better hands, Mr. Vince
leant back in his solid mahogany morocco-covered
easy-chair, and sank into a blissful nap.

Having, as it seemed, done his best to ruin the
hay crop of the whole of the North of Ireland, the
good Saint Swithin suddenly relented, and, except
for an occasional shower, called, according to the
taste of the speaker, a '' dribble," a " spurt," or a
few drops for heat," did no further real injury.

The rich, long grass, "laid " so hopelessly by
twenty-four hours' incessant rain, was at length
cut, and '' in swath." Much of it had, however,
still to be scattered and dried; 'but if," said
Mr. Muir, " with the Lord's help, we're able to
get it into cock before more rain comes, we'll
do yet."

It was at breakfast, seven anxious days after
that morning when he stood splicing his gig-whip
and " creeping " with Bell, who, in the
long-run, generally got the best of such en-vol.

I. F

counters, that Mr. Muir made this statement for
any one to appropriate who pleased.

As it happened, no one did appropriate or even
verbally notice it. " The Ensign " shot a telling
glance at Carline, which Miss Muir intercepted.
The five children invited over for *' the hay-making,
to toss and ted," were looking ruefully at
their messes of semi-cold porridge  served in
soup-plates. Mr. Muir's second daughter was
absent, superintending the frying of a further
supply of bacon and eggs  fat bacon, salt, moreover,
and eggs fried in that fat  and there was no
one else present.

As a rule, Mr. Muir so far unbent as to take
his meals in the kitchen. It was a cheerful
kitchen, well lighted, with red-tiled floor, walls
coloured a tint of warm yellow ochre, a fireplace
large enough to roast an ox, generally well filled
with blazing peat, over which, on a massive crane,
hung suspended a huge pot, or burly kettle, or
leviathan griddle, according to the nature of the
food in preparation. There was nothing to object
to about the kitchen, with its well-scrubbed

dresser ornamented to overflowing with homely
delft, its walls decorated with lids of copper and
tin, in which, as in convex mirrors, the faces of
the family were reflected lugubriously lengthened,
its warmth, its look of plenty increased by the
flitches of bacon and rounds of hung beef depending
from great hooks in the ceiling ; its hearth
littered with feathery ashes from the glowing turf;
its look out into the farmyard, with just a glimpse
of orchard and waving trees beyond ; the great
oven, in which myriad tarts and tartlets, destined
to be consumed by " the best in the land," had
been baked to a turn in the days which were
departed; but when the young officer declared
himself sufficiently recovered from the effects of
the awful accident, that threw him maimed and
insensible on the hospitality of a man he only
knew as a sort of eccentric horse-dealer, to be
able to leave his sleeping apartment and join the
family circle, Mr. Muir's fiat went forth.

We'll eat in the parlour while the Ensign
stops here. Bell," said that estimable maiden's
papa ; " and don't be stinting us in the tea, and

we'll have white sugar instead of brown ; I'll fetch
it for you from Forster Green's ; and get out the
good cloths your mother brought me, the Ardoyne
damask, with the beautiful wreaths of convolvulus
running all over it as natural as
among the gooseberry bushes ' out by ' in the
garden."

I like the two with the rose, shamrock, and
thistle in posies dotted about, or that pair where
the bunches of lilies are tied up by true lovers'
knots, best myself," urged Miss Muir, the spirit
of contradiction and a hatred of anything flowing
and unsymmetrical stirring well within her heart.
Never mind you, Bell, what you like or dislike,"
returned her genial parent ; " you do what
I tell you. Bring out the finest and best Ardoyne
can do, and some day we'll ask the young man
who has dined with Baronets and Earls whether
England, spite of all her money, can show
better work than Michael Andrews turns out in
the old place at Ardoyne, where the sun peeps in
through the low wide sashes, and the men can
see the tremble of green leaves and hear the

songs of wild birds standing before their Jacquard
looms."

If you go on praising Ireland that way to
the Ensign, he'll be telling you one day she's just
what the English make her out."

And that's  ?" said Mr. Muir, interrogatively
and defiantly.

"Not much to boast about," returned the fair
Bell, reluctantly leaving the room to find those
hoarded cloths, concerning which her father had
spoken.

Between herself and the young officer there
existed a sort of armed neutrality, the lines of
which were being constantly overstepped by one
or other of the high contracting powers : now it
was Miss Muir who stealthily made a sly flank
movement ; again it was her opponent, who gave
the lady what she called a " slap with his tongue."
There was no possible subject concerning which
they failed to disagree ; and Mr. Muir was wont
to sit enjoying the war of words, glad at heart to
hear Bell getting the worst of the encounter.
** The Ensign has a calm sort of way with him

you can make no head against," the farmer constantly
told his daughter; *you had best take
advice, my woman, and let him alone."

"He won't let me alone," answered Miss
Muir; "and it is just beyond my patience to see
him treated, as he is, like some wee god. He
hasn't a thought to spare for anything but himself,
as you'll maybe find out to your cost some
day. Look at the money we've been out already
over him ; and all the thanks you need ever look
for will be just a jeer. I don't know what you
see about him, I'm sure ; and as for Carline  "

What of her ?" asked Mr. Muir sharply.

0, not much ; but likely you'll find it
enough !" retorted Bell, who was wildly jealous of
her half-sister's lovely face, and whose accusations
generally took the form of hint and innuendo.
According to Bell the wit and wisdom and sagacity
of the whole household were concentrated in her
own homely person. She thought more than
anybody ; she suspected things which no one else
ever thought of ; she was a detective officer and a
prophet of evil conjoined ; and Mr. Muir disliked

her as much as he could " one of his own
blood."

If you speak at all, Bell," he said, " it would
be as well if you'd speak out."

"I make no doubt I could find plenty to speak
about," she replied; 'but it oughtn't be quite
agreeable."

Mr. Muir thought of this oracular utterance
as he looked at Carline and the officer, who faced
each other. He had thought of it and various
other dark sayings let drop from time to time by
the immaculate Bell ; but the hay and the
weather, and a perplexity he was in about his
son, had hitherto prevented that fitting of two and
two together he felt necessary to make a good job
of the matter. Now, however, a something indefinable
about Carline' s downcast eyes, and the
manner in which she handed bread across to the
officer, caused him to wonder when that young
man would be well enough to return to headquarters.


He wanted him to buy a horse before leaving
Ardilaw, but Ensign Ludham seemed to be in no

more violent hurry to conclude that purchase than
to confess himself quite off the sick list. " I
must do something," was Mr. Muir's mental
conclusion, and then he asked his guest,

Are you not for any porridge, Ensign, before
you've your breakfast ? There is nothing like a
basin of it and about a pint of milk for starting
the day."

Thank you, Mr. Muir. I am sure you are
sincere in your views ; but if the day can only be
started satisfactorily on porridge, I should prefer
never starting it at all."

Some day you may be glad to get porridge,"
broke in Miss Muir.

I have sinned, I admit," returned her adversary
; "but I really do not think I have sinned
sufficiently to deserve such a punishment."

"It is a shame to hear you abuse good food
that way, and before the children, too," persisted
Bell.

"Ah, I forgot the children; and one ought
always to be moral before the young ! My dears,
if you eat a few pounds of boiled meal every

morning you will grow up healthy, happy, and
wise ; if you do not you will fall into evil courses,
and probably come to want even a cold potato.
There, Miss Muir, could your favourite minister
have delivered a better discourse ?"

They'll have to make haste and finish, or
we'll have night on us before they get out into
the fields," interposed Mr. Muir, who did not at
all relish this incursion of innocent life, and often
informed his daughter the 'pimps spoilt more
nor they made." " What with burying one another
in it, and rolling and stretching themselves
their length, the hay is not fit for a cow to eat,
let alone a horse. I had to take a whip to them
yesterday ; the grass in the upland had just
been put into cop when they came tearing down
from the paddock, leaving the gate wide after
them. In five minutes, ay, in two, every cop
was flat, the three colts galloping about like mad,
and the children clapping hands and hurrying
till you'd have thought the Siege of Derry was
on again. Yes, just let me catch you at such a
game a second time, and I'll not merely chastise

you myself, but I'll walk you over to your father,
and you'll see what he'll give you."

It is the unknown which is always terrible,"
observed Ensign Ludham, as the small sinners
drooped their heads, and meekly devoured their
messes of pottage.

I'm thinking they know all about it well
enough," said Miss Muir, eager for another
round. " They've felt the weight of their father's
hand often enough."

'How touching! What a delightful thing
to possess such a father !"

Here's Sam Dopp," exclaimed all the children
in a breath.

They are not able to make any noise, are
they ?" said the young officer. " There are few
things more exhilarating than to hear five sets of
lungs shouting as with one mouth."

Would you have the poor things never open
their lips?" asked Miss Muir, in stern reproach.
f "I wonder what can be bringing Sam over
here to-day, and his own hay only half cut?"
mumbled Mr. Muir.

Mr. Sam Dopp put in a personal appearance
in answer to that question. Just as the farmer
finished his sentence the veritable Sam  who was
a rather slouching sort of individual, with eyes
that did not exactly match  opened the door and
looked solemnly in. Then, he said he wouldn't
intrude  he wanted to speak a word, but there
was no hurry  he would step " out by " and
throw his eye " over the stable  he had breakfasted
 " thank you all the same."

'* Come in and sit down, man," expostulated
Mr. Muir; "if you won't eat you can look on,
and it is not totally impossible you might fancy
a bit of bacon after your walk. This is Ensign
Ludham, that got the smashing fall you've heard
tell of." Whereupon, with cruel and elaborate
civility. Ensign Ludham rose, bowed and offered
Mr. Sam his chair, but Sam would have none of it.

Don't put yourself out of the way, sir, forme,"
he entreated. " I'll do very well here;" and
he took a seat as remote from the table and as
inconvenient for purposes of conversation as was
procurable.

"Now, children," began Mr. Muir, "if you
can find nothing to do here but to sit staring,
you might as well go into the field. Mind what
I told you," he added, as they filed out of the
room; "you'll go home, sure as you're living, if
you don't behave yourselves."

"If I behave myself very well indeed, Mr.
Muir, may I not go into the field and toss hay
too?" asked the Ensign. "I think it would
make me feel quite young again."

"And I think you had better take care of
yourself for a day or two more. The sooner you
get strong, the sooner you'll be able to go back
to your work. I am sure your colonel must be
breaking his heart to see you again."

I imagine he must. As you are aware. Miss
Muir, I am universally loved and respected."

That is a good hearing," sneered Bell.

I had to pass the office this morning, and so
I thought I might as well ask if they had a letter
for you," said Mr. Dopp, wrestling with the torn
lining of his coat before he could find the pocket
where he had deposited something belonging to

Mr. Muir. *' 0, here it is ! They said it was
from your son, and you'd be glad to get it early."

Do they open your correspondence at the
post-office, then, .Mr. Muir ?" asked his guest.

They know the writing," answered the farmer,
even more curtly than was his habit.

He did not open the letter, though his fingers
were itching to do so ; but sat twirling it round
and round, waiting for Mr. Dopp's next word.

Finding that word did not come, however, he
himself took the initiative.

And what can I do for you this fine morning
?" he asked.

"Well, I just stepped round to know if you
had thought better about the cottage;" and Mr.
Dopp turned his head and stared straight out of
the window while waiting for Mr. Muir's reply,
which did not immediately ensue. "I don't
think the pigs would do you any hurt," went on
Sam, in a mournful monotone; "they're wholesome
creatures, and I'd build the stye myself.
You see, I must be clear out by November; and
is ill to have to be looking for a house at

that time of the year if you've a lot of young
ones."

This remark, which seemed addressed to the
landscape rather than to Mr. Muir, was received
by that gentleman in dead silence. He drank a
cup of tea, while Bell sat eyeing him eagerly,
before he answered.

We've no call to argue the matter any more,
Sam. If I had the will I could not set you the
place now. It is out of my hands. I've set it."

*' Preserve us !" exclaimed Miss Muir. "When
did you do that ?"

The last day I was in the town."

And you never ' let on ' a word of what you
had done !"

"Why would I be talking about my concerns?
There are plenty of women going open-mouthed
about the world."

But you couldn't keep it a secret for ever,
and you might as well have told us about your
good fortune at first as at last."

I am the best judge of that."

Let us hope your father has found a tenant

to his mind, Miss Muir," mischievously suggested
Ensign Ludham, who indeed felt jubilant over
Bell's discomfiture.

"It is early days to know much about him,
whoever he may be," retorted the lady.

"If you must know, it is not a him at all.
It is a widow woman, with the best of relations."

You had better be careful, Mr. Muir," said
the officer, laughing.

I mean to be ; there is not the woman born
I'd care to bring home again. I've had three
wives, and that's enough for me."

You do not want to be too greedy."

"No; I'll content myself now; but all this
won't get the hay up. I must be going ;" and
with a nod to Mr. Dopp, who, since the uprooting
of all those hopes so sedulously nursed by Bell,
had sat like one dazed by some startling intelligence,
the farmer left the room, and proceeding
to the kitchen, which was entirely deserted, sat
down to read his letter. He went over its contents
three times, then he went up to his bedroom
and locked it away. After that he walked briskly

to a meadow already dotted with those picturesque
haystacks the climate of Ireland necessitates
ere the crop can he safely gathered into
great ricks, where he remained harrying his
labourers and the women, who also were hard
at work, till dinner-time approached, when he
thoughtfully retraced his steps towards the house.

As he came within sight of an angle formed
by the garden hedge, he caught just the flutter
of a woman's skirt whisking off as fast as its
wearer could hurry away.

Changing his own course and entering the
garden, he saw the Ensign apparently engaged
in rapt contemplation of a currant-bush, on which
the young fry had not left a single berry.

"I am glad to find you are able to walk sofar,"
said the farmer. "I hope you'll not do
yourself any injury."

The officer, turning as though he had not
heard the sound of Mr. Muir's footsteps, smiled
as he answered,

no ; I really am getting quite strong

That will be good news for all your
friends."

"You are very kind to say so, Mr. Muir. If
it had not been for the nursing and hospitality
received in your house, my friends would scarcely
have heard that good news for many a long day."

Perfectly well the young scamp knew war
would shortly be declared by the man who had
accorded him shelter and a welcome ; but so long
as it suited the farmer to keep his claws hidden,
Ensign Ludham determined to take no notice of
such things being in existence.

If you have not been tiring yourself out,
maybe you'd have a mind to walk with me as far
as the field, after dinner," suggested Mr. Muir.

"Nothing I should like better. Had it not
been for your prohibition I should have followed
you this morning; but I really do want to get
well and strong. I must not presume on such
kindness as I have received here for ever."

Mr. Muir was wary enough not to commit
himself to anything which might be construed
into a further invitation, but yet he belonged to

VOL. I. G

a people too genuinely hospitable to remain totally
silent.

*' That's nothing  nothing at all," he said, ina
courtly spirit of compromise.

"Nothing!" repeated his guest. "I'd like
to know who would have done for a total stranger
what you have."

"I'd be very sorry to think any one of the
neighbours wouldn't have done as much, at any
rate," answered Mr. Muir, feeling he had scored
another trick against the English.

Bell wants to know if she'll put the dinner
down again."

It was one of the children who ran across
the yard to put this question in all its original
force.

"We're coming  we're coming. You see,"
added Mr. Muir, by way of indirect apology,
she's thinking about the crop. My daughter
Bell is a very thrifty young woman."

I never before had the pleasure of meeting
any one more thrifty," said Ensign Ludham.
'admirable in every relation of life."

Mr. Muir did not feel quite satisfied on this
latter point, so he wisely held his tongue.

"Won't you draw up your chair?" suggested
Miss Muir to the officer as he entered the room,
where she was already seated at the head of the
festive board. " I hope you can eat boiled beef
and greens. Lizzie, just set the Ensign a plate
for his skins."

I assure you. Miss Muir, I have only one,"
said the irrepressible Ensign ; but he did not look
across at Carline as he spoke. Since breakfast
matters had progressed to a stage in which glances
are rather avoided.

Ay, ay," thought the farmer, on whom no
sign, however trivial, was now lost; "it's time
you got your marching orders, my boy."

For a few minutes there was little said ;
scarcely a sound broke the stillness but the clatter
of knives and forks, and an occasional request for
potatoes. Even Miss Muir, who had some small
household care on her mind, refrained from what
her father was wont to term " side wipes." She
did not fling indirect taunts at the Ensign for

preferring water to milk in any form ; the children
having happily been provided with a sufficient
meal in the kitchen, it was not possible for
her to bid them sit up, or eat properly, or in any
other way instruct them in the way they should
go ; whilst during the whole of dinner she spoke
no word of scorn even to Carline, whose shortcomings
usually furnished an interlude whenever
conversation flagged, as it had often a knack of
doing  not wholly peculiar to Ardilaw.

That beef's not bad, Bell ; I think I could
take another cut," said Mr. Muir, after a silence
devoted entirely to the benefit of his inner man ;
then, as the red-armed, rough-handed Phyllis
called Poll carried his plate round for that second
supply of food he felt the case required, he added,
as a casual piece of information of no great importance,


I've got a bit of news for you all. You may
look to see Gorman next week. That's my only
son, you know. Ensign  my first-born."

The bit of news dropped like a shell amongst
those present. Miss Muir sat with carving-knife

and fork suspended in mid-air ; Sarah and Carline
turned and stared at their father in amazement;
Molly nearly let the plate she was holding
drop, so great was her astonishment ; while for a
moment even Ensign Ludham failed presence of
mind to say,

*' I remember ; that is the gentleman you
told me had been adopted when quite a child by
his uncle."

That's quite right. His mother's uncle
took him from me when he was only two years
of age."

And he has never been in this part of the
country since, Ensign," observed Miss Muir.

"How glad you will be to see him!" commented
the Ensign, with a benignant smile,
happy to think there were evil days in store for
Bell days during the course of which his own
many grievances would be amply avenged.

I HAVE been thinking that, as your son is at
last returning to his ancestral roof - tree, the
sooner I take my departure the better. Charming
as no doubt I have made myself, it is, I fear,
a melancholy fact that under the circumstances
you will find my room even pleasant than my
company."

*rit is out of the way considerate of you
mentioning such a thing," said Mr. Muir, who
had not yet quite made up his mind whether he
most desired Ensign Ludham's absence or presence.


Two o'clock had struck, the afternoon sun was
as hot as any sun ever can be in Ireland, only
two or three pure white clouds flecked the blue
expanse of heaven, the green of the meadows had
become vivid, a westerly wind caressed the sunburnt
cheeks of lowly haymakers; down in the

glen a trickling stream flowed slowly to music
of its own making ; the peaceful stir of country
life pervaded the whole landscape, and Mr. Muir
and his guest were, according to agreement,
sauntering over the grass in order that the former
might see " with his own two eyes," to quote
Miss Bell, how work was progressing.

No figure less like the typical Arcadian than
Mr. Muir's probably ever before crossed the sweet
summer fields.

Tall, gaunt, erect, uncompromising, clad in a
suit of evening black, white linen shirt, black
stock, and high hat, he stalked solemnly beside
Ensign Ludham, who wore a pair of loose gray
trousers, no waistcoat, an old velvet shooting-jacket
much the worse for wear, a broad-brimmed
straw hat pushed back from his forehead, a turn-down
collar fastened with a gold stud, carried a
notched and gnarled blackthorn lent him by his
host, and halted perceptibly as he struggled onward.


Mr. Muir looked askance at the youth as they
walked along. He would not have thought much,

or indeed at all, about '' the boy " limping, if it
had not been for what Bell had said concerning
him. Bell's utterances were, as a rule, so eminently
disagreeable, she found it quite unnecessary
to add to their unpleasantness by falsehood ;
therefore her friends had not even the satisfaction
of believing there might not be a grain of truth
in what she said. Miss Muir's conclusions might
be open to doubt, but her facts were incontrovertible.
If she stated, not that she thought, but
that she had seen, a thing, there could be no
question on the subject; and Bell, a full week
back, declared the Ensign went up-stairs three
steps at a time. Mr. Muir had never beheld him
doing anything of the sort; but that proved
nothing. He was getting to feel " dubious "
about the officer's straightforwardness. He had
*' a pleasant way with him," and he came of
** decent people," and his ways were " agreeable,"
and his manners beyond the common
affable; yet, still  the farmer thought a great
deal as he noticed Ensign Ludham's, painful walk,
and at last he said.

"I am afraid you're not as strong on that
bad leg as we could wish."

"0, it's getting all right," answered the
young hypocrite. "I ought not to have stood
on it so long this morning, that's all."

I believe you're correct there," agreed Mr.
Muir, in a tone which meant much more than
his words.

"At any rate," answered the officer, "I shall
be well enough to relieve you of my company
very shortly. I should like, if I may, to remain
here over Sunday. Then, supposing you could
give me a lift as far as Holywood, I'd charter a
boat across the Lough  Skipton is at Carrick-fergus,
in command of our company, and I ought
to join him there."

Carrick's a fine heartsome place," returned
the farmer, more perplexed in his mind than
ever, now .the hour of parting seemed imminent,
as to whether he most wished the officer to go
or to stay.

*'I am very glad indeed to hear you say so,
Mr. Muir, for I have always been given to understand

the officers' quarters faced the east, which,
as we all know, is a peculiarly healthy aspect
for delicate people."

"But, Ensign, you're surely not just that
delicate yourself?" suggested Mr. Muir anxiously.


*' I put the matter generally," observed Mr.
Ludham, with a lofty composure; "but, if we
must descend to particulars, I am not strong.
When I am at home, my mother is always asking
the doctor about my heart and lungs (no interesting
disease, as you must be well aware, ever
attaches itself to the liver) ; and that good gentleman
makes a point of tapping my chest, as a
woodpecker does a tree, and with a like result.
He says something about me is hollow."

"Maybe he's not so far out," remarked Mr.
Muir.

And as mine," calmly continued Ensign
Ludham, too wise to take any notice of Mr.
Muir's nasty sarcasm, " is considered a very valuable
life  only five healthy persons intervene
between me and a baronetcy  I am tormented to

put my feet in hot water, and wear flannels, and
beware of damp, and go to bed with the lamb, and
lie ever so late in the morning ; so, you see, I
can't be strong, Mr. Muir, I can't indeed. It is
only the enormous care you have taken of me
which has preserved its brightest ornament to
the Kutlandshire RagamujBfins, as the  th regiment
is affectionately nicknamed."

If you're tired, won't you sit a bit ?" inquired
Mr. Muir, hospitably pointing to a felled
tree lying near a thorn hedge close at hand. *' I'd
be vexed if a man that's held of such account
came to harm as long as he stops at Ardilaw."

With an appreciative grin, the young fellow
stretched himself full length on the trunk, his
once injured leg well in evidence, his hat tilted
over his eyes  his whole attitude that of utter
rest and contentment, presenting a marked contrast
to the stiff figure seated bolt upright at his
feet.

As you urge me so strongly, I think I will
indulge in a cigar," said the Ensign, putting one
lazy hand into his pocket and drawing out his

case. " Can't I tempt you, Mr. Muir ? I don't
think I have eyer seen you smoke."

No ; and I don't think you ever will," returned
Mr. Muir. "There was a time  once 
when I liked a smoke as well as any man ; but I
gave it up because a lyman could not bear the
smell of tobacco, and I've never had pipe or cigar
between my lips since."

Eeally ? How very interesting ! I hope I
am not indiscreet in concluding you were in love
with the lady."

*' I was, or you may be sure I wouldn't have
given up my will to her pleasure."

What a touching reminiscence ! I wonder
whether I shall ever be sufficiently in love to
relinquish anything for the sake of my fair."

"It is not over and above likely," answered
the farmer, with saturnine enjoyment of his own
wit ; and there ensued a pause, during the continuance
of which the song of the grasshoppers
became distinctly audible, and the officer's
thoughts went flitting about like the butterflies
flashing through the summer air.

She was my first ife," observed Mr. Muir,
at length breaking silence.

She ! "Who ? Good gracious, what are you
talking about?" cried Ensign Ludham. "0,1
leg your pardon. I had quite forgotten. You
mean, of course, the lady you preferred to tobacco."


"Just that," said Mr. Muir, a little down-learnedly,
for he felt himself repulsed, as hard
natures often do when they lapse into sentiment.

You were very fond of her?" hazarded the
officer, raising himself on his elbow  shallow
waters can reflect cloud and sunshine even
better than great oceans, which sometimes seem
almost to absorb both.

Ay, and so would 3'ou have been if you'd
seen her," answered the farmer, grimly in earnest.
For once he had scraped the mould out of his
dead wife's grave, and raised her coffin lid, and
looked on the dust therein, while smiling through
the years he beheld the fair bright face which had
thrilled his youth with rapture. That, at least,
was not lying under the sod. Though cold.

hard, and stern might be the religion he professed,
yet the poetry and the passion which
underlie all Celtic nature told him, in tones
more convincing than any creed, that somewhere,
somewhere, he would again see that face glorified,
all traces of tears wiped away, all sorrow dispelled.
Between them  for his Calvinist Pharisaism
could not at such a supreme moment blind
him to the fact that he was, keeping within the
law, as coldly wicked a man as ever drew breath
there might yawn a gulf deep and long as that
dividing heaven from hell ; nevertheless, he felt
with his eyes he should behold her, even from
afar, as certainly as at that moment memory gave
him back a glimpse of dark laughing eyes, and
red pouting lips, and cheeks the southern sun
seemed to have been kissing, and wavy hair, with
little more than the suspicion of a curl about it,
and a heart  God ! what had that heart not
been ere it broke, and in breaking made no sign !
"It is a most fortunate thing I never did
know her." Thus Ensign Ludham all unwittingly
dispelled the vision Mr. Muir had conjured

up out of the depths of thirty years spent
in sin and hard work. " Of course I should at
once have fallen over head and ears in love  a
feeling you will understand she must immediately
have reciprocated  and there never lived a "
man less desirous of disturbing conjugal peace
than myself. On the whole, Heaven knows what
is best for us, Mr. Muir."

You've a light way of talking. I wonder if
it covers a depth of evil-doing ?"

** You need not wonder. There never was so
childlike and innocent a young fellow as myself.
Bless you, I know nothing concerning the sins cff
this wicked old world. An idyllic life is the life
for me. I could make myself happy at Ardilaw
for ever, doing nothing useful, of course. Do
tell me all about your first wife, your love's
young dream, if talking on the subject will not
distress you."

Ensign Ludham bit the end off his cigar, lit
a match, placed himself in a more comfortable
position, while Mr. Muir sat with bowed head,
hands loosely clasped, wrestling hard with thought

and memory. For any one who knew something
of humanity it must have been apparent that between
the two men there stretched centuries of
civilisation. There sat a savage  reluctantly
conforming to law, influenced by a vague religion.
Stretched at his ease, full length, upon a fallen
tree, lay a reprobate out of whom modern scepticism
and social culture had crushed every spark
of manhood, save superficial courtesy and physical
courage.

The first scarcely understood the full meaning
of social restraint, the second had outstepped its
boundaries. He was as dangerous an inmate as a
man possessed of a pretty daughter could have
desired within his doors, as cool a hand, as
thoroughpaced a blackguard, as ever, when the
hour came for mere brute daring to assert itself,
rode cheerily through the Valley of Death to spike
an enemy's guns, or marched on bravely to the
front, knowing full well that every bullet has its
billet.

"I'd like well to tell you some little about
myself, if it wouldn't tire you over-much," said

Mr. Muir, in a low bushed voice, as if he were
talking in a church.

Should be only too charmed," murmured his
guest, turning himself indolently, so as the better
to catch such words of wisdom as might on that
summer's afternoon be wandering about Ardilaw.

My father and my grandfather before him
were bailiffs on the Manor of Clonmellin, in the
service of the Gorman family  that you may
never have heard tell of?"

Frequently," murmured the officer, who, till
that hour, was unaware such a place as Clonmellin
existed.

The Gorman s had a grand domain. I don't
say it brought in much money  for it was mostly
seashore and mountain, all but the made land
about the house  but you could walk and ride for
hours, days almost, over their property. There
were parts where a sheep would have starved 
but the wild fowl fattened. I've myself killed, on
a cold, quiet night, thirty wild duck. Lord !
what was there in the way of game you might not
have found on those hills !"

VOL. I. H

You never by chance met with a lion or a
tiger when you were prowling about poaching ?"
suggested Ensign Ludham.

''I never did; but if I had I wouldn't have
been afraid," said Mr. Muir. "No more afraid
than to answer to the charge of ' poaching ' in any
of your English courts. We had leave to shoot
what we liked ; if we hadn't, my father would
have shot me for bringing home what I did. He
was a faithful servant. He wouldn't have wronged
his master of an ear of corn. The agent for the
property lived in Dublin, and came down twice a
year to see how things were going on ; but my
father was really the managing and capable man ;
he had all things under his hand  money, and
stock and crop, and land."

"And all this time, may one inquire what the
Gorman of Clonmellin was about ? Was he quite
content to leave everything under your father's
hand, and ask no inconvenient or unseasonable
questions ?"

Yes, quite content," said Mr. Muir, with
conviction.' ; "Where there's no fraud, a master

has no need to ask questions. My great-grand-father
was Scotch, and they hanged him on a tree
in front of his own house because, being a Covenanter,
he wouldn't go against his convictions."

'' What a plucky old gentleman !" commented
the Ensign.

He was that ; my father used to sit by the
hour and tell me stories about him  stories he
had heard from his father, you understand."

"All of which, perhaps, one day soon you will
tell me, Mr. Muir ; just at present I am dying to
hear something of your wife."

'' I am coming to her, but you do just as well
to whip me on a bit. I'll tell you what the countryside
called her  Miss Katty Gorman  bonny,
bright, beautiful Katty Gorman."

*' Really ! and you were glad, no doubt, to
marry her, spite of the bar sinister."

"What do you mean? Do you think she
wasn't the man's daughter ?"

*' Pray, don't be so vehement, Mr. Muir. I
intended no offence. I had no doubt of the fair
Katty being Mr. Gorman's child; but  " And

the Ensign's pause suggested more than any
words he could have spoken.

Up into the farmer's face surged a dull and
passionate red, which for a moment tinged forehead
and cheeks with a wholly foreign colour.
For a moment he felt as though some one had
slapped him with an open hand  the suggestion,
though false, affected him more painfully than the
keenest truth could have done, since it seemed to
imply so certainly no one who belonged of right
to decent people could possibly have mated with
himself. Just for a moment he hesitated, then 

You are out this time, Ensign," he said, not
without a certain triumph. " My wife was Mr.
Terence Gorman's eldest child, born in lawful
wedlock, and her mother as grand and high a lady
as your own. There was nothing wanting on hei'
side, and if her people had only given me the ghost
of a chance, I'll swear they would have found
nothing wanting on mine''

The Gormans were blind, then, Mr. Muir,
to your manifold excellences, inherited and otherwise,"
said the officer, taking the cigar out of his

mouth, and again raising himself on one elbow,
the better to contemplate at his leisure a man
detested at Clonmellin.

They couldn't read me as I was, more's the
pity," explained the farmer. " They were looking
for thoughts and notions that had no place in
me.

Without wishing for a moment to side with
these unappreciative Gormans, might I inquire
how you managed to secure the eldest daughter of
such a house ? Of course the fact of having had
a great-grandfather who was hung would score
immensely in your favour; but descent isn't
everything. As a rule, rich folk have a detestable
way of asking the length of your purse. Am
I wrong, Mr. Muir, in imagining you were, in
your first youth, not exactly a millionaire ?"

I had not much money, but I had something
else. You night not think it to look at me now,
Ensign ; but when I wanted a few years of being
your age all the women were running after me.
Now, that's a statement might astonish you."

"Quite the contrary; it only proves what I

have always thought, that the dear creatures possess
an instinct as true as rapid."

"I'm well aware," proceeded Mr. Muir, "that
no one could call me exactly handsome at this
present time "

I don't want to make you hush ; so I will
only say you are greatly mistaken," said the
Ensign, without a change of countenance.

I know I am not," maintained the farmer
stoutly ; " but that was all different once. I had
a notion of setting myself off, too. I mostly
carried a flower in my barton-hole ; and  "

Excuse my interrupting you ; but did the
proposal come from Miss Gorman ?"

No ; that it didn't. I wouldn't say but she
met me half-way. She was a free, innocent sort
of girl  had not a thought of harm. I could
not just tell you now how it all began ; but I
know how it ended. AYe made a match of it;
and you may be very sure that day I thought my
fortune was made."

"And had none of the lady's friends a suspicion
of what was going on ?"

Not a suspicion. She had not a friend near
at hand but an old aunt of her father's, half blind
and whole doting. Her mother was dead; Mr.
Gorman was married the second time to a
daughter of Lord Dunfelde, and the pair lived in
London, making the first wife's money spin. Ay,
you might say there was not an egg laid on
Clonmellin manor, or a pat of butter printed, but
the price of it went across the Channel. Why,
Mr. Gorman hadn't been in Ireland for years till
he came back to turn my wife out of doors."

I see  and so your fortune was not made,
Mr. Muir."

"Faith, no. I got something in my hand,
but not much  and my father lost his situation,
which was a crying shame, for the man knew no
more of what had happened than his employer.
And they behaved cruelly to my wife  cruelly.
They broke her heart; she only lived three
months after her child was born  that's German,
you know."

He was brought up by some relation, was he
not ?"

Yes, by his mother's uncle, Mr. Treason,
of Mount Michael, county Kilkenny. The
Treasons were originally Cornish folk. I've
never set eyes on the lad since he was two years
of age, and now he must be getting on for eight-and-twenty."


"What does he do?"

He does not do anything but amuse himself.
He wanted to be an officer like yourself, but the
old man wouldn't hear of it."

!" said Ensign Ludham. *' What a pleasure
it will be to him to make acquaintance with
his family !"

*' I'm not so sure of that," answered the
farmer ; " you see our way of living is scarcely
such as he has been used to, and I could have
wished  "

"If he is of my mind, you need wish no
greater happiness for him than a month at Artis
said the young man politely.

I feel obliged to you. If you think you are
rested, perhaps we might move on."

They " moved on " over the newly-mown

field  the Ensign carrying his hat in his hand
and still limping painfully ; the farmer warning
him not to step into any drain, and to beware of
worm-casts.

What with the haymakers, the carts, the
Lxbes, the dogs, and the children, that hill field
presented a most picturesque appearance.

I'd like to sketch this," said the officer.

Well, what would hinder you ? Lizzie '11
run in and bring anything you need."

Thank you, greatly. Here, Lizzie ; I want
the drawing-book you'll find on my table, and a
couple of pencils, and  but whom have we here,
Mr. Muir ? By Jove, what a horse !"

Turning, Mr. Muir looked down the field, and
saw, entering by the " gap " made for the carts
to pass through, a man and horse. The horse
was jet black ; except for the star on its forehead
the creature had not a white hair about it. The
man dismounted, and passing his arm through the
bridle came straight on towards the haymakers.

*this is likely some friend of yours. Ensign,"
suggested the farmer.

*' He is no friend of mine, I think. He is a
fine-looking fellow, though, let him he who he
may. Let us go to meet him."

When the stranger got close to them he
stopped, and said a little doubtfully, *' Is Mr.
Muir here ?"

** My name is Muir," answered the farmer.
There was the slightest perceptible pause  then,

You do not know me ?"

"Well, I can't say that I do. Surely you're
not"

*' I am Gorman Muir," was the answer; and
father and son shook hands.

'rit is a bad job," said Mr. :\Iuir ; " a very bad
job."

"It is so bad it could not well be worse''
answered his son.

The quiet night had stolen softly on, gradually
enfolding in its dusky mantle the azure and
the gold light of a perfect summer's day. A
tender silence, broken only by the ripple of the
river, the rustling of the leaves, or the scurry of
a rabbit, brooded over Ardilaw. Late and hard
the haymakers had worked, but they lay now
asleep at home ; the children, whose holiday was
drawing to an end, were all abed. The Misses
Muir had retired to rest ; the kitchen fire had
long been " slacked," ready in a few hours to be
once again blown up into a flame with the help of
a pair of wheezy bellows ; the servaut-of-all-work
was sleeping the sleep of utter weariness, the

soiled and dog-eared dream-book, conned by the
light of a guttering dip before she lay down, still
clutched in one red unlovely hand, that yet was
not without its pathos ; eleven o'clock p.m. had
come and passed, and still Mr. Muir and his son
sate in the parlour  once upon a time my lady's
dining-room  talking earnestly.

Ensign Ludham was gone. *' Chains and
fetters," as Miss Muir poetically remarked at a
subsequent period, " couldn't have kept him after
he set eyes on Gorman." Go he would ; and,
spite of all persuasion, go he did. Old Ned, the
blind horse, that could well-nigh have counted
years with Miss Bell, had, after a long day's work
in the hay-field, been " shoved " into the gig, so
that the officer and his fortunes might be jogged
comfortably to the railway station. He had declined
the pleasure of Mr. Muir's company on the
ground that he could not think of taking him
away from his son ; and he negatived the son's
offer of " tooling him " because that gentleman
must " be so overjoyed to meet his father."

Bag, if not baggage, the Ensign was gone.

Laughingly he had tossed Bell's last taunt back
to that charming maiden; he had distributed
largesse all round; found time and opportunity
to whisper a word in Carline's ear ; he had once
more expressed his obligations to Mr. Muir, and
accepted Gorman's help into the gig ; then, accompanied
to the gate by the children, who all
tore down " the avenue like " mad things " to
unfasten and click the latch, he departed from
Ardilaw.

And now another person sat in Ensign Lud-ham's
accustomed chair, and stared out through
the windows, destitute of blind or curtain, into
the semi-darkness of the summer's night.

Any person looking into the room would, by
the light of an oil lamp suspended from the ceiling,
have seen a strange interior. On the centre
of an oaken floor, off which the passage of heavy
boots had scraped well-nigh all the polish, was
spread a small square of worn and faded carpet.
The panelled walls were destitute of ornament
of any kind, sort, or description. Above the
chimney-piece, which was of Sienna marble, a

richly-carved over-mantel rose to the cornice.
Into this a few nails had been driven, and these
supported, as on a rack, a cane and couple of
riding-whips, and the blade of a sword-fish. On
the mantelshelf stood a couple of valuable old
china basins, used as receptacles for bills, letters,
receipts, screws of tobacco, broken pipes, and
odds and ends of string ; to a hook just above
hung suspended the "tawse," by means of which
Mr. Muir had driven his progeny along the way
they should go. On a chiffonier, placed in a
recess beside the fireplace, were ranged a few old
books, the family Bible, and a workbox which
belonged to Mr. Muir's mother. The rest of the
furniture consisted of one of those dining-tables
of which the flaps can be dropped down at pleasure,
the legs under all circumstances constituting
themselves a distinct nuisance, an ancient
sofa, originally upholstered in shiny horsehair
like the fourteen uneasy chairs that formed the
suite, but which Bell's industrious fingers had
re-covered with sundry breadths taken out of the
many " good " dresses left behind by her mother

when that sainted woman departed this wicked
world.

In one of the uncomfortable armchairs belonging
to the " horsehair and solid mahogany-suite
" sat Mr. Muir, a glass of punch smoking
at his elbow, perplexity engraved in the clearest
letters on every line and wrinkle of his face.
Opposite to him, in another armchair of the
same recondite and mysterious build, the younger
man lay nearly at full length, his legs stretched
out, his feet crossed, his head resting on the
sharp edge of the back rail of the chair, a tumbler
of whisky and cold water standing, scarcely
touched, at his elbow; a half-smoked cigar held
between the finger and thumb of his right hand ;
his whole weary attitude that of a man thoroughly-permeated
with his conviction that " the job " to
which his father had referred was indeed one
difficult to make worse.

What could have possessed the man ?" said
Mr. Muir, in continuance of the conversation.

A woman," was his son's pithy explanation.


** And at his time of life, too ! Dear, .
dear !"

The older a man the more likely he is to
make a fool of himself."

Couldn't you have stopped the match by any
manner of honest means ?"

"Not unless I had married her myself."

And why didn't you ? Man alive, why
didn't you ?"

For one reason, because I should not have
been any better off. A single pauper does not
cost so much to keep as two."

That's true enough. I had forgotten everything
except how you might have kept your uncle
from committing such wickedness."

"And, besides," continued Mr. Gorman Muir,
putting his dead cigar in his mouth and puffing
as though it had been alight, " I hate her."

"Do you, though? That is bad. The
Scriptures say we ought to hate no man, and I
suppose that means we ought to hate no woman
either."

I don't know what the Scriptures say  and

I don't much care. It is human nature to hate
what is hateful, and Mrs. Trevasson is detestable."


"My word, not even handsome, then ?"

"I did not say she was not handsome. She
is. So were Delilah and Jezebel, and a whole
host more of delightful ladies of that type, unless
the painters have played us very false indeed.
For my own part, however, I do not like Delia's
or Jezebels, or, for that matter, Judith either,
even at a distance ; and when we come to close
quarters I hate them;" and, as if it had been one
of the historical dames in question, Mr. Gorman
Muir flung his half-finished cigar under the grate
in a rage.

Though he did not smoke, Mr. Muir, ere
seeking the solitude of his own chamber, recovered
the fag end of that cigar, observing to himself ashe
carefully wiped it clear of soot and dust,
He must have been accustomed to awful
waste."

Wasn't there any way you could have made
friends with Mrs. Trevasson, so that you still

VOL. I. I

might have got the run of your teeth and kept a
roof over your head at Mount Michael ?"

Mr. Muir junior threw up his arms, put his
hands under his head, stretched himself out a
little longer, and laughed a laugh which had in it
more of anger than amusement.

"Couldn't you?" repeated his father earnestly.
Though I was not so had-looking once, I never
in my best days had the advantages you possess.
You are well put together, ' supple,' strongly knit,
far-and-away from ill-favoured, smooth in your
speech, and as fit to talk to any lady as the Ensign
himself. What would have hindered your pleasing
your uncle's young wife ? When I was your age,
I'd like to have seen the woman I couldn't cajole."

' Give me twelve hours,' " quoted Mr.
Gorman Muir, " * and I'll distance the handsomest
man in England'"

Then why in the name of fortune didn't you
make the new mistress (bad luck to her!) that
fond of you she wouldn't let your uncle part his
nephew ?" said Mr. Muir, speaking in that series
of ellipses of which the Irish are so fond.

*'If you must know, the new mistress, as you
call her, was too fond of me already."

''Ho, ho!" ejaculated Mr. Muir; "I deemed
you were keeping some cat snug in a bag. I
thought to myself, from the first, there's more yet
he's not telling me."

'' I shouldn't have told you now," retorted his
son, '' only I want you to understand clearly there
is no good in thinking matters can ever be made
up with my uncle."

''I am not so sure I just understand the whole
business yet," answered Mr. Muir, whose strongest
point was obstinate antagonism. "How did the
old man come to the rights of the affair ?"

He has not come to the rights of the affair.
He never will come to the rights of the affair."

Lord, man ! you're worse nor Samson and
his honey in the lion's carcase. Can't you speak
out, and say in so many plain words what you
mean ?"

"I mean, in plain words, that Dora Antrim
was in love with me'"

You needn't raise your voice that way here ;

lam not deaf," said Mr. Muir. 'ein love with
you, and then  "

Finding I would have nothing to do with her,
she got hold of my uncle  "

She was no fool. Better he an old man's
darling, you mind, than  "

"And to cut a long story short, they were
married."

"Well?"

They had not been back a week before I
found out that she cared for me still."

"Surely, then, you might have had things
pretty much your own way ?"

I never pretended to be a saint," said Mr.
Gorman Muir, " but I am not a villain."

Aren't you, now ?" retorted Mr. Muir; " but,
of course, you know best."

"I know that, at any rate."

And so I suppose you went to your uncle,
and made a clean breast of it."

I did no such thing. The secret was not
mine to tell; and if it had been, I should not
have told upon a , woman. Further, the story

could not have done me any good. His mind was
60 warped against me he could not have believed
me right in saying black was black."

My own opinion is, you have bungled the
whole business. Couldn't you have spoken the
woman fair, and kept in with her a bit till your
own turn was served ?"

I tell you I am not a villain, though my poor
uncle thinks me one. I told her the same county
could not contain both of us, and that I would
go ; and I was just trying to get some assurance
from her husband as to some future help from
him, when she took the wind out of my sails by
making the vilest accusations against me."

'' Ay, ay ; the old case of Joseph and his
mistress over again, no doubt," said Mr. Muir,
nodding sapiently.

She did not go so far as Mrs. Potiphar,"
answered his son, an evil light flashing from his
dark-brown eyes; "but she went far enough.
She declared she would have her revenge upon me,
and she has got it now."

''I can't say Joseph was a young man I ever

particularly took to myself," observed Mr. Muir.
There seemed to me a great deal of foolishness
about him."

Probably you would not have acted as he did."

I'm very sure I would not go to gaol if by
whiles flattering of any woman I could keep out
of it."

Then there we join issue," retorted Gorman.

'well, see what your precipitancy has done
for you I"

Sent me adrift with fifty pounds certain in
hand and a thousand pounds possibly ahead."

"And what you're to do, I'm sure I don't
know."

Neither do I ; but I mean to think. May I
stay here for awhile till I have thought ?"

Where would you stop but in your father's
house ?" returned Mr. Muir. " You're heartily
welcome to all I can give you, and though I don't
set myself up to be anything beyond the common,
I have managed to save enough to keep me and
mine out of the workhouse. There's no call for
you to starve while you are here ; and now that I

know the worst, I think we raa} as well be thinking
of going to bed. I'll show you the room
where Bell has had fresh sheets laid for you, and
fine and sweet you'll find them. Things are
scarce so straight as they might be if the Ensign
had not left in such hot haste, leaving most of his
property lying loose behind him. I wish he had
stopped a day or two longer, so that you might
have got acquainted. Of all the easy, careless,
happy-go-lucky young fellows I ever met, he is
the chief. Just look at the silver fittings out of
his dressing-case lying loose without a lock turned
on them. Good-night ! I hope you'll have a sound
rest."

I have no doubt of that, for I am very
tired. Good-night !" And then Gorman Muir,
standing in the very middle of the room, sighed
heavily.

All around him were carelessly strewed outward
signs of the rank he was leaving, while,
short as had been his experience of Ardilaw, he
understood pretty well the sort of thing he must
expect to meet. Utterly weary, utterly wretched,

utterly disheartened, he undressed as rapidly as
possible, and, flinging himself into Miss Bell's
snow-white and lavender-scented linen, soon forgot
his troubles in a deep and dreamless sleep.

Well, this is a place !" It was Mrs. Boyle who
spoke, and she had for audience only that insignificant
person, her daughter. " Little feeling as your
father ever had for anybody but himself, I think
if he knew his widow was exiled like that girl
Elizabeth I read about once, to such a Siberia as
Clear Stream Cottage, even he would rise up from
his grave and try to do justice by a woman who
did her duty by him only too well. Early and
late I'm sure I was at him to mend his ways."

Berna made no answer while her mother fired
this volley over her head; she was unpacking a
box, and she did not look up, lest some bullet in
mid-career should pierce her brain.

Further, if there were a girl who had learned,
in the bitterest school of experience human beings
can attend, the beauty of silence and the foolishness
of speech, that girl was Berna Boyle.

*' Some women might not mind it," continued
the widow. " Now there's that Miss Craig we
saw at the Whitefords'. I'll be bound she'd
consider herself made if anybody said he'd pay the
rent of a house like this for her, let alone offer to
put a few things in the rooms to make them
habitable ; but then she never knew the meaning
of a different sort of life. By what I can understand,
she and her old father  he was some sort
of a minister near Derry  never saw anybody
but poor fisher people, year out, year in ; never
went about the world, nor put themselves in the
way of getting into good society. You might tell
by her manners she had never been further than
three miles from home."

I thought her rather a nice person  homely,
but quiet."

0, she's quiet enough, I grant you, and that's
the very reason what would content her wouldn't
content me. She knows no better than to sit
sewing or knitting the live-long day, without a
soul to speak to, or a thing to see. Since I have
been standing here, Berna, I have not beheld man.

woman, or child passing along the lane but an old
fellow driving a donkey-cart."

*but the place is so sweet, mamma," pleaded
the girl. " Of its size, I never saw so pretty a
cottage."

I have nothing so much to say against it, if
it wasn't, in a manner of speaking, on the coast of
Africa. There's not a creature to pass even the
time of day to. Then, the rooms are that small
you might reach a book off the opposite wall while
you're sitting with your feet on the fender. What
we're to do here in the winter, alone with ourselves
and old Ruth, goodness only knows, for I don't.
And to tell me I'm not to be going to Belfast or
calling at Richard Yince's office ! It's a crying
shame, and I don't care who hears me ! It's a
crying shame  past as if I had some disease on
me like leprosy, only worse, or the mark of Cain
stamped deep in my forehead. If I'd committed
a murder, I couldn't have been worse treated.
What have I done ? 0, what have I done, to be
sent down to a place where there's not even a
scullery to the kitchen, nor a bit of grass where

we could feed a cow? (Milk itself does give a
feeling of plenty about a Louse.) If we got loue,
and tethered lier on the slope there the grazing
would not last her a da', and she'd be slipping
into the stream and breaking her leg, maybe.
What's that you say ? Don't I think you had
better try to tidy up the room a little ? Why, of
course I do. If I wasn't so tired, I can hardly
drag myself along the passage, I'd have turned to
myself and made it fit for anybody to come into ;
not, goodness knows, that there's much use
making anything look well here. Nobody will
ever come to such an out-of-the-way hole."

"For our own pleasure, mamma, we may as
well have things as comfortable as possible."

Ah ! and indeed it's little pleasure or comfort
we need ever look for here. If only I had felt
that I dare trust you with that money, we
"wouldn't have been here as we are this minute.
I shall always say it was Richard Yince's wife
brought bad luck for us iu her hand that day. I
wonder if I'll ever forget the shock I got. Why,
an infant in arms mioht have knocked me down."

*' Don't think of it," entreated Berna; 'rand
really Mrs. Vince has been most kind.

0, yes, you're sure to say that, taking part
against your own mother ! You'll be telling me
next, I suppose, the woman is handsome. Why,
she's as dark as a negro ; how could she miss
being, when her own grandmother was a black?
That was the one brought the great fortune into
the Carpenter family Theoph spent in sinful extravagance
 driving four-in-hands and giving dinner-parties
where you might have swum in the wine.
Well, well ; wilful waste, you know  not that the
saying came true with me, for a more careful,
saving woman never married herself to sorrow and
poverty. What in all the wide world do you see
out there ?  staring as if your great eyes were
starting out of your head ! My gracious goodness,
girl ! lay down that duster, and be off and see if
you can't make yourself look a bit decent ; and look
here, Berna, tell Ruth to slip on a clean cap and
a white apron before she opens the gate to Mrs.
Vince. Who, in the name of wonder, would have
thought of her coming down ? I wish she had

stayed away. No less than a pair would content
her, either ;" and so Mrs. Boyle murmured on to
space, for Berna had vanished.

Fortune favours the brave. Mrs. Vince could
on occasion be very brave, and the fickle goddess
rewarded her.

Early on the morning following Mr. Vince's
ignominious defeat, she ordered round her brougham
and, dressed in rich though plain apparel, drove
straight to Cunningham's Hotel. Spite of Mrs.
Boyle's verdict, Mrs. Vince was a very handsome
woman. Unlike the widow's, her beauty had not
faded with the years  quite the contrary ; the tints
of a somewhat ungenial summer mellowed under a
gracious sun of late prosperity into the rich hues
of a glorious autumn. She was large, tall, commanding
of aspect, dark  though not in the way
Mrs. Boyle implied  with blue-black hair coiled
into great masses at the back of her head, straight
black brows, eyes of the truest, deepest violet, a
decided nose, a wide mouth which could expand
into a frank, pleasant smile, firm chin, head well
poised on a round, shapely throat  a woman

who looked best in sweeping velvets and trailing
silks, wrapped up in costly far, or gathering rich
laces round her portly figure.

Armed for conquest, she found no one to conquer
 no one but poor Berna, who had been left
at home by her mother to see the luggage was not
meddled with, and also perhaps by fate in order
that Mrs. Vince might see what sort of stuff the
girl was made of.

Though young, Berna had served her time in
the social workshop, and knew who was who and
what was what.

As a kindred spirit, Mrs. Vince surveyed her
with astonishment.

'' Great heavens !" she thought. " Here is a
creature out of whom one might evolve anything 
anything. God grant some of my own children
may attain to her stature."

True, the girl was timid ; but as her shyness
proceeded from no lack of breeding, but rather
from the misery caused by that constant blister
her mother never would allow to close, there were
minutes when nature asserted itself, and the true

Berna  who had been so loved by the lonely old
lady living in desolate state near Cheltenham, and
who had ridden beside her father into the wild
fastnesses of Mayo  peeped through the barred
windows of the prison-house to which she was, by
her own loyal choice, consigned.

For many a weary day, spent in battling with
her young vehement grief and listening to her
mother's senseless complaints and maundering
conversation, she had not spoken to any woman
of her own rank in life.

From Mrs. Boyle, as from a plague, even the
kindest and most tolerant of her own sex, if well-bred,
fled appalled. Sympathy withered in her
presence; charity wide enough to consort with
sinners, and carry sweet words of hope and help
into dark dens of wickedness, could not pardon
the faults thrust as virtues in its face.

There was pity for Berna  but " society " felt
that daughter could not be dissociated from mother,
more especially in a case where the daughter,
turning her back on the Boyless, elected to cast in
her lot " with that horrible woman."

Despite her external refinement, there must
be a great vein of commonness in the girl, or she
never could continue to live with Mrs. Boyle :" so
argued the world.

Even before Mr. Boyle's death this was said,
and after that accident, which left Berna fatherless,
the words were spoken more frequently and
with greater emphasis.

My dear," exclaimed Mrs. Yince, after they
had talked on many subjects, ' we must be friends.
Come and stay at Craigvallen for a time, and let
us get thoroughly acquainted."

Then, in a moment, a black, gloomy cloud
swept the tender sunshine off Berna's face.

Thank you," she murmured ; " you are very
kind ; but I do not think  " and as their eyes
met she stopped suddenly, while a torrent of painful
colour dyed her shamed cheeks and forehead.

For once Mrs. Yince proved unequal to the
occasion. She had forgotten  as nearly as possible
she had walked into a pitfall of her own
digging ; but for Berna, she could scarcely have
escaped the peril. As it was, the danger had been

VOL. I. K

too imminent for her instantly to regain self-possession,
and she was just considering what kind
word she could say that might enable her to back
gracefully out of the dilemma, when the door
opened, and Mrs. Boyle appeared. Mrs. Boyle,
flushed, excited, exhausted, yet still with a certain
glow of victory about her whole person, which indicated
a belief on her part that she had not again
traversed the scenes of her early victories "for
nothing." Towards Mrs. Vince her manner was
defiant, while familiar.

"I hope you haven't been waiting long," she
began, after she had coldly received Mrs. Vince's
first friendly advances, and, as she afterwards
remarked to her daughter, taught that lady '' to
keep back a bit." ''Berna's not much of a one
to talk. As the morning turned out fine, I
thought I'd let some of my friends know I had
come back again."

"It must be a considerable time since you
saw any of them," said Mrs. Vince politely,
merely by way of saying something.

"That's true enough; but time wouldn't

make any difference to my friends ; friends aren't
like relations, you know, ready to turn the cold
shoulder the minute they get up in the world.
Not but what some of the people I was acquainted
with when I was a girl have got on as well as
they could desire. There's the Pirns, now,"
added the widow, turning to Berna, as though
that young person had been acquainted from
childhood with the celebrated family thus suddenly
introduced on the carpet ; " Miss Sheill
tells me they have got that rich they scarcely
know what to do with their money. The uncle
has built himself a house fit for any nobleman at
Holywood, and they are all living together there
till Mr. Pirn gets possession of the estate of
Doch-na-Beg, that belonged to the great Dublin
barrister Shame Ross. Many a time I've heard
my father talk of him, and the way he could turn
any witness inside out in less than five minutes.
Mr. Pirn has paid for the place long enough ago,
but there's an end of a lease or something to run
out before he can get possession."

'' Doch-na-Be*? commands a beautiful view of

the Lough," said Mrs, Vince, seeing Berna was
temporarily stricken dumb.

"You need not tell me that," answered Mrs.
Boyle. "William Pirn's the man to have everything
of the best. That was always his way;
and no blame to him either, if he could afford it !
I did not see anybody but Miss Sheill, though,
Berna. The Whitefords are down at the shore,
old Mr. Campbell is not expected to live, and the
Dowies have fever in the house. Matilda Sheill
wouldn't have been in town herself only she's got
a cough you'd be frightened to hear, and is forced
to stop in her own room. She twas glad to seeme.
She couldn't believe her ears when the servant
told her Mrs. Boyle was below. ' Why,' she
said, 'you don't look a day older ! If it wasn't
for the weeds you've on, I'd think you were Milly
Vince I had such fine goings-on with at Bally-clare
stepped in to see me !' I did not tell her I
could not return the compliment. It is astonishing
how she has altered. She is not so many
years older than me, yet she looks quite a middle-aged
woman."

Mrs. Vince felt she could not smile, even
mentally, her pity for Berna was so intense.

'' But she has lost none of her merry ways,"
proceeded Mrs. Boyle, who believed she was
planting daggers in the heart of Richard's
grand wife " by directing her conversation to
Ulick Boyle's daughter ; " she's just as heartsome
as ever ; to have heard us, you'd have thought we
weren't more than twelve years old ; it was ' Do
you mind this ?' and ' Have you forgotten that ?'
We were in fits of laughing all the time, and
'Tilda not able to speak, almost, for the coughing;
all her lament was she couldn't help me
look for lodgings. 0, such a hunt as I've had
since I left her  up one street and down another
and the price they ask for the smallest room
would eat up our whole income ! Never did I
come across such a set of harpies  one worse nor
another. They all took me for English by my
accent ; and, indeed, I told one of them, after
the extortion I had listened to, I felt ashamed to
call myself Irish. Everything extra, for all the
world like England, only dirtier. I heard,

though, on my way home, of some decent lodgings
in the Ormeau Road, that I'd have gone to
see, only I felt my knees giving under me. I
was told of them by a crossing-sweeper in Arthur
Street, who minded my father well. I asked
him "  but what Mrs. Boyle asked, or the gentleman
who "minded" her father answered, will
never be known on this side heaven, for just at
that point the widow suddenly paused ; thrust her
hand in her pocket ; turned first red, then white ;
and finally, as she afterwards told Miss Sheill,
*' Let a screech out of her you might have heard
up at the New Gaol," which caused Mrs. Yince to
start to her feet with more celerity than she had
ever before displayed.

'* "We're done for now, Berna ; we're done for
now," cried Mrs. Boyle, in a hysterical falsetto.
I'm a lost and ruined woman ;" after vouchsafing
which lucid explanation she would have
rushed down-stairs and into the street had Mrs.
Vince not seized her by the shoulder.

What on earth is the matter ?" inquired that
lady, almost breathless with surprise and terror.

'' It's a matter of two hundred and seventy-eight
pounds," screamed Mrs. Boyle, as furiously
as if " Eichard's wife " had been the thief. *let
me go, I bid you. Why do you hinder me, and
my good money lying there out in the street?
Let me go, woman. Don't you hear me?" and
striking Mrs. Vince's hand a smart blow with her
clenched fist, the widow released herself; and,
crape strings, which she had unfastened, streaming
loose, and shawl falling from her shoulders,
fled madly from the room.

Stay where you are," said Mrs. Vince to
Berna, as the girl was about to follow; 'you can
do no good. She must be at the end of Donegalll
Street by this time." And then, for the second
time, the pair looked straight each in the other's
eyes.

Suddenly Berna's steady glance wavered,
drooped, fell ; for a moment she seemed as if
struggling with some cruel pain.

Sit down, dear," entreated Mrs. Vince, tenderly
touching her breast, " and if you want to
cry, cry  don't mind me ;" and, walking to the

window, she turned her head away from Mrs.
Boyle's daughter, and appeared to be looking out
upon the street.

But Berna did not want to cry. The fox she
carried within her bosom gnawed too fiercely and
constantly for tears. To this girl was denied the
poor solace even of sympathy, which she had no
choice but to thrust aside. All she asked from
her fellows was leave to hide the wounds, long
and wide, of which that proud and sensitive
heart bore the scars through life. Could she
have wept and made lament, and confided her
trouble to any woman, it had not been the keen
dagger she felt piercing her very soul, cutting
through each quivering nerve, and stabbing in its
most vital part every instinct her birth and training
had taught her to respect.

Out of such warp and woof as went to compose
her character great women have been made ;
and Mrs. Yince, who felt she might, but for circumstances
over which she had no control, have
been a great woman too, admired Berna, when
with quiet step she crossed the carpet and said,

If you do not mind, I think I had better
put on my bonnet and see whether I cannot be
of some use to mamma"'

With that splendid decision which ladies in
possession of a handsome income, whose rank is
beyond dispute, can on occasion exhibit to some
purpose, Mrs. Yince flashed round on the girl,
whose only weak point was a finer and more delicate
mental organisation than her own.

"You do not know where your mother is,"
she said ; " and if you did, you would not be of
any use. What could have induced her to carry
such a sum of money about with her ?"

She never mentioned to me she had any
money."

Where do you suppose she got it ?"

"I have not an idea," answered Berna, " unless
Sir Herbert  " and she flushed crimson.

I see  I see," commented Mrs. Vince; and
she thought for a moment ere adding, " I came
here to-day, Berna  I may call you Berna, may I
not, child ?  to talk over matters and decide what
had better be done. It is an utter impossibility

you and your mother can live on sixty pounds a
year."

"0, if mamma would only let me go out
as a governess or companion !" gasped the girl.
"Could 'you induce her, do you think, Mrs.
Vince ? You do seem so clever and strong,, she
might listen to you. I should scarcely care what
I did, and I really have been pretty well educated.
I can play and sing, and draw and dance, and
talk French ; and I am able to ride and drive."

The two latter accomplishments not of
much use to a governess, I am afraid," remarked
Mrs. Vince, with a smile which hid tears
she would not let fill her eyes.

They might be to a companion though,"
urged Berna. "Dear Mrs. Yince, if you only
only could induce mamma to let me try, I
believe I could make money, and I should only
want a little out of my salary for dress ; and she
might live with some of those friends she talks
about. We could be together in the holidays,
and I really do not think she would miss me
very much."

"Why won't she let you he a governess?"
asked Mrs. Yince.

"Because she is afraid it would offend my
grandmother, or my great-grandmother, rather.
Mamma does so keep on harping about Mrs.
Boyle leaving me money ; and she won't. She
told me herself she had made her will, leaving
everything to Sir Herbert ; and quite right too,"
added Berna, with a quite involuntary uplifting of
her head. " The money should go with the land."

Mrs. Yince laughed. "From the depths of
a bitter experience," she answered, " I can assure
you I do not think you will be left anything.
All the land and all the money and all the power
are sure to be in the hand of a single individual.
And now, as I fancy I understand the position
pretty clearly, I shall go. Do not let anything
tempt you to go in search of your mother. She
will return safe and sound. Tell her, if you
please, I mean to call quite early tomorrow.
Nov', good-bye, Berna, and  "

She clasped her arms round the girl's neck,
and stood silent.

"And  " questioned Berna, with dumb lips
and eloquent eyes rather than with sound.

"Always remember that while I live you have
a friend in Marcella Yince. Good-bye now, goodbye
! Kiss me, dear. God bless you !" and Mrs.
Vince strained Berna to her heart; and then,
with veil drawn close, passed down the staircase
to her carriage, the door of which an obsequious
waiter stood ready to open.

Next morning Mrs. Yince, armed with great
powers, once more alighted at the door of Cunningham's
Hotel.

She was received with almost royal honours.
Cunningham's felt it a fine feather in its cap to
see the wife of Richard Charles Yince, Esq., step
across its threshold. Mrs. Yince, as the daughter
of that sinful Theoph Carpenter honourably mentioned
by Bema's mother, was in her own right
a " person," but when she came to lack a five-pound
note that fact would not long have availed
her. After her marriage, however, Belfast liked
to'remember she had been 'born in the purple''

She reflected a certain glory on business ; and
the money made out of business conferred a very
necessary additional charm on the lady. There
were daughters of other dilapidated old families
living [on narrow incomes, in what they considered

stately poverty, who wondered how Marcella
could have stooped so low. But then Mr. Vince
had not asked them to preside over his establishment.
In such case they might have been persuaded
to stoop too. When the picking up of
money is in question some people are not unwilling
to stoop very low indeed.

At any rate, Mrs. Yiuce was even more universally
respected than her husband. She had
raised Richard Charles, stated his admirers, into
the sphere for which he was " intended by
nature."

Nature indulges in some queer vagaries,"
said the malcontents who did not believe in this
righteous man. She gave great balls ; she patronised
concerts, and always presided over a stall
when a fashionable bazaar was on the tajns. She
did not buy her dresses in London or Paris, or
even Dublin, but gladdened the hearts of the
Belfast shopkeepers and milliners. She was
kind to the poor; she kept Eichard Charles upto
the mark, and made a man of him. At public
meetings he felt himself a person of considerable

importance. He was a J. P., and dispensed
justice tempered with mercy. When that petition
in the Litany relating to magistrates was
read each Sunday in Craigvallen Church, Mr.
Vince uttered the response very loud indeed, and
with considerable emphasis. Though accustomed
from his youth to leave the whole service in the
minister's hands, and utter nothing save an
"Amen " at rare intervals, Mr. Yince had learned
to take his part in church, and spoke out audibly,
with an idea that he was setting a " good example
to the lower orders." He also sang  not Very
melodiously, but with much fervour. Though he
had no voice, he had plenty of money ; and the
rest of the congregation felt that in his square,
well-cushioned pew, filled with hassocks of all
sorts and sizes, Richard was the right man in the
right place.

To quote the sexton, who handed round the
poor-box (an affair like a small warming-pan, with
half the lid cut off, attached to a handle long
enough to enable the money receptacle to be
thrust under the nose of the most distant worshipper),

as much as five shillings was "lifted"
every Sabbath morning out of the Craigvallen
pew ; and on '' collecting days they all give gold,
down to the youngest child !"

Mr. Vince felt his to be a very valuable life,
and it was for this reason, and not because he
realised in the smallest degree he was truly a
miserable sinner, and required mercy, that he
prayed so devoutly for a body of which at Craig-fallen
he was the solitary representative.

"Has Mrs. Bos-le heard any tidings of her
purse?" asked the wife of this great man, as she
followed the waiter, who slowly preceded her up
the staircase.

'' No, Mrs. Boyle has heard nothing of her
purse, ma'am," answered the waiter, pausing in
his ascent so as to allow time for the fashionable
lady's still more leisurely pace.

That is very sad," observed Richard Charles'
wife, and though she did not feel sorry she looked
grave.

"Very sad, indeed, ma'am," replied the
waiter, after the exchange of which amenities

and confidences be threw the door of Mrs. Boyle's
sitting-room wide.

What he said turned out to be too true ; the
widow had heard nothing of her money, and
"what's more," she added, *the police"  which
word she pronounced as if the accent were on the
first syllable  *' don't think I ever will. It was
in Bank of Ireland notes ; and they say by the
time I can find out the numbers they'll be
changed into gold  ay, and spent, too, maybe."


*' But did you not telegraph to Dublin to stop
payment ?"

And me without a farthing of money in the
wide world, and 'Tilda Sheill hadn't as much as
five shillings she could lend me, and you gone
when I got back here, and your husband left his
office for the day, and the people here saying it
would be of no good telegraphing because the
bank would be shut ! Ah, it's easy to talk ! If
you'd been running round the town like me, out
of your senses with trouble, you'd know better
than ask such a question as that."

VOL. I. L

"Surely, however, you have done something?
written to the bank, for example."

"Berna has. I told her it was just throwing
away a stamp, and we'd none to spare ; but, of
course, she knew best. Like yourself, she thinks
she's cleverer than anybody else. You'll see,
though, if any good comes of it."

"What do you intend to do now?" asked
Mrs. Vince.

"Indeed, you may just do what you like with
me. Take me on a car to the old poor-house
and leave me there, or let me lie out on some
doorstep till I'm dead with starvation and exposure.
Maybe your husband would for very
shame provide me a plain funeral. He surely
wouldn't like it to be said his own cousin was
buried as a pauper."

Your mother takes a very gloomy view of
affairs," observed Mrs. Yince, turning to Berna,
whose contribution to the conversation so far had
been nil.

Her mother would like to be told what she
has left to make her take a bright view of anything

?" interrupted Mrs. Boyle ; "with the money
gone that was all stood between me and destitution,
I think I have good cause for gloom. Me
and 'Tilda Sheill had settled how we'd start a sort
of boarding-house for young gentlemen. She
knows lots of clerks would have been proud to
come. 'Tilda's a wonderful hand at cooking 
you should have tasted the apple cakes she used
to make !  and she says she's as good and quick
as ever she was ; so she could have seen to the
dinners. She has got her wits about her. She
planned it all in less than ten minutes. I was to
see the rooms were kept straight and do the
marketing and receive visitors, and we laid it out
that Berna should do most of the sewing, and
play and sing and make the evenings a bit lively ;
and then, after a while, perhaps some of the
lodgers might have taken a fancy to her. As
unlikely things have come to pass. There's no
accounting for the girls that take a man's eye''

Mrs. Vince darted a quick glance in the direction
of the young person whose future had been
sketched out thus agreeably, and beheld Berna

staring, with parted lips and horror-stricken expression,
at her mother  the whole pleasing programme
being evidently as new to her as to the
lady of Craigvallen.

''I would never have done that, mamma," she
said, with a firm ring in her voice Mrs. Vince had
not before noticed.

"Indeed, miss; and what would you have
done ?''

"I do not know. Gone out as governess, or
servant even, rather than live such a life as that
amongst a number of young men."

You're wonderfully set against young men.
It is to be hoped the old ones won't be set against
you."

The girl did not answer. She had uttered her
protest, and now relapsed into silence, while Mrs.
Boyle rambled on recounting some delightful
reminiscences of various Peters and Pats and
Cons, who had all, if her own account might be
believed, fallen under the spell of her beauty, and
"gone to the bad," or "taken to drink," or
married " out of spite," or " shot themselves

through the forehead," because she "wouldn't
have a word to say to them."

From this ramble through the days departed
she suddenly returned to the present.

"It's little I thought then," she said, "I'd
ever be as I am now  left at the mercy of the
world, without a creature to stand up for me, or
say as much as ' Here's a pound to you, Milly.' "

Still, you are not utterly destitute."

"I suppose you will tell me next three of us
can live on sixty pounds a year ! I'll go bail you
pay your gardener the double of that, and find him
a house, maybe, into the bargain, to say nothing
of coals and potatoes. But, of course, you've a
right to do what you like with your own, only let
me be a warning to you. Never put it in the
power of any living man to leave you penniless.
If you do, grand as you are now, the day'll likely
come you may want even a ' bap,' and find yourself
not able to buy one."

"What a terrible picture you draw, Mrs.
Boyle ! You seem to have the lowest opinion
of men."

"I've not been treated the way to make me
have a high opinion of them. First of all, my
own husband dying in debt, and not leaving a
penny, so to speak, between me and destitution ;
and then, when in the fulness of my heart I come
back, thinking to hear a kind word spoken, my
father's brother's son as good as says, ' You're
not fit even to sit under the dinner-table, like
those Livings without thumbs mentioned in the
Bible. Get off! I won't have you near me.'
He might find me near him yet, when he least
expects it."

My husband is a little peculiar," deprecated
Mrs. Yince.

You needn't tell me that. I knew him before
ever you did, when neither he nor his father
was much to boast of  or much thought of, if you
come to that."

He is a self-made man," went on Mrs. Yince,
without showing even a trace of white feather,
and as such, perhaps, attaches somewhat undue
value to the possession of wealth and the externals
of rank. But his heart is sound, Mrs. Boyle ;

and I am sure, if you would only take him the
right way, he could be induced in this extremity
to help you."

'the right way! Why, I took him fifty,
a hundred  ways ; and I might just as well
have been talking to Macarthy's Fort. Ah ! if
ever a man was hardened by the things of this
world, that man's name is Richard Charles Yince.
And what will they do for him in the long-run ?
that is all I'd like to know. You may put silver
and gold on his coffin, but he can't carry silver and
gold with him into the next world, no matter what
part of it he's bound for."

That's very true, indeed," said the better
half of Richard Charms Yince; "but whilst my
husband is here, and in the command of money,
do you not think it would be politic on your part
to conform a little to his wishes ? I see no
reason to doubt but that he might be induced to
add to your income if you would only concede
something to his prejudices."

Concede ! Why, there never was so soft
and yielding a creature as myself. As my poor

father used to say, ' You're for all the world like
hot butter, Milly ; there's no knowing where to
take hold of you.' 0, he was the funny man ! I
think I can see him sitting by the fire telling
some of his stories now."

With exemplary patience, Mrs. Yince, while
declining to be drawn into any argument concerning
the wit and wisdom of Yince senior, so happily
deceased, led the widow on and on, till at
length she contrived to get that lady into a corner,
when she was forced to make full confession
on the subject of ways and means. To extract
anything from Mrs. Boyle she did not wish to
tell was a proceeding fraught not merely with
difficulty but danger  difficulty, because she could
scarcely be pinned to any point ; danger, for the
reason that her reprisals were of the most nasty
and unexpected nature. But Mrs. Yince had not
steered her course amongst this world's sunken
rocks and perilous shoals for nothing.

If the widow's retorts sometimes were hard to
bear, her opponent smiled even while wincing.
Mrs. Boyle could not taunt, or daunt, or cow her

into retreat. Always the same calm and unbroken
hollow square, always a bristling bayonet
ready for use at a moment's notice, always a cool,
unmoved front. Mrs. Boyle, at length, was well-nigh
crying with vexation ; while Berna, though
torn with shame and grief, could not but admire
the consummate address with which Mrs. Yince
surely, if slowly, advanced upon the widow's outposts,
and captured them one by one, putting
each entrenchment behind her as she marched
triumphantly on, just as a good chess-player lays
aside his captured pieces.

At the last, Mrs. Yince said, in her slaves
accent,

You really do seem in a position of considerable
difficulty, my dear Mrs. Boyle. Let me
see if I quite understand ; correct me, please, if I
am wrong. There is your annuity, the first payment
of which will not be due until November.
Beyond that you have nothing ; no money, no
furniture, very little jewelry, no friend, except
my husband, likely to prove of use at such a
juncture. You see it is best to look matters

straight in the face. Immediately after your
husband's death you wrote to the Dowager, as
you call her, explaining the position fully, and
requesting help. For answer, she sent the family
solicitor to represent her at the funeral, and
authorised him to give you fifty pounds  it was
fifty, I think  and an intimation she would dono
more for you  "

"Not if I went down on my bended knees,"
added Mrs. Boyle.

Something to that effect, if not conveyed in
exactly such terse language," said Mrs. Yince.
Then Sir Herbert Boyle, after stating he was
not bound to give you sixpence, handed you two
hundred and fifty pounds to  I forget the exact
consideration."

"Be shut of me," explained Mrs. Boyle, with
an awful candour.

"And he further agreed to pay such household
bills as might be outstanding, and the cost
of your and Berna's mourning  don't cover your
face, child ; old women like your mother and myself
must be practical, you know."

'told women!" cried Mrs. Boyle. ''If you
choose to talk of yourself as old, I'm sure I've no
objection ; but do not put me in the same boiling,
if you please."

"Very sincerely I beg your pardon, and will
amend my phrase. Young women, then, like
3'ou and myself, ought to have sense enough to
look circumstances in the face. To sum up, you
have lost all the money sent you by Mrs. and Sir
Herbert Boyle, less your travelling and hotel expenses,
and there is no source from which you
can reasonably expect fresh supplies till November,
which supplies will then be of the most
meagre description."

"While you are rolling in riches," said Mrs.
Boyle.

Which we have certainly not taken from
you," retorted Mrs. Vince, equal to that or any
other occasion. " And now, on certain recognised
lines, I may tell you that both my husband
and myself desire to make your lot a little pleasant.
We will talk the situation over, and consider
what we can do. Meantime, as you must

be short of money, do not be vexed with me for
leaving five pounds ; and while you stop here
have everything, in moderation, you may require.
I feel quite sure Mr. Vince will pay your bill."

And so, in fact, to cut a very long conversation
short, Mrs. Vince departed, empowered to
execute terms of almost unqualified submission
on the part of that too fascinating person, Mrs.
Boyle, if only Richard Charles would agree to
make things a 'bit better for her."

Mrs. Vince did not again delight Cunningham's
with her presence ; instead, she wrote a
letter to Mrs. Boyle, which that lady characterised
as her 'death warrant." On certain conditions,
Mr. Vince professed himself willing to pay his
cousin's rent, and, in addition, allow her forty
pounds a year. Further, Theoph Carpenter's
daughter thought enough furniture could be spared
from Craigvallen to render the cottage her husband
had in view habitable.

"And that's all," commented Mrs. Boyle, "a
man just wallowing in money can do for his own
flesh and blood. Well, some day it'll maybe

come home to him, and then he'll think of the
way he treated me. Now, just take a pen in your
hand, Berna, and write to the man ; I'm that
poor and miserable, I must accept whatever terms
are offered me. Lord only knows where this
place is they mean to put us ; and I'm very sure
Richard Vince doesn't care what it's like. And
you saw, Berna, what she says  that if I agree to
Mr. Vince's terms  Mister, indeed !  we're to
move without delay. That's to save the hotel
bill. If I'd money enough I'd just order my
winding-sheet at once, and have done with everything."


It was in this pleasant frame of mind that
Mrs. Boyle entered upon the occupancy of Clear
Stream Cottage. Mr. Vince knew the place well.
He had been acquainted with that previous tenant,
esteemed by Mr. Muir, who converted a howling
wilderness of neglected kitchen-garden, full of
cabbage-stumps, weeds, stones, and old shoes,
kettles, broken delft, and refuse of all sorts into
a smiling paradise, and considered it a suitable
residence for the impoverished Mrs. Boyle.

You will be near jon friends the Pirns,"
suggested Mrs. Vince pleasantly, as she sat tete-astute
with the widow. " Holy wood is within a
walk from here."

Mrs. Boyle shook her head. "It's little
walking I'll do," she said. "The best thing forme
would be to gather a pile of sticks and set
alight to myself, as the widows do out in India."

Not even the most genial of women could long
have supported conversation conducted on such
lines ; and after she had for the fourth time
inquired whether there were any other little thing
which could be sent from Craigvallen likely to
render the house more comfortable, and on each
occasion being compelled to listen to a long tirade
concerning the shortcomings of Ulick Boyle, the
perfections of Millicent, relict of that unfeeling
personage, and the tendency of most people, when
they "get up a bit in the world," to "forget
themselves," Marcella, daughter of Theophilus
Carpenter, deceased, remarked she had no idea it
was so late, and rose to go.

In the tiny hall she met Berna.

"I was gathering some flowers for you," said
the girl. 'rare they not sweet?" and she gave
Mrs. Vince a bouquet, which that lady accepted
with a smile.

'' What's the use of sending such simple
things to Craigvallen, Berna ?" asked her mother ;
*' they'll be reckoned nothing better than common
weeds in that grand place. Just throw them on
the road, Mrs. Vince, when you get outside ; it'll
save you the trouble of bidding your servants put
them to the back of the kitchen fire."

They shall certainly not go there," said
the lady thus advised. '* I mean to take them
with me to a dinner-party this evening  and think
of the giver often," she added in a lower tone to
Berna.

Happily for all concerned, Mrs. Boyle declined
to accompany her guest to the garden-gate.


The sun would be sure to ' peel ' my face,"
she was good enough to explain. "I don't know
how you can go driving about, Mrs. Vince, without
a bit of veil, or even a parasol ; but to be sure

that's one advantage you swarthy people have
over us fair  you don't tan."

No," answered the wife of Richard Charles,
with unruffled good-humour, "I don't tan. Do
you ?" she added, turning to Berna. " No ; then
walk with me to the phaeton."

They walked together along the path leading
to the narrow bridge, beneath which the stream
rippled joyously on its way, and then through a
mimic plantation of broom, syringa, gum-cistus,
sumach, and roses.

What a darling little place !" said Mrs.
Vince. " I hope you like it ?"

"Very, very much; particularly after that
dreadful town."

"You must come and stay at Craigvallen ;''
but Berna shook her head.

Could we not persuade your mother to]{do
without you even for a week ?"

It is not that," hesitated the girl. " But it
would not be right ; I should not like  "

To visit us unless your mother were invited
also. Is that what you mean ?"

'eyes, that is what I mean."

' You are again quite right. I beg your pardon
;" and nothing more was said on the subject.

In the lane, close by the rustic gate, stood
a groom, in front of as pretty a pair of cream-coloured
cobs as the heart of woman need have
desired to possess,

What beauties !" exclaimed Berna, passing
her hand caressingly over the hog's mane of the
creature nearest to her.

"What a pity!" thought Mrs. Vince, as she
looked at the slight girlish figure, at the well-poised
head, with its wealth of glossy hair, the
pure fair face, and the eyes divinely, deeply,
darkly blue, and considered the mother to whom
Berna was tied till death parted them.

At that moment a man, mounted on a stout
roan horse  which he managed with much more
ease than any one might have expected, from his
loose build, long limbs, and generally awkward
appearance  passed by, and bestowed a thoroughly
critical and appreciative glance upon the Craig-fallen
turn-out.

VOL. I. M

Holding his reins and a heavy cutting whip
in one hand, he touched his hat with the other 
not out of deference to the two ladies, but from
respect to Mr. Vince's money.

"What an extraordinary-looking person!"
said Mrs. Vince, turning a backward glance after
him. " Who is he ?"

"That is Mr. Muir," answered Berna, "the
landlord of Clear Stream Cottage  a dreadful
person y

Having renewed that long interrupted acquaintance
with the author of his being  '' Come to the
knowledge of three strange sisters," as Miss Bell
very truly remarked  turned his horse out to
grass in one of the pleasant meadows lying down
hy the river, unpacked his effects and stowed
them away in a roomy cupboard assigned to his
use, Mr. Gorman Muir "took himself off" to
Derry, in which maiden city there resided a
gentleman, called Baird, he had frequently met
in Kilkenny, who would, he hoped, help him to
obtain that post so universally coveted by various
impecunious and incapable persons in Ireland 
viz. an agency.

He was too old for the constabulary ; he knew
his chance of getting that vague " something
under Government "  also a pitfall in the way of
Irish youth and enterprise  was of the slenderest;

but he felt sure he should make a capital
agent.

He liked riding, driving, shooting, dining out,
dancing, and the best society. He could sing a
good song ; tell a good story. He had been popular
amongst the poor down in Kilkenny, and he
believed he could get rent easily enough out of
men bred and born in Ulster. Yes, an agency
was the very thing. He would be almost his own
master, and yet in the receipt of a fair salary.
If it were necessary for him to work at all  and
the young man could not close his eyes to the
painful truth that such a misfortune was imminent
 nothing could suit his abilities and temperament
better than the management of a large
estate.

He had not conceived the idea more than
three days ; he had but just taken his ticket at
the York Street Terminus in Belfast, yet already
that jade. Imagination, was at her old tricks.
No experience seemed able to protect the young
man from her. Over and over again he found
nothing save disappointment and confusion ensue

from her antics. Nevertheless, once again she
had him safely on her back, and only waited
opportunity to take the bit between her teeth and
bolt with this bold rider  over "bank, bush, and
scar ; " through thorn and through water, till
she at last found a convenient spot in which to
throw him ignominiously into some black bog or
quagmire which seemed bottomless.

To many minds, however, there is such a
pleasure in the mad pace she goes and the wild
excitement men can never know, save when following
the lead of fancy in full flight, that they
would compound for a good deal of disaster at
the "finish" for the sake of the stretching gallop
and the rattling pace after that wiliest of wily
foxes  Possibility.

Mr. Gorman Muir, at all events, enjoyed his
"spin" through fairyland. Having once quite
decided an agency would suit him, and that he
would suit an agency, nothing more remained todo
save to settle the sort of agency he should
prefer, and the smallest amount of salary he
would condescend to receive. A small and highly

cultivated estate he thought could scarcely give
him sufficient scope. He wanted something with
great tracts of mountain, and heath, and moor 
with darkling lakes, the existence of which was
unknown, save to the inhabitants  something
where other men had failed to win love and confidence
or woo prosperity  wide expanses of land,
where the houses of hospitable and primitive
gentry, possessed of pretty daughters and sons
who " feared nothing and were willing to go at
anything," were sparsely scattered  where the
Atlantic thundered in upon the coast, and the
original stunted and red - haired Irish Celt,
who could speak no English, was still to be
stalked.

The man was nearly eight-and-twenty, yet
romance was as strong in him as in a school-boy.
He devoutly believed in Tom Burke of Ours and
the doings of Charles O'Malley. ' ' The Collegians "
woke a responsive echo in his soul  and he could
sing the song, ''A place in thy memory dearest,"
with such mournful pathos that old ladies wept,
and at the same time with such seductive tenderness

that young ladies felt they could almost have
gone off with him on the spot. He was full of
daring and poetry. " The Charge at Fontenoy "
thrilled his very soul. He felt more than half-rebel
when he read the short and stirring story of
that gallant, if mistaken, band of " United Irish "
gentlemen who paid the penalty of their lives for
their patriotism ; but when he turned back the
page of Irish history to the siege of Derry he felt
he saw written there a grander narrative still  of
endurance as well as courage  a tale of well-nigh
incredible patience and persistent fortitude England
seems always to have considered it rather
good form " to ignore. As some men live before
their time, so Gorman Muir was living after
his. Not one of Sir Walter Scott's novels but
appealed to something within him that only echoed
to the strain of wild adventure, the clang of
armour, and the sound of martial music. He
was one left over, as it might have seemed,
by mistake from a generation long dead and
gone, and yet with a love of pleasure and a
capacity for settling to no work, and a thorough

enjoyment in idleness which is the proud possession
of the nineteenth century.

Such as he was, however, he had won his
father's heart. Once again he could see in the
flesh Katty Gorman's eyes shining like stars 
dark, merry, dancing, wicked eyes. Not a tone,
or gesture, or movement of the son but reminded
him of that dead mother her '' family " had rejected
in life, but whose body they reluctantly
received when it mattered little to her what became
of it. Himself suspicious, mean, hard, calculating,
he liked Gorman, because the young
fellow was unworldly, generous, impressionable,
and open-hearted.

And I'm very sure, for all he says, that he's
got a spice of the devil in him," considered Mr.
Muir, as though that were the crOwning grace a
man might aspire to possess.

That he lacked the lighter accomplishment
of persiflage, possessed to such perfection by
Ensign Ludham, was a fault the farmer felt willing
to condone.

''He hasn't just such pleasant talk," considered

Mr. Muir; 'but there's a heap more in
what he says," which was indeed quite true. Just
at that time Mr. Gorman Muir's utterances contained
a depth of bitterness and a knowledge of
the worst side of human nature Solomon himself
in his most hlasc moments might have
envied.

"It's to be hoped he will soon get something
to do," observed Miss Muir, about ten days after
Gorman's departure, 'for I'm sure he'll never
bear himself here. Of all the restless men I ever
did come across, he's about the worst. A young
chicken wanting its mother couldn't seem less
content than he does."

Maybe if you had been cast out into the
wilderness like a second Ishmael you oughtn't be
just content either," said Mr. Muir.

I'm very certain, if he had behaved himself,
his uncle wouldn't have turned him from the
door," persisted the lady, who still knew nothing
of the real cause of quarrel between Gorman and
Mr. Trevasson. "It doesn't stand to sense a man
well on in life will put up with being told he's

BEKNA BOYLE.

not to marry by one he has fed aud seen to from
a child."

I don't say anything against that, Bell. I
might one fine morning want to get married myself,
and I'd take it ill if anybody was to say,
There are fools enough in the world ; don't you
make one more.' The man, as you remark, had
a clear right to marry if he liked ; but I don't
consider it was either right or just to send one
about his business that he had brought up like
his son."

I'm very sure he would never have done
anything of the sort if Gorman had behaved himself,"
repeated Miss Muir.

1 don't see any call you have to say Gorman
didn't behave himself. Though he wasn't overfond
of the new mistress, he would have left her
alone, if she'd have left him. Of course we know
all she wants is the old man's money ; but the
old man ought to have considered he had brought
the boy up 'delicately,' as you've heard read out in
Proverbs, without trade or profession whereby to
earn his living ; and I say it is hard on Gorman

to be cast adrift at his age, and forced to buckle
to work, after having had his hands kept soft and
white like a lady's all his life long."

Gorman's everything to you now," sneered
the amiable Bell.

*' I wouldn't go so far as to say he's everything,
but he's a good deal," answered Mr. Muir.

'i'm not a bit surprised. That's only what
was to be expected. But if you'd been less taken
up with him and able to afford time to look about
you at some goings on near home it might have
been telling you."

If anything was going on near home. Bell,
it concerned me to know, you ought to have
spoken."

"0, I can't be expected to have eyes and
ears for the whole house."

"All I want at this minute is your tongue.
What is it I ought to have been looking after?
Who is it you deem is stealing from me now?"

I'm not aware that I said anybody was stealing
from you, though I did notice yesterday a bag
of truffles set up against the back gate. I bid

Isaac empty them out on the heap ; and they were
the very pick of the potatoes."

You gave Nally, then, the trouble of sorting
them all out again," retorted Mr. Muir; *forbid
him take three or four stone of the finest he
could find over to Mr. Garnsey. He has a wonderful
' conceit * of the Ardilaw truffles."

"He has a wonderful conceit of anything he
can get for nothing," amended Bell.

'' So maybe," said Mr. Muir, harking back to
the original question. " That other matter you've
on your mind oughtn't turn out of much more
consequence than the potatoes."

"It might not," answered his daughter, in a tone
which implied she meant precisely the opposite.

"Well, well, whatever it is, let's hear; we'll
never get at the rights of the affair till you tell me
what it is. Has it do with the fresh tenants at
the cottage ?"

"No, it has nothing to do with the fresh
tenants at the cottage ; though I make no doubt
there will be plenty to do with them before we're
much older. As I remarked a minute ago, you've

been so taken up with Gorman, and Gorman's
horse, and Gorman's plans, and Gorman all the
rest, you could not see what was going on under
your own eyes. From the first I gave you as plain
a warning as I could ; but, of course, nothing I
say is ever thought worth listening to."

For the Lord's sake say what you've got to
say, and have done with it. What's going wrong
now ? It can't be Carline  "

"No, to be sure it can't be Carline !" mocked
Miss Muir. "You thought, I suppose, when you
sent the last of the Ensign's luggage to Belfast,
you had sent the harm he had done away with his
bags and trunks."

What harm did the man do ?"

0, if you want telling just like a child it is
no use coming to me ! I suppose you'll make out
next you didn't know he'd filled Carline's empty
head so full of nonsense she's never been one bit
of use since he came into the house ; she thinks
he's going to make a lady of her, and that some
day soon she'll be driving in her carriage drawn by
four galloping horses like the Marchioness. If it

wasn't for me you think so little of, she might have
been off with him for all anybody would have known.
You forget, I'm thinking, there's such a thing as a
mail car passes the end of this road twice a day."

*' Do you mean that the Ensign sends her
letters?"

And that she sends the Ensign back letters."

"I think you're under some mistake, Bell,"
hinted the farmer mildly. " No letters have come
to this house for Carline. Gorman, as you know,
went to the office every morning of his life while
he was here, and it has so chanced since he left
us I've been often passing that road and called
in myself to see whether Mr. Biggest had anything
for us."

"I know you were that anxious for news from
Gorman you went to the post before there was time
for a letter to come from him," scoffed Miss Muir.
*sand I know something more: that an old woman,
I've told you over and over again, came
about the house for no good, lives near Craig-anthem.
She's able enough to walk to the village,
and she doesn't forget to call here as she goes and

comes back, I'll warrant you. It'll not be long
before you see her, or I'm much mistaken. Carline's
writing a letter to him now."

"Where is she?" asked Mr. Muir, taking a
step forward and then stopping.

She's in the kitchen. I knew she had something
in her mind this morning, she was so
anxious to get up by herself into Gorman's room.
I thought I'd put a stop to that, and set her to
mind the apple-jam. I dared her to leave it one
minute ; so what she's doing is writing a note on
the bellows. She slipped the paper and pencil
into her pocket as I passed through, and pretended
to be afraid the fire was getting too low''

If I could just make sure of it," said the
farmer, with a set look on his stern face.

' Why don't you make sure of it, then ? You'll
do more harm than good if you say anything to
Carline ; she'd have the note in the fire before
you could look at her. She is a sly young cat."

You are positive, Bell, Nanny Gribben 's the
go-between ?"

Hasn't she bought herself a new stuff dress ?

and didn't I see the silk square Mrs. Sinton
bought Carline last Easter, pinned round Nancy's
throat ?"

Mr. Muir groaned at what he could but consider
confirmation strong as Holy Writ. It was
Miss Muir's hour of triumph, and she did not
understand the meaning of mercy.

"Am I positive ?" she said, quoting her father's
question with fine effect ; '*' yes, I am as positive
as I am that I know why Gorman wouldn't go to
meeting with us."

You are aware. Bell," suggested Mr. Muir,
now quite cowed, "his uncle brought him up
Church."

yes, I'm aware ; and he was going to
church till I said, in joke, I'd as soon go to one
place as another, and that nobody could get any
harm by listening to old Mr. Crommles. I did
it to try my gentleman ; for I had no more intention
of going with him than of flying ; but, if you
remember, he did not go to church here, then or
since  walking off to Comber, and Holywood, and
Castlereagh. He was ashamed to be seen outwith

US ; that's what comes of one of a family
being brought up with notions above the rest."

Having fired which shot, Miss Muir departed
to pursue those domestic vocations in which she
shone as signally as in playing the congenial part
of private detective.

Left to himself, Mr. Muir strolled down the
avenue and out into the lane. There he lounged
about for some time, after which he reentered the
gate, closing it behind him.

Presently there came down the hill an elderly
woman, decently dressed, carrying a covered basket
on her arm. As if just arriving on the scene, Mr.
Muir sauntered forth, and accosted her with,

*' "Well, Nanny, and how's all with you today
?"

She gave him a little bobbing curtsy, thanked
him kindly, and said " all " was pretty well.

You looked in as you passed, I suppose ?"

Yes; Mrs. Gribben had looked in.

*' Did you see any of my daughters ?"

Mrs. Gribben had only seen Miss Carline.
She was making the beautifully apple-jam ; but

VOL. I. . N

then, to be sure, the Ardilaw apples had always
been famous.

*' How did you think she was looking ?"

"Her face was all scorched up standing over
the fire."

"And writing a letter you're taking to the
post for her. I want that letter, Nanny. Better
stop, and rest yourself a minute."

They had reached a point where a small
stream meandered beneath the lane, and a low
stone parapet protected the road on each side.

Put down your basket," proceeded Mr. Muir.
"It's fine and heavy; you ought to have something
worth while in it."

The woman did not answer as she obeyed ;
she was white to her lips.

Now you can give me that letter. I know
who it's to ; but I want to know what it's about,
and I do not mean to stand arguing the matter
with you. Hand out that letter, or I'll take you
straight down to the barracks, and see what the
sergeant will say to the things you've got in your
basket."

I've nothing, Mr. Muir  I've nothing, I'll
take my gospel oath, but a few apples Miss Carline
gave me to  "

"We'll see about that. Come along; the
police will soon make you give up that
letter."

*you can have the letter, Mr. Muir ; but
don't damage me, or be cross with the girl ;
she's"

Hold your tongue !" said Mr. Muir, pocketing
the letter. "Now open that basket. Well,
you have got a fine assortment of my property, I
must confess  eggs, oats, whetstone, and currycomb.
Why, I blamed Isaac for taking the dandy
brush last week. As I'm going back to the house,
I can carry the curry-comb and whetstone in my
hand. You may keep the eggs and the oats, if
you send no word to my daughter about what
has passed between us. Her lover shall get his
letter safe enough, never fear  after I've had a
look over it. And now mind my last word,
Nanny : if ever I catch you inside my place again,
it'll be worse for you."

Having uttered which dark threat, the farmer
retraced his steps, never once looking back to the
spot where Mrs. Gribben stood shaking her fist
after him.

The following evening Mr. Muir announced his
intention of next day repairing to Belfast. " Soif
there's anything you want brought out, Bell,"
he added, " you'd best tell me before bed time, as
I'll be starting early."

It was in accordance with this arrangement
that Carline had the satisfaction of seeing her
parent drive off in his old-fashioned gig (bought a
bargain), the jingling of which could be heard
half a mile away. Never did music sound sweeter
in the ear of any girl than the rattling of those
loose spokes did to Carline as she ran into the
house and hurried over her morning tasks, and
afterwards, singing carelessly, passed through the
front door, which stood wide, and strolled in the
direction of the river. Once out of sight of any
window, she quickened her steps and walked
quickly up the glen till she reached a spot

BERXA BOYLE.

where the banks were high and the trees thick.
Then she made her way down a winding foot-path
to the bed of the stream, and, standing quite
still, listened.

Instead of being but four miles distant, Belfast
might have lain four hundred from the spot
where she stood ; not a sound, save the rustling
of the leaves and the low murmur of the stream,
broke the silence. It was noon of a glorious
August day. Over the fields lay an utter stillness.
Even the cattle lay at rest, chewing the
cud lazily ; the gorse-hedges on the hillsides were
sheets of golden splendour ; down where Carline
stood nut-trees grew thick. The girl put out her
hand and gathered a leaf; then she dropped it
into the stream, and saw it float gently away. Infancy
she followed it till it reached Stratford
Lough.

*' I spent a happy day there once," she
thought, " when T was a child. But I am
happier now than I was then." And she lifted
her eyes, which were full of a tender love-light,
and looked up into the azure vault above her head.

She would have made a fair picture as she
stood there beside the trickling water, with the
trees bending down as if longing to touch her
cheeks, their branches at times interlacing across
the glen. She was young and foolish, and had
not, perhaps, much in her ; but she was beautiful.
She had looked in the glass, and thought
there was not anybody so pretty in the country,
no girl with such long dark lashes, and eyes that
so said the Ensign  were deep and unfathomable
as Glendalough ! When she unbound her
hair it fell almost to her knees ; the Ensign had
seen it loose in this way once, by accident, and
she felt ashamed. For ever afterwards he raved
about that hair. Poor little girl ; poor, simple,
silly little woman, who believed she needed nothing
beyond dress, and jewels, and a carriage,
and servants to be as fine a lady as any that ever
went to Court ! She stood there patiently waiting
for her lover, and wondering which way he would
come ; and while she waited and wondered, her
lover stole softly upon her from behind, and
caught her in his arms.

Dear good Carline  best, kindest Carline !"
lie said, as the girl, clinging to him, convulsively
murmured, with passionate affection,

I am so glad ! I am so glad !"

"Glad are you, darling? Then you have
missed me a little."

"A little!" she repeated. ''0, I have
thought such long for you ! The days seemed
as if they never hould go by."

*' You are the sweetest, you are the dearest,
the loveliest little soul!" exclaimed young Lud-ham,
emphasising each term of endearment with
the full stop, for which grammar has no equivalent,
that seems to those uninterested in the text
the height of folly.

I was so afraid I oughtn't be able to give
Bell the slip," said the girl shyly, her Irish
idiom sounding very pretty ; and her manner,
though countrified, coy and feminine, and, beyond
all, utterly guileless.

And how is the dear Bell ?" he asked, drawing
Carline once again close to him.

*' Bell has nothing to complain of, thank you,

Ensign," at this juncture interpolated 'a perfectly
unexpected voice; " and she'll he proud, I
make no doubt, to think you've kept a memory of
her in your mind. You needn't disturb yourself.
You had a hold of my daughter's waist a minute
ago. You can keep your arm where it was if
you like, for me."

'' I assure you, Mr. Muir  "

You needn't trouble yourself. I'm sure of
all I want to be sure concerning. There's no
call for you to put yourself about, Ensign. Unless
I'm greatly mistaken, my daughter's not the
first you've made love to, any more than she'll bethe
last. I think, though, you have, maybe,
made a bit of a mistake, which it might be as
well to rectify before we go further."

'' I fear I scarcely follow you, Mr. Muir,"
stammered the officer, for once unequal to the
occasion.

That's all a pity ; but I'll try to make my
meaning clear. Don't run away, Carline," added
the farmer, laying a grip of iron on his daughter.
*'I want you to hear all the pleasant talk, girl,

your sweetheart and myself are going to have
together. I mean to go a piece back with you,
Ensign. You won't mind that, I hope ?"

How could you think otherwise ?" murmured
the Ensign, who, if he failed to grasp the
beauty of the Irish idiom as well from the mouth
of a man as from the honey-laden lips of a girl,
could at least hazard a conjecture as to what was
coming.

"You may remember"  and there was. an
unconscious dignity in Mr. Muir's gaunt, ungainly
figure as he stood beside the river, with
the arching branches above his head and the sunlight
streaming through the leaves and flickering
upon his hard-set features, looking straight at
the man who would have done him the cruellest
wrong one person can inflict upon another  " a
day when you were out with the stag-hounds, and
got staked instead of your horse ?"

My memory is not so short for kindness,
Mr. Muir," the Ensign was beginning ; but Mr.
Muir motioned him to keep silence, and proceeded,


'rit SO happened I was driving past, and,
without knowing who sou were or what you were
except a young English officer, far from your
home, a stranger in a strange country  I brought
you to Ardilaw, as there was not a house at
hand where you could have been properly done
by"

"Is it necessary to go on heaping coals of
fire upon my head ?" asked the young sinner.

"It is. If you had minded what the book
out of which you got those words tells you, I
should not have found you standing with your
arm about my daughter. I want to say nothing
concerning gratitude, or anything of that sort.
What we did, we did without thought of fee or
reward. As you know, you offered to pay, and
your mother offered to pay ; and I said I'd take
nothing. Money could not have bought the heart
and the will with which we did for you when you
could do nothing for yourself. In your father's
house you might have got better lodging and
richer food, but you could have had no more careful
nursing than you got when you were that bad

you could not lift a cup to your lips or turn yourself
in your bed."

Have you no pity ?"

"Not a bit for one like you. We thought
nothing of what we did ; we asked nothing ; we
took nothing. I never looked for gratitude anymore
than I looked for wrong. I never deemed
the young fellow I took to for his good looks and
pleasant ways  you were, beyond ordinary, patient
and considerate for a sick man  would try to
bring disgrace upon me. I'd have knocked anyone
down that had event such a thing to you in
my hearing  I would," and the farmer's brow
knit and his voice deepened and trembled as the
rage surging within him tried to break the bounds
he had set for it.

Mr. Muir  "

My daughter ought to have been to you, ina
manner, like your own sister. No lady in the
land was entitled to more respect at your hands.
If she had been light and flighty  which my girl
never was  it would have been your place to keep
her at arm's length sooner than give her an hour's

heartache. My God !" suddenly cried out the
man in a voice hoarse with passion, ' I could find
it in my heart to strike you dead where you stand
when I think of the depth you would have dragged
her down to before you flung her off as you miofht
a glove."

Upon my soul, you wrong me. You are
quite mistaken  "

Mistaken, am I ? Then I humbly beg your
pardon. It was only, you see, my want of conceit
led me astray. I didn't think, I didn't really
that you wanted to marry my daughter. She's
not ill-looking ; but she has no fortune that you
would account a fortune ; and I did not possess
the money, even if I had wanted to do such a
thing, to give her the education you've been used
to among those you've consorted with. Such
things needn't trouble me, though, if they don't
trouble you. She's quick enough, and she'll soon
learn something of the ways of those above her.
Why did you not come and ask me long ago ?
I'd have made no objection. She is promised,
as you know, to a decent man's son; but we

will get over that some way. Ladies jilt their
lovers, so I am told. Why wouldn't a farmer's
daughter take a better offer when she could
get it ?"

The officer stood silent. Speech failed him.

You're not so ready as I've heard you,
Ensign," said Mr. Muir; 'the prospect of such
happiness makes you dumb. When is it to be ?
No need to stop for the wedding garments. ' A
bonny bride,' you know, ' is soon buskin,' and
Carline is as bonny a girl as a man need wish to
marry, though I say it."

Mr. Muir"

"Yes, Mr. Muir's listening; what have you
got to say to him ?"

"May I speak to you for a minute or two,
alone ?"

Not without my daughter. It's the right
of the girl you want to make your wife she should
hear what we are talking about."

Well, then, Mr. Muir, you must be quite
aware I am totally dependent upon my father. I
have not a shilling beyond my pay, except the

amount he allows me ; and should I marry without
his consent  "

"I quite comprehend; you needn't say another
word. You want to be married privately.
I have no objection. Of course I should have
preferred the whole thing to be open and aboveboard
; still, you know your father best, and I
make no doubt you're right not to cross him.
Take her as quietly as you like. There are plenty
of churches in Belfast. Get a license, and I'll
drive her up some morning, and nobody need bea
bit the wiser. Why, that doesn't seem to
please you either. Ensign. Hadn't you better
speak out plain, and tell the girl and me what's
on your mind ?"

"You are totally mistaken, Mr. Muir," said
Ensign Ludham, now fairly at bay. " You must
be perfectly well aware that in all ranks a man may
have a flirtation with a pretty girl, and yet  "

Go on, Ensign."

It does not necessarily follow because a man
admires a girl, and has paid a few compliments
to her, that  "

I am listening, Ensign ; won't you finish
what you've begun ?"

In plain English, then, Mr. Muir  "

"Yes, Ensign, in plain English, what have
you got to say about my girl ?"

That that "

"You want the marriage deferred, maybe?
Xo ; never stamp your foot. You've only to say
what you mean, and  "

Mr. Muir, you are pretending to be labouring
under a great delusion."

Am I ? Then it's all your own fault. "Tiy
don't you speak out your meaning plain ?"

I have. In so many words, I have told you
I am in no position to marry."

You hear that, Marine ?"

The girl did not answer  no, not a word ; she
only stood looking at her lover, an expression
of dumb anguish on her pretty face, a plaintive
terror in her dark-gray eyes.

So you were only making game of her,
Ensign, after all ? Taking your diversion, and
never caring what it might cost the girl. After

that I think we may go. Now she knows from
your own lips, I'm not afraid she'll ever meet
you again. She might not have taken my word
for all this, hut she can't he off believing you.
He led you to believe, Carline, he meant to make
a fine lady of 3'ou, didn't he ?"

She formed an assent with her lips, but her
tongue refused its office.

*' Well, well ! Your betters have been deceived
before now by such as him. I think we'll
be going, Ensign ; we've heard about enough."
And without another word Mr, Muir turned on
his heel, and, motioning his daughter to precede
him, ascended the bank, and began wending his
way back to the house.

He walked a little distance in silence, then
looked at Carline, who was dragging herself
wearily by his side.

Let this be a warning to you, girl," he
said, and stretched out his hand, which she took
and held in silence.

'when you get indoors," he went on, 'put
what you are likely to need together. I am goings
I.

to take you after dinner to Mrs. Sinton for a
while, where that young rascal won't find you,
and beyond the reach of Bell's tongue. You'd
like well to go to Mrs. Sinton, wouldn't you?"

 "Yes," she murmured; "I'd like to go to
her  any place out of this."

She's a good sort of a woman," observed
Mr. Muir ; " and I can trust her with you ;" and
no further remark passed between them on the
subject.

That night Mrs. Sinton was awakened by the
sound of a wailing cry,

0, I wish I hadn't plucked it ! What made
me pluck it ?" 

What are you moaning over, Carline ?"
asked Mrs. Sinton, who was a widow.

I was thinking about a leaf I plucked today
and threw in the water. It has been tossing
from place to place all the day long, and it's out
in the weather and the dark by itself. I wish I
had taken thought, and left it alone."

Mrs. Sinton did not answer in words; she
only took the girl close in her arms, and drew

the tired head on lier breast, and kissed the
fresh young lips, and sighed " dear, dear !"
at intervals, as she lay awake thinking till long
after day had dawned.

The confession of failure can never, under any
circumstances, be other than disagreeable ; but
such a confession becomes doubly unpleasant
when it has to be made to those of a man's own
household.

There were many things Gorman Muir would
have preferred to returning home and telling his
father that Mr. Baird had seemed more inclined
to flout than to favour him. The news that he
was in disgrace must, the young fellow fancied,
have flown from Kilkenny to Derry ; at all events,
the fact met him the moment he crossed Mr.
Baird's threshold.

If you are wise you will try to make matters
up with your uncle," said that gentleman. " As
for an agency, Mr. Trevasson would have helped
you to that or anything else in reason."

The cold shoulder is not a palatable dish ; and

Gorman had almost too much of it. In every
possible form it was served up for his delectation.
No matter where he went or what he applied fora
morsel of the abhorred food was thrust under
his nose. Those acquainted with his origin had
grudged him his prosperity ; and now he was
down many a foot was raised to give him a sly or
open kick. As a matter of course, the Gormans
had never looked kindly upon Mr. Trevasson's
adoption scheme; and there was rejoicing all
through their borders when they heard the gates
of Mount Michael were closed upon the son of
Hewson Muir.

Gorman had not been accustomed to such diet
as was now provided for him, and he made creditable
efforts to refuse it. All in vain, however.
The story of Mr. Muir's marriage, more than a
quarter of a century old though it was, might
have been a perfectly fresh tale, so frequently was
it repeated, so eagerly was it listened to.

The son of that ill-assorted union had better
have stayed away from Derry, where all the facts
were as well known as the appearance of the

cathedral clergy. In provincial towns a scandal
never dies ; and upon the ins and outs of the
Muir-german alliance, nine-and-twenty years'
gossip had conferred a dramatic and unholy
immortality. It was there Gorman heard the
whole story in its integrity; there, for the first
time, he saw the broad lands and stretching moors
of Clonmellin ; there he sat in the bailiff's house
whence his grandfather had been driven in disgrace
; there, by feeing the housekeeper,  he was
permitted  an entire stranger  to walk through
the room where Miss Katty, the gipsy, as she was
still called, had danced and laughed, and deceived
the *' old lady," and gone out for the last time,
cursed by her father, in company with a man who
was " no fit match for such as her."

There, also, he met with one of his cousins
"over for the shooting"  a tall, lanky-looking
fellow, with long face, small shrewd blue eyes, and
hair as nearly red as hair can be  who directed him
on his road, unwitting they were of the smallest
kin to one another. An alien and a stranger, he
paced the seashore over which, with girlish glee,

bis mother had once watched the white-lipped
waves chasing each other.

He felt lonely in his very soul. Had there
been one to sav, '' God save \o\\ kindly," or
Welcome to the old place," he could have borne
it better. It was the sense of utter desolation,
the feeling that none knew, none cared what had
become of Catherine Gorman's child, which seemed
to kill all manliness within him. As he looked
out over the Atlantic lying still and peaceful like
a giant asleep, he could have wept tears Salter
than the salt sea's brine, thinking of the mother
he had never known, and his own past, which
could come back no more. A few months previously
what had he not been ? what had he not
hoped ? what had he not expected ? and now  now
with an impatient gesture, he dug his heel into
the shingle, remembering all that brief time had
taken from him. He was an outcast from the
home and the rank to which he had been accustomed
since childhood. He was too old to take
life in his hand and go out to meet fortune. He
had been brought up to great expectations, and

behold ! in a moment, those expectations resolved
themselves into fifty pounds, and a possible thousand
to the back of them.

Like his poor young dead mother, to whom
such terribly bitter fortune  sall of her own choosing
 came before she counted one-and-twenty
years, he had heard the portals of " home " clang
behind him, and listened to the echoes of a curse
that still seemed to float around his head.

He remained mooning about Derry and its
neighbourhood longer than the hospitality extended
to him or the slender state of his purse
seemed to warrant, merely because he could not
summon up courage to return to Ardilaw.

Though far from happy in the maiden city, he
knew he was less miserable there than must prove
to be the case under his father's roof. He had
been prepared to meet with many things certain
to be antagonistic to every taste and habit of his
previous life ; but he found it well-nigh impossible
to think with equanimity of the man who called
him son, and who at length urged his return
home, saying.

'you're just spending your substance for
naught up where you are now. Better come
back, and we'll try whether there is nothing you
can get to do in Down. Mr. Garnsey will give
you a commission that may put a few pounds in
your pocket. As for going to Dublin, as you talk
of  go if you like, but take Ardilaw in your way.
I mean to try and get the most of the corn cut
next week. If the weather holds up, the crop
needn't be despised. No word from your uncle
yet ? I am afraid you have nothing in writing
about that thousand pounds."

"No," said Gorman, when Mr. Muir repeated
this question verbally; "I have nothing in writing
; and, moreover, if I had, I would not enforce
my claim."

"It is little use putting yourself out about
what you might do, as it does not lie in your
power to do anything," commented Mr. Muir,
with exasperating coolness. " And there's no
call to get angry with me because I ask you a
simple question. I don't throw it up to you that
your luck's out at elbows. That's not exactly

Berne BOYLE.

your own fault. All that troubles me now is what
you are to turn to."

"I wish to heaven I knew," said his son.

"You know you are more than welcome here;
but"

"I could not remain here idle; it" would
kill me."

"I see that  and I see, too, you've been
brought up with the idea of doing no work which
is not pleasure. It's a very good notion of life in
its way, but I'm afraid it won't find a man in
victuals and pocket money, for all that."

I am quite willing to work. I'll follow the
plough, if need be," said Gorman, with some
temper.

We won't begin ploughing much before
November, but you can try your hand then if
you like," answered Mr. Muir dryly.

'' I will go to Dublin first, and see whether
there is not any chance of an agency."

*' Best keep your travelling expenses in your
pocket," advised his father. "Who have you got
that you could go to outside your uncle's friends?

and 3'ou know what they'll say to you. The
wisest thing for you to do is, lie quiet for a bit,
and keep out of sight and hearing of the old man's
acquaintances till he begins to be anxious about
you. There are things to be done hereabouts, if
you'd only do them  and money to be made,
granting you were willing to make it."

If you wish me to turn horse-dealer, of
course I ought to raise no objection."

Man alive ! only to hear you. Horse-dealer,
indeed ! And if you cere a horse-dealer, come to
that, were would be the disgrace ? Why, look at
old Cleery, out on the road to Comber  you've
seen the fine house he has built himself, with the
big greenhouse full of flowers, and his daughters
able to play and sing and talk French, and they
dress as well as the Marchioness, though, of
course, there's a something about them by which
you can tell they're not just real born ladies 
well, he started in life as stable-boy at Pursy's
Burn, but he'd a taste for horses and a judgment
about them, and has worked himself up and on
till he's made himself what you see  "

*'A pattern for imitation," said Gorman, with
grim distinctness.

'' His name is in everything about. His Lordship's
agent has always a civil word for him.
It's Cleery this and Cleery the other ; and ' What
do you think of '"'the favourite?' or ' Why are
they laying such odds against King at Arms ?'
No, you needn't wrinkle up your brow and let
down your mouth. I don't say you would be
proud of notice like that, but if you had not been
brought up soft you would know it is scarce to be
despised."

I am afraid I could not hope to emulate the
extraordinary success Mr. Cleery has achieved,"
remarked Gorman, his voice sounding hoarse and
hard as he spoke.

*' You might do something, at any rate," answered
Mr. Muir, too wise to take any notice of
the bitter ring in his son's tones. *' Mr. Garnsey
made you a fair offer ; and I'm very sure there
was nothing in his offer the best gentleman
in the land need have drawn a thraw mouth
over."

I shall be glad to accept Mr. Garnsey's offer,"
said Gorman slowly. " Beggars, you know, must
not be choosers."

If I was young like you, if I had a face such
as yours, and a figure such as yours, and ways
such as yours, it's not of beggars or beggary I'd
be talking," exclaimed Mr. Muir. " I'd be casting
about instead to see where there was a young
woman possessed of a fine fortune and the best of
relations, and, when I found out, ask her to be
my wife."

"Ay, indeed?"

Faith, and indeed ; and you wouldn't have
far to look. Up at Beechfield there's just the
wife for you, if you don't let her slip. An only
daughter, too  and never a son !" with which
final statement Mr. Muir felt so charmed he had
to stop in his discourse and laugh to himself,
the while Gorman regarded him with abhorrent
astonishment.

I hate Miss Garnsey," he said, at last, " a
degree more than I do Mr. Garnsey. I think
him the greatest blackguard I ever spoke to, and

I consider his daughter the least feminine woman
a man need desire to meet."

'' What ails you at her ? You might travel
Down through, you might travel Ireland through,
before you'd meet with a better-natured, freer-spoken
young woman than Miss Lydia Garnsey."
The Lord be praised for that, at any rate."
'i'd have thought, now, she and you would
have hit it of from the first minute you met.
She's not to say handsome, I allow ; but by the
time a man's married three months he finds looks
make little odds to him ; no, not if a woman was
Venus herself  and  "

'* Look here," interposed Mr. Gorman Muir,
''if we are to agree, let us keep clear of the
subject of matrimony altogether."

Well, well ; I see you are hard to drive  "
I am, and the devil himself couldn't lead
me along any road at the end of which I might
have to take Miss Garnsey for better or worse.
I'll do what her father wants, as it may please
you ; but I wouldn't marry that girl if she was
hung with diamonds."

I wonder what you want. She's good to
the poor, and she's fit to consort with the rich.
It does not signify a farthing to her, whether
there's fever or smallpox in any house : in
she goes with her little can of soup, or pot of
jelly, or custard pudding, or  "

What she does or leaves undone is nothing
to me."

"Faith, you are hard-mouthed, Gorman. I
wonder what's the sort of bit you would answer
to. It is quite unreasonable the way you talk,
about a girl, too, who can go across country like
a bird. Where would you find her like in the
saddle ?"

Nowhere, I hope," retorted Gorman. " It's
no use, I tell you, talking about Miss Garnsey tome.
If ever I start a wife  which is most unlikely
 I'll look out for a woman who can talk
about something else than horses and dogs  a
quiet girl, who would be ashamed to joke with
grooms and helpers and wets., as Miss Garnsey
does."

'* Whoever you marry, man, steer clear of the

quiet ones. Why, my third wife, Caroline's
mother, was as quiet-looking and soft-spoken a
creature as ever made a man's life a terror to him.
Well I mind the first hour I ever set eyes on her.
It was very early of a summer's morning, in the
first part of June. The dew was not off the grass,
and the hawthorn was in full flower ; the air was
laden with it. I was living at Kilmoon then,
and had to be in Donaghadee by seven, and so
started off betimes. There were not many stirring
on the road, and I was driving steady, for I knew
the mare would have a hard time of it before our
day's work was done ; when, just as I was passing
Butterfield, I saw a female sitting on the bank
in a bare place of the hedge."

Mr. Muir paused. For his son's edification,
he had raised a ghost from out the past, and he
did not seem to like its aspect.

And she was  "

"Carline's mother. Some daj maybe, I'll
tell you the whole story, though I have never
cared to talk much about the three years I passed
with her. What I started to say was, give the

woman that speaks low and slow  scarce raising
her voice above a quiet whisper  the widest berth
you can manage. The Atlantic wouldn't be too
much space to keep between you. Miss Garnsey
oughtn't be just to your mind ; but, at any rate,
you see in the first ten minutes all the harm
there's in her. As for the good, that story
couldn't be told out in a day. There's not an
old wife for miles round but could find something
to say to her credit."

When is Carline coming home ?" asked
Mr. Gorman Muir, who put the question, not
because he felt anxious for his sister's return, but
simply for the reason that he desired to end the
Miss Garnsey controversy.

I'm not just sure," answered the farmer.
If it suits Mrs. Sinton to keep her, I'd like well
for her to stop where she is till all is settled for
the wedding."

What wedding ?"

"Why, hers. She has been promised for the
last two years to young Robert Cragland. He
has been away in Dumfriesshire, learning more

VOL. I. P

about sheep and suchlike than he could do here ;
and his father and me weren't able to agree
exactly about the money I am to pay down with
Carline. I have made up my mind, though,
now to stretch a point and give what he wants 
for I couldn't and wouldn't be troubled looking
after her here. A husband is the fittest person
to see a woman keeps straight."

She is certainly very pretty," remarked German,
thinking he was expected to say something.
She's not bad looking," agreed Mr. Muir ;
'' and though she does not strain after her
mother in her ways, yet I shall never feel quite
easy about her now. There's always somebody
to put notions in a foolish girl's head ; and the
lesson she got over the Ensign may not last her
as long as it should*'

What did the Ensign do ?"
"Why, he got making love to her; and they
began writing to one another on the sly, and
making appointments to meet, unknown, as they
thought, to anybody. A hint was given me, so I
came back one day, and made a third in the party.

I asked him a few plain questions that he could
not exactly answer, and I compelled the girl to
stop and hear him confess what a hound he was.
That's why I sent her away. As for the Ensign,
I thought it best to clench that nail ; so I made
it my business to see his Colonel, and get my
gentleman leave for a while."

Why did you not send for me ?" exclaimed
Gorman. 'i'd have taught him a lesson he
wouldn't have forgotten in a hurry. It's not too
late to horsewhip him now."

Just you sit quiet. There's no need to distress
yourself. If I'd thought a flogging was the
best thing, I could have laid into him myself, but
I wanted no stir made over the matter. Old Crag-land
was never to say too sweet about the match,
and Carline's not likely to fall in with so good a
chance again. Upon the whole, I think I'll bring
her home soon. If she stops away too long people
might begin to talk, and I don't think anybody
will come skulking round the place for a while, at
any rate."

'' He'd better not," said Gorman, '' if he has

any respect for this bones. Talk or no talk, I'd

make him repent the day he tried to fool Carline."

Don't put yourself out. The Ensign won't

show his face again in a hurry at Ardilaw, nor his

Colonel neither. He rode down to tell me he had

given Mrs. Ludham a hint of what was going on,

and arranged the young man should not come

back while the regiment stopped at Belfast. We

put up his horse, and he looked over the place,

and made as though he had a notion of buying

one of the colts ; and he went round the garden,

and seemed pleased to see damsons again, and I

asked him if he could eat a mouthful of cheese and

some good oat-cake, and he said yes, and had that

and a jugful of milk, and sat a long time talking

most agreeably. I declare he took me in, if ever

a man did. I had not a notion of what he was

waiting for till he said, ' I hope Miss Carline is

quite well.' I answered that she was ; and then

I just laughed in his face, and told him she wasn't

at home, and that if she was he shouldn't see her.

I didn't get rid of the Ensign to be bothered
with the Colonel,' I remarked. * I couldn't write

to your mother if you've got one ; and who would
I apply to to give you leave of absence ?'

You never saw a man so taken aback in your
life. He tried to make light of my notion, but it
was the right one. He didn't stop long after that,
and he never said another word about the colt ;
and I haven't heard a syllable from him from that
day to this."

With a muttered oath, Gorman Muir sprang
from his chair, plunged his hands fiercely in his
pockets, and commenced walking up and down the
room.

Man alive !" exclaimed his father, who had
only the vaguest idea as to what was the matter,
you can put on an awful look. Don't bend your
brows and set your mouth like that. The Evil
One himself could scarce have a worse cast of
countenance than you at this minute."

The Evil One himself could scarce feel worse
than I do at this minute," retorted Gorman, with
a sudden gust of fury Mr. Muir deemed it best
'* to let blow by " ere adventuring upon any other
topic of conversation.

Carrying a bouquet of hot-house flowers in one
hand, and a fancy basket filled with autumn fruit
in the other, Mrs. Boyle entered the only sitting-room
Clear Stream Cottage boasted, where Berna
sat sewing diligently. At sight of her mother the
girl rose, and placing both bouquet and basket on
the table, would have assisted to remove shawl
and bonnet, but that Mrs. Boyle waved her impatiently
back.

Can't you let me alone ?" she inquired.
*' Don't you see I've hardly a leg left to stand on ?
I must rest myself before I take ofi" my things.
It is a drag from that railway station  if ever
there was an out-of-the-way place, it's this.
Eichard Vince needn't have been afraid of meeting
me in Belfast often when it's a day's journey
to the train from here before a body has walked a
step in the town. I'm just fit to drop off my feet,

having to carry such a burden all along that dusty
road, and hold my dress up into the bargain."

''I am so sorry. If I had only known which
train you were likely to come by I would have
met you, mamma," said Berna.

"Yes; and it was so likely a thing I'd know
the train I could come by," answered Mrs. Boyle,
with a pettish impatience by which her daughter
knew too well things had not been going quite to
her mind. '' If you'd been like any other girl,
I needn't have gone by myself, or travelled back
by myself; but it's well seen who you take after.
Not me, I'm very sure. It's no wonder the Pirns
think little of me when my own child won't visit
my friends."

They have given sou some beautiful flowers,"
remarked Berna, bending over the bunch, and
touching the buds tenderly.

'' That's only to show that they have got such
things, and to break my heart thinking of what
good fortune falls to other people, and nothing
but ill-luck to me ! Though they have their
carriages and their horses, they couldn't offer to

drive me home ; and not a word about my stopping
to dinner and stay over the night, as I made
up my mind to do, if for nothing but to oblige
them. It's a hard world, B'erna; and, maybe,
you're just as wise to keep out of it. Mr. Pirn
did let drop a word hoping you would go to a
dance there ; but I threw cold water on the
notion. I said, if you didn't go to my own cousin's
at Craigvallen, it wasn't over and above likely
you'd go to tJiem. I know that cut Mrs. Pirn, for
she'd give anything if she could only get asked to
Richard's."

Berna made no comment ; she merely moved
back to her seat, and would have resumed her
work if Mrs. Boyle had not interposed :

What are you sewing now ? Can't you leave
off for even a minute, when you know how it tries
me to see you stitch, stitch, stitching, as if you
had to earn your bread by your needle ? I can't
talk a bit while you keep on with that seam, and
my heart just bursting with vexation. They've
set up a butler and footman, if you please ; and
everything is as genteel and precise as if they

were lords and ladies. It's enough to make anybody
laugh ! Many's the time I've seen Mrs.
Pirn's old aunt hanging out the clothes  and a
beautiful colour she kept them ; I'll say that for
her. Poor old girl ! it would put the surprise
on her if she could come back and see the house,
fit for any nobleman, her niece has got into now."

"Had I not better put those flowers into
water?" suggested Berna.

The  flowers  can  wait," said Mrs. Boyle,
with a drawling intonation peculiarly aggravating;
considering the time they have been on the
road here, and the heat of my hand, a few minutes
more can't hurt them ; and, indeed, I was in two
minds to throw the things away as I came along,
I felt so angry when I thought of the distant way
the Pirns treated me. Mrs. Pirn told me the best
story, though, I've heard this many a day, and
all about Mrs. Yince. Ah ! it's no wonder she
tries to be civil to me, considering she owes
everything she has in the world to my own cousin.
It's a poor way she'd have been in this day if it
hadn't been for Eichard Yince."

I think Mr. Yiuce was very fortunate to meet
with so nice a wife."

"I'm not so sure of that; by what I understand,
he might have had the pick of the North
of Ireland. It's wonderfully gratifying to hear
how much he is respected, and the heaps of
money he has got, and the grand people he knows ;
and you may be sure I didn't open my mouth
and tell Mrs. Pirn he wouldn't look to the side of
the street I was on if he could help it. I made
her think they were fairly crazy to get us to
Craigvallen, and that it was only our pride
wouldn't let us go there constantly."

For the second time Berna took up her work,
but, remembering her mother's objection, laid it
down again.

"What was I wanting to tell you? What
was I saying"? You've put it clean out of my
head. What in the world could it be ?"

Something about Mrs. Vince."

To be sure ; how could I forget ? You would
never guess the way she got to be mistress of
Craigvallen."

No ; I cannot guess," said Berna.

Yvell, it's just a proof of the things people
v\-ill do for money  and people that have held
their heads high enough too. AYhv, in the
county Antrim there wasn't a family thought
more of themselves than the Carpenters of
Cherryfield. There were not wanting those that
said the first of the name had risen from low
enough ; but every family must have a beginning,
as it mostly has an end, and the Carpenters were
grand people when I first remember them, I can
tell you that."

One has only to hear Mrs. Yiuce speak to
be sure of that," agreed Berna.

Sure of it"? Yes; you might be sure of it
if you'd never set eyes on Mrs. Yince. I'm not
in the habit of telling you anything but what's
sacred truth ; and, after living all my life in the
best of society, I wouldn't need an ignorant slip
of a girl like you to instruct me in speaking."

'' I never thought of doing anything of the
kind," said the " ignorant slip," appalled.

See you don't, then. I never was one that

Been BOYLE.

had much liking for being bidden, and I am not
going to begin now. Well, as I was remarking,
in all our part of the country the Carpenters were
allowed to be the grandest people out. There
was nothing they stood still for  carriages and
dress, and governesses and masters, and servants,
and I couldn't tell you what all. Many's the
time when I was a young child, about three years
old, I have seen Miss Marcella  that's Mrs.
Vince, you know  galloping past my father's
house on her pony with her sisters  they were
older than her, you understand. She used to
wear a blue habit, and a cap like a boy's ; and
you'd have heard them all laughing as they went
tearing across the commons like mad things. I
wonder if Eichard ever thinks now of how they
used to splash him as they rode by. I have
heard him swear against them awful, though you
would think, to look at him low, a bad word had
never passed his lips."

"And how did they lose their money?" asked
Berna, who, while conversing with her mother,
was always searching about for six inches of safe



ground to stand upon, and always somehow slipping
into water.

'how did they lose it? I declare you're
enough to drive anybody mad. If I've told you
once I've told you a hundred times the way Theophilus
Carpenter squandered his substance. He
bet on races ; he would go to London and lose
as much over a game of cards in one night as
would have kept a moderate family for a year.
He had his hunters and his hacks, and the house
full of extravagant company, and wine such as
my father often said the King needn't have been
ashamed to set before his Lords, temporal and
spiritual ; and if ever anybody ought to have
known about spirits it was my father  he rarely
went to bed a night of his life sober."

Mrs. Boyle paused a moment in ecstatic contemplation
of her parent's virtues ere she resumed
:

The extravagance of that house, he used to
say, might have made a bald man's hair stand on
end. And so things went on and on and on, till
at last there came a crash. It was one night

when they were playing cards, a private note
came to Mr. Carpenter, and he asked some
gentleman to take his hand for him while he
sent an answer. Well, my dear, nobody in that
room ever set eyes on him again. What does he
do but start away without even a change of linen,
and get himself clean off to France. He never
came back. In a minute the whole of the glory
of Cherryfield was snuffed out, like the wick of a
candle. The bailiffs went into the house, and
the family left it. For a while Mrs. Carpenter
and her daughters lived among their friends, but
they soon tired them out. One girl was glad
enough to marry a poor curate she had turned up
her nose at when she could look at nothing
lower than marquises and baronets ; another was
taken out to India by some great lady they had
influence with ; a third died. I don't know what
was done for the sons, but they were drafted
off abroad; and so, to cut a long story short, at
last they all dwindled down to this Marcella, who
stopped with her mother on a trifle of money that
was scraped some way together out of the estate."

*' Well, mamma?" inquired Berna, really interested
in a story which possessed some family
features in common with her own.

sewell.'  what do you mean by well? I
never heard anybody like you. I daresay Mar-cells
thought it ill enough when the old lady
died, and she was left with little more than the
clothes she stood up in."

'' It was very hard," murmured Berna.

*'I make no doubt she thought so; but it
wasn't any harder for her than it has been since
for other people. Remembering her own troubles,
anybody might have concluded she'd have had
some feeling for mine. It seems she tried and
tried to get something to do. Mrs. Pirn did say
she heard she went as a nursery governess, but
she couldn't be just sure ; and she might have
gone out as nurse next if she had not bethought
her of my cousin Eichard. One fine morning
she knocks at his door and asks to see him. You
may be sure she had put on her best manners as
well as her best gown. He was at his breakfast,
and, not to seem high, he told the servant to

show her in ; and as he couldn't just forget, low
as she had come down, that he was talking to
Miss Carpenter, once upon a time of Cherrjfield,
he made her take a chair, and poured her out
some tea, and made as much of her as though
she was Queen of Great Britain and Ireland. At
last the mischief was revealed. She wanted a
situation as housekeeper : could he tell her of
any one needing such a thing, and would he recommend
her? He thought a while, and said,
Yes, if she wished, he would endeavour to for .
ward her views; but,' he went on, 'I think you
might do better.'

'In what way?' she asked, as if she hadn't
a notion of his meaning.

Why, come and keep house for me,' he
made answer. And then in so many words he
said, would she be his wife ? And the upshot of
the matter was that, three months after, they were
married, and all the country-side was at the wedding
; and who so grand and affable as Mrs. Richard
Vince, and who so proud as the foolish man
who had let himself be caught so neatly ?"

I do not believe the story, mamma," declared
Berna indignantly. " Mrs. Pirn must be mistaken."


Z believe it, then ; and that's enough. Things
are coming to something, I'm sure, when children
fly in the face of their parents, and settle
what's to be said and what's to be told. You wait
till Mrs. Vince comes out here next, and I'll give
her a sly hint I know all about how she got my
cousin. I know the way I'll do it."

You never shall have the chance of doing
it," thought Berna; but she made no comment.
She only took up her work, this time with the
firm intention of getting on with that seam,
which, if left to Mrs. Boyle's idle fingers, would
never have been finished.

VOL. I.

I THINK," said Mrs. Boyle, after a silence
broken only by the sound of Berna's busy needle
and her own sighs, " I might take a cup of tea
now, if it was hot and not too much milk in it."

Berna laid aside her work. *' I will tell
But," she eagerly proposed. " She is baking
soda-bread. Shall I butter you some ?"

*' If you do, mind you bring me in no more
than the breadth of my finger. I never can eat ;
I don't know what is to become of me, as I was
telling Mrs. Pirn no later back than one o'clock."

You must try," answered her daughter ; and
she left the sitting-room and passed into the
kitchen, where Ruth was washing the flour off her
hands while the soda-bread was rising to a satisfactory
thickness as it baked upon the girdle
suspended from a crook over the fire.

"I want to make mamma some tea, Ruth ;
and have wee got a new-laid egg ?"

The eggs could not be fresher, Miss Bertrand
the mistress can't he off liking the cake.
I'll set the tray in a minute."

*' You need not take in a cup for me, nurse ;
I do not want any tea ;" and Berna leaned her
head against the chimney-piece and looked into
the glowing depths of a clear turf fire.

Ruth paused in her occupation to survey the
girl. She had nursed her ; she loved her. She
knew  who that lived in the same house could
help knowing?  the daily, hourly fret Mrs.
Boyle was to her. The old servant possessed
that subtle sympathy and quick tact which
is the birthright of the Irish, and, without
asking a question as to what had gone wrong,
remarked,

"If your head is bad. Miss Berna, why don't
you go for a turn in the meadow, instead of
standing in this hot kitchen ? I'll take in the
mistress's tea, and tell her where you are."

Thank you, Ruth ; I will go into tha
meadow. I need not put on a bonnet. I shall
not meet any one out there."

The meadow thus referred to  which belonged
to Mr. Muir, being a portion of Kilmoon Farm
lay at the rear of Clear Stream Cottage, and
could be entered from the garden of that house
through a low rustic gate made of greenunbarked
fir.

Just as she was, without shawl or bonnet, in
her sad, black dress, adorned by nothing save
youth and beauty, Berna passed in the calm evening
light on to the grass, which had again been
cropped almost as close by the cattle as a couple of
months previously' by the mowers. There was
a delicious crispness in the air ; soft and peaceful
the tender rural landscape lay spread before
her. What an exquisite world it was ! How fair
the heights of Gilnakirk in the near distance
looked, with the corn-stooks clustered thick upon
them ! It was a rich, happy country that met
her gaze  blessed by God, well cultivated by
man. For such as Berna, the face of Nature
wears a smile everywhere ; and as she walked the
girl's heart grew lighter, and hope whispered life
was not yet over, and that while life remains

something of happiness may still be in store
or the saddest soul that ever carried its burden
of sorrow in silent anguish.

For a long time she paced slowly up and down
the field. She knew exactly what was passing
indoors. Mrs. Boyle sat taking her tea, and at
the same time discoursing to Ruth concerning the
splendour of Mr. Pirn's house, mingling her
descriptions with such questions and exclamations
as  'swill 3'ou ever forget her old auut?"' and
*' I wonder what my father would say if he knew
the Pirns had grown too big to care to keep
company with Mrs. Boyle, of Boyle Court ?"

She would not be missed, and even if she
were, Ruth, dear old Ruth, the only person able
to manage her mother, could make things straight
for her.

For the time she felt free to let her mind
wander over the past and the future  over the
beautiful mournful past, and the future still
shrouded amid the vague romantic mists in
which for the young, Time cunningly enfolds
coming events. What did she see written, on

the clouds, dyed with the gorgeous tints left
behind by the departed sun ? Heaven only
knows, save that it was some tender poem 
some sweet unreality which caused her lips to
part, and her eyes to grow larger, and their
depths to deepen, and brought her lingering
footsteps to a standstill, because she would not
disturb the illusion with movement.

The glorious tints faded gently out of the sky.
Twilight stole softly on, the distant landscape
stole imperceptibly out of sight, a slight wind
stirred the trees in the hedgerow, yet Berna
stood motionless, till suddenly, with a little
cry of affrighted surprise, she sprang backward.

A great black horse, which in the dark looked
higher and bigger than was actually the case,
with a man on its back, who seemed scarcely
less startled than herself, had shied suddenly at
sight of the girl, and, though a hand of iron was
on the bridle, went on plunging violently. She
had not heard the sound of coming hoofs, and at
that hour, in that lonely place, in that mysterious
light, horse and rider loomed on her through

the semi-darkness with the effect of an apparition.


"I have frightened 3'ou," said the man, at
last succeeding in quieting his horse, coming
close up to where she stood.

"Not much," answered the girl, though she
felt as if her heart were in her mouth.

I am very sorry", indeed," he proceeded,
trjdng to get a nearer glimpse of this extraordinary
young person who, hare-headed and all alone,
was wandering through the quiet fields at such an
hour. " I did not expect to meet any one here."

"Nor I," she murmured apologetically.

"It is late for you to he out. May I not see
you safe home ?" and he drew his feet out of the
stirrups as if with the intention of dismounting.

0, no, no, thank you !" exclaimed Berna.
"I have only a few steps to go. Good-evening!"


He did not answer. He only took off his hat,
thrust his feet again into the stirrups, watched her
till she passed out of his sight, and then, wheeling
his horse round, rode back into the lane

whence lie had come, and started at a sharp trot
for Ardilaw.

As Berna reentered the cottage she heard her
mother's voice still in full progress. Kuth stood
just within the parlour door, the tea-things had
not been removed, Mrs. Boyle's bonnet and cloak
lay on a chair, as she had thrown them off, and
Mrs. Boyle herself was giving nurse a vivid
description of Richard Yince's interview with the
lady he now called wife.

At sight of Berna the widow's words froze on
her tongue. The 'sashes" and "says shes "
of the familiar long ago  when Ruth used to come
in and help with the Vince sewing, and Ulick
Boyle and Boyle Court were still perfectly unknown
quantities  never flowed quite glibly off
Mrs. Boyle's lips when her daughter was of the
company.

But the widow was seldom what she called
"taken at a short," and, stopped in the midst of
her own exciting narration, it did not take her a
moment to change the front of battle, and, attacking
Berna, carry war into the enemy's country.



Well, and perhaps you will tell us where you
have been," she began, " stopping out for hours,
and coming home in the clouds of darkness, looking
as if you were bewitched. Just see there,
Ruth, wouldn't anybody think she'd seen a ghost ?
What do you mean by those white cheeks and
great eyes  enough to frighten anybody?"

I have a headache, mamma."

"And haven't I the headache often enough,
and the heartache too, for that matter? and yet
you never hear me complain. Here have I been
forcing myself to eat  eating and drinking when
I thought every mouthful would choke me  so
that I oughtn't be laid up and put to the expense
of a doctor  though goodness only knows where
we'd get a doctor, in this back-of-the-world place;
while you, for all you've a hearty appetite, won't
take your meals regular, but just pick a bit at odd
times, when you think you will."

Indeed, indeed  " Berna was beginning, when
Ruth interposed,

You'll have a glass of milk and a piece of
hot cake, won't you. Miss Berna ? And there's a

bright fire in the kitchen ; I was out looking at ita
minute ago. And if I were you, I would warm
myself and get to bed. There's nothing for a
headache like sleep."

"Ah! she'll never leave off her languid ways
while you're living, Ruth," said Mrs. Boyle.
"You encourage her in her laziness. Why,
when I was your age," she added, addressing
her daughter, "I'd have thought shame to goto
bed for a headache. I used to dance my
headaches ofi". If we could get nothing but
girls to make up a set, why, we took them for
partners ; and we'd sing the music in turns ;
and such screaming and laughing and diversion
as we had ! Well I mind my father, when he
was lying ill up-stairs, rapping on the floor
with a stick to know if Bedlam had broken loose.
Ah ! those were days  when I think of them I'm
sure I wonder, as I was saying to Mrs. Pirn only
to-day, bow I ever came to marry, to have all the
spirit crushed out of me, and to rear a daughter
more like a mute at a funeral than anything else."

Don't heed the mistress. Miss Berna dear,"

entreated her nurse ; " your laughing days are all
to come."

Indeed, and I hope I may live to see them,"
said Mrs. Boyle. " It would be wonderful to hear
Berna laughing and making merry like any other
girl."

She'll be merry enough 3-et," answered Ruth.
Come, Miss Berna dear, and have a bit of hot
soda-bread, I've kept it warm beside the fire, and
go to your bed. The mistress is tired, too, though
she has such a spirit she won't own to it ; and the
sooner she lies down and rests herself the better."

Though Ruth's advice was as good as advice
could be. Miss Boyle merely followed it because
she wished to avoid discussion, and longed to be
alone. The glamour of that sky, brilliant with
the trail of glory left behind by the departed sun,
had not quite left her. The peace and beauty of
the quiet scene, which had filled her soul with
rapture, still lingered there in memory ; the
dream she had dreamed while gazing with wide-open
eyes on the tender softness of the evening
light was not for many days to seem wholly an

illusion ; while the appearance of that horse and
rider in the mystical twilight, so soon to merge
into night, imported just the touch of romance
into the story so necessary to a nature like
Berna's, out of which her mother had nipped
every green shoot, every bud of promise, so soon
as it ventured to show even the semblance of a
leaf.

Poetry and imagination, both starved in actual
life, struck deeper and stronger roots for the
reason they could only seek for nourishment in
the girl's own heart. She had her friends, though
Mrs. Boyle knew none of them ; from out the
pages of the past they came and comforted her.
Knights and ladies, gentle maidens, noble
heroines, loyal men, human beings sorely
tempted, hard beset ; people who suffered
and triumphed, who rejoiced, and who, when
the worst came to the worst, knew how to
die.

Poor in this world's goods  a mere cipher in
the estimation of her fellows  God had given hera
kingdom better than houses, or gold, or land ;

boundary it knew none, save the limits of right
and honour ; in it women were all fair and virtuous,
and men great and noble and chivalrous ;
flowers never faded there, sorrow never entered.
It was in the mysterious land through which
poets wander at will and romancers dwell ; where
wrong is set right, and truth triumphs, and beauty
is cherished, and youth tenderly cared for, that
Berna Boyle so often sought refuge when her
mother wounded her pride, and lashed her temper,
and trampled everything which seemed to the
girl worth having, level with the dust.

She did not say a word to any one concerning
the apparition she had seen in Mr. Muir's
meadow. Close to herself she kept the memory
of that voice, soft with the tones of the melting
south. She could not bear the story to become a
topic of common conversation, to hear wonder
expressed on the subject, and a thousand conjectures
hazarded as to who the stranger might
be.

From a ganger to an Earl  she knew her
mother was capable of running the gamut on such

a theme ; and the stronger her own curiosity grew
the more determinedly she resolved to refrain from
endeavouring to gratify it.

And certainly as the days of that week went
by she had ample cause for curiosity.

Three, sometimes five, times between breakfast
and tea she saw that horse and rider pass
along the lane ; and the rider never once passed
without looking wistfully over the hedge in search
of something beside the autumn flowers and the
babbling stream that still went singing the same
song  only louder  it had with such laughing
delight flowed merrily to in the golden summertime.


He was looking for her. Berna knew that as
well as though she had possessed the experience
of half-a-dozen London seasons. It was a knowledge
which kept her out of the garden, and caused
her to refrain from those long walks in which,
when her mother was too tired to go out, she had
been in the habit of indulging, but it did not
prevent her from stealing unobserved glances at
the handsome, audacious stranger, or marvelling

who be could be, and with whom be was staying
in the neighbourhood.

At last ber resolve gave way, and on the
Saturday evening following their meeting, while
Mrs. Boyle was indulging in one of those naps
sbe " dropped off" into " merely to save lighting
a candle," Berna looking into the peat fire, over
wbicb bung the eternal girdle with a batch of
potato cake " soaking," as Ruth expressed the
process of gradual baking necessary to insure the
bread being perfectly " done," asked,

Have you seen a strange gentleman, riding
a black horse, nurse, pass here several times
lately r

Nurse paused in her operations for a moment
before she answered,

I can't say that I have. Miss Berna. What
like was be ?"

*'Yerydark, good-looking; handsome, indeed.
He wears no whiskers, only a moustache, has
brown eyes, and rides splendidly .""

'' !" said Ruth grimly. " Has the horse
no hair of white about it except a small star on

its forehead, and lias it got a headland worked
with beads instead of leather ?"

"Yes, that is the horse; do you know who
the gentleman is ?"

"He is not a gentleman  she is no one for
you to be taking notice of or thinking about."

I have not been taking notice of him'*
replied the girl, indignantly refuting the first
accusation, but maintaining a wise silence with
regard to the second. " Still, I certainly should
like to know where he comes from."

He does not come from very far," was the
answer ; " and it's like his impudence staring
over this place as Tve seen him do."

"Why, who in the world is he, nurse ?"

He's just Mr. Muir's son  who else would
je be ?  and a worse man than his father, so
the story goes. They say he was sent home in
disgrace by the uncle that reared him. That's
neither here nor there, though. Whatever he is,
and whatever he has done, you must not be
troubling your head about him. There's not a
Boyle belonging to you but would turn in their

graves if they thought you could take up with
such as him. If he comes prowling about here
much longer, please or displease, I'll give him a
piece of my mind he won't like."

Not on my account, nurse," said Berna,
with an uplifting of her head nurse had been well
acquainted with since she was a mere child ; "I
would not have my name brought into such a
matter for the world."

That's right, dear. It's not right for the
like of you to waste a thought on the like of
him."

I was only curious, nurse ; and I am curious
no longer."

Nevertheless, Berna sighed as she walked out
into the darkness and stood for a minute beside
the stream.

After all, it is hard to have an illusion shattered
; and it seemed a great humiliation to
Ulick Boyle's daughter to see her dream knight
vanish away and take the shape of Mr. Muir's
son.

VOL. I.

All told, the congregation in Dun don aid Church,
even on those gala days and high festivals when
the parish put its best foot foremost to do honour
to Easter and Christmas, or to welcome the few
notable divines who on rare occasions lost their
way thither, never amounted to more than fifty
souls. From that number it dwindled, according
to the state of the weather and the physical and
religious condition of the public, down to, say,
half-a-dozen. There were always the Rector, a
good easy-going old clergyman, whom it certainly
could not, as Miss Muir truly said, do anybody
any harm to go and listen to ; the clerk, who
struck the note with a pitch-key always too high,
who always sang wrong, and who thought he
knew a great deal more than Mr. Crommles ; the
sexton, who stored a huge stove set in the middle

of the church, who inducted the parishioners into
their pews, tolled the bell at intervals in the
porch, where he exchanged cordial greetings with
his friends, and who was sure he knew more than
Mr. Crommles and the clerk put together ; the
Rector's churchwarden, who wanted to see fair
play about the few halfpence collected every Sunday,
which halfpence were divided, after service,
between two old women representing the poor of
the parish ; and a certain magistrate, who always
attended divine worship, 'hail or shine." The
church, as has been previously mentioned, was
"set on a hill." It could not be considered old
in 1850, having replaced one that had been burned
down a few years previously, which fact was not
certainly to be regarded as a miracle ; the only
miracle seemed that it failed to burn every Sunday
during the winter months. The pews around
the stove were usually as scorchingly hot as pews
can ever be without flaring into flame. It was a
deliciously warm church. Even Dissenters, driven
to the top of the hill either by choice or necessity,
felt there was a good deal of comfort about The

Establishment, as they called that form of worship
watched over by Victoria by the Grace of
God ; and were certainly of opinion, as they walked
demurely home, that if they got no rousing doctrine,
they had received the benefit of a capital
fire. There was a tower to the church, and in
the graveyard a monument which looked higher
than the tower, whether it was or not. With
bated breath the inhabitants used to tell the story
of that monument, and how it cost a matter of
over three hundred pounds !

Dear, simple, primitive village : could there
ever on earth have been a more delightful place
for one, world-tired and weary, to pause for a moment
and take breath ?

On the ascent of the funny little hill, not so
high as the church, as befitted its degree, or so
low as the village, likewise the correct position,
stood the Meeting-House, approved of by the
inhabitants, and supported by that Act passed by
William of Orange, as a matter of gratitude to
the Presbyterians of the Black North. It was
that pious individual's Regnum Bonum which kept

the minister to a certain degree independent of
his hard-mouthed congregation, and enabled him
to maintain a decent roof over his head. Not
that there was any lack of a congregation there.
The Meeting-House swept in the bone and sinew
of the country-side. When nineteen twentieths
of a population are Presbyterians and the odd
twentieth consists of Dissenters of other denominations
 Woman Catholics and outside sinners
who loaf about and go nowhere  it is clear that
the " Church minister " cannot expect a large
audience.

Mr. Crommles had no expectations of the sort.
If he had he would have been disappointed. Ashe
was a person who loved his ease, perhaps the
last thing he desired was an overflowing congregation,
involving visiting. He was what the
Dissenters called a "moderate sort of man,"
holding no strong opinions except on the vexed
subject of tithes, fond of digging his own glebe-land,
and as ready to exchange cordial good-mornings
with the rankest Dissenter as the
staunchest upholder of Church and State  with

the wife of a labourer as "The Marchioness"
when the blessing and privilege of greeting
that lady came in his y.

Such as the Church was, and such as the Rector
was, however, Berna Boyle loved both Though
Kilmoon Farm contributed its modest quota to
the clergyman's income, the lapse of long years
had wiped the Kilmoon pew off the wardens'
books ; and it was only " out of compliment,"
so Mrs. Boyle declared, a fitting position was
allotted to her close to the grandees of the
neighbourhood.

"We are next but one to the square pews,"
she said. " I suppose the old man wasn't able
to do any better for us !"

Whatever else she left undone, the widow
attended church regularly. In her heart she
felt she should have preferred going to Meeting,
on account of the larger congregation and also
because of the less stiffness and greater friendliness
which there obtained; but in this imperfect
world people cannot combine every advantage,
and Mrs. Boyle, wishing to be 'genteel," was



forced to forego the delights attaching to Dissent.


The widow believed that in her deep mourning,
with her small, sharp, washed-out face, she was the
observed of all observers ; and when she clasped
her prayer-book, where the metrical version of the
Psalms held its honoured place, she felt as a celebrated
singer may do when closing her music and
bowing grateful acknowledgments to an appreciative
audience. As a rule, there was not much
variety to be met with in the little church.
Strangers came that way seldom, and when they
did chance to come, rarely stopped long in the
neighbourhood ; so it was certainly with no expectation
of novelty or of '' seeing any living
creature worth seeing " that Mrs. Boyle carefully
pinned her crape bows on the Sunday morning
following her visit to Mrs. Pirn.

"I am sick and tired of the place," she said to
her daughter as they walked through the village ina
silence only broken by the clang-clang of the
church bell. "As Matilda Sheill says, it's not
the sort of thing I ever expected to have to comedown

to. If I wasn't the most cheerful and contented
woman in the wo: Id I'd have drowned
myself long ago."

"We might be much worse off," ventured
Berna.

"I don't very well see how; not unless we
were on the parish, and had to break stones on
the road. And such a church ! Never even a
new bonnet to be seen in it. That's Mr. Garnsey
just turning up the Church Road. I wonder how
it is the daughter's not with him to-day. She
seldom misses showing herself, though, goodness
knows, she's not much of a show. Come on,-
Berna, we'll be late. Ah ! just what I thought,
there's the last tinkle of the bell."

They were not very late, however. Mr.
Crommles was only walking across to the
reading-desk as mother and daughter entered
the church, and they were devoutly kneeling
when he began " When the wicked man "  a
statement the worthy clergyman always unconsciously
emphasised by looking hard at Mr.
Garnsey, who, if popular rumour could be relied

ou as correct, had still very little chance of
"saving his soul alive."

It was while the Rector was reading the Exhortation
that a young man entered the church
and stood waiting, with a not ungraceful shyness,
in expectation of being shown to a seat. There
were but two aisles in the church, and all the
pews were situated between them. The young
man, either by choice or design, elected to wait
in that isle farthest from where Mrs. Boyle was
standing, the admired of all admirers. Just fora
moment the sexton failed to see the new-comer,
then he hurried towards him, and was about
placing this unexpected worshipper quite at the
rear of the building, when suddenly Mr. Darnley's
pew-door flew open, and that gentleman
made a sign for the fresh arrival to come up
higher.

It might all be strictly Biblical; the sexton
had nothing to say against that when discussing
matters afterwards, but he felt greatly exercised
in his mind nevertheless.

'' Lyle Garnsey,'' he remarked in The Stag;

for those to hear who pleased, 'has no doubt
a right to ask any man he likes to sit down with
him at his own table, but I deny he has any right
to throw our church all into confusion by interfering
with my province, and beckoning the son
of Hewson Muir to sit among the first in the
county. Young Gorman had no call to come to
church, anyway. Why couldn't he have stopped
below and listened to what was going on in the
Meeting ? Set him up, indeed, putting his silver
shilling in the box like any gentleman."

Which was all hard on Mr. Gorman Muir,
who certainly had not put himself forward, and
who looked much more like a gentleman than
even Lyle Garnsey himself. All through the
service he listened with apparently devout attention
to every word which fell from Mr. Crommles'
lips. He had a rich mellow voice, and joined in
the music, greatly to the disgust of the clerk, who
tried to drown his tones. Without thought of
ostentation, he dropped his " silver shilling " into
the poor-box, and when the sermon began, crossed
his arms and turned a rapt gaze upon the Rector,

who preached a sermon v,-hich had done loyal duty
on many a previous occasion.

No man could outwardly have behaved better
than Mr. Muir junior, and it was not his fault
if the attention of all in the church was diverted
by his presence from the original purpose which
had brought them out.

As for Berna, she kept her eyes fixed on her
prayer-book, on Mr. Crommles, on the clerk, on
the trees clad in their glorious autumn foliage
which she could see through the window close
at hand, on anything rather than the man in
Mr. Garnsey's pew, who had frightened her
much less when he loomed through the darkness
of that remembered night than now, when,
in the face of day, he came to the last place she
ever expected to see him.

As she and her mother walked homeward she
did not say one word. Almost in an agony she
waited to hear what comment would be made
upon his appearance in church.

They were opposite the police barrack before
Mrs. Boyle spoke ; then, turning to Berna

with a pleased and conscious simper, she
asked,

"You don't see any spot or anything on my
face, dear, do you ?"

''No," answered the girl, 'not any."

And is my bonnet on right ?"

Quite right."

Then chat that strange gentleman found to
stare at is a mystery to me /"

All the way to Clear Stream Cottage  and the
way was long  Mrs. Boyle's discourse ran a turbulent
and excited stream on the stranger who
had appeared in church. Her talk consisted of a
series of ejaculations and questions. " It was
many a long day " since she had seen so handsome
a man  his eyes seemed to " pierce her
through." " Did you ever behold their equal ?"
she asked her daughter.

I did not look at him, mamma," answered
Berna.

Well, I'm not finding any fault with you for
that," said Mrs. Boyle. " It's as well even for
so young a girl as you are to keep her eyes to
herself. Still, it's a pity you did not just take
a glance. I wonder who he can be ? Some
grandee, I shouldn't be a bit surprised ! I never
did see anything like the way that Mr. Garnsey

puts himself forward  tlirowiiig wide the door
just as if the whole church belonged to him."

His pew does, I suppose," ventured the
girl.

I don't think it. Beechfield can't be in the
 parish ; and it's a burning shame he should have
a square seat, and better people than he ever
came of forced to put up with the box we are shut
into. Ah, one of these days I'll have a few words
to say to Mr. Garnsey he won't like ; and I'll not
forget to mention that square pew when I am
about it !"

Why, how has Mr. Garnsey offended you,
mamma ?" asked Berna.

By his ungentle manliness, if you must
know. He nearly rode over me a while ago, and
when I spoke to him about it he asked me why I
did not keep out of the road ; as if the road wasn't
as much mine as his."

Berna did not answer ; she must indeed have
been dense had she failed ere that moment to
understand most of her mother's little tricks.

**I never saw more shapely hands on a man,"

said Mrs. Boyle, recurring to the hero question.
Mr. Garnsey's looked coarse Reside them. I'll
warrant those hands have never done any hardwork;
and 0, the beautiful diamond ring he
wore on his little finger, flashing and glittering
till it fairly dazzled me. I wish I knew who he
was. I am afraid old Mr. Crommles will be no
wiser than myself!"

Like the single line of epitaph which could be
read a hundred and forty-four different ways, Mrs.
Boyle contrived out of one man's appearance to
ring the changes for two Irish miles, and when
she reached home the subject seemed as far from
being exhausted as ever.

Have you heard about the handsome stranger
we had to-day in church, Kuth ?" she asked, when
that elderly handmaiden came in to lay the
cloth. " He was a proper sort of man. Did you
tell nurse about the way he stared me out of
countenance, Berna ?"

"No, mamma," murmured the girl; and
one swift glance at her downcast face told Ruth
who the stranger was.

"Anybody might think," said Mrs. Boyle,
addressing her daughter, '' we were seeing strangers
every day, for all you seem to think or care
about them. I declare I did not know which way
to look. His eyes seemed to be in every place at
once. I couldn't lift mine without meeting his
full. I wonder he wasn't ashamed of himself,
and in church, too. As I was telling this girl
coming along, it's not often we see anything
like him. Mr. Garnsey, of course, put himself
forward, setting the pew-door wide, as if there
wasn't another seat  quite empty seats where
he'd have been far more at home than where he
was. I do wish you could have seen him, Ruth 
coal-black hair, not curly, but with just a wave in
it ; bright dark eyes ; a skin like a gipsy's, only
clearer; and a ring you wouldn't match in any
jeweller's in Belfast. I don't know that I ever
saw his equal ; and there are fine men, and plenty,
to be met any afternoon in Sackville Street. I
wonder who in all the wide world he can be.
I would like well to know where he comes
from."



Should you, mem ? I think I could tell
you," said Kuth.

That's a good joke ; and you never set eyes
on him in your life."

"I'm not so sure of that, mem. By your
description of him, if he's not Mr. Muir's son, he
might be that son's twin brother ; and a pretty
sort of character he is, if we're to believe all the
tales that are told about him."

But he can't be Mr. Muir's son !" exclaimed
Mrs. Boyle. " Berna, you know he
can't."

How should I know, mamma ?"

You're quite right. Miss Berna," said Kuth ;
how should you know anything about Mr.
Muir's son ? It's not very likely. For all his
good looks, I'm told he's as wild a lot as ever
went headlong to destruction. His old uncle took
and reared him, and gave him the best of training
and of schooling  paid his expenses at the college
in Dublin, and meant to start him as a
gentleman ; but he couldn't do it. The bad
blood came out, and he was forced to turn him

VOL. I. s

out of doors for his ill-behaviour. And now lie's
no better than a common jockey, going about to
fairs and markets, and consorting with all sorts
of characters but respectable. Mr. Garnsey ought
to think shame of himself, having the young man
at Beechfield. To be sure, Mr. Garnsey's not
much to boast of in the way of respectability;
but he should think of his motherless daughter.
People are laughing already, and saying Gorman
Muir has as keen an eye for money as ever his
father had."

Having finished which criminating sentence,
Ruth placed the spoons and knives and forks on
the table with great energy, and retired from the
field, where Mrs. Boyle remained for a-moment
stricken dumb.

Did you ever hear, Miss Berna," asked
Ruth that night, as she was brushing the girl's
long hair with tenderly caressing hand, '' how
Mr. Muir fell in with his first wife, and money
to start him in this farm ? And he has got on
past the common ; for when he came first to these
parts he never thought to live at Ardilaw."

No. Berna had not heard anything about Mr.
Muir's antecedents.

Well, it seems that there was up in the
county Donegal a young lady, motherless, like
Miss Garnsey, but more lonely still, because her
father was married for the second time, and spent
all his time in England with his grand wife and
the sons she bore him."

Yes, nurse ; and the young lady  "

She couldn't have been much account," went
on Kuth, '' or she never could have so far forgot
herself as to talk like an equal to one such as
Hewson Muir, the son of her father's bailiff. Don't
you think that yourself. Miss Berna ?"

Indeed I do," answered the girl. Her face
was half hidden by a veil of hair ; but in the
glass Ruth could see it flush crimson as she
spoke.

Well," resumed the woman, " by what I can
understand, this went on for a long time, till at
last he persuaded her to marry him, making sure
she would have her mother's fortune. Instead of
that, not a penny of it came to her, and you maybe

sure that was a fine disappointment to young
Muir."

*' You mean Mr. Muir, our landlord  "

'' Of course I do ; lie was young once ; he was
far younger than his son is now when he got sofar
over the poor girl as to induce her to do such
a thing as marry him  the wicked wretch that he
was. However, the secret was kept for a while ;
but it leaked out in time, and Mr. Gorman  that
was the father's name  came over from London
and turned his daughter out of doors, and wouldn't
forgive her, though she begged and prayed him
to do so on her bended knees."

Ah !" exclaimed Berna, with a little gasp.

"I don't say it was right," said Ruth; "for,
after all, no matter how far wrong she had gone,
she was still his own flesh and blood ; but still it
must have been hard for one like Mr. Gorman to
find his child had so demeaned herself. Anyway,
he wouldn't forgive her, and Muir found himself
married, and his father discharged from his situation,
and little between them all and beggary."

'' What did he do ?" asked Ruth's auditor.



He took a cottage in the neighbourhood and
laid himself out to annoy his father-in-law. You
may be sure the Gormans didn't like the notion
of having Mr. Muir settling down at their very
gates. So the family lawyer was taken into
counsel ; and they proposed among them that if
the pair would go away to Australia they should
have something to begin the world out there on."

How was it they did not go ?"

"He agreed to go. The lawyer paid the
passage-money, and never gave Muir the amount
they promised till he was on board the vessel.
Then he managed somehow to give them the slip,
and the first thing they heard from him was that
he had taken this farm, that his wife had a son,
and that she was ddng. She couldn't stand the
life, poor thing ! She had been delicately nurtured
 never knew what it was to put her hand
to anything, or do a turn for herself. Then
his father and mother lived with them : and
it must have been cruel work for one reared
as she was. They say she died of a broken
heart. She made one appeal to Mr. Gorman for

the boy ; but he'd have nothing to do with him
or her. She just defined away and died. The
person that told me said she wasn't heavier nor a
child when they lifted her into her coffin. Her
mother's brother, Mr. Trevasson, shamed Mr-german
into having her buried amon her own
people ; but I don't know that did her much
good. He had just come home from abroad, and
he took the boy and brought him up like his own
son, and they say he'd have done well by him, and
left him money at his death, only the cloven foot
peeped out. This young man's worse nor his father
ever was, I understand  a wild reckless devil 
God forgive me for calling one of His creatures
such a name ; and 0, Miss Berna, my dear, have
a care, and remember you've no father living to
look after you, and the mistress, in a manner of
speaking, wants to be looked after herself; and
though it's no use crying over spilt milk, why did
you ever refuse the old lady's offer to go and live
with her in honour and comfort ? I can't bear to
think of all you threw away, and just for nothing.
You see yourself the mistress could content

herself better among those she was used to
once than if she had a choice of the first in the
land."

Berna did not answer for a moment. Slowly
and thoughtfully she drew a strand of her hair
through her fingers, before she said,

''If it had to be done over again, nurse, I
should still say I would never leave mamma."

Well, dear, it's a pity, that's all. You'll
have to be wonderful wise to keep yourself to
yourself, if you don't want to get into trouble. It
is a wicked world, and besides  "

Are you going to talk all night ?" asked Mrs.
Borde, entering the room ; " and do put up your
hair, Berna. Anybody would think it was something
wonderful, to see how fond you are of sitting
with it all streaming down your back."

Nurse was telling me about Mr. Muir's first
wife, mamma," said Berna, gathering her obnoxious
tresses together and coiling them round
her head.

Nurse might find something better to do
that stand repeating idle gossip  on a Sunday,

too," retorted Mrs. Boyle, with a good deal of
acrimony. "For my part, there is nothing in
the world I think so ill of as evil speaking and
backbiting. It would be a great deal more fitting
for nurse to sit down and read her Bible than to
stand there encouraging you in vanity, and telling
stories that likely have not a word of truth in
them."

"It is gospel truth, mem, that a lady married
Mr. Muir, and never rued doing so but once,"
replied nurse stoutly.

We should but speak about people as we find
them," persisted Mrs. Boyle; "and I can only
say I consider Mr. Muir a most obliging and
agreeable person."

"Well, mem," said Kuth, with the familiar
freedom of an old servant, " each one to her taste.
I only know Mr. Muir wouldn't be mine."

The equinoctial gales had swept over Ardilaw;
all the flowers, fuchsias, marigolds, dahlias, and
hollyhocks, which during the autumn made even
Mr. Muir's neglected garden one mass of colour
and beauty, were lying sodden and dead, awaiting
the great 'reading up," which only took place
when nothing else about the farm required attention.
Brown and yellow leaves littered the lawn
and the meadows lying beside the stream. On
the apple-trees there still remained a few russets
Miss Muir was letting "hang" while the dried-up
stalks would bear their weight. The hay and
corn had long been carted into the yard and built
into great stacks, where already a colony of mice
and rats were snugly ensconced in winter quarters.
The potatoes were all stored in the spacious
outhouses, not "clamped," as is the English
custom. Not a thing was in the fields, save man-gold

and swedes. A pause had ensued in country
life ; and under the gleams of a water' sun in
late October the rural landscape looked strangely
still and lonely.

Even at Beechfield, not a scrap of mignonette
or bit of heliotrope remained to greet the passer-by
with a whiff of the departed summer. In the
greenhouses there was little to be seen but chrysanthemums.
Nature seemed taking a rest before
covering her head and disappearing from
sight under the snows of December and the frosts
which so bless the earth when they come early in
the year.

One fine morning, not three months after that
day when he came across the hay field, leading
his horse by the bridle, Gorman Muir and his
father walked slowly up the hill leading to Craig-anthem.
They had paced the length of the back
avenue at Ardilaw, and wandered out into the
Bangor Eoad more for the convenience of uninterrupted
conversation than with any idea of exercise.


Very early the younger man had, according to

his wont, gone doAvn to the post-office for his letters,
and it so chanced that he brought one back
with him which Mr. Muir imagined might change
all his plans.

It was from Mr. Trevasson's solicitors, enclosing
the long-deferred order for one thousand
pounds. Gorman had expected this order for
such a period that he at length relinquished all
hope of getting it; then, in a moment, as so often
happens, when the matter was well-nigh forgotten,
fortune came to him in the guise of a lawyer's
letter. Since its arrival he had been very quiet
and thoughtful, and Mr. Muir felt he could know
no rest till he heard what his son meant to do.

Now you've got the money," he said, "I
suppose you'll be for leaving us."

Gorman looked at him, and hesitated a moment
before he answered,

I'm not so sure of that !"

Why, I've heard you say a score times, if
you'd the means, you would start for the wild
West within a week."

"Yes; but you see I had not the money then.

Berne BOYLE.

Now that I laye got it, I shall think twice before
I leave Ireland."

What ! Do yon mean you'll stop on here V
*ris there any reason why I should not?"
''No; no reason at all in the world; only I
thought you were not just content."

I was not; hut I am growing more and more
content every day. Money, as you have often
told me, makes more ; and I fail to see why, with
this thousand pounds, I should not do a great
deal of good for myself."

That you might, man  that you might. And
so 3'ou really have made up your mind to stick to
the old county of Down, instead of rushing off to
a country where you know nobody, and where, as
far as I can tell, nobody particularly wants
you ?"

'' That is precisely my intention," said his
son; ''if the county of Down will stick to me, I
will stick to the county of Down. I have come
round to your opinion that there is gold to be
dug out of the earth here, without crossing the
ocean to find a mine in America."

"I am sure and certain that there is,' answered
Mr. Muir.

"And I want to make a lot of money."

'rand some day, perhaps, you'll be thinking
of marrying ?"

''Someday. Yes; no doubt ; but not till I
grow a good deal richer than I am."

Maybe if you make up to the right woman
you oughtn't require to be so rich, after all."

I should never like to be dependent on my
wife."

Well, I don't say that might be exactly
necessary either," said Mr. Muir, laughing in his
sleeve at the thought of how matters were taking
the course he desired. "It is early days to be
considering that part of the business, and I'm
heart glad to find you've no thought of leaving
us all. I was afraid when that letter came you'd
be for packing and starting off at once."

No," replied Gorman. " I will not go  yet,
at any rate."

"I hope you'll never go at all  I'd miss you
now as I never thought to miss anybody "  and

there ensued a moment's silence ; while Mr. Muir
turned his head in the direction of Strabo to
conceal an emotion of which, perhaps, he felt
ashamed, and Gorman looked steadily up the hill,
feeling also ashamed of himself, though from a
perfectly different reason.

It was Gorman who spoke first.

Then I may remain at Ardilaw ?" he said.

"Where else would you stay but in your
father's house till you've a house of your own ?"
retorted Mr. Muir.

"If I stop, as I shall stop, since you are so
kind, I do not think it would be right  "

Speak out ! What's on your mind ? What
is it you think would not be right ?"

Now that I have money and am in the way
of making money to remain a burden on you."

What sort of a burden ?"

Well, my keep must cost something. I do
not profess to be able to live on air  and  "

You want to pay me for your board, I
suppose. Now let one word serve : put that
notion out of your head. Child of mine shall

never give me money for his bite and sup. When
I can't gifford to bid those welcome I brought into
the world, I hope I'll be nearly out of it. Besides,
about a house like this, what do you think the
keep of one "more can signify? It's not like as
if we'd to go to market for the things we need ;
and we make no stranger of you. Just what
we're used to ourselves we set before you, so never
speak a sentence of that sort again. When you
are any charge to me I have the use of my tongue,
and can tell you, don't be a bit afraid."

'thank you! I'm sure you are very
generous."

Generous ! Nobody ever accused me before
of being that, and I am very sure nobody will
again. I'd be sorry, though, to act like old Mrs.
Monroe, who, after asking her son and her son's
wife and the child and its nurse on a visit,
quarrelled with them, and brought in a bill for
six weeks' board and lodging. Faith ! and she
got it, too, for she processed them at the court."

"Well, if ever 3'ou repent, you won't have
to process me, for I will pay without a murmur,"

laughed Gorman ; "but there is something I want
you to give me leave to have and pay the expense
of."

"And that is?"

I should like a corner to myself, where you
and I could talk over any matter we wanted to
discuss without the chance of being interrupted
Now if I might furnish that room opposite to
where we sit, and call it my own while I stop at
Ardilaw, I should be very glad indeed."

Instantly that deep dull red which always gave
the idea he must have received some heavy sudden
blow overspread Mr. Muir's face, and though he
struggled to answer calmly he could not command
his voice, and was forced to keep silence.

I am sorry," exclaimed his son. "I would
not have said a word had I thought it could vex
you. It was thoughtless of me. I will never
mention a thing of the sort again."

Wait a minute ; don't be in such a hurry,"
entreated Mr. Muir with a mighty effort, temporarily
strangling the demon of pride that had
been choking him. " Between father and son

there ought to be no huff taken when no offence
was meant. You did put me out for a bit, I'll
not deny ; but that's all over now. You're quite
right ; the house is not what you've been used
to. I felt how it would be before you came here;
but I never thought you would find as little fault
as you have done. In the first blush of it, though,
if you consider, no man likes to be told his house,
or his horse, or his furniture, or his manners
might be mended; and I suppose I'm just as
great a fool as my neighbours in that particular.
But mind, Gorman, I'm not such a fool as to
expect what contented me to content you ; and
there was a time once when I'd have liked well to
gather handsome things about me, and hold my
head higher it may be than I'd any right to hold
it ; but I was forced to give up that notion, as
many another has had to forego his notion.
When I first took possession of Kilmoon Farm,
after paying for the tenant-right and a few odd
things about the premises  all the best had been
sanctioned off  I found myself with a trifle over
two hundred and eighty pounds to get cattle and
TOL. I. T

implements and necessary furniture. You know
it is reckoned the least any man can stock a farm
with is ten pounds to the acre ; so you can cast
that out at your leisure. I had my father and
mother to keep ; and I've buried three wives, and
spent a small fortune in doctor's bills ; and the-girls
have all had some sort of education ; and I
don't owe one in the world sixpence, except the
rent that'll be due to Mr. Garnsey next gale-days
and that's lying ready for him in the bank. I
don't know how it has been done, upon my conscience,
I don't ;" and Mr. Muir, overwhelmed
with the remembrances of struggle which lay behind
and the evidences of success spread around,
paused in his vehement recital as though he had
been suddenly struck with lightning.

*' It certainly seems very wonderful," agreed
Gorman, with hearty warmth.

'but I have run far away from what we
started talking about," said Mr. Muir, taking
himself well in hand like a horse inclined to bolt.
Do what you please with that room where the
grand ladies used to sit, as I've heard, with their

hoops, and their hair powdered, playing the
harpsichord and spinet, and working their sofa
cushions, and suchlike, just as other ladies do
to-day, only with a different sort of wool. Many's
the time I've felt vexed myself to see it turned to
no better use than a store for seed corn and beans
and peas. There's not much doing now, so I'll
tell Ned to begin and clear everything out, and
after dinner I'll break the news to Bell, who'll,
maybe, not be best pleased. She has a wonderful
temper of her own. Bell, and I'm not just so
fond of crossing' it."

''If you think my having the room will put
her out we had better think no more about it.
We ought not to cross Bell  she is such a capital
manager."

*' Sometimes it strikes me she is a bit too
much of a manager. I've often lately had my
doubts about the butter."

"About the  " suggested Mr. Gorman Muir,
dumfounded.

"About the butter  don't I speak plain
enough ?  you see it's a serious matter : she has

the whole management of the dairy, and though
we have more cows than we used, I don't find that
the quantity we sell increases as it ought."

'but Bell wouldn't do a thing like that,"
remonstrated the young man.

Her mother vrould, at any rate ; and there's
no use liking facts: children take after the
mother, more's the pity ; you're the very ' moral '
of yours ; Bell is her own mother, as one might
say. I can't tell who Sarah strains after  nobody
worth talking about, anyhow  while Carline,
she has a way of gathering lovers round her just
like what her mother had. Bell can't bear anybody
to have anything or be made of but herself ;
and her mother, if she'd heard me remark a girl
was pretty, would never have ceased scolding fora
week. She was beyond the common jealous,
and of me, too!" added Mr. Muir, in righteous
astonishment ; " while as for Carline's mother, it
was I had reason to be jealous of her. She just
did it with a look and a trick of the eye, and a
little half smile, so faint you'd have scarce noticed
it. No matter who came, he stopped. No matter

There we went, she was accounted a sort of saint,
she had such pleasant manners and such winning
ways ; and I swear to you, Gorman, the happiest
day of my whole life was the day I saw her a
corpse. But I am talking folly and nonsense.
What's the use of raking over dead ashes ? We'll
make a picture of that room yet ; but if you take
my advice you will just get off to Belfast as soon
as you've had your dinner and hank that money ;
then, when you get home, don't heed a single
word Bell says."

I'll get off", I think, without waiting for any
dinner," replied the young man. " The days
draw in so soon now I shan't have too much
time in town."

"It might he just as well," agreed Mr. Muir,
who preferred, when war seemed impending between
himself and Bell, that the combat should
be got over in private. " Go in and brush yourself
a bit. The horse's be ready by the time
you are. Ned shall have him for you at the
iron door."

With the cold sunlight falling upon him

through the leafless branches, Gorman Muir rode
slowly down the avenue, as fine-looking a man,
possessed of as untrained a nature as ever, in the
old days when might was right, spurred on in
tournament or battle. A thousand wild projects
floated through his brain ; dreams bright and
fair deluded him with their false, smiling faces.
He would be rich, honoured, courted ; he would
woo, and win, and wed the only girl he had ever
seen he felt he could marry ; he would build a
great house, and buy a fine estate, and mix on
equal terms with the descendants of those who
once in hoop and powder held festival at Ardilaw ;
he would  But at that point he was recalled to
the realities of life.

A small woman, dressed in widow's weeds,
with faded blue eyes and a pinkish nose was
fumbling over the latch, trying to open the gate.

Allow me," said Gorman ; and in a trice he
was on the ground and holding the gate wide for
her to pass through.

*' Is Miss Muir within ?" she asked with
modest trepidation.

Hat in hand, the young man assured her she
NTOuld find Miss Muir at the house ; then, leading
his horse through, and closing the gate behind
him, Gorman sprang into his saddle, and, satisfied
concerning Mrs. Boyle's whereabouts, selected the
least traversed road to Belfast, which took him
straight past Clear Stream Cottage.

He paused where the rivulet ran under the
lane ; and, rising in his stirrups, looked over the
tiny domain. Not a soul was in sight  the place
was utterly still. The very birds had hushed
their songs and were quiet. Beside the parlour
window Berna sat reading some book which evidently
enchained her interest, for she never
moved, though he watched her for some time.

At length, however, the curious influence one
human being's scrutiny has over another asserted
itself. Suddenly she looked up  saw a familiar
face peering at her over the hedge ; then, while a
vivid blush mounted to her forehead, she closed
the book and swiftly left the window, never to sit
near it again.

CHAPTER I.

Beechfield was a house about three times as
large as Ardilaw. Built long generations since,
when materials were cheap and labour even
cheaper, it possessed all the advantages and disadvantages
belonging to the period at which it
was erected.

Great rambling rooms, doors opening into
unexpected cupboards, and smaller chambers,
flung into the ground-plan, apparently out of mere
wanton extravagance  narrow corridors, halls
within halls, staircases where it seemed superfluous
for stairs to be, low ceilings, small windows,
yawning fireplaces, mantelpieces almost barbaric

VOL. II. B

in .their pillared pomp and lavish expenditure of
marble and carving, polished oak floors  a house
in which a fortune might readily have been spent
by some modern aesthete without producing any
appreciable result ; and yet that, with its dark
old-fashioned furniture and bald simplicity, presented
a certain appearance of proud stateliness
many a modern mansion decorated in the highest
style of latter-day art halts after in vain.

The house was literally hidden by trees.
Though it stood on a slight hill, a view could
only be obtained of even the upper windows
when the leaves had fallen ; yet from all the
living-rooms glimpses were obtainable of soft
green hills and white cottages, and a winding
stream and verdant meadows, to say nothing of
thousands of trees interlacing their branches, of
foliage dancing in the sunshine or dripping in
the rain  a place any man might have been
proud of a place Lyle Garnsey was proud of,
though he permitted moss to cover the avenue,
and the lawn to grow like a meadow, till the
time came for the mowers to lay the grass into

swath, and gather into cock, after which time
cattle were turned out to graze, and the broad
expanse might have been supposed an ill-kept
park, only it was not one.

Everywhere  on each fence, and pillar, and gate
the story of a straitened income was written.

Absolute poverty had never come as a visitor
past the entrance-lodges ; but Mr. Guernsey's
income could by no means afford the expense
of keeping such a residence in proper order.
In the days of his youth he had spent his substance
in wild and riotous living ; and every
effort he made in latter years to repair his
fortunes resulted only in rendering the tale of
disaster more complete.

The stories recited, with bated breath, beside
humble hearths, over glowing turf fires, concerning
the sins of his earlier manhood were,
making allowance for some natural exaggeration,
true enough. He had been very wicked in act;
and in heart he was very wicked still. Remembered
sins were pleasant to him, and he liked to
talk to any one willing to listen about days of

evil-doing that could come no more. He married
an heiress he disliked, for the sake of her wealth ;
and he broke the heart of the woman he loved.
That page in his life could scarcely have been
agreeable reading when, in the night-time,
memory brought a lamp and the open book to
his bedside, and bade him trace each mournful
word which had been written in tears by one
whose eyes could never more look at him with
tender entreaty or agonised reproach. In every
possible relation of life he had failed to do his
duty ; yet, so far as man knew, remorse did not
often trouble his repose. He lamented that the
railway mania should for him have resulted in
loss instead of profit; he chafed because his
means did not permit him to live most part of
the year out of Ireland; he felt angry when he
saw how business men were able to keep the
great places they bought or built ; but he failed to
repent him of the wasted years spent in idleness
and vice, and to prepare for the long, lonely journey
to the land which is so very far off mortal
eye cannot discern it, yet so near that scarcely

one second of our mortal time is needed to step
from this world across its mysterious frontier.

Mr. Gorman Muir bad not exaggerated facts
when he spoke with such bitterness concerning
the sort of conversation in which Mr. Garnsey
delighted.

It was an offence to God and any decent man;
but it had never offended Mr. Muir senior.

Quite the contrary. Mr. Garnsey's tenant
revelled in the stories that gentleman recalled ;
the tainted atmosphere at Beechfield seemed full
of nourishment to him ; duels, and the causes
which led to them; prize-fights, and those who
witnessed them ; the account of shameful orgies,
and cynical anecdotes, the drift of which went
to imply the venality of men and the frailty of
women, found in Hewson Muir an auditor far
too appreciative and comprehending. It was
not so with Gorman. He hated the talk. Whatever
was good in his nature revolted from the
doctrines held by Mr. Garnsey, and he turned so
dull an ear to discourses which had usually for
their theme matters only demons mi":ht have been

supposed interested in, that at length the OT\uer
of Beechfield gave up trying to convert him, with
the scoffing remark, " You're young yet, though
you are old enough to know better. When you
have seen something of the world you will think
worse of it even than I do."

When a man comes of a good family, and hasa
fine property, and possesses enough money to
keep the wolf from the door, it is not very easy
to outrage public opinion, which usually inclines
to smile on, rather than frown at, sinners in a
respectable rank of life. Nevertheless, this was
a feat Mr. Garnsey had managed to perform.
One by one his equals dropped out of acquaintance
with him. Fathers of families, whatever
their own shortcomings might have been, did not
care to associate on intimate terms with a man
who would persist in insinuating they were even
such as himself. Young men found his type of
vice old-fashioned and wearisome ; women  even
those who wished to be married themselves, or
who possessed daughters they wished to see
settled  avoided him when possible, and when

not possible waited with dread the next innuendo
it might please him to utter in those low, soft,
trained notes, which added so much to the awfulness
of his conversation. Had he roared his sinful
speeches out like old Admiral O'Conegan, who
always shouted as if he were trying to make himself
heard in a high gale, they would have been
robbed of half their terror.

His voice was so stealthy, that his utterances
always, even if expected, seemed to come on the
listener unawares. Possessed of refined tastes ;
a judge of painting and music ; an ardent admirer
of beauty in human beings, animals, and nature,
with a cultured intellect, critical understanding,
superior manners, a gentlemanly appearance, clear-cut
features, and a cold heart, he seemed to
Gorman Muir as good a representative of the
Enemy of Mankind as he was ever likely to meet
with in mortal form. He had never felt afraid of
any man before ; but he did feel afraid of Mr.
Garnsey. Nevertheless, after making a detour
which enabled him once again to pass by Clear
Stream Cottage, he passed through the gates of

Beechfield ere turning this horse's head in the
direction of Ardilaw.

When he paused hy Clear Stream Cottage the
night was fast darkening down, and, dismounting,
he slipped in through the rustic gate and across
the tiny bridge, and, from behind a little belt of
shrubs, stood looking at the shuttered windows
which hid from his sight the girl with whom he
had fallen so violently in love.

She was playing ; he could hear the tones of
an old piano, which sounded to him like the
music of the spheres. Cautiously he crept forward,
till close on the narrow path which led
round the end of the cottage ; there he remained
without moving, almost without breathing, listening
to the harmony she was making. Suddenly
she broke off, and, after a sad sweet modulation,
softly struck a few chords, and began to sing.

*' 0, what a voice !" he thought, with rapture.
He did not know the song, and he could not hear
the words ; but what he did know and hear
sufficed to keep him happy company to Beechfield.

*eyes, my darling, it is all for your sweet

sake," he murmured, as he rode leisurely between
the tall laurel hedges that made the approach to
Beechfield seem like the entrance to some sylvan
prison. The Garnets had ever been proud of
those wonderful laurels, quite twelve feet high,
which hemmed in the avenue with thick leafy
barriers; but to Gorman they always seemed
terrible, excluding, as they did, light, and air, and
view. His was a nature which never breathed
quite freely except on the hill-top or a wild seashore.
When the winter winds were howling,
and the crested waves dashing madly over the
rocks, he could have shouted like a boy with glad
excitement. He was of the stuff men are made of
who volunteer for forlorn hopes, and first mount
the scaling ladder, and rush forward to meet death
or victory. As an officer on active service he
would have been the right thing in the right
place; but he could scarcely be so considered,
planted down in a quiet village, where even the
echo of war's alarm was scarcely to be heard,
situate within a few Irish miles of the largest
manufacturing town in Ireland.

Once, with all the veins of his turbulent heart,
he desired to enter the Army ; but in those days
his uncle was far too fond of him to contemplate
the idea of separation. Since the rupture, he had
often contemplated taking the Queen's shilling,
shouldering his bayonet, and marching straight
from the ranks to renown. But now all that was
over. Success to him meant winning a smile
from Berna Boyle ; fame, making a home when
he could call her all his own ; happiness, toiling
to provide her with such comfort and luxury ashe
could compass; heaven on earth, the knowledge
nothing could part them but death, which,
after all, could not part those for long who were
sure to wait, each for the other, beside the river
that encircles the golden land.

He had quite made up his mind as he rode
into Belfast, and thought matters out while he
let his horse walk leisurely along the lonely lanes
he was forced to pass through in order to take
Clear Stream Cottage on his way back ; and" when
he at length sprang to the ground, and stood
under the great portico which sheltered Beech-field

a little from raging northerly winds, he felt
more than ever determined nothing should now
divert him from his purpose, that he would follow
the melody of that sweet voice till he caught the
singer, and caged her beyond the possibility of
flight.

"Has Mr. Garnsey finished dinner?" he
asked the footman, who always felt distracted in
bis intercourse with Gorman between the remembrance
that the gentleman was Mr. Muir's son
and the consciousness of several shillings and
half-crowns having passed between them.

The family have not set down to dinner
yet, sir," said William, in a creditable spirit of
compromise. "' The master  "

Who is that ?" asked the master himself,
appearing in the hall at this juncture. "Muir, I
declare ! Come in, man."

Not this evening, thank you, as you have
not dined. I thought I should about catch you
at dessert."

*' So you would, only I have been to a place
on the other side of Mount Stewart, and only just

got back. However, that's all the better. Come
along ; I'll hear no denial. Hot water shall betaken
into my dressing-room. The fish will be
up in five minutes, so you had better make haste.
Never mind your horse ; Ward will see to him.
You will find us in the drawing-room."

No man need have desired a more cordial
welcome; and though Gorman did not like his
host, yet he must have been more or less than
Irish had he remained insensible to the warmth
of such a reception.

Besides, the house and its appointments were
such as he had been accustomed' to, and it would
be idle to affirm that brotherly love or filial
reverence had, so far, served to reconcile him to
the domestic arrangements at Ardilaw. Ardent
and impressionable as he was in all things, he
argued such a greeting on the occasion of the
first step he had as yet adventured towards fortune
augured well for ultimate triumph.

With creditable rapidity he washed and
brushed ; then, hurrying down-stairs, entered the
drawing-room  an apartment so long it seemed

quite a journey from the door to the spacious
hearth, on which glowed a fire of ruddy peat.
There was no other light ; and a lady, starting
up and holding out her hand, said,

How do you do, Mr. Muir ? Don't tumble
over Bruce ; he's lying stretched full length on
that rug. I am so glad you have come. I'll
get you to look at poor Weenie's leg after dinner.
She got it broken, poor darling ; and I scarcely
think Peter Doey has put the splints on right."

You are soon enlisted," remarked Mr.
Garnsey, who was standing with his back to the
fire. 'you have not had time to draw your
breath before getting involved in the great dog
question. For my own part, I wish not merely
all their legs, but all their necks, were broken.
Just look here ! Six of them ; no less. Enough
to eat a man out of house and home  Dinner !
Please take my daughter, Muir. I will bring up
the rear, and keep back as many of these raging
fiends as possible."

Over the dinner-table none but the most ordinary
subjects were discussed. The state of parties in
England, the doings of the Encumbered Estates
Court, the prospects of the potato crop, the next
year's great show in Hyde Park, the mildness of
the season, prognostications as to whether there,
would be much hunting, speculations concerning
the future of France, with occasional observations
from Miss Garnsey bearing upon some piece of
local gossip or the health of a favourite animal,
made up the total of a conversation which was
neither much better nor much worse than the
usual run of talk in the family circle when
slightly on its j's and 's.

In fond memory, perhaps, of a time when
*' dining " meant much to him in the way of wit
and wine and company, Mr. Garnsey never failed
to array himself in evening-dress before sitting

down to table ; and as, like a dutiful daughter,
Miss Garnsey, often somewhat against her will,
followed suit, Mr. Gorman had the blessing of
beholding that 3'oung lady attired in a costume
which was neither a riding-habit nor the severe
and uncompromising apparel in which it was her
custom to proceed on those errands of mercy that
had elicited such admiring encomiums from Mr.
Muir.

The dinner itself was very good. Let him
stint in what he would without the house, Mr.
Garnsey took excellent care there was no lack of
comfort within it. He liked to live well, and
every dish which came to table was admirably
cooked and equally admirably served. No lack of
warmth or light, either, in those spacious rooms,
of glittering silver or sparkling glass. Gorman
had dined there before more than once, and always
with the feeling that he had walked back into the
sphere from which so recently sentence of banishment
was pronounced against him.

Though he did not like his host or care for
Miss Garnsey, it seemed pleasant to float back for

even an evening amidst the well-remembered
appointments, the soft-footed attendants, the
dainty dishes, the culture, the refinement, the
orderly service of old. It may seem ridiculous,
hut it is true, that he seemed to himself more
worthy of Berna as he sat looking at the shaded
lights and the snowy damask, and the delicate
china and the massive plate, than when he was
thrown among a family who ate Ijieir food in
haste, and with almost as few accessories in the
way of luxury as the Israelites on that night so
greatly to be remembered.

He was happy  " fey " almost, to quote a
well-known Scotch phrase. He talked gaily ; he
ate and drank with enjoyment ; he laughed ; he
looked handsomer than ever ; he conducted himself
 so the butler confided to the footman  as
if he had been a gentleman born ;" and assuredly,
spite of the knowledge that his father was ** just
Hewson Muir of Ardilaw," those functionaries
found it very difficult to remember he was not
every whit as good as their master, who sat at the
foot of his table, looking, so the notion occurred

to Gorman, as if he had been washed seven times
in Jordan, and come up clean as a little child.

Usually there was a something exasperating
to the young man between the darkness of Mr.
Garnsey's inner nature and the freshness of his
complexion ; but on the evening in question it
would have required more than a clear white brow
and guileless blue-gray eyes to disturb his equanimity.
Had he not a thousand pounds in the
bank  an object in his life  the sound of Berna's
voice in his ear? Who could be happier than
Gorman Muir, seated in the flesh at Mr. Garnsey's
table, and surrounded with everything calculated
to gratify his senses, while his mind, off on a
journey of its own, was standing in the semi-darkness
of a summer's night, which enfolded
himself and the dream-woman of his life in a
mantle woven of mystery and silence ?

Meals, no matter how long protracted, must
end some time ; and at length the cloth was
drawn, and the dessert, which consisted of nothing
specially rich or rare  pears and apples, grown in
the Beechfield gardens, and almonds and raisins,

VOL. n. c

provided by the Beecbfield family grocer  placed
on the table. Before Mr. Garnsey stood two
decanters and a carafe of water. Both servants
withdrew  all waiting and chance of eavesdropping
was at an end  and Gorman could at once have
plunged into business had he chosen. But he did
not choose. He and Miss Garnsey were engaged
in the delightful occupation of seeing if they could
discover any double almonds, when Mr. Garnsey
asked,

Why have you thrown us over in church,
Muir ? Was not our pew as good as that where
you sat last Sunday, frying between the stove and
the Rector ?"

"Better, a great deal; but when Mr. Crumbles
took so much trouble to give me a whole pew to
myself, I could not think of encroaching on your
kindness any longer."

Cunning old fox ! He likes to dot his few
sheep about the landscape so as to produce as
much effect as possible. I declare I have been to
church when all the worshippers did not amount
to six persons."

Why do we go to church at all ?" asked Miss
Garnsey, in a speculative sort of way, as she
dreamily cracked another almond.

'because we belong to the upper million, ina
so-called Christian country," replied Mr. Darnley.
" If our lot were cast in any other land we
should no doubt follow the fashion there."

'but you have convictions on the subject, I
suppose," suggested Gorman.

What kind of convictions do you mean ?
Religious? Not I, my friend. I left all that
sort of thing behind me long ago  as you will
leave it in the days to come. We drop a lot of
useless luggage by the way as we travel through
life. What I shall never understand is the reason
why we are weighted with so much at the beginning
of our journey. The best years of our life
are spent in disabling our minds of any number
of foolish fables and priestly legends and old
women's tales."

Slightly altering Miss Garnsey's question,
I wonder why you go to church ?"

Simply because it is well to conform to the

religious laws of a country as well as to its civil.
On the whole, I find it less trouble to go with the
stream than to fight against it  that is, in matters
where my own conscience is not materially affected
by doing so. If I were in Turkey, I should swear
by the Prophet ; if in Persia, worship the Sun ;
as I am in England  we will call Ireland England
for once  I  "

'If you found yourself among cannibals  "
interposed Gorman, who knew pretty well what
was coming.

"I really don't know whether I could manage
human flesh ; much would depend on how it was
cooked. Fill your glass."

Mr. Gorman Muir complied ; Miss Garnsey
cracked her last almond.

"I have not found a single double almond
amongst them all," she said, looking up disappointed.


"Console yourself, my daughter," observed
Mr. Garnsey ; "you have made a bull. Mr. Muir,
I know you came to say something to me. What
is it ?"

I have at last received that money from my
uncle."

'indeed ! That looks as if he were repenting
him of the evil of his ways. Does he hold out
any olive-leaf as a sign that the tempest of his
fury has abated ?"

'' On the contrary, his solicitors, who enclose
the draft, intimate Mr. Trevasson's desire that
I shall, under no circumstances, communicate
with him again."

"And what are you going to do?" asked Mr.
Garnsey. His daughter had pushed aside her
plate, heaped with almond-shells, folded her
hands on the table, and was listening intently.
Sell your horse, oil jour gun, and take your
passage for the Far West ?"

"No; I mean to try to make some money
here."

"How?"

Well, thanks to you, I have made some
already."

But I thought you hated attending fairs and
riding about to markets, and that you disliked,

beyond even those hardships, asking or accepting
a fair price for your horses."

'that is quite true," agreed Gorman, a little
confused; "but I might dislike the Far West
more. I know the trouble I have to contend
with here, and  "

"A case, in fact, of better the familiar fiend
you know than the strange fiend you do not know.
You may be right  I cannot say."

"At any rate, I want to stop here, and I do
not want to go there."

Mr. Garnsey stole one swift glance at his
daughter, even while he said,

That ought to settle the matter  a man's
own wishes are the best guides he can follow."

"lam not quite so sure of that," answered
Gorman; "but, at all events, I mean to accept
the guidance of mine."

Mr. Garnsey laughed. " Then you need no
advice from me," he remarked. "If I can give
you any help on your journey let me know."

Thank you. I came to ask you to help
me. Do you know of any man who thoroughly

understands horses, that I could engage to help
me?"

''I am afraid I do not  yes, I do. You can
have Peter. I will make jon a present of Peter.
He does not do an hour's work for me in a month,
but he'll do your work. I shall be heartily glad
to get rid of him. He and the maids are always
at daggers drawn. They know he has a wife
living somewhere, and that therefore his attentions
are useless, not to say compromising. Yes, you
shall have Peter."

Miss Garnsey laughed outright as her father
spoke of the feud which raged between the too
gallant Peter and the servants at Beechfield.

*mrs. Murtrie  " she was beginning; but
Mr. Garnsey cut ruthlessly across her speech.

*' As a poacher," he said, "I can conscientiously
recommend Peter ; his knowledge of traps
is exhaustive ; as a setter of night lines he is
unsurpassed. There is only one creature on
earth wiser in such matters than Peter, and that
is his lurcher ' Sniff.' There is something Satanic
about that dog. I have seen the pair sitting in

the sun hatching some mischief; and I am sure
Sniff knew exactly what was passing through
Peter's mind. Now, Lydia, much as we appreciate
your society, we will not detain you any
longer from your four-footed friends. I am sure
Weenie must have got her splints off; you had
better go and see. Mr. Muir will help you to put
them to rights presently."

I shall be very glad of his assistance,"
answered Miss Garnsey ; and, as Gorman held
the door open for her, she looked up at him ina
way he could scarcely misunderstand.

"You are not drinking any wine," observed
Mr. Garnsey. 'will you have some whisky;
there it is on the sideboard ? Stop, I'll get it for
you myself."

Gorman watched his host a little curiously.
On the occasion of each visit the same ceremony
was performed. From the servants' hall at Beech-field
there had drifted a report throughout the
country-side that Mr. Garnsey's favourite liquor
was one brewed in an exceedingly hot region, the
latitude and longitude of which is not accurately

known to geographers. Mr. Garnsey did not
intrust the key of the cellar wherein that vintage
was stowed away to his butler; and rumour
delighted to say the master to whom he had sold
himself took good care the bins were never empty.
Once  undeterred by the fact of its fiery birthplace
 the domestics managed to get a sip of the
Satanic brew, which for ever after they described
as " fearsome."

Yes, Peter is the very man for you," said
Mr. Garnsey, as he returned to the table, carrying
a square decanter in one hand, and a bottle that
was of no British manufacture in the other ; "but
you won't have room to go in for many more
horses at Ardilaw ?"

That was what I came to speak to you
about principally. I want you to let me that
farm of yours on the hill."

Do you mean Finney's old place ?"
"Where the house was burnt down."
Take my advice, and have nothing to do with
it. You know the Finney have sworn no man
who ever sows seed there shall reap a harvest."

"I am not afraid of the Finney, whoever
they may be."

Have you spoken to your father about
this ?"

"Xo ; I did not say anything till I knew if I
could get the land."

You can have the land ; but talk the matter
over with him before you decide to go on with the
matter."

Well, I will," said Gorman, disappointed.

'there are other farms on earth," said Mr.
Garnsey.

I knows there are ; but I had fixed my fancy
on that."

"It is a pity. What, won't you take any
whisky? Why, you are temperate. Then, perhaps,
you would like to go and relieve my daughter's
anxiety about 'Weenie'  only," he added,
as Gorman twisted the handle of the door, " one
word, Muir."

The young man came back, and stood with
one hand resting on the table, waiting for what
was to follow*



' No flirtation'" said Mr. Garnsey.

You may trust me, sir."

'' I have other views for her. She will only
have five thousand pounds fortune, and she must
marry money."

On my word of honour, Mr. Garnsey  "

That is quite enough ; remember, I trust
you implicitly."

You maj', I assure you."

Then go and see to those splints," said the
owner of Beechfield, with a smile, which widened
into a grin when the door closed behind Gorman.
** If that does not put the notion into his head,"
he thought, "he is a greater simpleton than I
take him for."

"When Gorman Muir reached Ardilaw he found
his father waiting for him outside the front gate.

'' You're late home "?" he said, using the words
rather in the form of a question than an assertion.

"Yes," answered the younger man, getting
off his horse and passing his arm through the
bridle as he and his father paced up the hill,
where the branches bent low over their heads, to
the back entrance. "I have been to Beechfield.
I wanted to ask Mr. Garnsey something, and he
made me stay to dinner."

"It's just as well you weren't back sooner.
The house is quiet now ; what it hasn't been all
the afternoon. The clergy may talk about the
poor demented creature that once upon a time lay
among the graves ; but if they'd seen Bell awhile
back they'd have known something about evil
spirits taking possession of a woman supposed to

be in her right mind. She has been fairly
raving. I never heard the like before in all my
life."

What was wrong with her ?"

According to her own account, nothing was
right. I bore it till I could stand no more, and
then I just took her by the shoulders and turned
her out of the room. I observed the house was
mine, and not hers ; and that if I wanted a floor
scrubbed I'd have it scrubbed, Monday or Tuesday,
or any time in the week I pleased."

0, she did not like the drawing-room being
cleaned out," said Gorman, light suddenly dawning
upon his mind. " I am so sorry I mentioned
the matter. It was very stupid of me."

Stupid ! not a bit. I'm right glad to seethe
way it looks now. And, besides, it wasn't
altogether the room set Bell's back up. That
widow woman from Clear Stream Cottage was
the beginning of the fray."

"What did she want ?" asked the young man,
interested at last. ''I met her as I was going
out."

Ay, SO she said. She came up, it seems, to
ask if I wouldn't let her have the butter and
potatoes, and the other things she has, cheaper ;
and Bell took it into her head the woman had a
notion of settling at Ardilaw as mistress. I
wouldn't like to say Bell was altogether wrong;
for I've had a suspicion myself that if I asked her
to he Mrs. Muir number four she oughtn't give
me ' No ' for an answer. I never did come across
a greater fool ; but for all that I don't want to
offend her. She has good people belonging to
her; among them, Mr. Richard Vince, the great
Belfast merchant, who might have been mayor
long enough ago if he'd chosen. He married a
Miss Carpenter, who came of a grand family;
and they visit at all the best houses both in
Antrim and Down. I'd never get a better tenant
than Mrs. Boyle. If she hasn't much sense, she
has those related to her that have money ; and
she buys everything from me she wants that I
have to sell. What is the use of angering her ?
That was all I asked Bell ; but I declare to sou,
Gorman, the words were scarcely out of my mouth

before I got such a tougue-thrasliing as I won't
forget in a hurry. I could not edge in a syllable,
so I left Bell talking, and started Ned on the
drawing-room. She followed me there, and held
on till, as I tell you, I turned her out. Then
Sally began on me, and then they both set on
Carline. You never heard anything like them,
man, never. I was well-nigh distracted with the
noise ; but it's over now for the night. And
one thing I've made up my mind to: if Bell
can't behave herself she shall go  daughter or no
daughter. It's out of the question to suppose
she's to have everything her own way. Things
have come to a fine pass when a sack or two of
oats can't be put in the garret without her leave
asked and granted."

'' I am vexed, though, to have been the cause
of so much trouble. If I had not spoken about
that room  "

She'd have found something else to rail over.
She's had a grudge against me ever since I wouldn't
let the cottage to Sam Dopp. A likely thing,
indeed, to suppose I'd have his tatler-headed

children making wreck and ruin of the place Mr.
Orr turned into a garden of Eden, in a manner of
speaking. It's strange, isn't it, Bell can't stand
anything that's only for ornament ? I have nothing
to say against her cleanliness, except that sometimes
I wish she would leave the place dirty ; hut
I can't understand why it is she does so hate
beauty of all sorts. It it was only in women, the
matter would not get over me; but, upon my
conscience, I believe if she had her will, the world
would be one big ploughed field, with all the trees
cut down for firewood. As for flowers  " at
which point Mr. Muir, finding language inadequate
to express the fair Isabel's contempt for
primroses and violets, was fain to take refuge in
silence.

"She is certainly a remarkable young woman,"
said Gorman  "a little trying sometimes; but
then we cannot expect to find all the virtues."

"If we did in Bell we'd be disappointed,"
answered the farmer ; " but we've said all we need
say about her. And so Lyle Garnsey would take
no refusal, but made you stop for dinner ?"

Yes, he was very kind indeed."

He has taken a wonderful notion to you."

'slam sure I don't know why, for there are
not many subjects on which we think in common."

"I don't see that has much to do with it. If
I mind right, you mentioned about needing to ask
him something ; was he able to tell you what you
wanted to know ?"

Yes, and I should like to talk to you about
it, if you are not too tired. I'll only give Larry
a rub down, and be after you in ten minutes."

What would you rub Larry down for, when
Ned is in the kitchen waiting to take him from
you ? There is nothing to hinder you grooming
your horse, I allow, if there's nobody else to do it
for you ; but as long as I pay wages there's no
call for me to clean horses myself or let my son
clean them."

"I don't mind what I do in that way,"
answered Gorman, very truly.

'well, you're not going to do it," said Mr.
Muir. "Just put Larry's bridle over the hook,
and I'll send Ned out ; you are past the common

VOL. II. D

active," lie added, half in reproach, half in pleasure,
as his son ran into the house to summon
Ned for himself.

'' Come along," added Mr. Muir, following
Gorman and laying a hand on his arm, " and seethe
fine clearance we've made. Molly hasn't spared
elbow-grease on the boards, I can tell you.
Look !" and with pardonable pride Mr. Muir threw
open the door of that room where stately ladies
had received grand company, and wrought rare and
costly needlework, and sang the old songs which
were new in their day, and loved and sorrowed,
and known heartaches and heart-burnings, just
the same as any nineteenth-century belle.

Gorman uttered an exclamation of pleasure ashe
saw the changed look of the apartment. It
was clean as Molly's willing hands could make
floor and paint. She had swept, and scrubbed,
and washed, and dusted. An old oaken sofa-table,
brought from the first-floor landing and
polished with beeswax till it shone in the leaping
firelight, stood beside the hearth, flanked by a
couple of antique straight-backed chairs that would

have been precious in the sight of any collector ;
turf glowed in the wide grate, and a beech billet
was laid on the top to give brightness to the flame.
A brass kettle was singing on the hob, while
materials for punch were placed upon the table.

You'll have a glass for once, (norman ?" said
his father, 'just to warm you and hansel the new
room. I'm well pleased myself at the look of it,
and I hope you'll spend many a happy and prosperous
hour in it;" having delivered himself of
which sentiment, while pouring some whisky into
a tumbler, Mr. Muir at one gulp swallowed that
whisky neat  solemnly, and as if he regarded the
whole proceeding in the light of a necessary
religious ceremony.

"My head won't stand raw spirits," said
Gorman, laughing, as he mixed himself a very
modest allowance of Bushels.

"Well, well, just as you like," answered Mr.
Muir, in a spirit of rare tolerance ; for, indeed, he
did not like to hear his son's head would not
stand anything. " Pull up your chair and have a
good air of the fire. It's chilly to-night. I got

a feeling of cold while I stood out by waiting for
you'*

I am grieved to have been so late. It was
foolish of me to go round by Beechfield, perhaps ;
but"

Foolish ? not a bit of it. You don't think
I mind your stopping out, do you? I'm only
proud to see my son so much thought and made
of."

*ras I was riding into Belfast to-day," said
Gorman, "I began to lay out my plans  do a
little castle-building, in fact," added the young
man ; " and when I was on my way back I thought
I would take Beechfield on the road, and ask Mr.
Garnsey if he knew of any man I could hire to
help me. You see, once I go into horse-dealing,
as I mean to go in, I shall want some one who
can devote the whole of his time to my work."

"That's quite right," said Mr. Muir ; "but
you might have asked me first."

So I would, only I was sure you did not
know anybody likely to suit me."

And does Mr. Garnsey ?"

He says so  Peter Doey."

"Peter!" exclaimed Mr. Muir ; "Peter! I
never thought he'd want to leave Beechfield."

"Mr. Garnsey seems to want him to leave.
There's some trouble about the servants, I think."

Mr. Muir laughed. "I shouldn't have thought
Lyle Garnsey would have minded what the servants
did. There's another reason, we may be very
sure. However, I wouldn't say but Peter might
be just what you want. There's not a craftier old
rascal in the length and breadth of Down. You'll
need to keep a sharp eye on him. There's this
much, though : if he cheats you himself, he'll let
nobody else cheat you ; and as for horses  well,
he just couldn't know more about them."

So far, then, we are right enough. Then
there was another thing. You know that farm
up the hill, which marches with your land ?"

"Yes Finney's."

I asked Mr. Garnsey if he would let it tome.
It's exactly the sort of place I want."

And what answer did Mr. Garnsey make ?"

He advised me not to take it."

I don't know who would want to take it."
Well, but the quality of the land is nothing

to me. It grows some sort of grass, and is a

splendid stretch of ground for young things to

gallop over, and learn to take their leaps, and  "
Get coughed, or their tails cut off, or their

tongues slit."

No one would try that game twice with me."
'wouldn't they? Much you know what

they'd do  not stand nice about lodging a bulletin

your own head, for that matter."

I should rather like the excitement of such

a business," said Gorman.

It is a sort of excitement a little of goes a

long way," answered Mr. Muir. "For my own

part, I hope I'll never have any more of that

kind of diversion."

Why, have you ever had any of it ?"

Have I '? Haven't I ? Did you never hear

tell of the county Down burnings ?"
"I do not recollect that I ever did."
Save us ! I thought the English were bad

enough ; but it is worse to meet a man that was

born in Ireland who knows nothing about the
destruction of property that went on just roundabout
where we're sitting, no farther back than
two or three years. Why, there wasn't a night
the sky wasn't red with flames. Over on the
other side of the Lough the people used to watch
for the fires beginning. Not a man in all these
parts but lost something. Haystacks and corn-ricks
went like smoke, and at last they fell to the
houses ; so that when we did go to bed, which
wasn't often, we lay down in terror of our lives.
At Clear Stream and Kilmoon they put lighted
turf in the thatch ; but thatch won't burn, you
know, without a lot of trouble."

But do you mean to say that the incendiaries
were never caught?"

Never ; not one of them."
What were you all about, then ?"
*' Watching our property, and distrusting
every man his neighbour. I've watched my ricks
myself, and so has many another farmer; and I
swear to you while I've been at one end of the
haggard the other has been set alight. No ; we

never got sight even of who did the mischief. If
we hadn't known fire couldn't have come without
hands to bring it, we'd have thought the tinder
had fallen straight down from heaven."

But, surely, such criminals might have been
detected!"

** That's what everybody said till they tried
the experiment. I said so; and heaps more
beside me. We watched  we laid traps  we were
quite prepared to shoot anybody down  but we
never set eyes on anybody to shoot."

It was most extraordinary. I never heard
of such a thing."

Nor anybody else. And I'll tell you another
remarkable circumstance. We found out there
was a car with five people on it passed the end
of this lane every night ; and we held a meeting,
with closed doors, at Beechfield, where there
wasn't a man present we did not believe true  nota
man but had suffered loss. We decided to stop
the car, and take the five on our own responsibility.
When it got near the time a lot of us,
who were told off for the purpose, went and laid

au ambush along the Newtonards Road. That
night the car did not pass, and it never passed
again. What we all wanted to know  and what
we want to know yet  is who told that we meant
to take the law into our own hands?"

Gorman only shook his head in reply. He
was puzzled, hut not convinced.

"What put a stop to the business at last?"
he inquired.

That's what we never knew, either; to be
sure, there wasn't much left to burn in the way of
hay and straw, and it's not so easy as anybody
might think to fire a house from outside. The
Yf3ij the whole thing ended was this. A big
reward had been out a good while without anything
coming of it, when, one morning, we heard
two girls, that lived with their father near ,
had shot some fellow they thought
meant to fire their stacks. They were alone in
the house, their father being away; and they
fired through a window. They were afraid to go
out ; but they watched, and saw the man laid on
a heap of stones by his comrades till a car drove

up, when lie was taken away, as they imagined,
dead."

They were plucky girls," remarked German.


Faith, you'll say that when you hear the
finish of the story. You may be sure there was
a to-do, the whole country-side running to seethe
place, and the blood that had soaked down
among the paving-stones, and the Belfast papers
full of the affair, and the body being searched for,
and all suchlike. There was a talk and excitement.
I heard some people in England sent the
girls a silver teapot, and there were those thought
the Queen would want to see them. If they had
been Queens themselves, more couldn't have been
made of them than was made, while the police
were working up the only clue they had  a cloth
cap, that had fallen off the man's head while they
were carrying him to the heap of stones."

I wish I had seen those girls," said Gorman;
are they living in Ballymacarrett now ?"

No. What do you suppose the upshot of
the whole matter was ?"

They got the reward, I suppose, and a good
deal more ; and married well, and  "

I'll tell you. The blood on the stones was
analysed, and found to be bullock's blood. My
ladies had got it off a butcher in Hercules Street,
and they had bought the cap, and they had never
shot anybody ; and they were glad enough to goto
America."

Good heavens ! And the burnings ?"

'' 0, they stopped at once."

Then do you suppose  "

I can't suppose ; the whole thing beats me
fairly. Two girls, even with the help of their
father, couldn't have set a whole country-side inflames."


'* I am not so sure of that," remarked young
Mr. Muir; '' it is wonderful what even one woman
can do, if she lays her mind to it."

You are right, if it is any manner of harm,"
said his father.

'* Peter," said Mr. Garnsey, " I am going to
hand you over to a new master."

The abruptness of this address might have
surprised some persons ; but it was difficult to
surprise Mr. Doey. When a man selects a
garden-roller for his seat on a raw winter's day,
and calmly continues sitting and smoking while
addressed by a superior, he can scarcely be
judged by the rules supposed to govern ordinary
mortals.

The roller was moss-covered, like the walks ;
but at meal-times, as well as on many other
occasions, Mr. Peter Doey did his best to remove
this reproach by obligingly transferring a portion
of the green to his own garments.

He was a short, wiry fellow, with a dried-up
face curiously wrinkled, small bright eyes, and
thin black hair just turning gray. He looked as

if he had lived all his life in an atmosphere
of peat smoke, and never been washed since he
was born. Sniff lay beside him, head between
his paws, one ear cocked, ready for any evil
errand on which it might please Peter to despatch
him. Mr. Garnsey, clean shaven, fresh from his
morning bath, both hands plunged in the pockets
of a trim pea-jacket, stood looking at dog and
man, waiting for Peter's comment upon his information.


There is one comfort," said that worthy,
taking the pipe out of his mouth so as to speak
with greater ease, " I couldn't have a worse
master than yourself."

Surely that is scarcely grateful," remonstrated
the master so addressed.

Grateful ! What would I be grateful for ?
Worked harder nor any beast, and for less nor a
beast's wages. Morning', noon, and night, it is
just * Peter, Peter, Peter,' till I'm fairly tired
and sick of the sound of my own name. First
it's you ' Do this and do the other,' and ' Why
the don't you attend to what I tell you ?'

Then it's your daughter wanting me to cut her
dog's ears, or clip her mare, or brush her habit
that's splashed with as many sorts of mud as
there's soils in the county. Then while I'm
choking myself over that, Mrs. Murtrie starts me
off for something she's forgotten to order out of
the town, and I declare to my conscience, what
with the butler, 'Peter, go there;' and the footman,
' Give this a shake ;' and the coachman,
'Lend a hand here;' and the housemaid, 'Peter
dear, mind you don't forget that calico for me ;'
and the cook, 'What a good-for-nothing fellow
you are, and not a lemon in the house !' I don't
know most times where Peter is at all, whether
in Belfast, or down the village, or at Beechfield,
jogging along to Newtonards, or breaking my
neck ' leaping ' hedges and ditches to catch the
train."

Poor Peter !" said Mr. Garnsey, " console
yourself. For the future you will have only one
master to serve, and only one thing to do, and
that is look after horses."

And what master is it you want me to serve

now ? Mind, I haven't said I'm going to him,
whoever he may be. For the bite and sup a man
has to make a snatch at in haste and sorrow, you
may drive him about as if he was no more nor a
beast of burden ; but you can't sell him, like a
slave. This is a free country to starve in, at any
rate ; and I don't know but I'd as soon starve as
lead the life I've been leading here."

''I am sorry you have been so miserable
with me; but 3'ou certainly will have a better
berth where you are going than I could ever find

you."

*i'm not so sure that I'm going anywhere."

"But I am. I have promised you to my
friend, and  "

If he's a friend of yours, Mr. Garnsey,
maybe if I agreed to take his money I'd be jumping
out of the frying-pan into the fire. Why
can't you tell me the man's name at once  that
is, always supposing he's not a woman ?"

It is young Mr. Muir."

D'ye mean Gorman ? What does he want
with me ?"

To look after bis horses."

He has only got one."

But he means to keep a lot. He is going to
make his fortune out of them  if he can."

AVhat AYOuld hinder him making his fortune?
You mind there is One takes care of his own ;
and if ever a coin had the image and superscription
of Satan graven on it, that coin's Gorman
Muir."

I don't see much sign of the cloven hoof
about him," said Mr. Garnsey, surprised at Peter's
manner.

Apparently Mr. Doey considered this remark
unworthy of reply, for he put his pipe again in
his mouth, and went on smoking, till the owner
of Beechfield, a little nettled, perhaps, at a knowledge
of iniquity wider than his own, observed,

"Let Mr. Gorman Muir be what he will, he
knows a good horse when he sees him."

"And he knows a pretty girl when he sees
her'' capped Peter, with a malicious grin.

A man must be stone-blind who cannot do
that."

And he's not blind," said Peter, with conviction.


There ensued a moment's silence, during the
course of which Peter puffed away meditatively,
and Mr. Garnsey, with the toe of his boot, stirred
the short grass on which Sniff was lying.

'' You'd best let him alone, master," advised
Mr. Doey ; " he's got a way of snapping sometimes
you wouldn't like, if you felt his teeth
meet through the leather."

Mr. Garnsey took the hint, and desisted.
Then I may tell young Muir," he began, 'that
you'll go to him ?"

'Deed, you may tell him no such thing,"
answered Peter. " I have thrown myself away
once, and before I engage again I'll want to know
a whole heap of things I was so foolish as to
make no inquiry about here. I'm no flyabout 
one place to-day and another tomorrow; and
before I stir one step I must know what I'm to do,
and how I'm to be paid. Besides, where's the man
going to keep his horses ? If it's at Ardilaw, he
must search about for some other nor me to look

VOL. II. B

Berne BOYLE.

after them. It would need a bigger stable even
than any Mr. Cleery owns for me and Hewson
Muir to put up in together."

He is going to rent Finney's land from me."

'ris he tired of his life?"

"It looks as if he were. I don't want harm
to come to him, but he is set on taking the farm ;
and, after all, some one must run the risk. The
place can't lie idle for ever."

Mr. Doey knocked the ashes out of his pipe,
laid it carefully on the roller, and then, locking
his hands together, sat considering the position.

What shall I tell Mr. Gorman Muir you'll
do ?" Mr. Garnsey asked at length ; while Sniff,
opening one eye, looked slyly up at the speaker,
as though listening with appreciative interest to
his conversation.

I don't know myself, master ; so how would
I tell you ? If the young man thinks he has need
of me, he had best come and say so. There's
many a thing would have to be settled between us.
It's a come-down in the world from Beechfield to
Finney's Farm  never to speak of the perils I

might, like Saint Paul, have to encounter over
yonder. He'd be bound to consider all that in
the wages, for I have no intention of leaving
here unless I better myself. The last man took
Finney's Farm was burned out of house and home ;
and it's always against a hired servant to be
connected with anybody gets into trouble or makes
a disturbance in the world. Now if young Gorman
was killed, I might have to give evidence, and  "
Decide the matter between you, and be
damned," said Mr. Garnsey, waxing impatient.

*well, well, master, if that should come to
pass we'll all be in the same boiling," answered
Peter, as he slowly gathered himself up from his
chilly seat, and limped off with the gait of a cripple
towards the stable-yard, followed by Sniff.

He had not, however, gone a dozen paces
before he turned and retraced his steps.
Mr. Garnsey, sir," he began.
*' What is it now ?" asked that gentleman.
I wish when you see young Muir you would
give him a hint to say nothing of what is in his
mind about needing the benefit of my help and





taking advantage of my experience. Maybe I
might never leave Beecbfield. Anyhow, there is
no use giving the whole country-side words to set
to music." Having uttered which profound remark,
Mr. Doey really took his departure.

When a man has set his heart on any course, he
is always able to give fifty excellent reasons why
he should pursue it ; but he usually omits to
state the true cause, which lies at the bottom of
the whole matter. Mr. Gorman Muir proved no
exception to this rule. His talk as the days went
by ran on the cheapness and convenience and
general desirability of Finney's Farm; but he
never said that a girl's face was keeping him in
Ireland, chained to one particular piece of country
lying between Newtownards and Belfast.

As Mr. Garnsey so truly remarked, there were
other farms to be let in Down ; and, as Gorman
himself could have told all concerned, there were
more counties than Down in Ireland, and other
countries in the world besides that of his birth, to
one of which he would immediately have set about
transporting himself and his fortunes had he

never seen Berna Boyle. For the first time in
his life he was in love. At his age, and with his
temperament, it would be folly to say he had
never before been taken captive by a pair of bright
eyes : he had fancied, and flirted, and kissed, and
lain awake at night, and written poetry by day,
and believed his heart would break if sweet
Kathleen or merry North refused to smile on his
suit ; but in proportion as the maids grew kinder
his affection cooled. All through his boy and
earlier manhood he was perpetually apostrophising
the wrong woman. Did he write a sonnet to
Mary, he immediately found out he ought to
have inscribed it to Aileen ; after chanting the
praises of Aileen he was sure to discover his
affinity in Lucy. Many a girl wept bitter tears
over the young vagabond's inconstancy before he
was twenty-one ; but as he grew older there were
those who, though they made no moan, suffered
deeper pain, because with all their arts they could
win no glance of special tenderness from those
deep brown eyes that, while seeming to make love
to all the better part of creation, took very good

care to bestow no look of individual interest on
any single fair.

He had been courted, flattered, smiled on,
sung to, danced with, till at two-and-twenty he
was fairly tired of being run after. He felt weary
of girls and women, of mothers and daughters.
He longed for some wider sphere of action ; he
wanted to go out and see the world. He wished
to be an officer ; to cut the Mount Michael ,
which always dragged him back to
Kilkenny just when he most wanted to take a run
on from Paris to Madrid, and reminded him he
was staying too long in London, though he might
have been enjoying the pleasures of that capital
only for a month. Mr. Trevasson was at once
too indulgent and too exacting. Had Gorman
been his son, and the Mount Michael estates
strictly entailed, he could not have brought the
young fellow up with a greater certainty that one
day every tenant would call him master ; and yet
the moment he dared to exercise the smallest freewill
he was pulled sharply back into inaction and
dependence. As a boy, the length of his tether

had sufficed ; but when Gorman grew to manhood,
the knowledge that though he might proceed a
certain distance, he could not go further afield,
chafed his restless spirit, and caused him to long
with tenfold intensity to break bounds.

It was about the same time that he began to
grow weary of bewitching amazons and timid
sirens. Amongst the ladies of his acquaintance
there were many beautiful, amiable, accomplished,
in all respects desirable ; but Gorman had known
them for years, and was heartily tired of their
attractions. Such indifference to the fair sex is,
at that age and with such temperaments, more
common than women like to imagine possible
had his dream-love, the joint offspring of
poetry and fantasy ; but he believed, wherever the
fleshly tabernacle containing that divine conception
resided, it was not in the county Kilkenny.
Far away in some Eastern land, after wild adventure
and long travel, he might  in the evening,
or the morning, or the noontide of some happy
day  meet his Eebekah, passing fair to look
upon ; but he was in no hurry to do so. She

would still be waiting for him, pitcher on her
shoulder, or sheep following her to the well; while
he wandered through strange lands and unaccustomed
scenes, to find his dream-woman thousands
of miles from the little emerald isle, modestly
stated by one of her poets to be 'ein the ring of
the world  the most precious stone."

Meantime Mr. Trevasson wished him to marry
an heiress who was certainly neither a Rebekah nora
Rachel. Gorman, however, wanted to choose
his own heiress when, in the fulness of time, it
should become necessary for him to choose at all ;
and over this difference of opinion there ensued
the first real quarrel between uncle and nephew.
It did not last long; for the lady, whose own
preferences had never been consulted, chose a
clergyman for husband, and Mr. Trevasson felt
glad enough to find an excuse for again taking
into favour the kinsman he loved. Time went
by ; still Gorman hunted, and fished, and shot,
and danced, and grew more and more idle, and,
if the truth must be told, more and more accustomed
to the useless life he led. Satan, we are

told, always finds work for the unemployed ; and
it may be that Satan now and then did find a
not unwilling servant in the gentleman no one
doubted would inherit Mount Michael.

By and by Rumour began to busy herself about
Mr. Gorman Muir. Whatever his sins, they
"Were, perhaps, painted blacker than facts warranted.
Gossip always takes sides against the
criminal. She has long constituted herself public
prosecutor on behalf of society, and if the young
man had been white as snow  which he was not
she would soon have contrived to bespattered him
with mud.

It was then Miss Dora Antrim, who had
recently arrived in the neighbourhood, spoke up
in Gorman's behalf. She would never believe ill
of Mr. Trevasson's nephew, she said. He must
be good and honourable. It was wicked for
people to talk as they did about him. And she
took him into great favour, and would gladly have
accepted the task of changing this leopard's spots
if the young man would have let her.

He, however, preferred to keep his spots as

they were ; he would have none of Miss Antrim's
kind attentions. He had never liked, and at last
he grew to hate, her light ringlets, her great blue
eyes, her baby face, her rosebud mouth, her
pearly teeth, her soft caressing ways.

When Mr. Muir said his son had played his
cards badly, he was quite right. Gorman let her
read the whole of his antipathy, and only laughed
when, with a little mocking curtsy, she remarked,
We shall see," and left the room.

He did see. She was an unscrupulous player,
and in her hand she held those court cards,
youth and beauty, that count for so much in the
game of life. ,It was her turn to laugh when she
entered Mount Michael as Mr. Trevasson's wife ;
her day of triumph when, three months later,
Gorman passed her in the hall on his way out 
a dethroned heir, a disgraced man. Full was his
heart of bitterness while he rode down the long
avenue, never once looking back, with his face
sternly set towards that world he had now perfect
liberty to conquer if he could.

No one ever probably began a fresh career with

a firmer determination to keep out of love and
mischief than Gonnan Muir; and yet a chance
encounter in the ghostly twilight, a few words
spoken by a girl he did not know, a glimpse of an
upturned face he could scarcely see, sufficed to
break down all the barriers he had erected with
such care  to change his whole destiny, and
influence every day of his future life.

He might not have stayed one hour at Ardilaw
after he received his thousand pounds, but for the
thought of Berna, who would not speak to or look
at him ; who seemed to hold it an offence that
his eyes should rest on her ; who would not let
the skirt of her dress touch him as she passed in
church.

It was this led him on. Had she been different,
he might have forgotten her as he had
forgotten others. Had he met her in Kilkenny,
been formally introduced, talked to her, laughed
with her, she never could have stamped her image
on his heart as was the case. In the common
round of daily life he kept ever following one
gliding phantom, Berna Boyle. He did not once

mention her name; but he listened with avidity
to the slightest word dropped about her. For
the first time in his memory L. -e made him shy 
love caused him to be fearful  love seemed to
ennoble him. In every previous affair he had
thought but of self  all his c:ire was now for her.
She was poor  early and late be would work to
make money. She had come down in the world 
it should be his glory to give her back all she
once possessed, and more. Of her daily life 
what she did, thought, felt  he knew absolutely
nothing. But this ignorance, so far from damping
his romantic musings, only increased their
ardour. He was chained by no fetters of fact,
hampered by no rules of conventionality. Through
dreamland he roved at will, still following a flitting
figure, which never once turned its head to look
behind. He had found his Rebekah. He had
met his Rachel. But the acts of gracious kindness,
the smiles of bashful tenderness, still only
gleamed amid the mists of a dim vague distance.
As yet his love was all fancy  and shall we
say folly (since the world has still to learn intuition

is the truest wisdom) ? But yet it could
not but be considered as founded on a rock,
because even in its most shadowy recesses it held
no thought of turning, had conceived no idea of
wrong  it was grand, loyal, hopeful, true, and
modest. Whether with man or woman, the best
fruits of the soul are accounted well-nigh valueless,
and timidly offered on the shrine of love as things
of no account. Such as he was  and faults
balanced by many virtues held at times high
revelry in Gorman Muir's nature  he had fallen
head over ears in love with Berna Boyle. To
him, her low estate seemed next to nothing  to
her, the knowledge that he was Mr. Muir's son
raised a barrier she imagined years could not
raze or circumstances destroy. To Berna it all
appeared most horrible. Unwittingly, her fancy
had strayed out to meet this stranger, who ought
never to be anything to a Boyle of Boyle Court.
For a short space  while she did not know who
he was, during the time she only saw a horse and
his rider  her errant fancy went out to meet the
hero of romance so many girls create for themselves

from the likeliest materials ; but when
she knew him as Gorman Muir, Berna steeled
her young heart against him. What ! she her
father's daughter, and think of such a man as
that a man not merely" low, but wicked ; a man
who had the assurance to imagine her the same
as himself, and conceive a girl who came of such
a stock, who boasted a lineage like her own, could
answer look for look and take step with step in
that awful way that might lead her at last to
acknowledge Hewson Muir of Ardilaw for father-in-law
!

And there was nothing further from Gorman's
notion than any idea of asking his dainty, stately
love to cast in her lot with his people. For six-and-twenty
years he had not lived among those
who accounted themselves of the bluest of blue
blood for nothing. If his darling could have
associated with his people, he would not have
thought so highly of her as he did.

No ; when once she was won, he would take
her away. He did not know where ; but far from
Ardilaw, at all events. Some day, some happy

day, he should be able to tell her all that \Yas in
his mind. Looking down on the stretch of open
sea that bursts upon the view when the hill
beyond Ardilaw is climbed, and the height of
Craigantlet reached, or peeping from the green
arch formed ty interlacing trees at the sight of
Carrickfergus Lough to be obtained as the crossroad
from Dundonald nears Holy wood, and the
county Antrim seems close enough to touch, and
the water, though three or four miles in width,
appears no broader than a tiny lake, and any one
might think he could throw a pebble on the deck
of the English steamer hugging the Down shore
Gorman determined to speak to Berna Boyle of
his dead mother, and Clonmellin, and Mount
Michael, and show her how, Ardilaw notwithstanding,
he had the right to count himself one
of the select hundred thousand, the lower million
in Ireland were at that period, when birth went
for much and money for little, for ever toiling
after in vain.

You'll be for building yourself a fine house
one of these days, up on Finney's Farm, sort,"

said Peter, after various preliminaries had been
settled between him and his prospective master
entirely to that worthy's mind.

"What should I build a house on Finney's
Farm for?" asked Mr. Gorman Muir, surprised.

You needn't be a bit feared," observed the
man reassuringly. " There's just a pair left in
the country would do a thing to hinder you ; and,
with the Lord's help, we'll tackle them  ay, and
beat them, too  that is to say, if you'll be guided
by Peter."

But I don't want to build a house. What
do you imagine I should do with a house up
there?"

Live in it with your wife, when you bring
her home."

Gorman was so surprised he could not help
changing countenance. Nevertheless he looked
straight into Mr. Doey's shrewd, wrinkled face,
while he said,

When I marry  if ever I do  I hope I shall
be able to take my wife to a different sort of place
altogether from Finney's Farm."

VOL. II. F

Peter drew down his brows and screwed up
his eyes, and, fairly puzzled, thought for a moment
before he asked,

"It's the truth you're speaking, Mr. Gorman,
and not a lie ?"

"The truth, of course. Why should you
doubt me?"

"Well, that's queer, too," commented Peter.
And for many a long day he never touched on so
delicate a subject again.

It was a dreary afternoon in December, as dreary
as afternoon could be. All the morning a high
warm wind prevailed, sweeping dull masses of
gray clouds across a sky unrelieved by even a
gleam of sunshine ; and as the day wore on a
slight drizzle of rain began to fall, which at
length, without the slightest warning, turned ina
moment to a wild storm of hail. Berna, who
had been on a mission connected with eggs and
poultry to Mrs. Gribben, was met by this storm
as she came down the hill from Craigantlet.
Before one could have clapped hands, her umbrella
was turned inside out, her shawl almost
torn off her back, her skirt twisted round her
ankles, her bonnet on her neck, and her face
tingling with the smart of the hailstones, which
stung like the cut of a whip. Almost banded,
she instinctively made for the nearest shelter, the
garden hedge of Ardilaw, which bounded one

side of the road, about twenty paces from the spot
where the storm burst upon her.

Breathless and dishevelled, she squeezed herself
between a brick pillar and the privet, and
panting, waited for the first violence of the
tempest to exhaust itself ere repairing damages.
She had not stood there more than a few seconds
before a man jumped over the opposite ditch,
and, holding his dripping hat on with one hand,
crossed the road.

'' Why, Miss Boyle, is that you ?" said Mr.
Muir, for it was he ; " don't stand there. Come
in, come in;" and he opened the garden-gate,
which was fastened with a chain and padlock, ashe
spoke.

Thank you, but I think the storm will soon
blow over," answered Berna, who had never got
into cordial relations with their landlord.

You may as well wait in the house as here,"
he returned, still holding the gate open. " It's
an awful day. I wish Gorman had chosen any
other to ride across to Comber. He'll be fairly
drenched."

I will get home as fast as I can," said
Berna, ignoring the Gorman question altogether,
and making a futile attempt to pull her bonnet
into position.

*' That you won't," declared Mr. Muir, who
for the first time in their short acquaintance
realised the full extent of the girl's beauty, as
she stood with her hair tossed about her face,
and a brilliant wind-blown colour in her cheeks,
looking, in that leafy shelter, as he often afterwards
said, '' like a picture." " How could ever
I meet your mother again, if I let you stop out
here to be chilled to your marrow ? Come along.
You're keeping me out in the wet, too; and
Bell '11 find a cloak to wrap round you as you go
back."

Without actual discourtesy, Berna felt she
could not longer refuse to enter Ardilaw. " You
are very kind," she said, and stepped once more
out into the weather. In a trice Mr. Muir had
shut and locked the gate, and with a caution to
** keep close to the hedge," started running
towards the house in advance of Berna, from

whom he thus managed to keep some of the violence
of the storm. It was awful. The hail
pelted on their heads; the wind swirled and
eddied, as if anxious to tear them limb from limb ;
twigs, dead leaves, and straw were flying in all
directions ; as they crossed the yard the very dog
only looked at them shivering, refusing to leave
the shelter of his kennel in order to bark at
Berna.

In the kitchen there was not a soul. Berna
stood for a minute within the porch, to let the
wet drip off her garments.

Come in, come in," repeated Mr. Muir.
"What are you waiting for? Never mind the
flags. I don't know where my daughters are ;
but step this way, and I'll soon find out. Mind
you don't trip, it's dark here." And so he led
the way to the hall, where, pushing open the door
of that room Gorman had furnished, he was about
to ask Berna to sit down till he summoned his
daughters, when he perceived, with astonishment,
that the whole family was there assembled.

A bright fire blazed on the hearth, in front of

which stood Miss Garnsey, a light whip in her
hand, the skirt of her riding-habit thrown over
her arm, a huge dog stretched at her feet, talking
volubly to Mr. Gorman Muir. The two Misses
Muir, and Carline, now Mrs. Cragland, were
listening with all their ears to the young lady's
discourse, which she broke off when Mr. Muir
entered, in order to greet that worthy with enthusiasm.


You did not expect to see me, I know," she
said, holding out her hand, and shaking his as
though he had been her dearest friend. " My
mare got a stone in her shoe, and I turned inhere
to ask one of your men to take it out, when
Mr. Gorman appeared on the scene. He made
me come in. Lucky, wasn't it? If I'd been
out now, I should have got soaked to the skin.
But you are wet through, Mr. Muir, and so are
you," she added, addressing Berna, who, having
tried at sight of the group collected round Miss
Garnsey to effect her escape, was held by the
farmer as though she had been his prisoner.

We're not quite so bad as all that comes to.

but we're bad enough," answered Mr. Muir.
** Carline, help Miss Boyle off with her shawl ;
and, Bell, you hang up her bonnet to dry.
"Where did you start up from, Gorman ? I
thought you'd be at Comber by this time."

I heard Newly was not at home, so I did not
go on," answered Gorman, who had risen when he
saw Berna, and now offered her his chair.

'' I am afraid you have got sadly wet," he
said, taking her shawl from Carline.

'' no !" she replied. '' Thank you, I would
rather not sit so near the fire;" and she retreated
a little from the hearth.

*' You ought to change everything you have
on, at once," said Miss Garnsey, speaking with
great decision. " You will catch your death of
cold ; and I'm sure you are not strong, you don't
look so."

'' I am very strong," answered Berna, smiling
in spite of herself ; "and I must get home as soon
as possible. Mamma will be uneasy about me."

"Well, there's one comfort," retorted Miss
Garnsey; "nobody will be uneasy about me. It

would drive me wild to have any person fretting
and fuming if I were not back to a minute. Papa
began that sort of thing, but I soon put a stop toit;"
and she turned to Mr. Muir for approval;
who, however, remarked he thought it best young
girls should be bound by some sort of rule.

If you were my daughter," he added gallantly,
" I think I'd want to know you were safe
and sound; and when you get a husband, I'm
very sure he'll not be content to have you out of
his sight for half an hour together."

Really, Mr. Muir, you are a most delightful
person," exclaimed Miss Garnsey; "you will
make me quite vain. I assure you I am not
accustomed to receive such charming compliments."


"Ah, that's what you tell usT said Mr.
Muir; "but I'll never believe such a change has
taken place in the world since my time. When I
was a young man, there was nothing came readier
off my tongue than a quiet word of that sort to a
pretty girl. I wish I was young again, for your
sake."

"And I wish you were young again, for my
own," declared Miss Garnsey, patting the dog
with her foot.

Carline, perhaps Miss Garnsey would take a
cup of tea," suggested Gorman, cutting across the
conversation, in dread, perhaps, of where it might
lead.

I should like one ybtj much indeed," said
Miss Garnsey ; " and. Miss Muir, as we came
through the kitchen I saw some delicious potato-cakes
baking ; oughtn't we have some ? I never
get any at home. Mrs. Murtrie won't make them.
Don't you like potato-cake. Miss Boyle?"

Miss Boyle answered that she did, but without
enthusiasm. "I do hope," she said, in a low
tone to Carline, who hovered near her, " the
shower will soon be over; mamma does get so
uneasy."

"Make yourself content, miss," interposed
Mr. Muir, answering Berna's looks rather than
her words ; " your mamma won't say a word to
you. Once the weather moderates I'll drive you
home myself. Good people are scarce, and pretty

people are scarcer, and I'll not risk the loss of
one that's both good and pretty"

"You ought to get up and make a curtsy for
that," exclaimed Miss Gamsey, at the same time
stealing a glance towards Gorman, to see how he
took his father's remark ; but Gorman's face was
inscrutable.

When Miss Garnsey was of the company, it
proved no easy matter to edge in a word, even
sideways. Mr. Muir only, of all present, attempted
to do so, and the consequence proved he and she
had the conversational ball to themselves, tossing
it to and fro, with a good deal of boldness on the
farmer's part, while Berna sat on thorns, wishing
she had never entered the house and that she
were well out of it.

Tea appeared. Whatever her feelings at
having to permit a meal so utterly out of season.
Miss Muir was forced to control them. She had
declined Miss Garnsey's proffered help ; she had
negatived that young lady's request to be allowed
to butter the cakes ; grimly she had *' set out "
the best china, and produced a silver service which

once belonged to that sainted woman, Mrs. Muir
number two ; and now with stoical resignation
she sat down to pour out tea for their landlord's
daughter, who compelled Berna to take a cup, and
could not, to quote Miss Muir subsequently, " sit
like a Christian," but walked about the room eating
and drinking as she paced from fire to window,
talking, laughing, and enjoying herself thoroughly.


So you've got a piano," she said, pausing
before a small instrument Gorman had hired.
Who plays ?" and she looked around at the
ladies of the Muir household.

"None of us," answered Carline. 'rit is
Gorman."

You ! Why, I never knew you could
play."

I only strum," answered the young man.
Won't you try the instrument. Miss Garnsey ?"

I ? Good gracious, no ! I detest playing.
I suffered enough while learning my notes to
make me hate it for ever."

"Miss Boyle, you sing, I know  "

"How do you know?" asked Miss Garnsey
sharply.

"She looks as if she did," answered Gorman,
somewhat confused.

"Do give us a song," entreated Mr. Muir; a
request which was so earnestly repeated by his
daughter that Berna, to avoid argument, did as
she was asked.

"Well, that's beyond the common," said Mr.
Muir, when the last note died away. " I didn't
think sounds like that could come out of a
woman's throat. The lark's no better than you.
But I'm afraid we've tired you ; all the colour
has gone from your face. Come here by the fire
and rest. Gorman '11, maybe, sing you a song
himself now."

Berna did not beg Gorman to do so, but Miss
Garnsey made up for her omission. The evening
was darkening down ; the old room was lighted
only by the flickering firelight ; without, the wind
howled around the house ; within, there was
silence, broken only by the sound of Gorman's
voice as it rose and fell, trembled with passionate

tenderness, and died away in sorrowful appeal.
'* Adelaide " was the song lie selected. More
absurd words were probably never set to music,
but that did not signify. As Berna listened she
could not see the leaping blaze for a mist of tears.

*' Hail or shine, I think I'll have to make the
best of my way home now," said Miss Garnsey,
when the song was finished.

"And Gorman will go with you," suggested
Mr. Muir.

"I will walk beside you with pleasure,"
remarked Gorman, certainly with no tone of
pleasure in his voice ; " but I can't ride, my horse
has cast a shoe."

"Thank you; but I need no escort except
Bruce," answered Miss Garnsey, a little shortly.
I will get away now ;" and then she bade good-evening
all round and, accompanied by Gorman
and her dog, walked off to the stable-yard.

I wonder, now, what brought her here today?"
marvelled Mr. Muir, not without a certain
touch of pride in his voice.

"Do you? I don't," retorted Miss Bell.



"Anybody with half an eye could see she came
after Gorman. Well, she need have money, for
I am sure she's no beauty ; but money's all the
men think of."

"Man or woman's not much without it," said
Mr. Muir sententiously. " Sit still, sit still. Miss
Boyle. If you must go, I'll have the gig brought
round ; you shan't walk one foot of the way to
Clear Stream this night."

It's not fit for anybody to be out in such
weather that can stop at home," observed Miss
Muir, with some acrimony.

Indeed, I am very sorry I came out," answered
Berna, who could not fail to see the drift of Bell's
remark. " I feel quite distressed at the idea of
giving your father so much trouble."

You needn't be fretting yourself about that,"
was the reply. " He never minds trouble, if it is
for strangers." Upon the whole, it was not easy
to converse with Miss Muir.

Berna stood looking into the twilight while
Mr. Muir was absent ; talking sometimes softly
to Carline, sometimes adventuring a remark to

the second Miss Muir, and even occasionally
essaying a word to the redoubtable Bell.

*'I am very, very much obliged to you all,"
said Berna, as Carline wrapped the shawl close
around her, with an action that was almost a timid
embrace.

0, you've no call to be that," returned Bell
ambiguously.

"Now, if you're ready," suggested Mr. Muir,
putting his head into the room ; "I don't want to
hurry you, but the horse doesn't like standing."

"Where's Gorman?" asked Carline.

"We can't be waiting on Gorman," Mr. Muir
replied. " Likely as not he's half-way to Beech-field
by this."

But Gorman was not half-way to Beechfield.
As they passed out of the house they found him
standing beside the gig.

There is no need for you to turn out," he
said to his father. "I can drive Miss Boyle
home."

We had better go round by the road," said
Mr. Gorman Muir to his companion, as he drove
slowly out of Ardilaw. " The cross lane will be
very heavy after all the rain we have had."

Do you think so ? " answered Berna faintly.
She had shrunk into the very smallest possible
space, and found it difficult to prevent her teeth
chattering as loudly as the spokes of Mr. Muir's
old gig rattled.

' Yes ; it will be in a shocking condition,"
returned Gorman, and then he paused. He did
not know what to say next. Precious minutes
were flying, and he felt tongue-tied. With any
other girl he would have found plenty to talk
about. He had driven girls home before that
night, and could not remember that the conversational
well ever dried up ; but now it seemed
frozen. Ah! the moonlights, and the twilights,
and the starlight that all came back to memory

VOL. II. G

as he peered forward into the darkness ! Evenings
on the water ; evenings wandering among flowers,
while the sound of music floated across the warm
summer air; evenings when he looked at downcast
blushing faces aod upturned laughing eyes,
and words were not lacking, or, for that matter,
looks either ; and now  he felt stricken dumb.

But faint heart, as we know, never won fair
lady; added to which it was manifestly impossible
two persons could drive steadily through the
night and never exchange a syllable. Accordingly,
though the voice in which he spoke sounded
strange to his ears, Gorman began,

''I am glad, Miss Boyle, to have at last an
opportunity of apologising for frightening you so
much the first time we met. The matter has
been a weight on my conscience from that evening
till this hour."

"I was more startled than frightened, I
think," Berna answered.

Yet you have not walked there since," he
said, and unconsciously he leaned a little towards
her, and his voice took a tenderer tone.

Well, it is scarcely the season," suggested
Berna, who at that moment would have welcomed
any accident that had taken her out of the gig.

"That is true," he answered. "When the
fine weather comes again, I trust you will not let
the memory of my unfortunate intrusion prevent
your taking what I should imagine must he a
pleasant stroll."

"I do not know where we may be when the
fine weather comes again," said the girl, ignoring
the implied question concerning the delights of
wandering through Mr. Muir's meadow.

"Why, are you thinking of moving *? I imagined
you were settled here."

Mamma does not like the country. She
often speaks of moving into some town."

"Belfast?"

Xo ; not Belfast. Bangor, possibly. She
has friends there ; she has none here."

But you, Miss Boyle, you would not wish to
leave Clear Stream ?"

I think I should like to go to Bangor," she
answered. "I love the sea."

He did not know what to say after that, it
seemed a complete rout. True, Bangor was not
far away, but it could never be the same thing as
Dundonald. If she went there, who could predict
what might happen ? Once again he sat dumb ;
this time from misery, not shyness.

''I was in hopes that you would have remained
at Clear Stream," he ventured at last ; " it is a
pretty little cottage."

Yes ; but it is lonely for mamma."

And for you ?"

I do not mind about that. All places are
much the same to me  now  "

"Ah!" he said; "I do not think place has
much to do with happiness. I, for instance  "
then, " Were you ever in the county Kilkenny,
Miss Boyle ?"

"No. Our county was Mayo."

"I do not know Mayo. I once spent a month
in Galway, near Lough Cong, with some people
called Vassaleur. Perhaps you may have heard
of them."

Yes ; from the Dowager  I mean old i\Irs.

Boyle. They were friends of hers." She could
have added that the families once hoped to he
closely allied. A daughter of the house, now a
middle-aged spinster, might possibly have been
her father's wife, but for that unfortunate meeting
with Milly Vince, which made such a wreck of his
after existence.

Old Mr. Vassaleur was shot one day as he
was driving up his own avenue," said Gorman,
beating the coverts of his mind in vain for some
clever or original remark.

"Yes," agreed Berna, to whom every detail of
the murder had been familiar for years.

*' That is what I shall be one day, I expect."

"Why?" For the first time Berna's voice
had a touch of interest.

"Because I have taken Finney's Farm  "

Who is Finney ?"

He was a man who held under the Ardilaws ;
he had been evicted before Mr. Garnsey bought
the land, and when the Ardilaws let the farm to
a fresh tenant the house was burnt down about
his ears. After Mr. Garnsey got possession, he

let the land to some one, who put a fresh roof on
the house, and ran up the party walls, and made
the place habitable once more. No sooner was
that done than the fresh tenant was burnt out,
narrowly escaping with his life. For a time Mr.
Garnsey cropped the ground himself, but the potatoes
were dug out of the drills, and the corn cut
green. It has been lying fallow for years, and
now I am going to try my luck."

"But is not that foolish? Some harm may
come to you."

If harm does come, who is there to care ?
In the world, I suppose, there is not a more lonely
man than myself."

You have your father and jour sisters," said
Berna, taking refuge in one of those statements
which are safe because purely conventional.

Gorman laughed, a little bitterly. " When
a man has been away for six-and-twenty years
from all his relations, he finds not merely that
they can do very well without him, but that he
can do very well without them."

'rit is sad to hear any one say so."

"Why should it be? We were all meant to
leave home, to form fresh ties, to make new interests
for ourselves. I have not made any fresh ties
yet, and therefore it signifies little what becomes
of me."

There could be no answer to this. Berna felt
strongly any fresh ties Mr. Gorman Muir chose to
form ought to be nothing to her ; whilst the young
man, conscious that matters were at last progressing
a little, waited painfully for what might
happen next. A word, a single word of sympathy,
and he would have told her there was one for
whose sake he might be induced to count life
valuable  one he held as high above him as the
stars of heaven, one he scarcely dared to think of
as ever likely to smile on him ; but Berna did not
speak that word.

Instinct, which is often so much safer a guide
than experience, taught her she stood on the very
verge of dangerous ground.

While they were talking, Gorman had let the
horse slacken his pace almost to a walk. "At
this rate," thought Berna, "it will be an hour

before we get to Clear Stream ;" and what might
such a man not say even in a few minutes ?

Mr. Muir," she exclaimed, " would you
mind driving a little quicker ? It is very late, and
mamma will be so uneasy."

Gorman started as if from a dream, and gave
the horse a couple of slashing cuts with the whip,
which caused him to spring forward and then settle
into a long, stretching trot, which made the gig
rock and the loose spokes shake as though the
crazy vehicle were going to pieces.

'' Don't beat the poor thing," entreated Berna;
"perhaps he is very tired. I ought not to have
stopped so long at Ardilaw, or allowed your father
to send me home."

Perhaps you think you ought to have got
wet through, and tramped home along lanes which
are now a foot deep in mud," said Gorman ironically,
taking the animal, which was momentarily
increasing its speed, well in hand. " No, Miss
Boyle," he went on, in a different tone ; " had we
let you do anything of the sort, we ought to have
been shot ; and as for the horse, he is not tired ;

he has not been out of the stable for two days. I
wonder, now, if you think I am cruel ; if you do,
you are mistaken. I would not wilfully hurt anything.
You believe me ? I should like to hear
you say you believe that, at any rate."

"I should be very sorry to believe otherwise ;
but"

'' You think I was too rough with the poor old
fellow. Perhaps I was, and I am sorry for it ; but
if you saw him following me about at Ardilaw, and
trying to put his nose into my pockets for bread or
carrots, I am sure you would see he understands
me. One may seem unkind sometimes, and yet
never mean to be so."

If he expected her to make any comment on
this general statement, Mr. Gorman Muir was
mistaken.

"I had a pony once," Berna said, in a
didactic sort of way, '* that would eat anything 
bread, apples, walnuts, plums  which it could
steal. Such a funny little pony!" and Berna's
voice faltered. She wondered where that pony
was at the moment.

"You ride, then?" exclaimed Gorman. " 0,
I wish you would let me train a horse for you. I
have a lovely young thing coming home next
week that would just suit you. Dark brown, with
black legs ; though full of spirit, gentle as a
lamb ; a mouth soft as a lady's hand ; you might
ride him with a silken thread. Do let me train
him for you  I should feel so proud and happy."

Thank you, Mr. Muir," said Berna, who
felt really touched by his eager earnestness. "It
is very kind of you ; but I never rode except with
papa ; and I do not suppose I shall ever ride
again. We are very poor now, you know," she
added, with that unconscious pride which so often
apes humility; "and we are never likely to be
anything else."

I hope you are greatly mistaken," Gorman
began ; but he could add no more, for at that
moment the horse turned into the lane where
Clear Stream Cottage was situated, and finding
its head was set towards Ardilaw, improved its
pace so suddenly, that Gorman found he had
much ado to pull him up at the rustic gate, where

some one, whose head was enveloped in a shawl,
stood waiting.

"Who is that?" asked Mrs. Boyle for it
was, indeed, the widow  as the conveyance
stopped.

"It is I  Berna  mamma," answered the
girl, springing down into the mud before Gorman
could select a dry spot for her to descend. "I
hope you have not been uneasy about me."

Much you care about my uneasiness, miss,"
retorted Mrs. Boyle. " Keeping me out here till
this time of night, catching my death of cold, and
breaking my heart thinking you had got murdered
or robbed, and were lying in some ditch, only to
be brought home stiff and stark, as your father
was. Ah ! it's well seen which parent you take
after  not a bit of thought for anybody but yourself.
And now, will you please to say where
you've been all the day long, and who it is that is
standing there ?"

Only Gorman Muir, Mrs. Boyle," explained
that young man, coming forward and taking off
his hat. " My father saw Miss Boyle sheltering

at Ardilaw; and, as he would not hear of her
walking home, I took the liberty of driving her
back myself. I hope and trust she will be none
the worse for being out in such dreadful
weather."

"0 Mr. Muir," exclaimed the widow, ' I
never can return you sufficient thanks ! I am
sure I feel most grateful both to you and your
father. If I don't die of standing here with
nothing but this shawl about my head  and,
indeed, it was always considered I would go into
a decline on account of the beautiful colour in my
cheeks  I'll remember your kindness to the last
day of my life. There's not many would have
given themselves so much trouble about a young
slip of a girl who hasn't as much sense as would
carry a snipe across a bog. Come inside, Mr.
Muir. Don't be stopping out there making a
stranger of yourself  and you such a friend and
all. What's that you say ?  the horse won't
stand ? Well, well, more's the pity ; and not a
stable, or even a byre, about the place to bid you
put him up in. It's very good of you, I'm sure.

to tell me take care of myself, and not be staying
in the night air; but as I've stopped so long
fretting myself to death about Berna, a minute or
two more can't make any difference. Hadn't she
best get in beside the fire ? Yes, that she had.
She'll be all for taking care of herself. I am sure
if I gave way as she does I might be ordering my
coflSn every week. You see !  she's gone with
hardly good-night to you. It is a trial to a
woman when she sees her child growing up as
different from herself as darkness is from light.
Wel, if you must go, Mr. Gorman, though I'd
have been more than pleased if you could have
come in and had an air of the fire."

"You are kindness itself," returned the
young man ; '* but I really must be making the
best of my way back to Ardilaw. If, however,
you would allow me to call tomorrow to inquire
how you and Miss Boyle are after this evening's
exposure, I should esteem it a great favour."

Come, and welcome," answered the widow.
I'm sure in this wilderness  footsore and weary,
the Jews never found a worse  it's a comfort to

find anybody to tell one's troubles to. And you
needn't put yourself out if Berna sits like a
marble statue and never opens her lips. She
means no harm. It's just her way ; and a bad
way, too, as I've told her, over and over again."

Good night, dear Mrs. Boyle. You really
must not stand here any longer," and Gorman
pressed the widow's outstretched hand warmly in
his own.

But for the friendly intervention of the rustic
gate Mrs. Boyle might have seized so excellent an
opportunity for fainting in the young man's arms.
As it was, she only said,

*' Come as often as ever you like," adding to
herself the comforting assurance, ' He's breaking
his heart for the want of me." And, as she
tripped back along the path, she tossed her little
head coquettishly at the thought, ' He is just
like the rest of them."

''I SUPPOSE," said Mr. Muir, to his son next
morning, shortly after breakfast, ' you'll be forgoing
to Beechfield to-day, and seeing if Miss
Garnsey's any the worse for yesterday's rain."

'she was not out in it ; but I meant to ride
over and inquire how she got home."

'' That's right. Civility '11 never hurt you ;
and I'm sure she'll be right well pleased."

Gorman made no direct answer to these statements
; his mind was full of another matter.

"And as I come back," he remarked, "I
suppose I had better take Clear Stream in my
way, and ask after Miss Boyle."

It would not be amiss," agreed Mr. Muir.
The mother's a good tenant ; and, though she's
just the very craziest old woman I ever did
come across, I daresay she is fond of her child
through all. I tell you what, Gorman, leave it

off till the afternoon, and we can walk over together."


Whether or not this arrangement was one
which recommended itself to Mr. Gorman Muir,
he assented to the suggestion with a good grace ;
and about three o'clock father and son set out to
pay that visit which Mrs. Boyle arrayed herself
to receive hours previously. Berna, knowing
pretty well what was coming, had gone for a long
walk early in the forenoon. When she saw her
mother don fresh cap and best dress, she said
she had a headache, and thought the air might
do it good.

Very likely, dear," said Mrs. Boyle, who
desired nothing more earnestly than her daughter's
absence; *' and you need not be hurrying
yourself. We'll tell Ruth to put the dinner-time
back an hour, so you can take a fine long
turn when you're about it."

Well the girl knew what this meant, and,
interpreting her mother's permission in the
widest sense, she remained out till she conceived
the longest visit must have ended.

When Kuth opened the door Berna looked at
her old nurse inquiringly ; but Kuth only shook
her head. He had not been there, evidently,
and the girl's heart sank within her. She was
tired, her limbs were weary, and the air had not
blown away her headache. She felt low and
dispirited, and in no mood to reply cheerfully
when Mrs. Boyle exclaimed, ''0, here you are !
That's well. I told Ruth we'd only have a tray
brought in to-day; no call to spread a cloth,
there's no knowing who might happen to step
in."

Are you expecting any one, mamma ?"

Not to exactly say expect ; but I wouldn't
be surprised if Mr. Gorman Muir looked in to
pass the time of day. He did let fall a word
about coming to see I'd got no cold through
standing in the night air watching for you.
Come now, take off your things as fast as you
can, and let us get our dinner over."

I do not want any dinner," said Berna. " I
should like to lie down for an hour. If Mr.
Muir does call, I would rather be out of the way."

VOL. II. H

** There 3'ou are again !" exclaimed Mrs. Boyle.
"Was there ever such a girl before! Always
thinking about yourself, walking till you are tired
to death, and then coming home and wanting to
be waited on hand and foot. However, go and
lie down, it's nothing to me ; indeed, when you're
well you're not such likely company anybody need
break their heart to be without you for a while."

It was something even to have got this permission,
and Berna lost no time in availing herself
of it. For nearly an hour she lay listening
and thinking; but at last she fell into a dreamless
sleep. When she awoke, darkness had set
in, and Ruth was standing by the bedside with a
candle in her hand.

*' It's nearly five o'clock, Miss Berna," she
said, in an eager whisper. " Mr. Muir and his
son have been here this hour and more. They
are going to stop for tea, and the mistress has
sent me to call you."

In the first moment of waking Berna had
raised herself on her elbow, and rubbed her eyes,
half blinded with the light. Now she lay down

again, sighing heavily. Evidently she felt no
wild desire to add another to the festive party in
the little sitting-room.

Ruth stood looking at her for a few seconds,
every wrinkle in her toil-worn face expressive of
the tenderest love and deepest compassion.

What ought her young lady not to have had
in the way of wealth and pleasure and society?
Well-born, well-bred, well-nurtured, she ought,
had things gone as they should, to have been, asher
nurse expressed the matter, among the " first
in the land ; and here she is, through her own
free will, chained to a foolish mother but little
better than me  worse nor me, indeed, because
she hasn't a grain of sense, not enough to know
when she's making a town talk of herself."

*' I am afraid, miss dear," she said, after that
minute's pause, "you'll have to go in among
them. The mistress is in one of her humours,
and she'll listen to nothing I can tell her. There'll
only be a disturbance if you keep away. It's the
father wants to see you. I think they've heard
as much talk almost as they can stand. It has

been going straight on ever since they came in.
If your mother had been running about with them
since she was two years of age she couldn't be
freer or more friendly. It's a burning shame,
and I'll tell her so, once they're gone, whether
she's pleased or displeased ; but you'd best getup
now  you had indeed. I'll just let them know
you're coming, and then I'll slip back and do up
your hair. dear, dear !" added poor Kuth,
sotto voce, as she left the room ; "to think of my
child ever having to demean herself by going
among the like of them ! It's enough to make
the poor master rise from his grave."

Ten minutes later, with the flush of sleep still
tinging her cheeks, Berna walked along the passage,
pausing for a moment at the parlour-door
ere entering the room.

Talk  that is, Mrs. Boyle's talk  was still in
full progress. The widow seemed in the height
of her glory ; she had got her audience, who were
receiving as scant mercy as the Ancient Mariner
showed to that unhappy wedding guest.

At the moment when Berna stood still, holding

the handle in her trembling fingers, Mrs. Boyle
was in full cry across country, giving an account
of her husband's death. " Though I did everything
short of going down on my bended knees to
him, he would ride that chestnut, which was one
of the wickedest brutes in all Mayo. Well, and
as I was saying  "

At that juncture Berna entered, a brilliant
colour mantling in her cheeks, her eyes bright with
feverish excitement, her heart sick with shame and
sorrow, every nerve in her body in a state of tension.

As if a ghost had suddenly appeared before
her, Mrs. Boyle stopped dead in her narrative.

So you've come at last !" she exclaimed. '' I
am sure I don't know what Mr. Muir must think
of you."

What Mr. Muir really thought was that he
saw before him a very beautiful young girl ; and
as he took Berna's cold hand in his, he verbally
expressed something of this idea. The man
meant no offence : it was only his nature ; but
Gorman could see that Berna shrank a little more
into herself as he spoke.

Miss Boyle is not accustomed to such compliments,"
he said, with an uneasy laugh.

"Isn't she?" returned the farmer. "She'll
get used to them after a bit, from some more
likely person than me."

She's far too young for anything of that
sort," broke in Mrs. Boyle.

Is she, now ? I shouldn't have thought it,"
observed Mr. Muir, surveying Bern a in a way
which dyed her face with a still deeper crimson.
But never mind me, miss ; it was only my joke ;
all I meant was, you're a very fine young woman,
though your mother, as is natural, will have it
you're still but a child."

"I hope you did not take any cold yesterday.
Miss Boyle," said Gorman.

"Cold !" repeated the widow. " What would
make her take cold ? Your father and you took
too good care of her for that ; well wrapped and
driven home, while I was fretting myself to death
out in the damp night air, wondering what had
become of her."

And you ought to pay more heed to yourself

than stand out in the night air at your time of
life," said Mr. Muir, who had no idea of founding
any pleasing fiction on the fact of his tenant's age.

I don't know what you mean about my time
of life," answered Mrs. Boyle. " Trouble makes
us all look old, but it can't make anybody really
old. If I hadn't married younger than that girl
there, and taken the weight of the world on myself
before I was well out of the nursery  "

"You couldn't have looked better than you
do," finished Mr. Muir, laudably anxious to conciliate.
"It's not many that have come through
as much could have kept the girl's figure you have,
and been as light on your feet as yourself. Why,
there's my eldest daughter Bell wants a month or
two yet of being six-and-twenty, and I declare to
my conscience she looks an old woman beside
you."

"It's the mind does it, Mr. Muir," said the
widow, in gracious explanation. " It's the mind.
As my poor father used to say, ' You'll be a girl,
Milly, till you are eighty year old.' I take after
him ; he was the merriest soul. The very morning

as he died in the evening he was lilting out, * The
night before Larry was stretched,' and making us
all screech with laughing. Ah, there's not many
left like him."

'' I remember him well," Mr. Muir remarked.
*' He was a short stout man, red-faced, with a
squint. He'd put away many a tumbler of punch
in his time, or I'm much mistaken. His nephew
does not favour him much."

No, that he doesn't," agreed Mrs. Boyle ;
there's but little fun about Richard Vince. Not
that I've a word to say against him. We can't all
be pleasant and heartsome alike ; and, maybe,
it's not Richard's fault altogether that the
cares of riches have been a yoke round his
neck and a burden to his feet, as the Bible
talks about."

Gorman Muir looked at the speaker in amazement.
He had never previously conceived of such
a woman as Mrs. Boyle. That she could be
Berna's mother seemed to him monstrous. His
own father might be, and was, objectionable'; but
at least no one could say he was a fool.

She ought to be glad to marry me," he
thought, " to get away from this ;" and then he
turned to Berna, who, with averted face, was
gazing steadily into the fire, only to feel the girl's
nature held something in it he might find it
difficult exactly to understand.

Stir yourself, now, Berna," commanded Mrs.
Boyle, " and give Mr. Muir a cup of tea. I hope
you'll make yourselves at home," she proceeded,
with gracious hospitality; "we oughtn't to belike
strangers to one another. Here's some apple
jelly I made myself after we came to Clear
Stream. Though I say it, I don't think you'd
find better coloured in the county. When I was
a girl I always did get praise for my preserves.
As I often tell Berna there, she'll be a poor useless
creature if ever she comes to have a house of
her own."

Maybe she'll not need to look after anything
of the kind," suggested Mr. Muir.

'' It's to be hoped she won't, indeed. If she's
to see to much, I pity the man who gets her.
She hasn't the least notion of making things comfortable

; and as for conversation, you might as
well expect it from a mute."

"Mamma is determined you shall not remain
in ignorance of my faults, Mr. Muir," said Berna,
trying to smile.

"You see," answered that gentleman, "when
one in a house has heaps of talk, it is as well
there is somebody knows how to hold her tongue.
What do you think you'd do, Mrs. Boyle, if your
daughter had as much to say as yourself?"

I'd be thankful, I am sure. Many's the
time and often I sit wondering that'll become of
the girl when I am dead and gone, and she has
nobody to speak up for her. To see me so lively
and cheerful, you would never believe the amount
of thought I have in me. And I need it all, too ;
for goodness only knows what would happen if I
wasn't always considering something."

It was at this point Berna determinedly struck
across her mother's monologue. Turning to German,
she asked him about Finney's Farm  if he
had really decided to take it ; whether he did
not think the risk too great. Astonished, Mr.

Muir noticed the quick nervous decision of her
manner ; the resolute way in which she prevented
any further exhibition of folly.

There's a heap in her," he thought ; "I
wonder, now, whether it's bad or good?"

"You'll give us a song after a while, Miss
Boyle, won't you ?" he said. " It'll be long
before I forget what you sang yesterday."

I have a quantity of new music, if you would
care to look at it," Gorman ventured ; " some
good duets, and  " .

Duets !" thought Berna, horrified. " Thank
you," she answered, with that new manner which
BO surprised Mr. Muir; "but I never sang any
duets excepting with papa, and I do not think I
shall ever sing any again."

"Did you ever hear anything like her?"
inquired Mrs. Boyle. " You might think no one
had ever lost a father before."

"No one could have been fonder of a father,"
said Berna, with a dangerous flash in her eyes.
No, never again, she determined, would she sit
quiet and hear the dead spoken of as she had

done. " What should you like, Mr. Muir ?" she
asked, rising and going towards the piano, which
was, indeed, an old instrument discarded from the
schoolroom at Craigvallen ; and she sang a couple
of songs, while Mrs. Boyle giggled and chattered
in audible whispers to the younger man.

Give us something now with a bit of life in
it, Berna," said the widow at last. 'young
Lochinvar,' or ' Sandy and the Mermaid,' or
'Allan-a-dale.'"

' Allan-a-dale ' is delightful," remarked German.


"Yes; let's have ' Allan-a-dale,' " cried Mrs.
Boyle. And when her daughter, after some
natural hesitation, began that old-world ditty, she
was good enough to join in with a high cracked
voice, and many a twist and twirl and marvellous
cadenza. The way she looked at Gorman and
nodded her head, and tapped the floor with her
foot, and generally  as Mr. Muir afterwards
remarked  went on like a mad woman, was
simply indescribable.

' She was off to the forest to hear a love tale,

And the south it was told by was Allan-a-dale,' "
sang the widow, with a triumphant toss of her
cap, and a killing glance at Gorman. " That's
the sort of tune for me ; none of your die-away
heart-broken ballads."

And you've a fine shrill voice of your own
yet, ma'am," said Mr. Muir, in doubtful compliment.
" Thank you. Miss Boyle ; it's a real treat
to hear anybody able to sing like you. Now,
Gorman, if you're ready, we'd best be lessening
the distance between here and Ardilaw."

*' She's not so bad-looking, Gorman," Mr. Muir
remarked to his son, after they had proceeded for
some short distance in silence.

"Who is not so bad-looking?" asked German.


That girl, the widow woman's daughter."

0, Miss Boyle ! I thought, perhaps, it was
the widow herself you were talking about."

"Trust me for that, lad; I'm not so blind
and I'm not so foolish as to 'bestow much attention
on an old woman when a young one's nigh at
hand. She's got quiet ways with her, too ; but
did you ever come across such a havering idiot as
the mother ? I declare by my conscience there
were times to-night when I didn't know which
way to turn my eyes. And the cracked, squealing
voice of her, too ! Faith, it would be a queer sort
of a man, Allan-a-dale, or Allan-a-hill, or Allan-anything

else, would be if be wanted to meet
ber when be could help it."

*' Certainly I should not care to keep such a
forest assignation, but there is no accounting for
tastes."

That's true enough," agreed Mr. Muir, ere
be relapsed once again into reverie.

Tbe night was dark and the road bad, and as
neither man seemed much disposed for conversation,
they had walked more than half-way home
ere Mr. Muir again spoke. Evidently be bad
been turning over some knotty subject in his
mind.

"I wouldn't wonder," he at last began, "if
there was a touch of consumption about that girl."

"What girl?" asked Gorman, who, though
he understood, did not care to seem to do so.

*miss Boyle, to be sure. Actio else should I
be speaking of? It wouldn't surprise me one
bit to hear any day she was gone into a decline.
Did you see the colour in ber cheeks when she
came through the doorway ? she might have been
painting them ; and before five minutes were over

they were as white as the candle. That was for
all the world the way Carline's cousin used to
turn  the picture of health one hour, and the
next looking only fit to be measured for her coffin,
and it wasn't long before we had to follow hers.
She got a chill at the Ultra Regatta, and before
we'd the harvest in she was lapped up in Holy-wood
churchyard. If that girl was anything tome,
I wouldn't feel just easy in my mind about
her ; though, maybe, she'd be quite as well away
from this world as in it, with no one to speak
to but that half-cracked old mother."

Gorman shuddered ; his father's words seemed
to pierce him like the thrust of a sword. Such a
notion had never crossed his mind before, but,
now it had been forced upon his thoughts, how
should he ever banish it ? Berna, his Berna,
dead ! That fair face hidden away for ever ; that
sweet voice silenced ; that swaying figure cold and
still ! The man could have cried aloud in his
agony. In a moment, the vision of a .funeral
procession winding slowly from out the door of
Clear Stream Cottage, across the dancing rivulet,

among the rose-trees, out into the lane, and thence
to Dundonald Church, arose before him. It was
one of those periods when the mind in imagination
passes through a fiercer agony than the worst
realty' ever brings. He felt the sting of death,
without its merciful numbing stupor. From out
of life, flushed with health, in the spring-time of
existence, in the fulness of her beauty, he beheld
his first 3oung love pass instantly through the
golden gates, which, closing behind, shut him out
from hope and happiness. He could not speak;
it is no exaggeration to say he refrained from
answer only because he was, for the time being,
stricken dumb. But that silence served its purpose
better than any speech could have done, for,
believing he was addressing an unsympathetic
auditor, Mr. Muir changed the subject of his
conversation to Finney's Farm.

I can't get the notion of leaving that lot of
fine young horses up there alone with an old man
and a ragamuffin dog," he observed.

"I can," answered Gorman.

*' I wish you'd give me some reason for your

VOL. II. I

faith  that is, if you wouldn't mind telling it
out."

But that is exactly what I do mind, very
much," replied his son. '' You've told me yourself
you believed at one time the very grass in the
county Down had ears ; and there is an old story
about Midas and the reeds, which, like many other
old stories, holds a lesson. I am not going to
talk about Finney's Farm  or Sunnyside Farm, as
I mean to call it  out here, at any rate. Doey
has done well by me so far, and I intend to trust
him further."

I have nothing to say against the man ; only
if some morning you walked up the hill and
found some of your best stock maimed, and Doey
stiff with a bullet in his head, you wouldn't be
best pleased."

"No, faith; but if ever such a thing should
come to pass, there will be a job for the hangman
at the next assizes. I swear that, and I don't
care who hears me. Now, we've had quite enough
about death and dying, I think, for one night;
and, if you are of my opinion, we'll push on and

get to the fire. What with your pleasant talk
concerning the two curses of Ireland, consumption
and cowardice, and the wet of these confounded
roads, I am fairly shivering."

''If you meant that shot about cowardice forme,
you fired wide," said Mr. Muir. '' I'm no
more a coward than yourself ; but I do count it
foolhardy for a man to walk straight into a road
where he is likely to be knocked over like a
rabbit."

I won't let either fear or threats prevent my
walking along any road I have got to travel,"
retorted Gorman hotly. '' For the rest, I never
said or thought you were a coward. Only it seems
to me, people cannot be very brave when a whole
country-side agrees to let a farm lie idle because
a few lazy vagabonds declare no one shall till it."

"Well, well, you mustn't blame me, no matter
what comes to pass."

'' If your pleasing prophecy proves correct, I
shall not be here to blame you," replied his son.
Ere many days are over I think I'll go up and
share Doey's hut, so that no harm may come to

Berne BOYLE.

you through my self-will. I don't want the
Ardilaw ship to founder because such a Jonah as
myself happens to be among the company."

I'll chance that," answered the farmer. " If
we're to be set light to, you'd best be close at
hand, maybe, to help put out the flames. AU
the same, though, I wish any other piece of land
would have served your turn. You might have
had Kilmoon and welcome."

"I did not want Kilmoon."

I know you didn't ; and that's what fairly
beats me. Why you should take up with a few
acres on a bare hillside, when the richest bit of
land in the parish is offered to you, passes my
comprehension."

Kilmoon is six times dearer."

"And six times better soil."

Soil doesn't signify to me."

More's the pity."

"Besides, I had set my heart on Finney's
Farm."

There ought to be some sense in what you
set your heart on."

"I am afraid you will find there is neither
sense nor reason in most of the things a man like
myself takes a notion of."

That is just what I am beginning to be
afraid of myself."

"You see, sir, you can't live my life for me."

"And I'm very sure I wouldn't wish to live it
for you if I could."

"Well, well, for mercy's sake don't let us
quarrel. I want to get home ; I'm chilled to
my bones."

Something has gone wrong with you tonight,
Gorman. I wonder what it is ?"

"Is not walking up to the knees in mud
enough to try the temper of any man ? I wonder,
seeing the magnificent roads they have in Antrim,
you Down folk are not ashamed of the metal you
lay down. It grinds fairly into pulp."

That's been the way ever since Mr. Desmond
forced them to pull all the turnpikes down."

How did he force them ?"

He wouldn't pay toll, and it wasn't likely
anybody else would. He went clean over the

Newtonards Bar, horse and dog-cart, and groom
and himself. He was a Justice of the Peace, and
he spent his life trying legally to break the law.
One day in Belfast he was driving a pair through
Donegalll Place, and one of them, being a trifle
skittish, got on the side-path. Well, they had
him up, and inflicted a fine, and he went away.
A month later what does he do but goes into
town with a four-in-hand  three horses and an
ox  and may I never stir, but he drove the length
of High Street, in the busiest part of the day,
with the horses in the road and the ox on the
kerb. There was nothing in the Corporation
by-lawes then providing against such a thing;
and he laughed at the police. No matter what
he did after that, nobody interfered with him."

What an agreeable person !"

''He was pleasant enough to speak to, but
hard  just the reverse of his son Cornelius.
They say it broke his heart to see Corny light a
second candle one night when there was company.
Here's Ardilaw, at last."

*' Thank Heaven !" ejaculated Gorman.

'rand I see Carline's kept up a fine fire in
your sitting-room."

Carline is worth lier Yeigllt in gold."

That's saying a deal for any woman. But
there's worse than Carline."

There are, faith ; and we needn't go out of
Ardilaw to find them."

Which retort so confirmed Mr. Muir's notion
concerning something having '' put Gorman out "
that he decided it might he wise to hold his
peace.

They were met on the threshold hy Carline,
her hair a little tossed, her face somewhat scorched,
her manner bright and excited. Gorman looked
at her, and again his heart sank within him.
His thoughts recurred to the cousin who had
caught cold at Ultra Eegatta, and he wondered if
all beauty in woman was to he regarded but as
death's sign manual. In that soft deceitful
climate were all things fair and tender created

'O"

only for the grave ?

Come in," she exclaimed, " and see the fire
I've built up for you. I made Peter fetch in a

great basket of tuis, and it's all of a glow. He
wouldn't stop to see you, he said he had nothing
worth speaking about. 0, and he bade me give
you the cutting whip you left up there. He was
afraid you might think you had lost it."

Thank you, Carline ; I am glad to see it
again ;" and Gorman took the little gold-mounted
whip in his hand and slashed the air, as a lad
might have done.

You set great store by that," said Mr. Muir,
the strongest passion in whose strong nature was
jealousy.

I do. It was a present."

"I thought as much. From some lady, no
doubt."

You are wrong, for once, father. I gave it
to myself, with many good wishes, in the days
when I was rich enough to make presents. I
rejoice to have it in my hand again."

Mr. Muir possessed such excellent sense that
he failed to believe one word of this story.
Hitherto he had found Gorman truthful to an
extent verging on folly; but "a man," argued

the farmer, " can't doubt the evidence of his
senses." Here was Gorman, who all the way
from Clear Stream had been sulky as sulky could
be, now laughing and singing like a boy. Clearly
the whip had been a love token. Some place
there lived a strange woman, who eventually
would take his son from him. It was for her
sake he wanted to make money fast, and would
have nothing to say to Miss Garnsey, and '' most
times " went himself to the post for letters. Yes,
if once Gorman got "a bit before the world " he
should lose him  lose the son he loved as he once
thought never to love anything; who was the
height of good company when "no mood was on
him ;" who was something to be proud of, to
think about, to plan with, and plot for.

Such a change as came over Gorman from the
time he entered Ardilaw, Mr. Muir decided, was
never beheld. He joked with Bell about her sour
looks, and did not even draw down his own brows
when the farmer suggested that lady might
chance, before she was much older, to have Mrs.
Boyle for sister instead of mother-in-law. " She's

set her cap at Gorman now, and I'm all out in
the cold," he exclaimed.

That night Gorman had a pleasant look and
word for every one ; and before his father went to
bed, the young fellow, standing in the middle of
the old drawing-room, said, ''I think, sir, I
spoke to you as we were coming home as I ought
not to have done, and I want to beg your pardon."

Mr. Muir felt quite taken aback; his heart
swelled with emotion. Rudeness, quarrelling,
and cold self-consideration had so entirely ruled
his home that Gorman's unintelligible pettishness
and impetuous repentance filled his heart with a
sensation as new as strange.

"Puts, that's nothing," he exclaimed; 'don't
imagine that though you are my son, I forget
you're a grown man and have a right to your own
notions. The only thing troubles me is that I
often think we don't rightly understand one
another. There's many a way I might help
you, if I only knew betimes you wanted help."

Perhaps," said Gorman doubtfully.

*' Well, I'll try to get some sleep now, at any

rate. I want to go to the town early tomorrow.
Don't be vexing yourself about me. When you
give me a sore heart I'll tell you, never fear."

I trust I never may ; I trust in God I never
may!" answered his son earnestly.

Then likely you'll tell me some day why you
set such store by the cutting whip."

*eyes; that I will," and Gorman broke into
a ringing laugh. "Good-night, father; pleasant
dreams. I am not going to bed for a long time
yet, so if you hear any noise you'll know I'm
making it."

Good-night," said Mr. Muir, with a nod.
He had never, in all the fifty years of his life,
arrived at that stage of conventional affection
which induces members of a family, living under
the same roof, to shake hands on meeting and
parting, and he felt shy about beginning such
a practice.

When he was once more alone, Gorman again
took up the cutting whip and looked at it with a
satisfied smile.

V

Over Ardilaw the very genius of Silence seemed
keeping mute watch. Not a sound broke the
stillness. It was a night when nor bird nor
beast appeared wakeful ; not a twig stirred, not a
dead leaf fell. The stones in the river might have
been thick with moss, so muffled was the flow of
the water. In the outbuildings Mr. Muir's cattle
were sleeping quietly ; even the wild birds lay
close in their hiding-places. The darkness suggested
the idea that it was holding its breath to
listen for the coming of some catastrophe. Out
from the room where Carline's turf fire, more than
once replenished since she lifted her lovely face for
her brother's parting kiss, was burning low German
stepped as though shod with velvet. For
two or three minutes he stood at the foot of the
wide staircase listening intently. Throughout the
old house there reigned silence, utter, complete.

The very mice that night went about their business
gingerly.

Satisfied that every one was at rest, Gorman
passed back into the sitting-room he had just left,
Exchanged his slippers for a pair of stout shooting-boots,
fastened on strong serviceable leggings,
buttoned a rough top-coat across his chest, put on
a glengarry cap, looked carefully to the priming of
a pair of pistols which he thrust into one deep
pocket, dropped a flask, containing whisky, undiluted,
into the other, and thus provided against
all contingencies of weather, time, and danger,
once more stole out into the hall, opened noiselessly
the heavy oaken door, which he locked from
the outside, carrying the key off with him, and
keeping close under the sullen shadow thrown by
the house that made the darkness well-nigh impenetrable,
he made his way down to the stream
at a point nearer Ardilaw than that once chosen
by Caroline for her meeting with the Ensign. Here
a couple of trunks of trees, roughly shorn of their
branches, had been thrown across the water, andover
these Gorman made his way to the opposite

bank. Arrived there, he proceeded up stream,
still taking heed to his steps, and availing himself
of such shelter as the nut-bushes and other
undergrowth afforded, as much as possible avoiding
the open, and, where the lower path was
practicable, never venturing up on the higher
ground. With stealthy caution he thus pursued
his course till he reached Finney's Farm. Then,
feeling his way over some great stones placed in
the bed of the river, he recrossed to the southeast
bank.

There he paused ; and, imitating exactly the
flop and scurry of a water-rat suddenly surprised,
listened. From the direction of the house which
had been burnt down came the peevish yap-tapping
of a dog, barking for very irritation at
having been disturbed out of sound sleep. That
sound died away, and was followed by the
whirr-r-r of a pheasant. Gorman waited about
half a minute after that ere, still neglecting no
precaution, he climbed the bank, and, under cover
of a ditch surmounted by a hedge of straggling
thorn, struck as straight as possible for the enclosure

where his young horses were nightly
sheltered.

This enclosure owed its origin partly to the
ingenuity and greatly to the selfishness of Mr.
Peter Doey. Having made up his mind that
taking service with young Muir would insure
various pecuniary advantages to himself, he determined
that  seeing furthering his master's interests
was likely to advance his own  no stone
should be left unturned which could possibly
insure success to the new venture.

"And where am I to stop, sort," he asked,
after Gorman had unfolded a vague plan for housing
his young cattle, 'fairly and late as I'd need to
be on the ground ?"

0, you might find a lodging almost anywhere
close at hand, I should think," conjectured
Gorman.

"Yes; or I oughtn't. When a man is expected
to give his whole thought to one matter,
it's half the battle for him to be able to think
that thought without disturbance. You don't
know, master, the power of consideration I can

get through if I can have peace to smoke mv pipe,
without having the heart broke in me by a scolding
woman and a lot of crying babies. You let
me rig up a shanty for myself inside those four
bare walls  a few boards and a barrowful of straw
won't ruin you  and I'll plan a yard for the colts
and another for the older and steadier creatures,
God bless them all ! and then I'll be myself in
the middle of them like Noah in his ark, and devil
one of the lot will lift a hoof or give a cough but
me and Sniff will know the reason."

Thus it came to pass that Mr. Doey now
resided upon the premises. In the west window
of his hut there shone, as Gorman beheld from
afar, a steady light, not fierce, but subdued  the
sort of light which might keep in all night, and
which, in fact, Mr. Doey was in the habit of so
keeping. A white blind was drawn across the
glass, but no shadow could be seen reflected on it ;
apparently the house was closely shut up for the
night ; even the sleepless Sniff gave no sign of life.

Cautiously Gorman trod softly along by the
railings of the enclosure, formed of unbarred young

fir-trees split in two, till he came to a gate, which
opened for his entrance and closed after him as if
by magic ; then a hand was laid on his arm, and
Peter guided him to a shed hard by, into which
both men passed noiselessly.

They'll be nigh at hand now," whispered
Doey; " sit down on the hay."

My gun," said Gorman, in the same low tone.

"Here she is, ready loaded. Don't fire
her till I give Sniff" the word, and then, for the
Lord's sake, aim low."

You're sure, Doey, the charge is all right ?
Wouldn't it be safer to draw it and reload ?"

Tits !" was the contemptuous reply. " Now
don't be fretting about the gun. She's all right.
Lay your hand on Sniff's back, and you'll know
when they're in the meadow, though you can't
hear a beetle rustling."

Gorman, thus admonished and directed, laid
his hand on the dog, who was apparently plunged
in refreshing slumber. For five minutes  ten 
fifteen  an unbroken silence prevailed; then,
suddenly, he became conscious of a creeping of

VOL. II. K

Sniff's skin, and knew the animal had raised his
head, and cocked one vagabond ear.

Quiet," muttered Peter, in a lengthened
drawl. "It's you, sort," he added, "throws the
poor brute out. Don't touch him any more.
They're coming."

Yes, they were coming. Young Muir rather
felt than heard their approach ; and, rising, took
his gun, and, peering out into the night, waited
Doey's signal.

Gorman felt his excitement rising to an
almost uncontrollable extent. He could hear
Sniff's panting breathing, and through the darkness
was able to distinguish the figures of two
men. They went straight up to the hut Doey
had erected inside the burnt house, and knocked,
at first gently, then more loudly.

*' Be ready, sort," whispered Doey, lifting his
own gun.

"Oughtn't we to challenge' them?" said
Gorman.

"Challenge be damned !" retorted Doey, at the
same time striking the ground with his foot.

Instantly Sniff flew out, barking furiously.

Whatever you do, no higher nor their
legs;" and, so saying, Doey ran forward with a
wild shout of defiance. At the same moment he
fired both barrels, and, as a yell of pain and
surprise broke the stillness, another report followed.
This time there came only a curse ; and
Gorman, pulling out his pistols, was about to
rush towards the men, who were now in full
retreat, when Doey held him back, exclaiming,
*'No murder, sort ! God preserve you, Mr.
Gorman, keep quiet. What they've got will do
for them this while. No, you shan't. If you
want to shoot somebody, shoot me, or Sniff.

What the is that ?" he broke off to exclaim,

as a loud shout of "Help! help!" rang out
across the night.

In one second Gorman was over the fence and
flying in the direction whence the sound came,
with Sniff, hounded on by his master, joyously
leading the van, while Doey himself hurried after
at a speed of which no one could have supposed
him capable.

Are you hurt ?" he cried, helping Gorman
to raise a man-uho was stretched full length on
the said. '' Speak, whoever you are. What's
wrong with you ?"

"It's my father," said Gorman. *' See to
him while I go after those scoundrels."

"Just see to him yourself," retorted Doey.

*' Whit call had he coming where he wasn't

wanted? Nobody could have hurt him if he

hadn't put himself forward ; and as for those

scoundrels, as you call them, I know where they'll

he to be found tomorrow if you want them. If

the calves of their legs are smarting now, they'll

be smarting worse in the morning. That's right,

sort, give him a sup of whisky ; he's only shook

a bit. He'll be as well as ever in a minute.

Lean on me, Mr. Muir. It was the throw you

got, wasn't it ?  ay, I deemed as much. Lean

heavier, sort ; put your full weight on me. Don't

be a hair afeared; I'll not go-over with you.

Now, Mr. Gorman, pull yourself together; your

father's worth a dozen dead ones yet  aren't you,

Mr. Muir ? You'll live to bury all of us, maybe.

Here, Sniff, hie home, my lad. Heth and seth, if
he hasn't the sense of all the Christians in the
parish."

Still feeling dizzy and confused, with a vague
wonder as to how he came to he walking in the
middle of the night down the hill leading to
Ardilaw supported hy his son and Peter Doey,
Mr. Muir eventually found himself tottering alonsj
his own back avenue, crossing his own stable-yard,
entering his kitchen, and speculating, ina
dreamy sort of was", what Bell would find to
remark about the mud three men's boots were
capable of leaving upon the floor.

"We'll have him up to bed now, Mr.
Gorman," said Doe', whose experience both in
matters of accident and of drunkenness might be
considered exhaustive ; and, acting on this suggestion,
Mr. Muir was, as Peter expressed the
matter, "convoyed" up-stairs, only to be confronted
with the awful apparition of Miss Isabella
in nightgown and nightcap.

Mrs. Caudle herself could not have presented
a more terrifying spectacle.

I'd like to know  " she was beginning, when
Gorman cut across her speech.

"Should you?" he said; "then you won't
know to-night. Some one must sit up with my
father. Shall I call Carline ?"

Certainly not, so long as I am mistress in
the house*' answered Bell.

"Ah! and it's not here you'd be stopping
long, miss, if some I know had their own way,"
murmured Peter, with rapturous admiration.

"Does that man want any drink?" asked
Miss Muir.

"If he does, I can give it to him," said
Gorman. " Thank you, Doey," he added, " I
couldn't have got my father into bed as you've
done. Now come down-stairs with me. There's
hot water about the house some place, I suppose ;
the kitchen fire is never to say out, and  "

Give me a drop, master, without any water
at all, just as much as you could cock your finger
over. What's that you're saying, sort ? Will
I stop here, or will you go with me ? Ha, ha !
It's little YOU know of Peter yet. Just turn in

where you are, and have a good sound sleep yourself,
Mister Gorman, and I'll take my old bones
up the hill and have an hour or two there. Won't
I be afraid ? Ah, there, get along with you, do !
Now, wait till I tell you, and mind what I'm
saying. This blessed night as ever was we've
scotched the last snake on Finney's Farm. You
go to Beechfield tomorrow morning and take a
lease of the land. Get a promise in writing from
Garnsey. I know him. Nobody '11 ever trouble
you again. They'll be laughed out of the county.
Leave it all to me. I know how to deal with
them."

"But, good heavens! Doey, men with that
amount of shot in their legs must feel revengeful."


"Devil a shot, Mr. Gorman! / loaded
with bay salt''

** Turn your head a bit, Mr. Gorman ; a trifle
more to the left, sort. You see that gap in the
ditch ? Well, it was just out in the road there
Tony Morrison met his death. I was standing
here at the very minute. I helped to pick him
up."

Ay, indeed ; and how did that happen ? was
he murdered ? Had he taken land over anybody's
head ?"

*' Murdered? Bless your heart, no, sort;
and as for land, he neither let nor took it. He
lived in his own house, as his father and grandfather
had lived before him; and there wa a
meadow or two about it, and a garden and stable-yard,
and all befitting. He wasn't a farmer,
either gentleman or working. He had a good
income of his own, and was well liked through all
the county."

What killed him, then ?" asked Gorman.

I'm coming to that, your honour. As I tell
you, I saw his last hour, and he'd no more
thought it was at hand than you have this blessed
minute."

'How did he die?"

'' I was going to tell you. He was a june
rider ; he was a finer rider  if that were possible
I think, even than yourself. I don't mean to
say he had your gait in the saddle, but he had as
good a grip of his horse ; and, faith, he never
saw the leap that frightened him. As I stand
here, I can't help thinking how, with the best
horse that ever was shod, it's often just a step
from the stirrup to the grave."

In a word, I suppose Mr. Morrison was
thrown at last."

'' Faith, he was that, and in the queerest way.
Himself and Mr. Cornelius Desmond were coming
back from the Maze races, and they had been
trotting gently till after they passed that bridge
beyond, when Desmond says to Morrison, says
he, ' Corne, let's see which of us'll be at the turning
to Knock graveyard first.'

Ah ! I'll be that,' says Morrison, laughing;
and he clips his mare (she was a beauty) with his
heels, and away they both went. Well, it's a
clean good bit of road, as you see, Mr. Gorman,
and they both tore along, the thuds of their
horses' hoofs sounding clear through the air, as
your own might do. In the field below us there
were some pigs feeding, and one of them, likely
frightened by the noise, just as they were passing,
ran out into the road, and partly across it. Desmond's
horse was about half a length behind, and
just missed the creature ; but it got among the legs
of Mr. Morrison's mare, and in one second they
were all down  Morrison pitched clean out of the
saddle twenty feet ahead, and the mare and the
pig all jumbled up together. We ran as hard as
we could  Mat Lupus was with me  and we got
into the road just as Mr. Desmond stopped his
horse, for they were going so fast it wasn't possible
for him to pull up sooner.

When we came to the place where Morrison
was lying, we found a pool of blood, and him in
the middle of it, with the poor dumb brute licking

him. Many a time I've thought about that
since, master ; many and many's the time. The
creature that couldn't speak knew something was
wrong, and there she stood licking him like a
Christian, as much as to say, ' Show me how I
can help you, and I'll do it.' "

*' His neck was broken, I suppose ?" suggested
Gorman, and his voice sounded a little hoarse,
for the incident had touched him, as the story of
an animal's faithful affection always must touch
a heart which, however wayward, is brave and
tender.

No, it wasn't," answered Peter. " The force
his head came on the hard ground killed him. I
think I hear the thud of it now while I am talking
to you. Ay, both Mat and me heard that above
the noise of Desmond's horse galloping like mad.
The life was still in him when we lifted him up.
He didn't die till night ; but he never spoke nor
moved again. Faith, as Mr. Desmond said, and
the tears were in his eyes when he spoke the
words, ' Morrison was at the turn to Knock graveyard
first. Ay, and in his grave, too!' We buried

him three days after in the family vault up there,
there the Morrison have been lying snug and
quiet for generations. That was a funeral, I can
tell you. The following stretched from the New-towards
Road up to the very churchyard gates.
You never saw such a sight. It was like the day
of judgment. If the dead had risen there couldn't
have been a greater crowd than was that afternoon
in Knock graveyard ; the ground was black
with people, every man standing bare-headed ;
and the lough, and the Antrim hills, and the
woods about Stormont, and the green sloping
country down by Holywood, framed, in a manner,
by the old arched window, that hasn't had as
much glass as you could see an eclipse of the sun
through, in it within the memory of man. You've
never been up at Knock graveyard, have you,
Mister Gorman ? Ah ! it would be well worth
your while to take a walk to it this minute, if
only to look at what's to be seen through that
arched window. If you like, I'll step up therewith
you, and show you where Morrison wa
buried. It's a fine heartsome place. There's

always some sort of wind stirring among the
headstones."

This alluring description apparently so captivated
Gorman's fancy, that he agreed to Mr.
Doey's proposal ; and the pair accordingly walking
their horses, passed along the lane Mr. Morrison
had proposed to reach first, till they came to the
avenue leading to Knock graveyard. Up the hill
they slowly wound, and when the gates which
stand so hospitably wide were reached, tied their
cattle to some railings, where the creatures could
reach the short sweet grass growing beside the
solemn way that led but to the grave, and entered
the lonely burial-ground. Old monuments, stones
all on one side, mounds which the turf had
already covered, heaps of rough clay piled above
the last home of the lately dead ; a few shrubs,
probably self-planted, growing wild. To the west,
a belt of trees ; and on all other sides views of
mountain and sea, and grassy hills, and waving
woods, and rich cultivated land. As he reached
the crest of the mound Gorman paused and drew
a long deep breath of surprise and admiration.

In a moment the whole enchanted scene lap
stretched before him : the blue treacherous lough,
calm as a millions ; the bold Antrim coast,
mountain merging into mountain ; the softer
beauty of Down  green slopes, thick woods,
eternal undulation.

It is most beautiful !" he exclaimed.
Step this way, and look at it through the
arch," said Peter, with the pride of a showman ;
and then he stopped, as suddenly as his companion.


Leaning against one of the mullions, gazing
with rapt contemplation at the view, stood a girl
dressed in black. She had not heard their
approach, but remained so still, she might have
been one of the dead risen from her last narrow
resting-place to take a final survey of so beautiful
a world.

Gorman did not speak ; but Doey could seethe
blood rushing up into his dark face, and an
eager tender expression lying in the depths of his
sunny brown eyes.

*' It's Miss Boyle," said the man in a whisper.

"Hush!" answered Gorman; but already
Berna had turned her head, and saw that she
was not alone.

The girl did not advance to meet young Muir,
but in one moment he was by her side. Peter
saw the meeting, and, turning a little aside,
smiled to himself.

I'll not spoil sport," he murmured. Then
he plucked a spine off a young fir-tree close at
hand, and ate it with great relish. *' I always
'event' that was how the land lay," proceeded
Peter, in silent colloquy. " I wonder now if she's
got a notion of him ? Why wouldn't she, though ?
If she travelled Ireland through she couldn't meet
a finer figure of a man." Having arrived at
which stage in his argument, Mr. Doey gathered
another fir-spine, which he munched as he might
had it been salad.

He had barely finished this light repast before
the sound, not of footsteps  for the tread of those
who walk over the silent dead makes no louder
echo than the tenants lying beneath the sod 
but of voices, warned him Berna and his master

were close at hand. He turned, and, touching

his hat, said to the latter,

This is the vault, sort. It was down them

very steps six gentlemen carried the coffin. I'll

never forget the sight, never till the day of my

death. A king could scarce have had a grander

following."

Who was it ?" asked Berna ; for though

speaking to Gorman, Doey's eyes had appealed to
her as he spoke.

*' Mr. Morrison, Miss Boyle ; a man thought
well of hy rich and poor. He met his death on
the old Dundonald Road out by, as I was telling
Mr. Muir. No better rider ever tightened a
horse's birth. He had no more thought of death
than you have this minute. Me and another
were watchings him coming along laughing and

o o o o o

galloping like mad, when, before you could have
clapped hands, he was out of the saddle for the
last time ; his mare down, too, with her knees
cut to bits, on the top of a beast of a pig that
fouled her. But what have I said wrong, miss ?
I am sure I  "

"Hold your tongue, you fool!" commanded.
Gorman. " If you hadn't been so much taken up
with your confounded story, you would have seen
I was making signs for you to stop. Did you.
never hear how her father met his death?" And
the young man rushed after Berna, who had
drawn down her veil, and was hurrying over the-uneven
surface of the desolate graveyard.

Very philosophically Doey regarded the retreating
figures. Ere again helping himself to fir, he
observed aloud,

"No, Mr. Gorman, I never did hear how her
father came by his death ; and maybe it was just.
as well, for now you've got another chance.
There's nothing a woman, young or old, likes
better nor a good cry, if there's a likely man at
hand to help wipe up her tears. Faith, and it's
myself '11 be looking for half-a-crown, anyways, if
you make the use of your time you might do.
Well, I expect I'd best be moving. Neither of
you'll be back here to-day, or I'm much mistaken.
There, may I never ! if that masterful
brute hasn't slipped his bridle ofi" ! 0, you

VOL. II. L

contrary civil !  stand still !  would you, now ?
Stand still when I bid you ; d'ye hear what I'm
saying? Do you know who it is speaking to
you ? Gorman Muir himself 's not more headstrong
than you. Come, I'm not going to put
up with your nonsense any longer; open your
mouth this minute. I don't want to look at
your teeth. There, there ; gently, gently. Man
alive ! I wouldn't hurt you, not for a thousand
pounds counted down in golden guineas. We're
the best friends alive, aren't we, old chap ?" and
having, with such and suchlike soothing professions
of love and confidence, contrived to get the
bridle , on again, Mr. Doey, in view of further
complications which might ensue if the horse
were left to his own devices, began walking him
up and down, till Gorman should return.

The young man was not long ; he breasted the
hill with a quick, free step, and as he drew near,
Peter saw something in his face which conveyed
the assurance matters had not gone wholly wrong.

I am sure I beg the young lady's pardon,
Mister Gorman," he said, while holding the

stirrup. "Maybe I oughtn't to have made so
free ; but I didn't know, and I don't know now,
the way Mr. Boyle came to leave his wife a widow.
How could I tell, sort, he hadn't died in his bed,
like most of the quality ?"

''No, Peter, you couldn't," was the answer;
'' and I am sorry to have spoken to you so
roughly. Mr. Boyle went out one morning on
a chestnut horse as wild as a buck, that reared
so high it went right over, with its rider under,
crushing him cruelly. That was how he died,
Doey ; and naturally your talk about Mr. Morrison
brought the whole thing back to his daughter's
mind. She was there, and saw it all."

'' I wish I'd bitten my tongue out, your
honour, before I vexed as pleasant a young lady
as ever anybody need wish to speak to. It's no
wonder she looks mournful like. However, please
God, the good time's all to come to her. I was
speaking at the post-office the other morning to
the servant they have up at Clear Stream ; and if
Miss Berna, as they call her, had been a saint,
she couldn't have said more in her praise than

she did. She'll be making a big marriage one of
these days."

Gorman did not answer ; he only took his
horse a little better in hand as he rode slowly
down the hill. When they reached the cross lane,
he pulled up and said, " I wish you'd ride round
by the station, and see if any parcel is lying therefor
me."

"I'll do that, Mister Gorman."

"And, Doey."

Yes, sort."

"I have not given you half what I meant todo
for that good night's work you did a fortnight
ago."

Never mention that, your honour. I want
nothing. It was the height of diversion to me."

Here's a trifle more sou can keep, at any
rate," and Gorman thrust three pound notes into
Doey's apparently reluctant fingers. " And don't
forget to ask about the parcel," Gorman added,
as he turned away.

"Never fear, sort; Peter won't forget;" having
uttered which assurance, Peter, with some

difficulty, induced his horse to start in the opposite
direction from that his master was pursuing.

Once, however, he had turned the corner of
the lane and was fairly in the old road, Mr. Doey
reined in, and, smoothing Gorman's present across
his thigh, looked with rapture at the filthy hits of
paper which represented value to the extent of
sixty shillings.

He's off after her," he considered, " and nota
parcel of any sort will I find at the station.
Well, love's a mighty queer thing, as old Molly
Murphy said when her son took up with a ' skelly-eyed
' girl, with scarce a dud to her back, and
freckled like a turkey's egg''

There are not many persons who are able to grow
younger day by clay ; but Mrs. Boyle contrived to
perform this feat entirely to her own satisfaction.
The revelation process dated from the evening
when Gorman Muir and she ''foregathered" 
when, stalwart man on one side of a rustic gate,
and lovely woman on the other, those few words
were exchanged which convinced the widow she
had not been mistaken that from the instant
Gorman's eyes rested on her fair form he was, to
adopt her own expression, " gone."

Till that time, her idea had been to trouble
the peace of Muir senior. But after Gorman
spoke those soul-thrilling words, " dear Mrs.
Boyle," she felt it would be most unkind to the
younger man were she to evince any marked
preference for his father.

*' Indeed, and if I married old Muir we'd be

just a laughing-stock," she decided. '*' Why,
strangers would take us for grandfather and
grandchild. Once I throw off these black clothes
it's more like a girl in her teens I'll be looking
than a woman that has buried her husband and
seen all the troubles of this wicked world. Come
May, I'll have been left a sorrowful widow twelvemonths
; and than I can lighten my mourning a
bit. 0, it's heathenish to bid a woman with a
weight of care in her heart go about the world
with two rows of stiff" white muslin under her
bonnet. And me that black never did 'set'! The
first time I ever met Ulick I'd on a pink gown.
Well I mind it  seven tucks, no less, there were
in the skirt ; and he said the colour in my cheeks
shamed the dyer's art. I wonder, when he lay on
the green sod, with the last breath leaving him,
"whether he thought of the young wife, who
married him for love, that he wasn't leaving a
tenpenny piece to bless herself with ? Well, well,
a handsomer man than he ever was (and whatever
faults Ulick Boyle had, he was personable, and as
fine a figure as ever you'd meet in Sackville Street.

Didn't I think myself the made woman the night
he offered for me ? Shall I ever forget that ball
at Began's, when they had rivers of milk-punch
and wine for the asking ?) is after me now, and
will make a grand lady of me yet. I wish he
had more notion of himself. He needn't be so
shy, hanging back for fear of offending me when
his heart is bursting with the words he's afraid to
speak. It's not like as if I was a young child,
never had had an offer. Sometimes I think it's
Berna's cold, heartless way cows him. It would
be natural for him to feel timid about putting
division between mother and daughter ; and I
know she'll never forgive me if I change my
name  just as if because I've buried one husband
I was never to have another !"

With the fine spring weather Mrs. Boyle put
out leaves of youth and gladness, like the trees.
Her light step grew lighter, her faded eyes
brighter, her complexion clearer, her manner
more juvenile. She went singing about the
house and warbling as though she had been a
nightingale among the laurels and rose-trees

surrounding Clear Stream Cottage. She was
always urging Berna to pin some knot of colour
on her dress.

All the fretting in the world," she said,
'won't bring the dead back again. We've got
our lives to live ; and, for my part, I don't mean
to go on year after year, and year after sear, as I
have done, miserable and mournful, as if I had
murdered Ulick Borde, like that wicked woman
Judith they're always reading about in church.
What's that you're saying  the story of Judith is
in the Apocrypha ? I know that as well as you ;
but one part of the Bible is as good as another, I
hope. It's written for our learning, and if you'd
study the ten blessed commandments, and learn
to be respectful and obedient to your own mother
instead of contradicting her, and putting yourself
forward at every turn, it would be more becoming
than reading Apocrypha, and things like that."

"0 dear! Dear!" groaned poor old Ruth,
as she saw, day by day, how the life was telling
upon '' her child." " The mistresses never rest
till she frets her into her coffin. Why doesn't the

man speak and be done with it? Why can't he
say out he's not coming after the old mother, but
the daughter ? I'd tell her myself, only she'd
never believe me. Why, it was only yesterday
she said she felt light as a feather, and, I
thought to myself, no feather could be lighter or
foolish. Anybody but herself might see the
change has come on Miss Berna. Whoever
Miss Muir asked me the other day what was
ailing her : ' She looks,' says Miss Muir, ' as if
she hadn't strength to get about." And, indeed,
that's true ; but she'll go on till she drops."

After a long dull winter. Spring at last came
smiling upon the earth, her emerald robe spangled
with primroses and all the fair fragile flowers that
first lift their heads above ground. In the woods,
birds were mating and building and twittering,
busy as busy could be ; the larch was hanging out
its tassels, the gallows were covered with catkins,
wild anemones carpeted the ground, the streams
ran joyously on their way, the landscape was
flooded with sunshine, the air was full of that
fresh, nameless odour which never greets us save

when the sap is rising  but strength seemed as
far from Berna as ever. From that day when
she took shelter at Ardilaw she began to decline.
She did not complain. She made mention of no
ailment ; but she felt sometimes as though life
were a burden too heavy to bear. Upon her tired
brain Mrs. Boj'le's incessant babble beat with the
weary monotony of a hammer; the shame, and
the trouble, and the sorrow of the widow's insane
delusion fretted Berna like a running sore. Best
save when for a time in fitful sleep she forgot
her wretched present, and through dreamland
entered once again some scene of past delight 
she never knew the meaning of the word. The
lonely rambles up the hillsides and across the
valley, which she once found so soothing, so
efficacious in exorcising the demons of passionate
regret and more passionate pride, had been long
relinquished. "Walking wearied her ; and even
had this not proved the case, she must have
abandoned wandering over the country by herself,
for, finally, there seemed no spot where Gorman
failed to find her. They had met in the most

unlikely places  by the Druid's stone, beside the
waterfall on the way to Gilnakirk, in Knock graveyard,
on the heights above Stormont, on the far-off
road leading to the Castlereagh hills, looking
down on the Lough from Holywood, or gazing at
the distant Gobbins and the blue line indicating
the Scotch coast ; wherever Berna was, Gorman,
as a rule, found her  the most persistent of lovers,
the most modest of wooers  tender, pleading,
-deferential, yet insistent : the girl could not venture
beyond the narrow precincts of her home
without encountering a man she wished to avoid,
and not even in her home was she able to avoid
him. If she stopped in her own room, he remained
for hours listening to Mrs. Boyle's even stream of
maddening folly, waiting for the footstep which,
though tardy, had to come at last, hungering for
the sight and voice of the girl he had grown to
love to distraction.

There were no means he left untried to win a
word from her, yet ice could not have seemed
-colder, stone more insensible, than Berna Boyle.
He told her about his young mother, about Clon-

merlin, his own boyhood, his uncle's kindness, the
loss of fortune he had sustained through treachery,
the efforts he was determined to make to regain
his former position ; but to all appearance he
could not sway the heart of his listener. One day,
when Mrs. Boyle had left the room to see to the
due preparation of some dainty she knew that
'' wrong-headed old Kuth would spoil only because
she is aware I want it for Gorman," the young
man happened to drop a hint to the effect he
would be willing so far to sacrifice his own inclinations
as to let the widow share her daughter's
future home. Instantly Berna turned on him.
What she said she never could afterwards quite
remember. She only knew her lover sat stunned.
During the remainder of the visit he scarcely
uttered a syllable, and when he left his farewell
was frigid in its respectful propriety.

"When will you learn to behave yourself'*
asked Mrs. Boyle, when the door closed after their
visitor. "Am I never to have a friend come but
he must be made miserable through your notions ?
You'd better stop up in your own room altogether,,

miss, till you come to your senses. Looking
down on people better born than any Boyle that
ever was  good-looking, and well-mannered, and
pleasant ! Ah, it's a pity my poor father wasn't
living; herd give you a fine talking to."

"I am tired of it all," said Berna, for once
breaking silence. "Why should we associate
with the Muirss ? why should I, at all events, be
compelled to meet them on equal terms ?"

"0, indeed! We'll have to try and get you
an invitation from the Queen. Nobody lower, I
suppose, seems to you good enough to speak to.
If I approve of people, that is enough for you. I
had to bear enough from you. father, without
putting up with any nonsense from you."

"I will stay in my room, then," declared
Berna.

"Do. I am not aware that any one is so
anxious for your society as to want to drag you
out of it. Gorman Muir and myself can contrive,
I make no doubt, to pass a quarter of an hour, or
even more, without your help."

But Mr. Gorman Muir did not seem disposed

to try the experiment. For a time his visits
ceased altogether, and when he did come, it was
but to sing Miss Garnsey's praises. He rode
with her, he hunted with her, he walked with her,
he drove with her. He went to balls, and picnics,
and flower-shows, and concerts in company with
Mr. Garnsey and his daughter ; he was always at
Beechfield, so said local gossip. He was coining
money, added the same reliable authority. Mr.
Garnsey lead given his consent, and the wedding
clothes were ordered.

Now you see what you've done," said Mrs.
Boyle to her daughter ; " driven away one who
wanted to befriend us, and who, as I may say,
adored me  yes, you may well put your hand to
your head ; I wonder a judgment does not fall on
you for your conduct. They're all gone down
together to the salt water. Mr. Garnsey has
taken a house at Donaghadee, and young Muir's
never but there."

Those were awful days for Berna. Though
she would not confess it to herself, a very demon
of jealousy was rending her heart. She would not

marry Gorman herself, but she could not bear
that he should marry any one else. AYhat she
went through about that time she never told.
Night after night she lay sobbing till the dawn.
In the morning, and at noon, and till the evenings
she tried to accomplish some allotted task; but the
work, or the book, or the pencil would drop from
her tired fingers, and she would fall into weary
reverie, from which sometimes even the sound of
her mother's voice often failed to arouse her. At
these times she thought but of Gorman, forgetting
Mr. Muir ; then Mr. Muir would come in, and
she could remember nothing save the fact that
he was abhorrent to her, and that he called
Gorman son.

It was a Sunday morning in early June when
Mrs. Boyle called up to Berna to know if she
meant to be all day dressing herself.

"I would rather not go to church, mamma,"
said that young lady ; ''I am tired."

"Well, I don't know what it's with, then,"
answered the widow, who, having long previously
judiciously curtailed her mourning, now appeared

with something white and gauzy around her neck,
giving a premonitory hint of what might further
be expected in the way of change. '' You're
getting idler and idler; it's my belief you'll be
too lazy to live after a while, and that you'll die
because you can't bear the trouble of keeping
about. As for not coming with me to church,
though, make no mistake ; I'm not going alone,
and I am not going to stay away. I wonder if
you never give the next world a thought, and you
so obstinate and unfeeling in this. I'll be in my
place, if only to show the people it's nothing tome
what Mr. Gorman Muir chooses to do or leave
undone."

Without answering a word, Berna turned into
her own little bedchamber, put on her mantle and
bonnet, and then stood thoughtfully looking at
her gloves.

Ruth was in the room, and suspended her
employment to glance at the pale, weary face
reflected in the glass. " Miss Berna dear,
you're not fit to go. Let me try what I can do
with the mistress, and  "

VOL. II. M

*' It is of no use," interrupted the girl. Then,
covering her face with her hands, she burst into
tears. " 0, I cannot, cannot bear much more !"
she sobbed.

*ram I to be kept waiting all day?" cried
Mrs. Boyle at this juncture.

"I am coming, mamma," answered Berna;
and she went.

It was a perfect day; the grass was growing
thick in the meadows; lambs were calling
to their mothers ; a mare with a colt by her
side was* looking over a gate ; families were
wending their way to meeting, dressed in their
best clothes  the men, as became the lords of
creation, walking in advance of their wives,
daughters, and sisters, who, carrying Bibles
wrapped in clean white handkerchiefs, kept a little
behind, discoursing, as Mr. Muir would have said,
"about such things as they could understand."
Quite at their leisure, the Presbyterians "wandered
" along. They had plenty of time, for
their public worship did not begin till half an
hour after the church bell stopped. Noon was an

excellent time for persons forced to come from
long distances to settle down in their pews ; a far
better time than that at which the sexton ceased
reminding the by-reestablished congregation
they should be toiling up the hill.

"Make haste! we shall be all behind," said
Mrs. Boyle, harrying along with short, tripping
steps. '' I never saw such a girl ! Not an atom
of life or activity about you."

Mamma, I cannot walk so fast," ventured
Berna. " I really am not well."

'* You'd be well enough if it wasn't for your
sinful temper," answered Mrs. Boyle, pausing by
the graveyard gate for her daughter, who panted
painfully up the incline.

Short as was the space which intervened between
the gate of the graveyard and the church porch,
Mrs. Boyle, while traversing it, contrived to
smooth those feathers her "headstrong girl " had
ruffled.

With mincing steps she pursued the path
leading westward, preening herself like some
conceited pigeon as she went, and adding such
small touches to bows, net, crape, and cuffs as
experience had taught her might advantageously
be bestowed after a hurried walk and unavailing
remonstrances with a young person " little better
nor a natural."

All bloom," the widow crossed the vestibule
and sidled up the aisle, a complete contrast to
Berna, who, so the few who were there to see
afterwards averred, followed her mother " pale as
death." Even the lily tints had faded out of her
cheeks, leaving a deathlike white still.

One swift glance told Mrs. Boyle there was
no man in the church worth setting her cap at.
Mr. Garnsey was absent, Mr. Gorman Muir not
present. The only churchwarden on view chanced
to be married ; while Mr. Crommles was a widower
of such long standing that most women, young
and old, tender blossoms and ancients of days,
considered it a mere waste of time to encompass
that clerical citadel.

For all there's to see," considered the widow,
"we might as well have stayed at home;" but
before she had settled herself two strangers, lady
and gentleman, were ushered into the rector's
pew.

The lady wore the "neatest" bonnet, the widow
thought, she ever beheld; while her mantle had
a " French cut about it " that struck Mrs. Boyle
as peculiarly fascinating, and induced the reflection
that if "Berna owned a bit of an eye for
such things, she might have taken the pattern off
in her head."

Indeed a lovely day ! Through the open windows
pleasant airs laden with sweet scents wandered

into the church. Outside, the birds were
singing and leaves dancing in the sunshine; a
gentle wind stirred the grass growing above the
quiet dead. There was a great silence, broken
only by the voice of Mr. Crommles and the murmured
responses of the congregation ; even the
clerk's sonorous "Amens" were more subdued
than usual. Every now and then the whole
scene seemed to fade away from Berna's sight,
while the words of the rector sounded further and
further away ; portions of the service eluded her
ear altogether ; the singing sounded like a confused
noise, heard as if coming from some remote
distance. Over and over she tried to rouse herself,
to shake herself into attention ; but in a few
minutes afterwards she found her mind again
slipping away, utterly eluding her will. As in a
dream, she listened to the Lessons ; mechanically
she stood, and knelt, and sat, till at last, just as
Mr. Crommles was approaching the end of his
sermon, every object seemed to reel round, and
she had to clutch the front of the pew to save
herself from falling.

I shall faint if I do not go out," thought the
girl; and rising, somehow she groped her way
into the aisle, and blindly, but with the instinct
of self-preservation strong upon her, managed to
get into the open air and reach a square tomb,
on which she sank, utterly exhausted.

Good heavens ! what is the matter. Miss
Boyle ?" exclaimed Gorman Muir.

Having come into church late, he had modestly
taken a seat close by the door ; and he was
at Berna's side sooner than the sexton, who
answered,

She's not fit to tell you. Keep up her
head while I go for a drop of water. Don't be
scared ; it's only a sort of a swound. There,
didn't I tell you?" he added, running back from
the vestry. " You're better now, miss dear,
aren't you ? Take a sup of this. Don't try to
hold the glass ; I'll keep a grip of it. You're
trembling like a leaf. When she's fit to move,
you'd best help her round to my house. She can
sit there a while ; and I'll tell the mother not to
be fretting herself. You're getting on bravely

now, aren't you ? Don't stir yet till you feel
steady on your feet. That's right, Mr. Muir;
she'll be best wanting her bonnet. Now I must
go; Mr. Crommles will be near done by this
time. See, I'll just leave the tumbler beside you,
case it's wanted again; and mind you take her
round to the house ; the people's soon be passing
here. Don't refuse his arm, miss; you'll never
be able to walk your lone. That's better. You're
mighty tottery still. See the pride of her!"
thought the sexton to himself, as he hurried back
into the church. " She can't thole touching the
man's coat-sleeve. Faith, and I don't blame her;
though, if it comes to that, her own mother's no
great things either."

As for Gorman, he paced by Berna's side in a
very agony. What if his father's prophecy should
prove true  what if the girl were to die !

Around lay those who had faded out of existence
as young as she. Death did not spare,
love could not save, them ; why should death
spare her ? Why should his own love avail, when
the tears of parents, the prayers of husbands, had

in other cases failed to avert the doom ? He
pressed his right arm to his breast; he clenched
his left hand in impotent despair; he lifted his
eyes to the clear blue sky, and silently murmured
a petition that she might live. He could not
speak a word to her ; his very heart seemed to
stand still with dread. Thus among the graves
and through the little rustic gate they moved in
utter silence.

Not a human being was about ; two large white
goats  grazing on the little patch of common
land in front of the few cottages, in one of which
the sexton lived  turned and stared at them.
Without ceremony, Gordon lifted the latch and
opened the door.

The kitchen was empty. Beside a smouldering
turf fire stood an old-fashioned easy-chair.
Gorman placed Berna in it, and then, leaning
against the mantelshelf, remained looking at the
girl, who had sunk back in the seat and closed
her eyes. After a minute she roused herself
again.

Do not let me keep you here," she said.

"Why are you so cruel to me?" he asked,
with the quick revulsion of feeling common to
untrained and passionate natures. " You would
speak more kindly to a dog than you do to me,
and yet what in the wide world is there I would
not do for you ? Why will you go on this way,
breaking my heart ? Tiy don't you give me a
chance of winning your love ? If I were the very
worst and lowest of God's creatures you could not
treat me more scornfully. Only tell me how I
can please you  only set me some task, I do not
care how hard  only treat me even as a brother,
a friend  and  "

I wish you would go," she murmured.

With an angry gesture he flung out of the
cabin, and stood with his outward gaze wandering
over the quiet landscape, though he really saw
nothing but Berna. While they were crossing
the graveyard he would have died for her. Now,
in his fury, he felt as though he could have
killed her. For the time being he was desperate.
An ungovernable rage took possession of him,
and a noise as of many waters was surging in his

ears. He could not see sky or earth for a mist
of tears. Many demons rent him so sore he
could have cried aloud with pain ; but at last
they departed from out his soul, and he turned
and reentered the house.

Shall I fetch your mother ?" he asked ; and
his voice was hoarse by reason of the struggle in
which he had been engaged.

"No, thank you," she answered wearily.
But if you would only go !"

"Don't be afraid; I'm going," he retorted,
with difficulty restraining another paroxysm of
rage. "I curse myself for having given you the
chance of bidding me leave you twice. No woman
ever before said to me ' Go !'  perhaps that is the
reason I never cared to stop with any woman till
I saw you ! my God !" he added vehemently,
what I would not give to know how to melt the
ice of your heart ! It does not matter to you, I
suppose, that you are destroying everything that
is good in me. I hate my life ; I hate myself; I
hate the very sunshine ! But there, what is the
use of talking ? What I have to bear I must bear.

It was a bad night's work for me when I came
upon you standing like a spectre in the shadows
of that summer night. I woukl have been away
from here, long enough ago, if it had not been
for you. Xo ; don't tell me to leave you again ;
I am going. Upon my soul, I am;" and then,
throwing himself upon his knees beside her, he
kissed Berna's gloved hand over and over again.
"My cruel love!" he cried. "My cruel, cruel
love ! How can you be so cold to a man whose
heart beats. only for you? No; stay where you
are," he added, as the girl attempted to rise.
What a wretch I am, and you ill ! Forgive
me !" and he left the cottage as Mrs. Boyle, all
flutter and excitement, advanced towards it.

"Why, Mr. Gorman, who'd have dreamt of
seeing you here ?" she exclaimed. " I thought
you were in Donaghadee, no less. What's wrong
with Berna ?"

I do not know, Mrs. Boyle," answered the
young man ; *' she seems very ill."

There's no end to my troubles," exclaimed
the widow; "first one elinor and then another.

0, it is here you are, is it ?" she added, passing
into the cabin, followed by Gorman. " A fine
fright I've had over you. I'm sure, when I
turned my head, wondering what the clerk and
Mr. Crommles were staring at our pew for, and
saw you were gone, a child might have knocked
me down. I never was one to make a fuss for a
disturbance, so I sat on till I could contain myself
no longer, and then, after I'd been hunting
all over the neighbourhood for you, the old man
came out and told me your were here, resting
yourself. Pity you hadn't stopped at home if
you didn't feel well. How I'm to get you back
there, goodness only knows."

"Mrs. Miller has a car. She will lend it tome,
I know," whispered Gorman eagerly.

'' You're too kind altogether," said Mrs.
Boyle. " I can never thank you enough for your
goodness. What's that you're saying, Berna ? 
you'll walk ! Indeed, and you'll do no such
thing  at least, I know I'm not going to walk
with you. I thought," turning with an engaging
simper to Gorman, " we'd never get to church at

all. She dragged along just like some rheumatic
old woman. I'm sure I hope if ever I live long
enough to get into years I'll be different from her.
She hasn't a bit of life or activity. As Miss
Sheill was only saying the last time I saw her,
anybody might think I was the girl in my first
teens, and Berna some staid grandmother."

"Miss Sheill was correct so far as you are
concerned," remarked Gorman, anxious, even at
the expense of truth, to make matters a little
pleasant.  " Perhaps I had better be seeing
about that car."

He did not remain away long. At the foot of
the hill he met a lad, who gladly undertook to
carry his message ; while he, nothing loth,
retraced the way he had so lately come.

Short as was the time, he saw Berna had
been crying. "And she won't marry me, who
would never speak an unkind word to her," he
thought bitterly.

Had you not better come out into the air,
Mrs. Boyle?" he asked; "you seem to find it
warm here;" and his glance sought Berna's face,

in hopes that she might thank him with her eyes.
But the girl would not look at him. He was
resolute, however, to keep Mrs. Boyle away from
her daughter. He showed her the goats, he
walked with that lady up and down over the
grass, he spoke of the prospect, he flattered and
humoured her, and " kept the fun going," till at
last his messenger returned to state,

Mrs. Miller said he might have the car and
welcome ; and her son was yoking the horse."

It was one evening towards the end of the same
week ; Berna lay on a sofa in her own little room,
a plaid shawl thrown over her feet, one thin white
hand contrasting with the blackness of her mourning
dress-her eyes closed, her mouth a little
compressed, her forehead drawn into a pucker.
Through the open window roses thrust in their
heads, filling the room with perfume; dimity
curtains stirred gently as the light breeze swept
past them ; swallows were darting hither and
thither; on a stool placed near the sofa Ruth
sat darning stockings. Not a sound disturbed
the stillness ; even the music of the little stream
was hushed. The water was so low it scarcely
murmured as it trickled slowly over the pebbles,
and wound a languid course to the sea.

Are you in any pain, my poor lamb ?" asked

Kuth at length, laying down her work and looking
wistfully at the girl she loved so truly.

Berna opened her eyes, and, sighing heavily,
answered,

No, nurse ; only tired."

'* Do you not think you feel any better ?"

"I am not ill; only tired."

Do you know what the doctor asked your
mother when he was here to-day ?"

No. What was it ?"

Whether you had anything on your mind."

"0!"

"And she asked, what would a girl of your
age have on her mind ?"

*' Yes, and he"

Said that was nonsense ; that you were
eighteen years of age ; that he could find no sign
of disease about you ; and that he felt morally
certain you were fretting, or in trouble of some
sort."

What did mamma say ?"
The outcome of it all was she couldn't think
of a mortal thing that ailed you, without it was

VOL. II. N

having lost your father ; and the doctor he asked
how long he had been dead, and then he shook
his head, and put it plain  were you in love ?"

The brilliant colour of old dyed Berna's cheeks
crimson for a moment ; but the next faded away,
leaving her pale as death. *' Go on, nurse," she
entreated.

* Love, indeed !' says the mistress ; * time
enough for all that this many's the day ! No ;
it's just her oddity and contrariness. Love ! my
word, that is a fine notion ! We'll have the
babies in arms thinking about love next. You're
wrong this time, doctor ; while you were about it,
I wonder you didn't make some likelier guess
than that.'

Maybe I'm wrong,' he said ; * but I don't
think I am.'

That's the very thing you are, though,' she
made answer.

*Well, well,' returns the old man; 'well,
well, well' "

"And that was all, nurse ?"

*' All, except that you're to have the best of

good living, and change of some sort as soon as
you get up your strength a bit ; and 0, my dear,
dear child, won't you speak to your poor old nurse
and tell her something of what's in your mind ?
Sure it's better to be living than dead, to be
happy than proud. If you're fond of him  and I
know you are  why won't you make some sign ?
Any one with a grain of sense could see he fairly
worships the ground you walk on. It's not the
match I wanted for you. It's a great come down,
I know. Still, he has good people belonging to
him on his mother's side, and his uncle gave him
the best of education ; and he has gentleman's
ways with him, and there's many a thing against
you marrying as you ought. Great ladies before
now  ay, even grander ladies than Sir Herbert
Boyle's wife; and, as you know, she's an earl's
daughter  have chosen husbands scarce their
equals by a long way, and lived content with them
all their lives  more content than if they'd been
in kings' palaces. It's not exactly a man or a
woman's relations. Miss Berna, but the man or
the woman's self; and so, if you have a fancy for

BERXA BOYLE,

Mr. Gorman Muir  and I know you had from the
first  what would hinder you saying a pleasant
word to him now and again ? You needn't say
much. Starving folk are thankful for crumbs,
and if there was anybody starving for a kind look,
it's young Mr. Muir."

He is not likely to get kind looks or pleasant
words from me," answered Berna, throwing up
her right arm and resting her head upon it. " You
are wrong, nurse. All I want is to be left in
peace, to live my own life and face my own fate as
I must face it. I need rest, and I can't get it
while strangers are coming to the house. I want
fresh air, and there is no place round all this
neighbourhood I can be sure of not meeting him.
It is that which has laid me up," went on the
girl, raising herself on her elbow, and looking
with longing eyes beyond the roses and the
shrubs to the calm evening glory which flooded
the sky. "0, if you knew the quiet hand those
long lonely walks used to seem to lay on my
unquiet heart, you would understand. I am ill
now just as a prisoner might be ill who even in

his cell scarcely ever was so blessed as to be quite
alone."

Kuth rose. She smoothed the pillows; she
passed a gentle though hard hand across the broad
white forehead. ' Lie down, dear, lie down," she
said; "I am only a poor ignorant woman; I
never had much learning. I am not able to speak
to you as I'd wish to speak, but I think I understand.
Still, Miss Berna, maybe it might be well
for 3'ou to consider. You can't go on as you are
doing for ever. You've no chance of visiting and
seeing the world like other young ladies. You've
shut the door between yourself and the master's
grandmother. Who have you got to look to if
you don't look after yourself? And here's a lover
only waiting the smallest sign from 3'Ou to give
you a house of your own and a husband who
would just dote upon you."

Berna laughed a little bitterly. " Was not
there some one," she asked, " that said, ' Not a
Boyle belonging to me but would turn in their
graves,' if I took up with Gorman Muir ? ' That
he was not a gentleman, that he was a worse man

than his father,' and a great many more things of
the same sort ? If you have changed your ideas,
I have not, Ruth."

But I didn't know anything about him then,
miss. It was nothing but the common talk I
repeated, and I don't suppose anybody was much
better acquainted with him than myself. I have
never met any young man civilly spoken or better
behaved ; and I hear he's making a lot of money,
and is free with it as free can be. And he's kind,
I'm surest He was riding along the road the
other day in front of me, and there was a poor old
grandmother carrying a child and a heavy basket.
The creature looked fit to drop. Mr. Gorman
pus up. * Which shall I take ?' he says, as
pleasant as you please. ' I can't manage both
basket and child, but hand me up which you like.'
Your own father, dear, couldn't have spoke kinder,
or put his arm more natural-like round the boy."

I never said he was not kind, Ruth ; he maybe,
for all I know, though he is Mr. Muir's son."

Well, miss, a child mostly can't choose its
parents."

That is very true ; but at least I can choose
not to have Mr. Muir for a father-in-law. I
would not marry into that family  no, not if the
son had fifty thousand a year."

If that's so," said Kuth, smoothing a stocking
on her lap, "it's a pity he does not speak and
be done with it."

Do you suppose he has not spoken, then ?"
said the girl, again raising herself.

I didn't know. Has he ever  "

Over and over again, Ruth. And I am so
tired of it all, of saying ' No, no, no  no.' He
won't take * No.' I can't go across the threshold
without meeting him. I should be well enough
if he would only let me alone  if he would believe
what I tell him. I must do something, nurse;
but I do not know how to do it. If I could get
away  some place ever so far away, where I should
never see or hear of him again, you cannot imagine
what a comfort it would be."

And your eyes are full of tears as you say
that. child dear, consider whether you are
not making a mistake. There's Miss Garnsey,

Berne BOYLE.

now, would marry him tomorrow ; and they do

say Mr. Garnsey's on for the match himself; and

why couldn't you give him a chance to see if it

was just impossible you might change your notion ?

Pride's very well, but it is cold comfort for an

aching heart. In my poor way I was proud once

myself; and I know I have lain from night to

morning crdng for the smile I'd once turned

away from. I never told you, Miss Berna, about

Pat Harrison. If we're very fond of anybody, it

comes hard' to talk about them ; but I feel, this

evening, as if I wouldn't mind so much telling

you why I never married  never cared to look at

any man, except the one  "

Tell me, nurse," said Berna softly.
Ruth paused a moment before she began, and
there came across her furrowed face and her
homely features alight, as if from some far distance
the sunshine of youth was shining full upon one
no longer young or comely. " It was at Carrick
May fair I first saw him. My father was set
against my going, but he gave way at last, and
me and my cousin Rose started together. Pat

came up to us when we were buying gingerbread-nuts
at one of the stalls. I can see him now.
He was straight as a dart, and his face was brown
with being out in the weather, and he had soft
kind eyes ; and he singled us girls out. He
followed us wherever we went ; and when we
started to walk home again, nothing would serve
him but that he must put us a piece of the road.
He walked on and on, till at last I made him
turn, saying my father would be angry ; and then
Rose and I made haste home, laughing and talking
as we went, she saying the young man was
after me, and I saying it was her he was after ;
but I knew better all the time. All that summer
he was, on and off, over at Ballynure, where we
had a bit of a farm. We were comfortably off;
my father worked as a day labourer, and my
mother and the rest of us wrought about the
land ; and we held our heads a trifle high because
we owed nobody anything, and had a few pounds
in an old worsted stocking hidden away under
the thatch.

"Maybe that was the reason I wouldn't have

anything to say to Pat, though I knew I liked
him well. He couldn't get a kind look from me,
and I used to say hard things till my father got
cross, and my mother said, ' I don't know what
you want, girl. There's only one thing against
him, and that's his religion.' ' And that he has
the old woman to keep, and little to keep her
with,' I'd make answer. And then my mother
would get more vexed still, because she didn't like
me to seem to be grudging the poor widow her
bite and sup  and Pat was the last she had
brought up respected and respectable. He was
only a fisherman, Pat ; and he couldn't earn
much  what with the nets getting torn, and
there being so many to share what profits were
made. Sometimes when we met I'd scarce speak
to him ; when he was away I thought I'd give
the world to have him near; when he was at
hand I tormented him ; and yet, Miss Berna, all
the time I knew well I cared for nobody else 
that I liked his little finger better than any
other man's whole body. We had a quarrel
once, and my heart felt breaking. He kept

away for a month, and then it all began over
again. I said he'd best stop away  that I didn't
want him  that I'd never marry a Catholic or
live with any man's mother. I was a hard wretch.
I think I see the strained, sorrowful face with
which he turned away without a word. He had
not got many perches from the door before he
came back: 'I can't desert my mother for you,
Kuth ; and I won't give up my religion ; but
there's nothing a man may do for a woman I
wouldn't try to do for you, my foolish young
love.' "

"Ah! my poor Ruth," murmured Berna;
and there was a moment's silence in the
room.

We had just got in our harvest, when one
day a cart stopped at the end of the loanin', and
a woman came up to the house. It was his
mother. I had never seen her before. She was
worn and wasted and had seen a lot of trouble,
and the gentle face of her, and something like
tears in her voice, cut me to the heart. She said
she wanted so bad to see me, and she had got a

friend to give her a sail over in his cart  that is
the way they talk there, with always living beside
the sea. She couldn't hear to see her son
fretting as he was, and she talked to me and my
mother and my father, and she kissed me when
she went away, and hoped I'd make Pat a goodwife
some day. * For he's better than rich : he's
dutiful and brave, and he loves you as men don't
often love.' And so I sent him a word of comfort,
but I wouldn't say much, and I used to go
down sometimes to see her when I knew he was
away. I don't know what made me like that, for
I wasn't stiff or nasty to anybody but the man
who was beyond all men to me  "

Nurse, it hurts you to talk ; don't tell meany
more."

There's not much more to tell, dear ; but it
is enough. It was a rough winter. It was a
very bad winter for the poor fishermen, and many
a time when the wind has been shrieking and
swirling round the house, I have lain and shivered,
wondering if Pat was down about the Gobbins,
and thinking about the three hundred fathoms of

wild dark water rushing against the rocks that
rise so sheer down there.

There came one very bad night ; the storm
seemed to take our house in its hand, intending
to dash it to pieces  a perfect tempest roared
across the lonely open country lying up on the
top of the hills. For hours I could get no sleep ;
I trembled till the bed shook under me, and I
vowed I'd never speak unkind to Pat again.
At last I dropped off, and then I awoke sudden
with the sound of some one speaking in my ear.
I saw Pat, miss, I saw him plain. All the room
was pitch dark, save one corner that had a strange
sort of light, such as I never saw on earth. It
was not of the sun or the moon or the stars, and
from out of that Pat was looking at me mournfully.
' Good-bye, Ruth ; good-bye,' he said ; and
the voice grew fainter and fainter, and he faded
and faded away, and there was darkness all around
me, and I lay shaking with the fright.

The next morning, at the first streak of day,
I started, without my breakfast, and walked on
till I got to Carrick. I spoke to nobody as I

went through the town, and nobody spoke to me :
at last I got to the house where his mother lived.
The door was shut, but I pulled the string and
opened the latch and went in. She was sitting
with some of the neighbours round her, and most
of them were crying. Then I kneic. I couldn't
ask a question, but after a while I heard that
some vessel was in distress, and not a man would
go to her. They thought it was certain death,
and they had their wives and their families.
Then an old gentleman, whose son was on board,
came among them, and, with his white hair
streaming and the tears running down his face,
offered them money if they would at least try to
launch a boat. My Pat was there. He was
standing on the White Quay, with the waves
sweeping over it. * I'll not sell my life,' he said,
'but I'll give it;' and he jumped into the boat,
and some others followed him, and they did save
the crew. But when the boat came back it was
without Pat. All was over, the world had ended
for me ! His mother and me were sitting together,
talking low, when some one opened the door

softly, and, looking at us, lifted his hand and
said ' Hush !' Then we knew they had got him,
got all that would ever come home again of my
handsome, tender lover. They laid him on the
bed : there was a sort of wistful smile on his lips, ,
and through the half-closed lids I could see the
colour of the eyes that might never again look at
me. I think that's all, Miss Berna."

The girls thin hand sought that of the
woman, there was not a word more spoken, but
they stayed there utterly still, while the evening
glory departed, and the mystical twilight crept
on.

"Dear Mrs. Vince,  Though Mister Vince, as
people call him now he's got up so high in the
world, wouldn't care if he saw his own lying dead
in the street, I think, after all the fuss you drove
with Berna  making her out a nonsuch, and setting
her against her own mother  you'll feel sorry
for your neglect when you hear the doctor says
the girl is as had as had can he. She's to be kept
up  I'm only telling you his very words  and
live on the fat of the land, and have change, and
good society, and red wine, and calfs-foot jelly ;
and where one of these things is to be got out of
my income, perhaps you know  I'm sure I don't.
If it was myself, I'd fade away like a leaf before
one of you should be troubled ; but in case anything
happened to Berna, I'd never hear the last
of it. So now I've told you just what's going on,
you can please yourself; only, never blame me

afterwards for keeping you in the dark. It's true
enough that some of us are born to trouble as the
sparks fly upwards ; I've had my share, anyhow.
I don't know what you would best like me to say
I am ; so I'll conclude with only my name,

Molly Boyle."

Mrs. Vince happened to be alone when this
letter was handed to her. She read it twice
through, and after audibly remarking, "Then
she can write ; I always fancied she was unable
to do so," applied a match to the paper, and let
it smoulder away to the last inch.

She must be an idiot," considered the wife
of Richard Charles Vince, Esq., contemplating
the blackened remains of Mrs. Boyle's extraordinary
epistle. '' No woman in her senses
would run the chance of having all help withdrawn.
She little knows the trouble I have had
to induce my husband to continue the income he
does allow her. I will drive over and see what
underlies this ridiculous rambling effusion. If the
poor girl is ill, of course she must be seen to."

It was in accordance with this decision that

VOL. n.

when, 'rafter having had no more dinner than
would content a fly," Mrs. Boyle was wandering
about the garden, protecting her " clear complexion
" from injury by means of a parasol, and
speculating what could have become of Gorman,
and whether he would call that day, she " suddenly
lifted her eyes " and beheld a carriage at
the gate.

I thought that would fetch her," she muttered,
with a triumphant little gasp. " Your
husbands she mentally added, " is not the only
clever one of the Vince family, my lady ! This
is a sm-prise!" she said aloud, advancing to meet
Richard's wife. " I never expected to see jou at
Clear Stream again. Why, it must be near upon
a year since you were out before. But there, to
be sure, of course you are always visiting, and
haven't leisure to be thinking whether your poor
relations are living or dead."

"How is your daughter?" asked Mrs. Yince,
determinedly cutting across this tirade.

About the same; if anything, worse."

What is the matter with her ?"

Goodness only knows  I don't. It's a sort
of perishing from the root. She never had much
heart or spirit ; but she was wild, just out of her
mind with tricks and diversion when you saw her,
in comparison to what she is now. My life is
fairly fretted out of me  as if there wasn't trouble
and expense enough before, without her taking it
into her head to get ill ! If ever a woman was
born unlucky, that woman's me  not a farthings
of satisfaction with husband or child, or
husband's friends, or my own."

"Let us go into the house," suggested Mrs.
Vince. " 1 have a few words I wish to say to you
quietly."

Well, well, you can be quiet as you like.
If it wasn't for a neighbour sometimes looks in to
pass the time of day, we might as well be in the
graveyard. Quiet ! If that's what you want, you
could not have come to a better place. But aren't
you going to take a look at Berna ?"

"Presently  not just yet;" and Mrs. Vince
shut the sitting-room door, and, without being
invited, took a seat.

I wish to Lave an understanding with you,
Mrs. Boyle," she said.

There oughtn't to be any hardship about
that," answered the widow bravely, though Mrs.
Vince's manner made her uncomfortable. " There
never was anybody easier understood than myself."


Then I had better come to the point at
once. Are you not afraid of goading my husband
into cutting himself adrift from you altogether?"

He can do about that as he likes. There is
not a creature knows him but is aware it's shame,
instead of justice, makes him give me the pittance
he does."

May I ask what you mean by justice ? Is
Mr. Vince bound, either in law or in honour, to
allow you one shilling ?"

'she wouldn't pay a single sixpence, if he
could help it."

'* You will find, I think, he very soon will help
it, if you continue to talk about him as you do.
He hears in all directions that you say he is cruel
and stingy."

" So he is."

That he has no feeling for you or jour
daughter."

Neither he has."

That he owes his fortune entirely to your
father."

"Well, and doesn't he?"

** That while he was glad enough to go to
Boyle Court when you were rich, he turns his
hack upon you now you are poor."

"I suppose you are not going to say he has
ever set foot across this threshold since he drove
me into banishment, away from all my friends.
dear ! Esau's not the only one sold his birthright
for a mess of pottage."

You had better, then, take back your birthright.
Do what you like, say what you like, live
where you like  only without help from him. It
is absurd to suppose he will continue to pay you
the money he does, if you go round the country
vilifying a man who has acted most generously
by you."

As all are aware, I'm poor enough, and I'm

lonely enough ; so you are at liberty to say what
you like to me."

'I have no wish to be hard upon you," answered
Mrs. Vince, recovering from her sudden
gust of passion. "My husband is in London at
present, and on his return I shall say nothing
about your letter ; I would not vex him by the
mention of such ingratitude ; and for your daughter's
sake I am willing to give you another chance.
I tell you fairly, however, that I am almost weary
of standing between you and the consequences of
your own folly ; and should I hear again that you
have spoken of my husband in the same terms as
hitherto, I shall leave him to act towards you ashe
may think best."

"1 am sure I have said nothing; but you
can't stop people's tongues."

'perhaps not; but we can stop paying your
rent and forty pounds a year."

"It's scarce becoming of you, Mrs. Yince,
who owe the very dress you've on your
back to my family, to talk to me as you are
doing."

Good heavens ! this "woman is enough to
drive any one mad !" exclaimed Mrs. Vince.

'there was not much madness about you,"
retorted Mrs. Bo3'le, " when you went to Eichard
Vince to ask him to take you as housekeeper."

Alien I chat V

*'I am sure I spoke plain enough : when you
went and said, didn't he think you'd make him a
first-rate housekeeper ?"

Mrs. Boyle, you cannot really he in your
senses."

A while ago it was you was going out of
your mind. Right or wrong, that's the story's
going about the world."

It is an absolute falsehood."

"Well, well, you ought to know best. At
any rate, it is in everybody's mouth, and nobody's
likely to believe to the contrary now. It is an
old saying, that ' a lie travels round the world
while truth is putting on his boots;' and you'll
have a good deal of trouble convincing the world
you think so much of that you didn't make a lucky
bid for my cousin. Maybe you might have done

just as well to have made a friend of me. My
word would have gone a long way; for even
strangers always said, ' If there's one in the
North you can depend on, that one is Milly
Vince.' However, we'll see. You're mighty well
up in life now ; hut ' it's a high tree has no top ;*
and little as you account me at this minute, maybe
the day'll come you will wish you had thought
Mrs. Boyle worth a civil word."

When was I otherwise than civil to
you r

0, that's all very fine! As I was saying to
a person only a few days back  "

"I do not wish to hear what you said to
any one."

'* Ah ! perhaps you'll be of a different opinion
when you see me as grand as yourself, with a fine
handsome man fcr husband, who won't sit still
and know his wife put upon."

Mrs. Yince's heart leapt for joy.

"No human being, Mrs. Boyle," she said,
** will be more rejoiced to see you married again
than myself."

I am glad to hear it. You won't have long
to wait for that gratification."

And what will become of your daughter '?"

She'll always be welcome to share of whatever
home I have ; and it's only she prevents me
having one tomorrow. She's that contrary it
makes a man half afraid to come to the house.
Of course, he thinks to himself, if a girl's so unpleasant
to him before marriage, what will she be
after ?"

"A most natural reflection. And so Berna
does not take kindly to the idea of your second
union ?"

'' Kindly ! You should have seen the look on
her face the first day I put a scrap of white round
my throat ; and it's cruel to expect a woman, still
young like myself, especially with such a complexion
and figure, to stop it weeds till all my
chances are over ! And she has a way of sitting
when we are all laughing dud making merry,
without speaking a word or even encouraging us
Ly a smile."

That must be very tryi:-:."

You see, her father was all the world to her.
Neither of them ever thought about me. I am
sure, my very heart seems full to breaking when
I think of the way I was treated among them all.
And she never considers what would have become
of her if I hadn't thrown myself away on Ulick
Boyle. When I am sitting alone, I often wonder
Berna's- conscience does not smite her  if she
ever considers her ingratitude to the best of
mothers."

Certainly my husband's cousin is a lunatic,"
decided Mrs. Yince ; but she only said,

Perhaps, then, if I could persuade your
daughter to come to me for a little while, it
might make matters easier for you both."

You'll not get her to go. You can try, but
you'll see. Many a one has striven to seduce my
girl away from me, but they have all failed. She
knows who is her best friend. There was the
Dowager, for example, would have clothed her in
purple and fine linen, and offered her sumptuous
fare every day the sun rose  five meals a day, too 
and wild horses couldn't drag her to the old woman."

"But, perhaps, as she is so ill  "

'' You can try. She is welcome to go, for me.
I never was one to consider myself, and I am just
as content and happy alone as if I was among
thousands. My father always said, * Milly's the
happy chick of the family. Set her down where
you will, she'll pick a grain of content.' I take
after him in that. When he had finished his
second tumbler of punch he was the life and soul
of the company. Ah ! there's few like him-the
cheerful ways he had with him ! You wouldn't
think Richard Yince was a drop's blood to one
of us."

'' The gentleman you are thinking of marrying
resides in this neighbourhood ?" suggested Mrs.
Yince.

"Well, he does, and he doesn't, if you can
understand what I mean. It's like the old riddle
my father used to puzzle us children with. Till
it was explained, people used to consider it a
wonderful mystery. I suppose you never heard
this ; it'll do to make sport among your own
young ones : * There's a man in New Row, and

he's Not in New Row. He's Not alive, and he's
not dead. But he lives in New Eow, and he sells
thread.' "

Crazier than any poor demented witch,"
thought Mrs. Vince.

"Well, as I was saying," proceeded Mrs.
Boyle, " he didn't happen to be reared in these
parts; but he was born here, and has friends
here among the first in the land. You've heard,
perhaps, of Mr. Garnsey, of Beechfield. He's
hand and glove with him, and he keeps his
hunters, and goes out with the harriers and staghounds,
and he'll bring no disgrace upon Richard
Charles Vince or yourself, big people as you
think yourselves."

The chief consideration, Mrs. Boyle, is, will
he make you happy '?"

"Happy! why, he's the best of good company
; he can sing, and play, and dance. Wait
till you see him, and you'll count me the .lucky
*woman to have taken his fancy."

I congratulate you most cordially."

Yes, I thought you'd be pleased. That's

one thing I will say concerning those that come
of good family, there's no grudging about them ;
you've done well yourself, Mrs. Vince, but you
wouldn't mind anybody else should do well too.
I am glad I told you : it's off my mind, and when
Eichard comes back you can give him a hint how
the land lies."

That I certainly will. And now may I see
your daughter ?"

And welcome ! She's fit enough to leave her
room ; but she won't come in here for fear of
meeting those she thinks herself above, though
they're as good as any Boyle ever was. Maybe
you could bring her to her senses. Just put it
to her how low we've come down in the world,
and how a match such as I have in view would
be the making of us all. Go in alone ; I'd best
stay out. She thinks a heap of you. Berna,
here's a friend come to see you ;" and Mrs. Boyle,
after making this announcement, shut the door
of her daughter's room, across which Mrs. Vince
walked with both hands extended.

'* My poor, poor child !" she cried ; '* what is

the matter with you ? and who did you think the
friend was ? Don't tremble so, dear !" and she
drew the girl's head down upon her bosom, and
sat silent for a moment. Then, ' I want to take
you back with me to Craigvallen, my love," she
went on ; '' your mother has given her consent,
and I mean to nurse you myself. I know now
why you wrote and asked me to stop away ; but
you were foolish, Berna, very foolish ; don't be
foolish again. Say you are willing to come with
me."

"Willing!" repeated Berna. "Thankful
Mrs. Yince  "

Not another word," interrupted that lady.
I am going to call Kuth. The carriage is waiting.
You can talk as much or as little as you
please at Craigvallen. All I want is to get you
there."

Much perplexed in mind. Mr. Muir walked down
the long avenue leading to Craigvallen House.

He had seen many fine places before ; but
never previously one so well kept, or which bore
so unmistakably the visible signs and tokens of
wealth. The grass was like velvet; the drive
free from moss and weeds ; the shrubs were
of the rarest ; even the trees seemed well cared
for.

There is no standing still for money here,"
thought the farmer. '' I begin to misdoubt me
it's a bad business altogether." And he shook
his head sorrowfully as he looked around.

Berna had been absent from Clear Stream for
more than a fortnight, and during the course of
that time a terrible light had broken on Mr. Muir.
One day when he was up at Sunnyside looking at
a recent purchase of Gorman's, Miss Gamsey,

accompanied by no less than three dogs, turned
in, ostensibly to see an animal whose praises
young Muir had been chanting to her father.

She's come on the chance of finding German,"
decided the farmer ; and he kept the lady
sauntering about Sunnyside and Ardilaw for sometime
in hopes his son might return. But German
did not return. Of late he had been restless
and unsettled; given, so said Peter Doey, to
taking " queer notions," absenting himself for
days together without "rhyme or reason," attending
to his business only by fits and starts, and in
many other ways throwing out bad feathers, and
indicating the possibility of ere long going headlong
to perdition.

It was the wild drop revealing itself, Mr.
Muir decided. He had often meant to speak to
Gorman on the subject ; but Gorman was not a
person to whom it always seemed easy to talk,
and thus, so far, no explanation had been arrived
at between the father and son.

He is frequently from home now," said Miss
Garnsey, as she stood just where the Ensign

once stood, picking currants from the very same
bush the farmer had found him regarding with
such rapt attention.

"He has a heap on his mind," answered Mr.
Muir deprecatingly. "Dealing in horses is a
business which needs a power of attention."

So it seems," agreed the lady, with a laugh,
the tone of which Mr. Mair did not quite like,
accustomed though he was to Miss Garnsey's
many pleasant ways.

The worst of it is, he can scarce call his
time his own," said the farmer.

Then he has the less leisure for getting into
mischief."

There are few steadier young men going
than Gorman, Miss Garnsey."

I don't suppose you know much about what
be is."

I think I may allow myself to be a judge on
that point ; there's not one bit of harm in the
lad. I have no manner of fault to find with him,
unless it is his restlessness. It's rare for him to
be in the same mind now two days together,"

VOL. II. p

went on Mr. Muir tentatively. *'I did hope he
was settling down and getting quite content."

'did YOU?"

But I don't suppose any man can be expected
to do well till he has a wife of his own to work
for. I would be real glad to see him happy with
a fine young wife."

Perhaps it won't be long before you do."

Well, I have had a notion once or twice
there was some thought of the kind."

So have I."

"You don't think I am altogether wrong,
then?"

No ; I am sure you are not."

"And it's not beyond possibility I could give
a guess at her name."

"I could."

"And maybe you wouldn't mind mentioning
it to me  in a whisper, you know," said Mr. Muir,
with a smile he considered irresistible.

There is no necessity to whisper about the
matter, so far as I am aware. The young lady's
name is  "

'eyes, miss, yes; you've no call to be shy
with me.'''

I am not at all shy with anybody, only perhaps
you might like to defer the evil hour a little
longer. Upon the whole, I doubt whether it is a
match you will much care for."

"Now, you know there is nothing would
pleasure me more."

I should not have supposed that exactly."

"Ah, that is only your fun."

Yes ; it is only my fun. And so you really
wish to know the lady's name ?"

I'd like well to hear it from your own lips.
But perhaps I'm asking too much."

"Not at all. What do you say to Boyle ?"
and Miss Garnsey's eyes sparkled with mischievous
enjoyment.

"I deemed from the first you were joking."

Joking ! Where is the joke ?"

You don't think Gorman would look at a
withered-up old woman like that, even if she was
in her senses, which she is not, and had ten times
the money she wants ?"

No ; I am not talking of the mother, but the
daughter ;" and the merriment died out of Miss
Garnet's eyes, and her face grew hard and defiant
by reason of the jealous pain she was enduring.

The daughter !" and Mr. Muir stopped in
th middle of the garden-path as if turned to
stone.

'' Do you mean to say the idea never occurred
to you ?" inquired Miss Garnsey.

* Never  never once. What would have made
it occur, to me?"

Why, he is always at the cottage."

"Is that so?"

** That is so ; and of course we both guess it
is neither the widow nor the servant who constitutes
the attraction."

'you have dealt me a heavy blow this day,
Miss Garnsey. Still, I would fain hope you are
not altogether right in your conjecture."

"I think you will find I am. Ask your
son."

''I am not so sure he might make me a very
civil answer."

"Having opened sour eyes, Mr. Muir, I mayas
well go home now."

*' You leave a very troubled man behind you."

O, sou will get reconciled ere long. There
is no reason why it should matter much to you'

It matters everything to me. I wouldn't
for five hundred pounds  no, not for a thousand
pounds  such a misfortune had come to pass. But
he'll get over it, he must get over it ; there's no
sense in the affair. To think of throwing himself
away in this manner !''

"He knows his own value best," retorted Miss
Garnsey. " Come, Bruce ; hi ! there. Jack. Goodbye,
Mr. Muir ; give my best wishes to the happy
couple."

I'm d d if I will !" thought Mr. Muir ; but
he made no audible answer, while he strode
gloomily by Miss Garnsey's side to the gate.
Then, after he had watched her and the dogs
down the hill, he paced along the back avenue
till he came to the stump of an old tree, on
which he seated himself to digest his chagrin.

There Doey, on his way to the yard for a

bridle, saw "the old man," and wondered what
he was doing, " sitting almost in the cart track'*
Mr. Muir did not speak when he passed by the
first time, but as he returned said somewhat
hoarsely,
 "Peter!"

"Well, what do you want with Peter?"

Wait a minute and I will tell you."

Mr. Doey, being good enough to comply, paused
and listened for what might follow.

Peter," began Mr. Muir, "you're an observant
character, and you take notice of many a
thing few might give you credit for, so I'm just
going to put a plain question to you."

"What is it?"

"You have seen more of my son for a good
while now than I have, and been about with him
here and there."

"Well?"

Did it ever come into your head he had a
notion of anybody?"

"Is that all ? In course it did."

And could you give a guess who she is ?"

I could give a guess who she isn't ; though,
upon my faith, I believe she might have had him
any day almost this last six months, if she'd been
-wiser and known how to catch him when the
other wouldn't so much as look at him."

Who are you talking about ?"

'' Miss Garnsey. He'd have married her for
spite, over and over again."

""VMiom did he want to spite?"

''0 Mr. Muir, you've never been so blind as
all that comes to, and you a knowledgeable man
into the bargain ? I wouldn't have credited it ;
and the thing going on under your very nose !"

** Can't you speak out, and tell me who it is
you mean ?"

Well, this beats all ! Who is it ? Who
would it be but Miss Boyle ? If ever a young
man was in desperation about a girl, that young
man is Gorman Muir. It's all along of her he's
neglecting his business, and going as fast as he
knows how to Old Nick. It's a sore pity, too ; for
there's a mine of money in Sunnyside, if he'd
give his mind to working it. Faith, women are

at the bottom of every bother in the world !
Trouble began with Eve, and some Eve has been
busy making more ever since. I wish there
wasn't a woman on earth. If I hadn't worn and
spent myself keeping things together, it's beyond
me to conceive what would have become of us all
long ago."

Mr. Muir rose, and, thrusting his hands deep
in his pockets, said,

"And all the time, like a fool, I was thinking
he had at last settled his mind to make up to
Miss Garnsey."

He might have her, and a fine fortune, too,
for the asking," answered Peter; "and he'll
never get the other one."

Why wouldn't he get the other one? What
would hinder him getting her ?"

*' Because she won't have him ; that's why,
Mr. Muir. How do I know that ? Never mind ;
I do know it. Couldn't I see sour face if it was
reflected in a glass ? and can't I see the way she's
treating him by looking at your son's doings ?
He never did take to drink and wickedness and

idleness as long as he'd a hope she'd take him ;
but she won't. She thinks herself far and away
too good for that."

Too good for him !" repeated the farmer, in
hot wrath. " Do you dare to tell me that widow
woman's daughter wouldn't be only too keen to
jump at such a chance and it were offered to her?"

'" As for daring, Mr. Muir," retorted Peter,
I'm not afraid of you nor any other man, and I
dare say just what I please. If you hadn't been
so set upon your own plan, you'd have known
what I know  that jour son thinks the sun rises
and sets for that girl, and that she has made up
her mind to have no say whatever to him. I
don't mean she doesn't like him. She can't be
off liking him. Where's the woman wouldn't?
But the pride of her has eaten all the love up."

"What's she got to be proud of? That's
what I want to know," said Mr. Muir. " Is it
her cracked old mother, or her grandfather, Sam
Vice  a low dirty attorney, no decent man ever
went to twice ? Then we all know what Richard
Yince sprang from  "

"That makes no sort of odds," interrupted
Doey, with irritating calmness. " What does it
signify where the man sprang from, when we see
what he has sprung into ? He is as rich as he
can be ; he has a grand place ; there is no house
shut against him ; he has married among the best
of the land ; his wife drives a pair of horses no
nobleman in the county could beat ; and when
you've said all you can say about him, I am given
to understand the Boyless are greater quality still.
They are made welcome at the Court of the
Queen itself; and as for the Lord-lieutenant,
he's hand and glove with Sir Herbert and his
wife. They never go through Dublin without
dropping in at The Castle to pass the time of day,
and take a friendly cup of tea."

And what about the Gormans of Clon-
merlin ?" asked Mr. Muir.

I have nothing to say against them, I'm
sure ; only you must mind this about Miss Boyle
if she'd have given up her mother she might
have been blazing with diamonds and going about
with feathers in her head ; and maybe she can't

forget all that. Anyway, I'm feared your son hasa
poor chance, and I'm sorry for it ; for you'll see
he'll never content himself here now."

To which pleasing remark Mr. Muir deigned
no reply.

*bad luck to him!" thought Doey as he
climbed the hill. "After all the insight I gave,
he had never the manners to say, ' Have you a
mouth on you, Peter ?' Well, well ; I think
he has got a nut to crack will try his teeth.
There'll be a fine to-do between the pair when
Gorman comes back again. I only hope it won't
end in the young one giving us all the cut go-by."

Days passed, and still Gorman did not return.
He wrote from Dublin, and the letter contained
some vague hint, which Mr. Muir construed to
mean it was possible his son might leave Ireland
altogether. Then the iron entered into the
farmer's soul.

"Howell I ever live without him?" he
thought. "Why did he come back, if I'm to
lose him now ? He shan't go ; no, if she's all
he wants to be content, he must have her."

For twenty-four long hours he turned the
matter wearily over in his mind ; then he came
to a decision he could do nothing unless Gorman
confided in him fully and entirely. So far everything
was mere conjecture. He did not know
what had passed between the pair  "where the
hitch had come."

I have noticed for a while past," he wrote,
*' something has been wrong with you. Come
back, and if it's in the power of man to help
you, I'll do it."

"And meantime," he thought, after he had
dropped his letter in the box, " I'll just step over
to Craigvallen and ask how she is. That can't
do any harm. I'll not go in, no matter how much
they press me."

Mr. Muir's resolution was subjected to no
such temptation. He saw only a stately butler,
who said he " believed Miss Boyle was better.
She had gone to Greenland, with Mrs. Yince,
for the benefit of sea-bathing."

You are very good ; but it is all of no use. I
have said everything man could say, and yet she
is adamant."

It was Gorman Muir who spoke, striding up
and down the room he had furnished with some
vague idea of proving even to himself he was not
beyond the pale of civilised life. He never
looked handsomer : his dark hair tossed back, his
brown eyes flashing with a troubled light, his expression
at once scornful and sorrowful, his head
erect as though he were remonstrating against
some terrible injustice  his whole attitude passionate,
defiant, indignant. ** If she could see
him now !" thought his father, who sat quite still
his face pale, his lips compressed, his features
Bet  a type of the not less intense and impulsive,
but far more dangerous, side of Irish character.

The one man might have been swayed by
argument or feeling ; not so the other. The germ

of everYthing wliicli lias made the glory of her
children  all the traits that have filled to oYer-flowing
the sad cup of Ireland's shame  were,
unknown to himself, planted deep in the nature
of Hewson Muir. He was made precisely of the
same stuff as the men who, through starvation and
death, held Derry till relief came; who, though
their daily wage might have been counted by pence,
refused "blood-money," even when the temptation
came in the shape of a thousand pounds; who
fought against '' their natural enemies " at Fons
 fought for and with them on many a day
since ; done deeds bards might immortalise, and
committed crimes angels have wept to see.

He was made of the sternest and the most
enduring stuff that can enter into the composition
of a human being. Nevertheless, he could but
be regarded as full of contradictions. Hospitable
yet mean, implacable yet generous, loyal yet rebellious,
appreciation yet curious, cautious yet
foolhardy, his temperament differed utterly from
the poetic, passion-ridden, easily tempted, weakly-strong
nature of the man who called him father.

Save a tendency to fall, there was no trace of
likeness between them. Mr. Muir possessed one
quality in common with the Devil. He might
have been great in sin, but he could scarcely have
scaled any height of virtue. In the way of crime,
Gorman could, given occasion, have trod step for
step with his father to a certain point. There he
would have stopped, and, by remorse and self-abnegation,
tried, unavailingly it might be, but
still tried, to atone for his fault.

To the father repentance was an unknown
quantity; to the son it proved a wind which
always seemed beating him back from some point
he wanted to make. The one was an enemy to
fear, the other a friend to doubt. Hewson Muir
had none of the storm-driven nature which made
Gorman's life now all sunshine, again all shade ;
but he possessed an intense power of concentration
and resistance to external influences, that
rendered the coast of his mind wilder and more
treacherous than that whereon the waves of anger
and sorrow dashed, exhausting their energies for
evil in showers of blinding spray.

"Nonsense!" said Mr. Muir, and the repression
in his hard, cold voice formed a striking
contrast to the tender softness and melting tone
which rendered his son's lightest utterance almost
a declaration of love. *' You're talking a pack of
rubbish. Here's a girl  I don't say she's bad
looking : she is far from that, but she's nothing to
make a song about  without a penny piece to her
fortune, cast adrift by her father's relations, made
none, too welcome by her mother's side of the
house, and you tell me she won't listen to reason
that she'd rather be a governess than marry
you. The idea is totally beyond the bounds of
sense. You've been too eager, my lad. You've
let her see her power ; she's trying you. As long
as you follow, she'll run. Just you stop, put your
hands in your pockets, and shout * Good-bye ! I'm
tired of this,' and she'll come to you fast enough."

"You are quite wrong about the matter,"
returned Gorman vehemently. " Did not I tell
her I would make a fool of myself no longer?
And I might just as well have spoken to a
stone."

*' Because you were not in earnest, and she
knew it. She knew you couldn't leave her, and
that you did not mean to leave her."

But I did, I swear to you. If there ever
were anything I intended more fully than another,
it was either to go to ruin faster than I have yet
tried to do, or marry a woman I dislike out of
hand."

"I wish to the Lord you had done the last,"
interpolated Mr. Muir.

I shall never do that now. Had I been able
to bring myself to the state of mind in which a
man marries a woman who is distasteful to him
in every respect, except so far as utter honesty is
concerned, your desire would have been fulfilled
long since. As matters stand, what I shall
do one day is this : I will go away, and never
return. Had it not been for your kindness, father,
during the months gone by, I should have gone
ere this." And Gorman, acting upon an impulse
he was unable to check, stretched out his hand,
which Mr. Muir took and held for a moment
in an eloquent silence ere he answered,

VOL. II. Q

Before you are driven to that, we'll make a
try if we can't get for you what you've set your
mind on. The girl wouldn't be my fancy, but if
she's yours there's no call to talk more about the
matter ; you are putting as fine a chance as any
man ever got behind your back, and you want to
marry a beggar who is daughter to the craziest
old woman in Ulster."

"Yes, and if she were willing to marry me,
I should not object to fifty mothers-in-law each
crazier than Mrs. Boyle."

That's all very well till you've got your
wife," answered Mr. Muir ; " likely enough, after
that, you'd think one too many."

Would to Heaven I were tried !"

Well, well, I've had my say; only, Gorman,
I'd have you bear one thing in mind : when a
woman has money, if you get tired of her there's
satisfaction to be had out of her money, though
there's none out of herself; and  "

"Look here," thundered Gorman, and he
brought his clenched fist down on the table as he
spoke, " if Berna Boyle were pitted with the

smallpox, if lie were stricken blind, if she were
deaf, dumb, lame, a beggar in the street, she
would still be Berna to me, the woman of my life,
the love of my soul, the only sweetheart I have
ever really had."

"God only knows what you see about her,"
said Mr. Muir. " When I was young I wasn't,
perhaps, over particular ; but I always did like a
girl with some sort of warmth ; a girl who, if she
was fond of you, would throw her arms round your
neck and kiss you, or let you draw her blushing
face close to your own till  "

Gorman stamped his foot. " I know the girls
you mean," he said, " and, I have no doubt, to
some men they might seem charming; but I
would wait a year for my mistress' smile, and
think myself well paid if at the end of that time
she vouchsafed me one gracious word."

You have waited nigh upon a year," remarked
Mr. Muir; "and she hasn't, apparently,
given you even that."

"No; and she never will," answered Gorman.
There's the trouble. If I had only hope, only

the ghost of a hope, I would serve for her as
Jacob served for Rachel, and, were that possible,
with a stouter heart."

You'll never be like Jacob, I'm afraid, my
man," retorted Mr. Muir. '' Out of all the folk
mentioned in Scripture he was, as well as I can
gather, far and away the wisest. Only consider
him when Laban wanted to get the better of the
bargain in that matter of the sheep ! What's that
you're muttering ? * Plague take Laban and the
sheep too !' Eeally, Gorman, I wonder at you,
born and bred as you have been, in a Christian
country, among Christian people !"

*' Father," said Gorman, ' hereafter, perhaps,
in the long, lonely days to come, when I ama
gray-headed, wifeless, childless, desolate man,
I know I shall still say I would rather have loved
Berna Boyle hopelessly, than married one of the
Blood Royal and had the Crown Lands settled
upon me into the bargain."

*' You know best, of course."

Yes, I think I do. Though I may never have
even one sweet memory of fulfilment to look back

upon, I shall always remember my short love-dream
as the happiest portion of a life which
might have been made useful to God, man, and
myself  which I should have made useful, but
for the cruelty of a girl you despise."

That I despise ! For the Lord's sake, German,
pay more heed to what you are saying. I
don't despise Miss Boyle, or even that foolish
creature the mother, who pays for all she has
with a most proper punctuality. They're decent
people, and have got good relations, but they are
NOT RICH !"

*' And if so, what then ?"

"Why, you might be rich, that's all. You
know as well as I do, though Mr. Garnsey bid
you not make love to his daughter, he would give
her to you tomorrow." 

I know that, and I know why."

'what's the why?"

He wants a son-in-law who would make no
inquiry about a sum of money which ought to
have come to her under her grandfather's will ;
and, besides, if all I heard in DabUn is true, he

has a mind to have a person staying at Beech-field
he could scarce ask his daughter to stop in
the house with."

''I see  but all that makes no odds to you.
He gave you to understand, Miss Garnsey would
have five thousand pounds. Man ! man ! pause
and consider ; a face you've taken a fancy to maybe
very fine, but money's better. Think of all
the diversion and satisfaction you might get out
of a good income, and don't refuse the luck that's
in a' manner forced upon you, just because one
girl's eyes are a trifle brighter than another's,"

If I cannot marry Miss Boyle, I shall die a
bachelor," answered Gorman.

Well, well, maybe that wouldn't be so bada
fate. ' After single a good wife's best,' you
know. Where would you find a happier man
than Mr. Cornelius Desmond ? If you could
give up this notion of that girl at Clear Stream,
I would never speak to you again about Miss
Garnsey."

*' It is of no use ; I cannot give up my notion,
but I can go away."

You shan't do that. I wish you had taken
me into confidence long ago, but I hope it's not
too late yet. The first thing you'll do, if you
follow my advice, is get Mr. Yince on your side.
He's no fool, and as far as I can gather he is none
so fond of poor relations ; he would, maybe,
counsel Miss Boyle for her good."

*' I do not want any one to counsel her. I
would not take any wife who would only marry
me because she was forced."

"Dear me, I am sure I can't tell which way
to take you ! Whatever you may think about
Mr. Yince, though, I suppose you'll concede
the mother ought to be told you want the
daughter."

I don't know who is to tell her. I
won t.

*f Somebody must ; and I think Mr. or Mrs.
Yince would be the best to break the news. I
wouldn't wonder a bit if it was the thought of
her mother's anger had something to do with the
girl's refusal."

Gorman shook his head.

*' Will you leave it to me ?'' went on his father.
** Will you let me see what I can do among them
aU?"

Yes ; I will leave it to you," agreed the
younger man, after a moment's hesitation.

"And will you try and behave yourself like a
rational being : attend to your work, and keep
steady, and give Clear Stream a wide berth till I
tell you to go there ?"

Yes ; I think I can promise all that."

*''You see, I understand from the old woman
her daughter is determined to go out as governess,
and that Mr. Yince won't let his wife help her to
get a place. He wasn't best pleased to find the
girl at Craigvallen at home among them when he
came back from London  there's nothing the
widow doesn't let out  and it's very sure he'll
never have her there again. If we mind what weare
about, I believe the next time you ask Berna
Boyle she will say *Yes;' but don't be in too
great a hurry to ask her. I think I can work the
business if you will only have patience, though
the Lord only knows what Bell will say when she

hears all that is going on. She'll be like a
woman element."

What Mr. Gorman Muir observed in reply
need not be chronicled. His comment dealt with
the great Bell question in a summary and exhaustive
manner.

There probably never existed a man who entertained
a higher opinion of his own abilities than
Mr. Muir.

He held a firm belief that if in his south
he had been, what he called, *' learned" Latin,
Greek, Hebrew, modern languages, music, and
painting, he would have made a figure in them all.
A doubt as to his grasp of intellect never occurred
to him. He was wont to point to what he had
done, and argue from thence as to what he could
have done.

Living in the narrowest of narrow circles,
associating on intimate terms with no one beyond
the members of his own household, his self-esteem
rarely met with any check ; indeed. Bell was the
only person who ever " took it upon her " to speak
disparagingly concerning her father's '' grip " of
mind.

There is nothing safer than the assertion that
it would he possible to move the world if we could
find some place to stand while performing the
operation.

Supposing, however, the place were found,
matters might change their complexion ; and soin
like manner, had Mr. Muir been taught all the
wisdom of all the schools, it is more than probable
some one would have discovered he did not possess
better brains than his fellows.

Management he believed to be his strongest
point ; from the pettiest detail of domestic
economy to the government of kingdoms, Mr.
Muir believed himself infallible. He knew houses
where the '' greatest of waste " was going on, and
he was wont to hold forth for hours upon how
differently he would manage, whether in the
position of '' Church or State minister." There
were few things he liked so much as " putting
things to rights " for other people, and it is consequently
not wholly inconceivable that he regarded
Gorman's infatuation with secret complacency,
affording as it did an admirable opportunity for

putting his fingers into many pies, and extolling
his own cleverness in extracting the fruit.

The first visit he paid was to Mr. Yince. On
his way to Belfast he recited for the fiftieth time
the many admirable remarks wherewith he proposed
gaining over that gentleman to his side.

*' He'll be only too glad to come round to my
way of thinking," decided the farmer ; having
reached which satisfactory state of mind he found
himself almost at the same moment standing on
the step of Mr. Yince' s office.

The difficulties which beset obtaining an audience
" damped " his courage somewhat. They
cut two ways, causing him to feel Mr. Muir was a
person of less importance than he had supposed,
and Mr. Yince a greater. He walked across the
outer office, expecting at once to be ushered into
the private room, as when he called by appointment
; and, instead, he found it necessary to give
his name and almost pray for admission before
the question of even asking him to wait could be
entertained. It hurt his vanity sorely to find no
one he saw remembered him, or cared about him,

or desired to be troubled with him. At least six
persons asked him the nature of his business, and
then the matter had to be referred to a " gray-headed
old man," who " allowed" he might wait
till Mr. Vince was disengaged, and then his
message should be taken in.

Mr. Muir, whose hands were bare except for
tan, was also greatly exercised in his mind by the
fact that a young clerk could not run round to the
Ulster Bank without first putting on his gloves.

"The whole lot of them," he said afterwards
disparagingly, "were begun by Moses, and they'll
be finished by Burgoyne;" which surnames
referred to a well-known firm of tailors and an
equally well-known individual who formerly kept
a place of bodily entertainment in the passage
running beside the Belfast News Room which
connects Donegalll and High Streets.

"It is just wonderful," considered poor Mr.
Muir; " and to think this man is full cousin to
that half-witted widow my son wants to get for
mother-in-law !"

"Kindly step this way," said a supercilious

youth at this juncture ; '' Mr. Yince will see
you."

If there were one place beyond another where
Richard Charles looked more darkly, beautifully
Presbyterian and respectable than another, it
was in his office.

Predestination and election were writ large
all over him. Nothing so light and frivolous as
the Church seemed to have part or parcel in him.
The cut of his clothes was founded on the Westminster
Confession of Faith ; the tie of his cravat
and the solemnity of his shirt-front suggested the
Shorter Catechism ; whilst the gravity of his
manners and the stern rigidity of his features
could only have belonged to a man who knew the
Longer off by heart, and had been '' well grounded"
in Chronicles first and second, and the books of
the Kings of Israel.

All in vain Mr. Muir tried to assume an airy
and easy manner. The atmosphere of Richard
Charles's business sanctum proved too much for
him. His remark, on being gravely asked to take
a chair, that " sitting was as cheap as standing,"

produced simply no effect whatever. Mr. Yince
might have been deaf so far as any response intone,
look, or manner indicated to the contrary.

I was about to write to you, Mr. Muir,"
said the great man, in that voice which usually
proves its owner to be a loyal Orangeman, a staunch
Dissenter, a foe to the Pope, and an enemy to all
those unfortunates who belong " to the back parts
of Ireland."

"What about, sir?" asked Mr. Muir, for the
time being, well-nigh cowed by the spectacle of
Pilchard Charles seated in his well-padded office-chair,
before a great " leather-covered table bigger
than the billiard-table at my Lord's," with his
plain heavy watch-chain, his stiff collar, and a
face colder, harder, and more passionless than the
farmer's own. No human being except Marcella,
daughter of Theophilus Carpenter, Esq., deceased,
had ever seen that face relax, the lines of that
severe countenance soften, and even to her he was
not always as wax in the hands of the moulder.

There were times when she felt it better to
"hold back" and let the rigid demon which

occasionally possessed her lord have the ground
all to himself. She had not married for love, and
she could afford to be wise ; and yet there were
times when,' like Berna, she felt Craigvallen was
not half sufficient purchase-money for the liberty
and the possible future she had sacrificed when
she said '' Yes " to Richard Charles, and that
marriage graphically described by Mrs. Boyle
came off."

I was going to tell you," answered Mr.
Vince, and his words had the same sort of power
and weight that counting down sovereigns in the
way of change produces on one who has been
short, not merely of sovereigns, but of the smallest
coin, " that after the first of next May I shall not
hold myself responsible for the rent of Clear
Stream Cottage."

Here was a collapse ; but Mr. Muir rose to
the occasion. As a tenant, Mr. Vince might be
his superior  in money ; yet, as a man, he was
only his equal.

"I think," said the farmer, ignoring the word
know " simply from motives of politeness  and

his tone, as he spoke, was Presbyterian and
cautious as Mr. Vince's own  "if I remember me
right, that in consideration of the lowness of the
rent, and the alterations I agreed to make, and
did make, it was arranged between us that a year's
notice ought to be the time ; but I'll say nothing
more ; I won't hold you bound. Between friends
it ought not to signify."

Mr. Vince regarded his visitor with a stony
stare. Friends, indeed ! The owner of Craig-fallen,
a justice of the peace, the husband of
Marcella, daughter of etcetera, a friend of a man
who made his living out of land which he rented,
cows whose milk was sold, hens that were sent to
market  the suggestion was impossible ! Could
the fellow have been drinking ? Mr. Yince had
never taken even a quarter of a glass too much
wine in his life, but he knew other persons were
not so abstemious ; nay, did not a dreadful old
reprobate who had been a boon companion of his
uncle's on one terrible occasion offer to " stand
treat" to Richard Charles, at the same time
advising that gentleman " not to be backward" ?

VOL. II. R

Imagination is sometimes very deceitful. At
that moment Mr. Yince felt satisfied there was a
smell of whisky in the air.

"I conceived," he said, 'the arrangement to
which you refer was intended to continue only for
the first year; hut if you place a different construction
upon the matter, I will say the first of
November. All I desire is to settle a date when
I shall feel definitely relieved from all connection
with Mrs. Boyle's affairs."

*you must have done a heap for her,"
remarked Mr. Muir.

''I have; and I should have felt willing todo
even more had she met me in a proper spirit.
But I need not intrude my private affairs on you,
Mr. Muir. Shall we say the first of November
twelvemonth ?"

''No, sir; when a gentleman deals fairly by
me, I hope I know how to deal fairly by him.
I won't hold you beyond the first of May in next
year. And now we have come to an understanding
on that point I will, with your leave, give you a
hint of what I have come to see you about to-day."

Pray do not hint, Mr. Muir. If there is any
matter with which you think I ought to be made
acquainted, you may speak out quite freely. Perfect
straightforwardness has been the rule of my
own life, and it is one I have found work well."
- " I don't doubt it ; any one that sees what you
are can't be off thinking you must have got on
some good road to fame and fortune."

Once again Mr. Vince looked hard at his
visitor, whose manner he decided was not respectful.
The root of the evil existed no doubt with
Mrs. Boyle, and for the fiftieth time he determined
to sever relations between that lady and
himself.

"Perhaps you will be so good as to come
to business, Mr. Muir," he said. "I have an
engagement, and  "

Certainly, certainly," agreed the farmer; but
he got no further. He sat silent, considering
how it would be best to open the pleadings.

"What you have to say bears reference to
your present tenant possibly," suggested Mr.
Vince.

"Well, it does in a way. You see, I have a
son"

"Yes, and he "

Though I say it, he is as fine a young man
as you'd meet in a day's journey. He was brought
up by his mother's uncle, Mr. Trevasson, of
Mount Michael, in the county Kilkenny, who
gave him the best of educations, and would have
made him his heir if it hadn't been the old man
took a notion to marry a young girl, which caused
my son to get his marching orders."

"Rather hard on your son. He is out of
employment now, I suppose ?"

"No ; that is not it either. He has taken to
a business that is paying him right well, and out
of which he might make a first-rate living if he'd
stick to it. But of late he has got a bit unsettled ;
he has taken the notion of falling in love with the
wrong person."

"I really am afraid, Mr. Muir, that is a
matter in which it is not in my power to help

you."

'* I think it is. I am telling my story poorly.

I wanted Gorman to come to you and tell it
himself, but he wouldn't. He's terribly headstrong,
though no better-hearted young fellow
ever breathed. He might marry tomorrow the
daughter of an estate gentleman, with five thousand
pounds to her fortune, who belongs to a tiptop
family; but he won't, for he has got the
conceit he will have nobody in all the wide world
but Miss Boyle."

Miss Boyle !" repeated Mr. Vince, genuinely
surprised. "Do you mean Mrs. Boyle's daughter ?"

The very same. I can't but own it's a grief
to me to see him flinging away his chances as a
lad pelts pebbles into a river ; still, I shall not try
to cross his fancy."

That is a matter, of course, for you to
decide."

I know that, and I have decided it ; but
there is a hitch. So far as I can gather. Miss
Boyle thinks she is above my son  his superior."

Perhaps she is. I have not seen your son,
remember. I only suggest  "

''I understand. If you saw Gorman I am

sure you would deem him every bit as good as
your cousin's child  maybe better."

Mr. Yince winced. It does not follow that
because a man has climbed from a very low rung
of life's lofty ladder he likes constantly to be
reminded of the fact.

"Pray understand," he said, '' that I mean no
offence when I say Mr. Boyle was a man of very
good birth."

"And Gorman's mother was a woman wellborn.
There is no better family in Donegal than
the Gormans of Clonmellin. She ran away with
me. Katty Gorman, that was her name ; Katty
Gorman."

But somehow Miss Boyle does not see it,"
said Mr. Yince, ignoring Katty altogether.

That is the case in a nutshell. For all my
son is what he is, she does not look upon him
with the favour she might. Till they have tried
it, most young women think they can marry anybody.
People similar to you and me, Mr. Yince,
who have seen life and got a good hold of what
the world is like, know better. It is not every

man will take a girl without a penny piece in her
hand; besides, there are other things against
Miss Boyle ; and though I may be willing to
overlook, she ought to consider them. Therefore,
what I thought was, if you would speak a few
words to her, I'd take it very kind of you ; very
kind indeed. You might put the matter sensibly
before her, and she would mind you. I know she
would."

''I could not do such a thing, Mr. Muir; I
could not really ; and, to be quite plain, I would
not if I could. I must utterly decline for the
future to mix myself up in Mrs. Boyle's affairs.
I have had so much unpleasantness and  and
ingratitude already that I am determined to sever
the connection. Miss Borde is, I doubt not, a
most well-conducted and deserving J'oung lady ; but
one cannot dissociate a daughter from her mother.
If you want advice or assistance you had better apply
to Sir Herbert Boyle. He is as near a relation
as I am. But whether you go to him or not, I
really must beg of you not to come to me again
about the matter. In justice to myself and my

family, I feel it only right to wash my hands of
Mrs. Boyle ;" and Mr. Vince waved his hands, as
if to intimate he was thankfully finishing a very
extensive wash indeed.

Then there is no more to be said," remarked
Mr. Muir, rising.

There is no more to he said," agreed Richard
Charles, rising also.

*' And I'm very sorry I troubled you."
*' Of course you could not know by intuition
my sentiments on this unpleasant subject."

If I had known you may be sure you wouldn't
have seen me here."

Thank you, Mr. Muir ; that is precisely the
observation I should have expected from a person
of your excellent judgment."

"I'll bid you good-morning now, sir," said
the man thus complimented ; and as he went he
thought those individuals who spoke ill of Mr.
Yince " oughtn't be so far wrong."

Whatever faults friends or enemies might feel
disposed to attribute to Mrs. Boyle, she scored, in
common with many celebrated generals, in the
fact that she had gained one great victory.

Let people say what they pleased about her,
nor man nor woman could deny she had made,
when close on thirty, a very fine match  an extraordinarily
fine match. If things did not turnout
" as she had a right to expect," the fault
was not hers. A warrior or a woman can only
annex an important territory. Fate and circumstances
may occur to render its annexation, comparatively
speaking, valueless, but the splendour
of the conquest remains.

Mrs. Boyle was faded and poor, but no one
could deny she had been the lawful wife and was
the widow of Ulick Boyle, of Boyle Court. She
had done all she could, and (socially) it was

accounted unto her for righteousness. In the
sight of many persons she was a woman much to
be commended and admired. After her marriage,
undoubtedly the stars, in their courses, fought
against her, as they did against an even more unlucky
individual, Sisera  but what of that ? No
blame could be attributed to Mrs. Boyle for a
series of unfortunate accidents. The Boyle
family might, for example, be considered wrong
because they resolutely refused in any way to recognise
Ulick Boyle's wife. Other mothers and
fathers after a time forgave their sons if those
sons married for love. Not so the Boyless. From
the day of his wedding till the day of his father's
death, poor Milly's husband never crossed the
threshold of his paternal home. And that was
twelve long years after he first met Milly, dressed
in her pink dress ornamented with nine tucks, at
the house of a dreadful Dublin usurer. Not
one farthing" did his father allow him during
the whole of that time. What that stern parent
wrote on hearing the news was  ''I won't* curse
you, but you shall have no money I can keep you

out of, and probably you will find that curse
enough."

It was trouble enough, but greater followed.
The first child, a boy, who might have "put
things right," was born dead. Those acquainted
with the Ulick Boyle menage, and probably few
women knew more about that establishment than
Ruth, declared the lack of a direct heir was
attributable entirely to Mrs. Boyle's own folly.

As a married wife," said Ruth, who with the
best intentions was sometimes in the habit of
mixing her forms of expression, " she was just
beyond conceivability. She wouldn't take any
sort of care of herself. She was here, there, and
every place, tearing about like a mad woman.
There would have been a living heir right enough,
if it hadn't been for a picnic-party she would goto
at the Dangle. We were living out at Clontarf
then, and poor Mr. Boyle  0, he was the peaceable
man  begged and prayed of her not to think
of it. He wouldn't have been seen at such a
gathering, for they were a rough, wild lot; and
after the wedding he always kept himself quiet

and to himself, like a man broken-hearted. All
the same she went, laughing and joking, and in
the height of good spirits ; and before the day was
out I was sent for, and there had come an end to
all the master hoped might bring him and his
father together again. Miss Berna was born two
years after that ; and the way her mother went
on about her being a girl was beyond belief."

However it may have happened, no baby boy
appeared to heal the breach between father and
son ; and for more than twelve years Ulick Boyle
drifted on in poverty. His grandmother allowed
him something, and the usurers a little. Occasionally
he had a haul on the turf; at other times he
won a few pounds at billiards. Years passed, and
his mother died; a few more sped by, and his
father departed also. Then came the glorious
period of Boyle Court  at least the period which
might have been glorious but for the debts Mr.
Boyle had accumulated.

Loan after loan, bills renewed and renewed,
interest and compound interest. Surely the
divine Milly was entitled to no blame for these

many calamities ; on the contrary, who in her
own rank of life could help commiserating the
*' deception" practised upon her?

Instead of stepping into a clear seven thousand
a year, Mr. Boyle was forced to set aside a large
slice out of his rent-roll for the benefit of a certain
number of importunate persons Mrs. Boyle termed
collectively " a pack of hungry wolves." Further,
he had to effect heavy insurances on his life ; so
once again, to quote Mrs. Boyle, " there was
thousands going out before we could buy a loaf."
Originally the property had been mortgaged for a
considerable amount, which no Boyle attempted
to reduce. Ulick's father might have done this.
But if he ever even thought of sacrificing his own
pleasure for the benefit of posterity, that ill-starred
marriage with the enchanting Milly would
have caused so sensible an idea to be abandoned.

Thus, one way and another, it came to pass
that for years Mr. Boyle, of Boyle Court, was
forced to live with the strictest economy, greatly
to the vexation of his wife. As a child, Berna
had been taken much notice of by her great-grandmother,

who paid for her education, and
would eventually have adopted the girl altogether
had she been content to give up home, father, and
mother. It was, of course, only Mrs. Boyle to
whom the Dowager objected ; but, as she remarked
with terrible plainness, " You cannot have home
and father without your mother, and if you want
your mother you must make up your mind to do
without me." Berna made her choice, and Ulick
Boyle, though almost mad with anxiety at the
time, backed up his daughter's decision.

For two years previously he had not received
one shilling of rent. For two years he had been
forced to borrow money for his own expenses and
to keep up his life policies.

That was the time when two million of
Ireland's inhabitants died or emigrated. The
starving people could not pay what they owed ;
and Mr. Boyle, like others, was forced not merely
to ask the patience of his old creditors, but to
contract fresh debts. Still, he did not despair.
The famine could not last for ever. Rents, he
argued, would be paid again some day. Further,

acting on the advice of a Scotch agriculturist,
he began to rear sheep in large quantities, which
he afterwards sent to fatten in the rich pastures
of Munster.

And if there were wretchedness within doors,
there was peace on the sea, on the hillsides, in
the fastnesses of Mayo. Mrs. Boyle detested the
sea, and, most happily, she could not ride. All
the day long father and daughter were together,
the unspoken trouble of the man's life drawing
their souls more tenderly close. He had no fear
concerning the girl's future. A few years more
and he could so reduce his debts that the insurances
effected for the benefit of his creditors
would be available for his wife and child. wildly
extravagant in his earlier life, Mr. Boyle had long
been so economical that his hope of eventually
freeing his estate from all burdens except the
original mortgage, and saving sufficient to portion
his daughter, seemed by no means chimerical.
But it was not to be. All in the
fine spring weather, just when affairs, like the
earth, were once more putting out shoots of

promise for liiru, the end came  to care, business,
pleasure.

He was strong and well one moment; the
next he was lying with the life almost crushed out
of his body : Berna kneeling on the ground beside
him ; a lad running madly for Mrs. Boyle to see
her husband while still breathing ; and a man
rushing distractedly in search of useless help.

It was the story of a moment  the final page
of one volume to Berna. If the poor, bruised
man, painfully gasping out his last breath on the
short, sweet grass, were capable of thought, his
worst agony must have been for the lonely girl
he was leaving. For the creditors literally took
everything. Nothing remained save the pittance
mentioned by Mrs. Boyle. She might have
obtained help ; both Sir Herbert and the Dowager
had every inclination to let bygones be bygones,
and afford substantial assistance, but the widow
demanded as a right what they were only willing
to accord as a favour. She was a woman who
would not be saved, except in her own fashion.
To be rid of her the Boyless would gladly have

made her a sufficient allowance ; but they found
the only possible means of severing the undesirable
connection was to let her return to the
poverty from which she had emerged.

Mrs. Boyle's own friends, who heard only one
side of the story, were, of course, almost unanimous
in the condemnation of her husband's
family. Even Mr. Yince, who certainly felt no
sympathy with his cousin, declared Ulick Boyle's
conduct had been most reprehensible. " A man's
first care should always be the welfare of his wife
and family," he remarked sententiously ; which
observation set Mrs. Yince thinking she was not
sorry her own settlements had been drawn out
very securely, and her future rendered as
independent of any caprice on the part of
Richard Charles as her father's lawyers could
make it.

There was another point also concerning which
Mrs. Boyle could count upon the commiseration
of her girlhood's friends  Berna. That young
person was an offence to the whole connection.
Her voice, her manners, her accent, her appear-vol.

II. s

ance, her silence, stank in the nostrils of all her
mother's friends.

Had she been rich, they would not have liked
her; being poor, they disliked her. A good
bouncing, red-cheeked, forward girl, with "plenty
to say for herself " and '' lots of fun in her," would
have received affection and sympathy; but "this
bit of sickly affectation," who " thinks herself too
high and mighty to associate with one of us," was
canvassed most severely in the circles Mrs. Boyle
delighted to frequent.

There was no one who failed to pity the widow
for being burdened with a girl " without a spark
of life in her ;" and this pity was intensified when
Mrs. Boyle began darkly to hint that Berna,
which name, by the way, she pronounced Burma,
was the sole obstacle which prevented a second
settlement in life, even more satisfactory than the
first. Having convinced herself that Gorman
Muir was her contemporary if not her senior,
Mrs. Boyle naturally failed to make any allusion
to the little matter of disparity which might have
troubled a wiser woman. Yith the cunning

attaching to weak natures, she further refrained
from all mention of who the he might be who
was dying for love of her.

"He is well-looking and well-connected, and
brimming over with fun and spirits, which the
Lord above knows Ulick Boyle never was, but
Berna's face grows as black as thunder when he
comes inside the door. She's as like her father
as two peas. There never was one had a bit of
merriment about him he could abide."

When a lady's friends form their ideal of a
man "well-connected," "well-looking," "brimming
over with fun and diversion," from some
spirit merchant who has " big stores " in Church
Street, or a sea captain from Newtonards " that
has made more by smuggling than any other
honest man in the Three Kingdoms," what is
there to be said ? Sweets to the sweet, sours to
the sour, men to the women. Honestly, all Mrs.
Boyle's friends believed she had taken another
male creature captive to her bow and spear. Why
should they doubt the fact ? Incredible though it
might seem, she had once secured Ulick Boyle,

heir to Boyle Court and seven thousand a year.
Given this at nine-an-twenty, why not at fifty a
sea captain or a spirit merchant ?

\Tiy not, indeed ?

Very freely the widow's prospects were canvassed
among her connections ; and if some were
envious at Mrs. Boyle's " luck," all felt admiration
for her power of winning men and her
strategy in keeping them.

"Let Milly alone'' exclaimed Miss Sheill.
"It's herself knows how to take the length of a
man's foot. I was wanting her to join me in
starting a lodging-house at Bangor; but all the
time she was doing better for herself than I could
have done for her."

And, indeed, Miss Sheill might be forgiven for
falling into such a delusion. Mrs. Boyle had not
merely discoursed at length to her friend concerning
the match she was about to make, but actually
hazarded a proposal that Matilda should share her
prospective home.

"He'll never sit down content in one place
year in, year out," she declared with sportive

vivacity. "As it is, he is always starting off
some place like a flash of lightning, and you maybe
sure he'd not care to leave me very far behind.
I never saw a bit of life all the while I was married
to Ulick Boyle. But it's a long lane has no
turning, and I'll be having fine times yet. And
so, as I was saying, if you like to come and live
with us, and look after things while we're away,
you'd be more than welcome. You never need
black your hands, for we'll have servants iu
plenty. All you'd have to do would be keep an
eye on them, for you know what they are, one
and all ; and you could put by the whole of your
own small income, and then, if you saw anybody
you thought you'd like, I'd be the first to say
'Leave us.' There's no selfishness about me."

With such prospects in store, Mrs. Boyle
naturally forgot the compact entered into with
Richard Charles. She went often to Belfast. She
was to be seen of all men, flitting about the
busiest streets of that thriving town. She had
"easedher mourning," and quite decided the next
new dress she bought should " at least have a

lilac stripe in it." Trying though she had been
as a young woman, she was more trying still as a
widow. The world had gone on ; manners had
improved ; but Mrs. Boyle had not gone on, and
her manners had grown worse. Mr. Vince cut
his cousin dead in Donegalll Place, and Mrs. Vince
refused to see her even though they met face to
face in Gardiner's, where Mrs. Boyle and Miss
Sheill were refreshing themselves with currant
buns. Berna resolutely declined to accompany
her mother on any of these campaigns. She had
quite made up her mind to leave home, even if she
could at first get no salary, as a companion.

Mrs. Yince was inquiring for something likely
to suit the girl, and Berna had written to the
lady by whom she was educated to know if she
could assist her design. This letter was returned
to her, however, with the word 'dead" across the
envelope. This word formed a text upon which
Mrs. Boyle preached many sermons, the burden of
all being,

*' You see now what it is to be an undutiful
child, setting yourself up against a mother that

has sacrificed her life for you. It is a judgment
upon you. Strangers are not so ready to have
you. What you'd best do is try to conquer
your sinful temper, and make yourself pleasant
to a man that's willing to find a good home forme.
I might have been married and happy long
ago, if 3-0U had only behaved yourself."

Well, mamma, I will not stand in your way
one moment after I hear of a situation  any
situation," said Berna passionately, breaking
the silence she usually maintained. '' Would
rather be a servant, polish grates and scrub
floors, than continue to lead the life I have led
since we came here."

"Ah, you'll find out the difference, maybe,
when it is too late," returned Mrs. Boyle, '' when
you have no home and no mother either !"

Matters had arrived at this pass when Mr. Muir,
scarcely giving himself time to recover from the
smart of disappointment inflicted by Mr. Yince,
dressed in his ordinary clothes, in which he felt
he had " room to speak," and taking his courage
in his hand, walked down to Clear Stream Cottage
to say what he had to say to mother or daughter,
or both. He rather wished to see both. He felt
it might be "just a shade easier to talk to two
women than one ;" but nerving himself for either
event, and with a strong conviction he should gain
the day, he paced along the lane  now ankle-deep
in dust, as it had once been pretty nearly knee-deep
in mud  pondering, as he went, on the
cross-congress of things in general, and of his
children in particular.

Not one of them was ** just to his mind " but
Gorman, and Gorman wanted to throw himself

away on a girl without a halfpenny, whose mother
was a *' flighty fool," when he had but to " ask
and have" Lisle Garnsey's daughter, with "a big
fortune and all the best houses open to her."

That the best houses would not open to Berna
Boyle he felt too surely.

'' With Miss Garnsey for his partner, a man
of his knowledge and appearance might have
visited both the Earl and the Marquis," he
soliloquised, " and just played himself among the
gentry. However, it is the Lord's will, and I
must submit. I thought myself a made man
when I let the cottage, never taking a notion
about the trouble would come of it. Faith, Bell
was right when she said we might hear too much
concerning the cottage one day. Now, I wonder
how she jumped at that ?"

Mrs. Boyle had taken an early stroll into the
village, so Berna was alone when Ruth ushered
Mr. Muir into the little parlour. Drawing materials
lay upon the table. During her mother's
absence the girl had been trying to fill in a sketch
of the Lough and the county Antrim shore.

Instinctively, when Mr. Muir was announced, she
threw a sheet of tissue paper over the cardboard.
Never did she feel in a less congenial frame
of mind for listening to those compliments of
which the farmer was so fatally lavish. Their
earliest acquaintance had been inaugurated with
some flattering comments that Berna knew she
could never forget, even though she might forgive.


On the present occasion, however, nothing was
further from Mr. Muir's mind than mere civility.
He had come with a purpose to Berna, as he
might have gone to a man ; and he was steadfastly
determined no undue time should be lost
over preliminary courtesies.

Still, some commonplace phrases were essential,
and the natural politeness of his nation
supplied him with words.

I hope I see you better, Miss Boyle ?" he
began.

Thank you," she said ; and in the light of a
future daughter-in-law, her slight young figure,
well-poised head, clean-cut features, and highbred

manner seemed good to this man who had
risen from the people. '' I am very much better
almost well again."

You found the change to the shore did you
good ?"

"Yes, indeed. I shall believe in sea air

Yet you are not far from it here. I mind
well that Miss Garnsey's aunt, in the old man's
time, used to drive over every day of her life and
every month in the year, except December and
January, to Holy wood for the benefit of the saltwater
bathing."

Really ! Bathing in the winter months must
be extremely cold."

Not it. The sea is always warmer in the
winter than in the summer."

"How very strange! I am' so sorry that
mamma is not at home."

I don't know that that makes much odds.
It was with you I wanted a few minutes' discourse."


With me, Mr. Muir ?"

Berne BOYLE.

Yes ; you can guess what about. My
son"

"About Mr. Gorman?"

About Gorman ; no other. It's no news to
you, I suppose, he is fairly breaking his heart
over you ?"

Berna sat silent for a moment, looking at
Mr. Muir with an expression of absolute fear;
then she remarked slowly,

"I should have thought anything your son
had to say he could have said to me."

Mr. Muir laughed  a harsh, short, bitter
laugh.

Make no mistake about that. Gorman's not
the sort to make love at secondhand ; and if he
were, I'm not exactly the one he'd choose to make
it. What I want to understand is this : he has
asked you to marry him, as far as I can understand,
some half-dozen times ?"

He has asked me to marry him."

"And more than once ?"

She inclined her head.

It's a thing I wouldn't do myself. No ; no

for the best woman ever stepped on shoe-leather,"
said Mr. Muir, in a tone which clearly implied he
did not consider Berna that woman. " If one I
had a notion of, didn't like to take me, she might
do the other thing. However, every one to his
taste."

There was no reason why Berna should dissent
from this statement, and accordingly she
held her peace.

"When my son came home," went on Mr.
Muir, with his right forefinger beating time to
his words on the back of his left hand, " and
settled on taking the hill farm, and buckled to
work, and turned himself to getting money together,
I thought myself a made man. I had
little fear but that after a while he would marry
Miss Garnsey, and that I would see both their
names in the newspapers among the quality
gathered at the great parties the Earl and the
Marquis give when they come across from England.
I did not know what was going on here.
It was a notion never occurred to me he had
taken a fancy of you. He was as quiet about the

whole thing as a mouse in a meal-chest. Even
Bell  that's my eldest daughter  never suspected
it was you were keeping him pleasant and content.
When the matter was first broached tome,
I declare anybody might have knocked me
down with a feather, I was so dumfounded. I
don't know what call there was to keep the whole
thing so close."

*' You may be very certain," said Berna, "it
was not a subject I should have mentioned."

"And why not?" asked the farmer, aggrieved.
Most of you are glad enough to say you have
got a lover, even if he's old and ugly, let alone a
proper man like my son  a man any lady in the
land might feel proud to be seen with."

"7 should not have mentioned it," repeated
Berna.

You are a very out-of-the-way sort of young
woman," retorted Mr. Muir; "but I don't know
that I ought to quarrel with you for being able
to hold your tongue  it is a thing not many
among you can do."

Once again Berna did not answer. If there

lead ever been any hope before for Gorman, his
father must have killed it.

What I want to come at is this," he said.
Why do you treat my son as you are treating
him ? why, if you can't make up your mind to
say ' yes ' all at once, won't you give him now
and then a kind word or a pleasant look ?"

I wish, Mr. Muir, you would not ask me
these questions. I wish you had not thought it
necessary to speak to me at all. I have tried to
make your son understand that I cannot marry
him, and I do not think any one else has a right
to talk to me about the matter."

You're wrong there. If a father sees his
son going to the bad, he has a clear right to try
and stop him. If he sees him brooding and
wretched and miserable because a girl says she'll
have nothing to do with him, he would not be
much of a parent if he didn't try and put things on
a proper footing between them. Now, would he?"

'' Perhaps not. Only in this case  "

'* You mean it is of no use trying to put
things square. That may be so ; but I intend

to strive my hardest. It's not my wish to flatter
you, but I must say I consider you have sense
beyond the common ; and that is the reason I
want to have a quiet talk with you."

' But, Mr. Muir, I have told your son I
cannot marry him. Surely you can understand
how painful it must be for me to repeat the same
thing to you."

"It is not pleasant for me to hear ; because,
as I tell you, Gorman's heart is set on getting
you. There is no use beating about the bush.
If I could have chosen for him, you are not the
wife I would have picked. I don't intend any
offence by speaking out plainly; but I know he
could have done better. I'm sure it's through
no goodwill of mine he hasn't ;" and, looking
straight in Berna's face as he said this, Mr. Muir
paused for her reply.

The girl did not reply. A swift wave of colour
swept over her face and then ebbed away, leaving
her even paler than before ; but she remained
silent. She opened her lips to answer, but no
sound issued from them.

*' I wonder you don't say you would be glad
to see him well married," remarked Mr. Muir.
"If you do not want him yourself, you need not
begrudge him to another."

Your son is, of course, at liberty to marry
any one he pleases."

We know that. He has no need to ask
your leave. But-he won't marry any one but
you; and I should not care so much about his
stopping single if it wasn't I am afraid he'll
never do a day's good wanting you. So what I
wish to get at is why you won't take him. Where
would you meet another like Gorman, straight
and handsome and clever? There is not one,
poor or rich, but likes him. Why can't
you. Miss Boyle? Only tell me what he can
do to please you, and he'll do his possible, I
know."

*rit is not that," answered the girl slowly.
'' I have no fault to find with your son. He is
handsome and accomplished, but  "

You can't fancy him ?"

I cannot marry him."

VOL. II. T

jim I to understand you cannot marry him
though you fancy him ?"

I did not say that, Mr. Muir."

Then what did you say ? or rather what do
you mean ? Why can't you marry him ?"

''I was wrong in saying cannot; what I
meant was that I will not."

You will not ?"

'' I will never marry him."

"At least sou can tell me vrhy."

"No, I cannot."

Well, this heats everything ! If you have
any reason, why won't you say what it is?"

"We do not always choose to give our
reasons."

I think a woman is bound to give a man
some reason why she'll have nothing to do with
him. It may seem a light matter to you for my
son to offer jou all he has his hand and his
heart, his love, his whole future ; but it is
serious, whatever you may consider. We have
none of us got more than one life, and it is just
his Gorman is willing to put in your charge.

No man can bestow on a girl he is fond of more
than he has ; and when he does propose to bestow
his all, I repeat she should give him some good
reason why she refuses what he wants her to take,
and not fling it back in his face as if it was
beneath her to touch."

I never treated your son's offer in that way."

You are doing something very like it now,
at any rate. 'You cannot marry him.' 'You
will not marry him.' Not another vord but that
am I able to get out of you. That is no answer
to give a man ; say what is standing between you.
Are you fond of anybody else ?"

"No."

Are you under any promise to another
man ?"

No."

Do you suppose your mother wouldn't let
you marry him ?"

"I have not thought about it."

Do you think he is not good enough for
you ?"

She did not answer " Yes," or " No." She

only remained like one compelled against her
will to look at Mr. Muir, while he in his turn
searched her face with keen eager eyes.

Ho, ho !" he said ; '' that's the way of it, is
it ? The wind sets in that quarter, does it ? Now
only answer me one more question, and I've done.
Have you no liking for Gorman at all ? Don't he
afraid of speaking out to me. I'll make no had
use of anything you tell me."

I laye nothing to tell," she replied.

"Yes, you have," he retorted; "and I have
a right to hear. Have you a hatred against my
son ? No, don't go. I would he sorry to put any
constraint on you; hut I am purposed to keep
you here till I get some sort of answer. I'll petit
another way  are you fond of my son ?"

Please to let me go, Mr. Muir. You are
hurting me."

I am sorry for that," he answered ; " but I
don't mean you to leave this room till I get some
sort of satisfaction. I came here meaning to
thresh the matter out ; and now I am getting at
the com, I intend to finish the job. You won't

speak, won't you ? Well, I will speak for both of
us. You do care for my son ; you couldn't look
straight at me and say you are not in love with
him ?"

"You really are hurting me. Jill you take
your hand from my arm, Mr. ]*\Iuir ?."

I'll do that ; I have no need to hold it any
longer. But before you go, I'd like well if you
would say why you consider Gorman's not good
enough for you  in what way you think yourself
above him? You needn't be frightened, I am
not going to touch you again ; I am only intending
to stand with my back against this door till
I come at the rights of your notion. He is as
well-looking, to say the least, as you are ; he has
more money than you own ; you have had no
better education than he has ; the house where
his uncle reared him was as good as Boyle Court,
every bit ; if he has a farmer for his father, your
mother was only Miss Yince, the daughter of old
Sam Yince, whose dirty tricks were the talk of
Belfast, and  "

"What can be wrong with the catch?" Mrs.

Boyle, at this critical moment, was heard exclaiming.
''Berna, open! open ! What are you
doing? Why, Mr. Muir, and is it yourself? I
am heartily glad to see you. I did not know you
were behind the door. I thought Berna had locked
herself in for a bit of fun. What in the world ails
the girl ? What's wrong with her, Mr. Muir ?"

"I am sure I don't know," answered the
gentleman thus appealed to. "I came over this
morning to laye a talk with her about my son,
and perhaps she isn't best pleased with what I
have said."

She needed somebody to talk to her," said
Mrs. Boyle. " I am sure I have spoken till I am
tired. The way she behaves, herself is scarce to
be believed. It's no wonder Mr. Gorman has quit
coming to the house, seeing the black looks he
got whenever he showed his face  "

"Mamma!"

! you'll not stop me, now I have begun.
I am very glad, Mr. Muir, you have been giving-her
a talking to. It's out of the question, a
friend can't call without being affronted."

Then I may tell Gorman you have no
objection to seeing him, Mrs. Boyle?"

"Objection! quite the contrary. He might
know that."

*' And perhaps 3'ou'd favour the marriage ?"

'' Mr. Muir ! what marriage ?" asked the
mow, with modest innocence.

Why, your daughter's. Gorman will never
be happy till he has come with her from church."

You are not in earnest ?"

I only wish I was not," declared Mr. Muir.
*'I wish from my soul I was not. She has cast
some spell over him. It's like witchcraft, neither
more nor less."

For once Mrs, Boyle could not answer. She
had dropped on the sofa, and sat staring at
Gorman's father, looking like a card castle that
has been suddenly demolished.

Had any one else told her this awful thing
she would have laughed him to scorn ; but there
was that in Mr. Muir's face and Mr. Muir's
manner which carried conviction with his words.
Berna was a child no longer. She stood there

a girl grown to woman's estate  her mother's
rival. Gorman loved her. It was Ulick Boyle's
daughter, not Ulick Boyle's widow, he wanted to
marry. This was what had brought him to the
house. Mrs. Boyle had never read Shakespeare,
or she might have remembered several passages
peculiarly applicable to her own position.

Don't come near me !" she screamed, as
Berna made a movement to advance to where she
sat. " You're wicked enough already ; don't add
hypocrisy to your other sins !"

Chapter I.

"Don't fret, Miss Berna dear. It breaks my
heart to see you crying that way. The mistress
didn't mean to vex you. Half her time I don't
believe she knows what she is saying. There's
not one in the world she's as fond of as yourself ;
and she has a good right to be fond. What
mother had ever a better child ?"

'rit is quite true, though, that I ought to
have told her long ago, Ruth."

And what good would telling her have been ?
She'd never have believed either of us. There is
not another on earth could have convinced her she
was wrong beside Mr. Muir. It is well she does

VOL. III. B

know at last ; for I am satisfied she'll never let
young Gorman set foot inside the door again, and
that will he all the better, miss darling, if you
are sure  if you are very sure  you do not want
to see him."

I do not want to see him, nurse."

I hope it is so, dear ; but my mind misgives
me. There is a look in your face lately it hurts
me to see. Through all the sorrow and trouble
you had to pass through, I never saw anything
like it there before. First love, like first grief, is
hard to bear."

'' I am not in love, Ruth."

'maybe you're not, Miss Berna; if so, best
so. But I'd have you be very certain before you
send him away from you for ever. It would be a
sore thing for you to find out afterwards you wish
you had not."

I shall never find that."

I am not so confident. 0, I wish you could
have made up your mind to lay your heart open
to Mrs. Vince. She's wise and she's clever."

And she married a person I would not have

married had there not been another man on earth,"
finished Berna. 'how she could do it I cannot
imagine ! How such a woman could forget her
birth and stoop to such a match passes my comprehension."


''I do not want to cross you, dear; but no
matter what you may think of Mr. Vince, he is
much thought of and considered. He has got on
past the common. I mind his father when he
wasn't a bit better off than Peter Do y ; and just
look at the houses where Mr. Vince visits now.
The world is changing very fast. Miss Berna ;
birth had a long reign of it, but I'm thinking
money's the king now."

Ruth, there is something I wish to say to
you  something I must say  as I might to the
grave."

' What is it like, my lamb ?"

'rit is this : it is about my mother. I have
always been loyal to her, haven't I ? My father
was loyal to her. You never heard either of us
speak a disrespectful or slighting word about her."

No, that I never did."

And you know I love her."

Yes, I'm sure you do ; if you didn't you
could not put up with her."

"Ah, Pith, do not say that; and yet it is
true. I never remember the time when the
difference between my parents was not a trouble
to me. I felt they could not both be right."

Don't talk about it, my dear darling, if it
hurts you."

I must talk about it, Ruth. I could not
say a word to any one but you, because you can't
help knowing that my poor, poor father threw
away his life. You understand what I mean,
nurse. Without blaming my mother, I  "

'' Your father married below him. Miss Berna.
That is the outfall of the whole matter. I am
not going to speak against your mother, who is a
kindly woman in her way, though trying. I have
eaten her bread and am beholden to her and hers,
but she wasn't your father's equal. Old Sam
Yince was just a rough sort of man, free and good-natured.
Many a sixpence he has given my
mother when she needed it, and where would I be

now hadn't your mother remembered me ? Still,
dear, they were none of them the right sort for a
Boyle to consort with, and  "

Kuth," and the girl's fingers clutched her
nurse's shoulders, *' I can tell you now what I
wanted to say. There has been one mistake made
in the family ; there shall not be another. It is
enough that I have often wished to shut my ears
and cover my eyes when I have seen and heard
my mother doing and saying things I am sure my
father's widow ought neither to have done or
said."

Yes, Miss Berna ; but what has all this todo
with young Mr. Muir ?"

"If, with such an experience behind me, I
married Gorman Muir, what then ?"

I haven't a notion, dear. Can't you tell me
your meaning out  that is, if it won't vex you ?"

'' No, it does not vex me much  only, Ruth,
if I find it hard sometimes to feel ashamed of my
own mother, how could I bear being ashamed of
my husband's father ? I am fond of her, and I
am not fond of him. I cannot bear even to look

at bim. Not a word he speaks but grates upon
me. His very voice is an offence."

"Yes ; but it is not old Mr. Muir wants you
to marry bim."

"I should bave to associate with all the
family, tbougb. And there is another thing,
too. Even supposing I liked young Mr. Muir
greatly  "

"Which 3'ou do," thought Ruth.
Setting aside all consideration of bis relatives,
I should be afraid to marry him."
"Why, miss dear?"

Because children do take after their parents,
let people say what they choose. They may seem
different while they remain young ; but as they
grow older the same traits develop. There is
nothing more likely than that Gorman Muir will
one day become as coarse and rough as his father.
I see a great change in him of late."

"A man can't take to drinking, ever so little,
without it showing on him," remarked Ruth
apologetically. Few of her rank in any country
are apt to be severe on such an indiscretion.

*' I feel precisely as a man might feel about
marrying me. I do not think any one in a good
rank would like to do so, dreading I might sometime
begin to talk as mamma does often."

You are terribly wise for your age, Miss
Berna ; but I am not just sure you are speaking
very good sense now. What would hinder a gentleman
marrying you because the mistress says a
foolish word now and again ? and why wouldn't you
marry Mr. Gorman, though his father is whiles
rough in his way, and common-mannered ? The
son has had the best of learning, and there is no
one could find fault with his looks or ways. He
would be steady enough, too, if he had a wife he
was fond of."

It seems to me, Ruth, you have taken a
brief from Mr. Gorman Muir."

No, Miss Berna, I haven't ; but I can't rid
my mind of the notion that, situated as you are, it
might be well for you to settle soon. If you had
a house of your own, and a man that would be
good to you, it would be easier than governesses."


''I did not think, nurse, I should ever hear
you say any husband was better than not getting
married."

I never said anything of the sort ; but he's
often a good deal better than none."

If I did not like 'governesses' I could leave
it ; but I could not leave a husband."

There is something in that ; but not very
much. It's not likely you'd want to leave
him."

*' And besides, there was that story about his
uncle's wife. You may forget ; but I do not"'

"We don't know how much truth there. was
in that, if there was any."

At any rate, we do know what Mr. Muir is,
and Miss Muir, and Miss Sarah, and even that
pretty little Mrs. Cragland are. No, Ruth, I could
not do it. Have I not seen enough of the people
mamma associates with ? Think, if it annoys me
to have to visit at their houses or see them here,
what I should feel were I related to them. It
would kill me," added the girl, with passionate
conviction. " Fancy my calling Mr. Muir father !

Why, I should expect to see my own rise from
bis grave."

"If you feel like that, dear, it's best you
should have nothing to do with the son ; not that it
seems to my thinking there would be the smallest
occasion for you to call old Mr. Muir anything of
the kind. He wouldn't be your father any more
than the mistress would be the joung man's
mother. I have a notion myself making out people
relations who are no blood to one another is foolishness,
and I'm very sure good never comes of it."

Still, it was hard for my mother, that no one
of the Boyless treated her as belonging to them."

Don't forget, Miss Berna, that your father's
was a rash marriage."

And so would mine be if I chose one of the
Muirss," retorted Berna. "Now, nurse, we will
never talk about this again. I have told you
what I could not have told to any one else. As
soon as I can hear of any situation I mean to
accept it, even if in Belfast. Mamma will be able todo
very well without me. You heard her say so."

She was put out then, and you mustn't vex

yourself over what she says sometimes. All the
same I wish you could have thought as you do
now when the Dowager wanted you to go to her.
I'd be the proud woman to-day if I knew the
child I nursed was placed, as she could be, in a
grand house, with servants to wait on her and
carriages to drive in. my darling ! it sometimes
breaks my old heart to look at you here,
and consider how you might have been situated.
And all for nothing, too ; because the mistress
would have been happy as the day is long just
running from one house to another, talking about
you and making believe she was the worst used
woman on earth. She's going off again tomorrow
to Mrs. Gray. I wonder how long she has
been at home since we came here ?"

"And you know, Kuth, Mr. Yince has written
to say he will neither pay this rent nor allow us
any more money after the first of next May."

*' I am sure nobody could blame him. The
way the mistress has gone on about his being a
kinat* is beyond belief."

Probably, " gnat."

'' But what is she to do, Ruth ?"
"I wouldn't trouble myself about that, miss.
When one door is shut another is open. The
mistress has never wanted yet, and it's not likely
she ever will."

One thing is quite certain  she cannot,
even if I am able to obtain a salary, remain on
here."

Well, and what matter ? She's sure of her

money, so much a year, as long as she lives ; and

there's not one among the lot she consorts with

but knows that. Some of them will make her

welcome enough when May comes, and there's a

heap might happen betwixt this and May."

'' But you, nurse ? but you ?"

"My darling, don't be troubling your head

about me. There's always some hole little folk

can creep into, and it's not here as it was in the

county Mayo. Somebody will find work even for

as old a woman as I am. There's a heap of work

in me still. And so there ought to be. Look at

the life I have led. I never knew a hardship

since the mistress sent for me to go to her. I

have had good food and a soft bed and an easy-time
of it ; and I saved money. Each quarter I
put something by."

Do you think I do not know that you have
lent all you had to mamma ?"

"Not all; indeed and indeed, not all. I
have lots left, and it is far safer with the mistress
than me."

The girl looked sorrowfully at her nurse, with
eyes that were swimming in tears.

"Dear, dear Kuth," she said, "how I wish
I were rich, for your sake !"

"And I wish. Miss Berna, you were rich for
your own  that is, if it was the Lord's will that
you might be happy, too."

"Berna, Berna," Mrs. Boyle called out at
this juncture, "where have you got to? I want
you to put a stitch in my gown. That spiked
fender has tore all the gathers out."

One day The Serpent called on Mr. Muir. It was
not by any means the farmer's first visit from
that subtle beast, any more than Eve's initial
interview with him was her last.

Temptation was not quite a stranger to Mr.
Muir, though perhaps he called it by another
name. He did not distract his soul by any
undue resistance to sins which were in his nature.
Had he ever argued the matter out, he would
probably have told his conscience that "as it
came to the same thing in the long-run, there
was no use making any disturbance at the onset."
He caused no such disturbance. If he felt disposed
to do wrong, why, he did wrong, though few
persons would have felt more astonished than he,
had wrong been imputed to him. Besides, he
felt he was always so thoroughly right ! Take, for
example, his observance of the Sabbath-day. Other

persons, many other persons, harnessed their
horses on a Sunday, but Mr. Muir had never
followed their bad example since the minute he
entered into possession of Kilmoon.

When his second wife was taken ill one Sunday
he refused to send for a doctor on account of
the commandment to do no manner of work, and
ill-natured people were quick to hint he was not
sorry to take advantage of so valid an excuse for
delaying the application of remedies.

In the course of his life Mr. Muir had swallowed
whole trains of camels, but on the subject
of gnats he held the soundest of doctrines. He
and Gorman had once come to high words because
the young man insisted on giving his horse a
drench after morning service.

You'll have no luck," said the farmer
mournfully, as he saw his son going out with a
soda-water bottle stuck in his pocket.

It was the same with most other matters.
Whatever he did or left undone was right in Mr.
Muir's eyes ; but at last the enemy of mankind
suggested an idea about the execution of which

the farmer confessed to himself there " might be
doubts." Across the quiet fields of Ardilaw the
tempter advanced with soft, steady steps, not
crawling like a serpent, but walking upright in
the person of Mr. Lyle Garnsey. The corn had
been all cut, the last " stook " set up ; the hillsides
were picturesque with the golden grain piled
thus upon them. It was the most gorgeous period
of the year in Ireland. The gorse hedges were
a mass of glowing colour; the heather was in
flower, the mountain-tops were purple with it,
and the air was fragrant by reason of the scent of
wild thyme ; in the close short grass, where the
sun shone warm, grasshoppers sang their quaint
monotonous song; the treacherous depths beneath
the Gobbins were blue as the butterflies flying
above the rocky nooks and crannies, where thousands
and thousands of sea-gulls make their
nests ; and dragon and glorious butterflies flitted
through the air. A great rest and beauty characterised
the fair, peaceful landscape, when across
the stubble, Mr. Garnsey, dressed in gray
trousers, black velveteen shooting-jacket, straw

hat, and low shoes, came picking his way towards
Gorman's father.

"As usual," he said, 'first to finish. How
do you manage, Mr. Muir?"

'' I think it is with the aid of a heap of overlooking,"
explained the farmer modestly ; for
though conscious of his superior merits, he did
not wish to make a "brag of them."

But, good heavens, I am always looking !"
declared Mr. Garnsey.

Ay, but even in that there are two ways."

Good and bad, eh ?"

"I did not say that; only one way may be
better nor another."

That is merely your courteous mode of
putting the matter, Mr. Muir."

I meant no reflection on you, Mr. Garnsey.
I don't need to be told there's no call for an independent
gentleman like you to be considering
quarter-hours, and how many potatoes are cut ina
day, as I must do if I am to keep my family
and pay my rent. What I started to remark was
this : there are men in my own way of life who

never can make the two ends met, who are forever
and always getting more and more behind,
because they try to do too much. They'll have
reapers in one field and men sowing mangoes in
another. It's just a physical impossibility they
can be in both places at once. D'ye see what I
mean, sir ?"

Of course I do."

And there's lots among the small gentlefolk
I am saying nothing about an estate man like
yourself, but trifling sort of 'quality'  who really
should take heed as to what's to become of them
and their children, who'll rent a farm like this
and just dander about it as you might about your
pleasure-grounds. They'll fetch a labourer off
digging a drain to cut a straying bramble branch
out of the hedge. They'll call off a man thrashing
to help churn  that's two they'll set idle ;
then they'll get tired and go in and read the
newspaper; after that, maybe, some friend of
the wife's coming down, and they need the
windows cleaned. I declare to my conscience,"
added Mr. Muir, "I often wonder how they rub

VOL. III. c

on at all. Now, there's Mr. Beg, over at
Meadow View. It wouldn't put the surprise
on me in the least if any day I saw him
bankrupt."

"It would not surprise me," agreed Mr.
Garnsey. " Only see how his daughters dress,
and his son now drives a tandem ! No less ! As
usual, Mr. Muir, I have learned a great deal from
you even in a few minutes. The moral of your
discourse seems to me to be, ' If you try to farm
your own land, take one field at a time, and never
call a labourer off a job.' "

Though there's nothing under the sun they
like better."

You are quite right on that point. When
your son's vagabond friend, Mr. Doey, condescended
to take my wages and had the run
of his teeth in my kitchen, there was nothing
delighted him more than being sent on errands.
That was the only part of his work he ever did
willingly."

It's an idle sort of way men that are paid by
the day" fall into," remarked Mr. Muir, with a

lofty comprehension of all the pits farm-labourers
are apt to tumble into when not upheld by the
strong arm of an employer determined to ' stand
no nonsense."

What a heavenly day, is it not ?" said Mr.
Garnsey.

"It is that," answered Mr. Muir; *' there
is no manner of fault to be found with the
weather  "

Except precisely the same fault as no doubt
our friend Peter is finding with his easy berth."

What is that, sir ?"

Too good to last."

''I have heard no word of my son parting
Peter," said Mr. Muir, genuinely surprised.

Perhaps not ; but it seems scarcely likely
that, great though his affection for the admirable
Doey may be, he would care to take him for a
travelling companion."

"I don't know what you mean, Mr. Garnsey."

** Come, come, that won't exactly do with
me," said Mr. Garnsey, laughing, as if there
were some capital joke hidden in the farmer's

utterance, which he was enjoying enormously.
When all the village understands, it is useless
for the tenant of Ardilaw to affect ignorance."

If you have got anything to say, sir, I wish
you would say it plain. I have had too much on
my mind lately to leave it any great freedom for
guessing riddles."

That is just the matter in point. You
have had your son on your mind. I don't wonder
at it ; and we all know he has not been a very
light load."

I don't see what call anybody in the village
or, if it comes to that, anybody in the county 
has to meddle in affairs that are no sort of concern
of theirs."

"Neither do I; but still bodies will meddle.
Even you, Mr. Muir, are not quite above the
common weakness of talking over, and gossiping
about, your neighbours' business; and, as you
have always held your head pretty well up, and
passed for a wise man, you may be very sure that
if your ears are not burning it is from no lack of
gossip about you and your son."

What does any man say about my son ?"
asked Mr. Muir defiantly.

"Why, for one thing, many men, most men,
say you won't have him at home very long ; and
some men, most men, go on to remark the sooner
he leaves here for his own sake the better. He
has certainly taken the disease very badly. Considering
his age and his experience, I don't know
that I ever came across a worse case of love-fever."


Outwardly, Mr. Muir was both a moral and a
religious man ; but he did mutter a very bad oath
as he half swung himself round till he stood
almost with his back to Mr. Garnsey.

That gentleman laughed again. " I would
not take it so much to heart if I were you," he
advised. " Gorman has been heavily hit, no
doubt, but so have we all in our time. He will
get over it just as we got over it. The disappointment
won't kill him any more than it killed
us. ' Men have died,' as you have perhaps heard
before now, Mr. Muir, ' and te worms have
eaten them, but not for love.' He won't die ; I

daresay he won't even Lave delirium tremens.
Still, it must be very hard for you. Ah ! dear,
dear ; when I remember the first day you brought
him over to see me, and what a proud man you
were, and how little we could foresee all this
trouble and the muck he is running now, I feel
very sad for you ; I do, upon my word."

Mr. Muir did not answer. With averted head
and a raging spirit he stood impatiently digging
holes in the ground with his heel, the while Mr.
Garnsey regarded him with amused enjoyment.

*' It is confoundedly hard upon you," he
repeated, in a tone of the sincerest sympathy.
*' I cannot express the sorrow I feel."

Mr. Muir's heart was hot within him. Had
he been beaten in a boxing-match, or worsted ina
lawsuit, or only come third in a race, he would
not by comparison have cared; but to know it
was the talk of the country-side that his son had
been refused by a girl, and such a girl  poor,
only ordinarily good-looking, with the cracked
daughter of old Sam Yince for mother, a " young
jade " who ought to have been only too thankful

to ** leap " when Gorman said "jump "the thing
was outrageous.

"As you appear to know such a heap about
us all," he said at last, turning a hard set face
towards his landlord, "it would serve no useful
purpose for me to deny that things are bad enough;
still, they are not so bad as you think for."

"Delighted to hear it. Am I to conclude
your son is going to remain on here  that he has
no intention of ' hanging his harp on a willow-tree
' ?"

"If he has any design of the sort, he never
mentioned it to me."

Then what I came over to-day to say is of
no consequence. However, as I am here, and as
no one never knows how matters may turn, I will
just mention that if he ever should wish to leave
in a hurry, he need not trouble himself about the
farm. I'll break the lease for him with pleasure.
Of course, I know the land could be of no use to
you, so I won't, under the circumstances, hold
your son to his bargain. If he wants to go, don't
let Finney's Farm keep him. He has acted very

well and straightforwardly by me, and I could
not think of taking advantage of him."

'you are past the common considerate, Mr.
Garnsey  wonderful considerate, to be sure," said
Mr. Muir, with a humility which hid a sneer.

Well, I took to the young fellow from the
first ; and I don't like to hear the stories I can't
help hearing about him. Further, you know,
seeing is believing; and I have seen that your
son is getting himself mixed up with a very
questionable lot  very questionable indeed.
Neither you nor I ever posed for a saint; but
there is a difference between that and going to
the dogs  and all because Miss Boyle can't care
for him. In our wildest days we were wiser than
that eh, Mr. Muir ?"

I am very sure there never was a time when,
if a woman hadn't wanted me, I'd have troubled
my head about her. But what I can't get over
with this girl is that she does care for him."

Then why don't they get married, and quit
caring ? There's only one cure for love, you
know  matrimony."

I can't get out of her, and neither can anybody
else, what her notion is," answered the farmer,
who was determined not to make a confessor of
Mr. Garnsey. " She has some reason she won't
tell that's still strong enough to keep her from
saying she's inclined to my son."

*but is she inclined to him?"

If she is not, then never was maid fond of
a man yet."

Do you think it is the mother  though that
certainly ought to prove a greater obstacle to
your son than to anybody else ?"

*'No, I cannot conclude it is the mother,
and if it were I don't know who would heed
her."

"I shouldn't, for one. What a flighty old
fright she is ! considers herself irresistible, too !
When she first came here she tried walking in
the middle of the road, right under my horse's
nose, in order to strike up an acquaintance. I
sickened her of that, however. I nearly rode her
down a couple of times. are you set to kill
me?' she asked. 'Keep out of the way, then,' I

said. * There's a side-path  that is for you ; the
road is for me.' "

'' She's a wonderful old woman," remarked
Mr. Muir.

She is ; but she has got a pretty daughter 
that is, if you believe her to be Miss Boyle's
mother. I do not. I feel quite convinced that
girl has got another mother somewhere. Perhaps
there is the mystery of her refusal."

"No, it is nothing of the kind; it just is that
she has put her foot down on ' No,' and having
done that, all the talking in the world won't make
her lift it to 'Yes'"

Yet you say you believe she is fond of your
son."

I can't doubt it. I would wager something
she loves the very ground he walks on."

"Humph! it is all very strange. I think if
I were young again, and thought a girl cared forme,
I'd have her, no matter how coy she might be.
So far as I can judge, lovers of the present day
are wonderfully faint-hearted. What do you say,
Mr. Muir ? would you sit pining in one house and

leave your sweetheart pining in another merely
because she was proud, or timid, or shy ?"

''I can hardly tell you what I might do."

"I should have thought, now, your son was
not the young man to stand much nonsense of
that sort. I'd have expected him to run off with
any young woman he had a mind to marry ; but,
however, as I said before, times are changed since
we went courting, Mr. Muir."

Maybe ; but I have a notion flesh and blood
is much about the same as it ever was."

Perhaps so ; still, I doubt it. When you
find opportunity, Mr. Muir, tell your son what I
say about the farm. He will be far better out of
this. Good-bye ; I am heartily sorry for you."

And having thus spoken, Mr. Garnsey retraced
his way over the stubble, leaving Mr. Muir to
contemplate at his leisure the apple, ripe and
ruddy, round and tempting, it had been hinted
would prove most exceedingly good to eat. How
long was it before Eve stretched forth her hand
and plucked the fruit of the tree ? Presumably
not long. Days, however, passed, and found Mr.

Muir in all his '' spare time " gazing at the apple
he felt steadfastly determined to have no " say to."

Notions of that description may come natural
enough to a loose-living man like Lyle Garnsey ;
but I never have taken act or part in anything
rash or wrong myself," considered the farmer.

*'I wonder, now," he went on, "how it comes
no thought of the kind chanced to get into German's
head? I am right glad he was not at hand
to hear what Mr. Garnsey said. He is whiles
reckless ; and we know it would be the height of
wickedness. Still, many a man has done it, and
got a good wife too. They do say Mr. Desmond's
great-aunt was carried off that way. She had a
fine fortune."

Once again the same apartment as that in which
the reader first made acquaintance with Miss Bell
Muir, unchanged in any respect save that a fire
of turf smouldered within the grate. No difference
in chairs, tables, arrangement, ornament.
The seasons might alter, external nature don a
fresh aspect ; but no apartment influenced by the
fair Bell was in the smallest degree likely to vary
its appearance.

"As she found things she left them," said
that young woman, which was probably the reason
why all the linen, and all the silver, and all
the damask, and all the feather-beds, and all the
best china, left behind by a mother " fit only to
be a saint in heaven," who possessed a lighter
hand in pastry and as cool a hand in butter-making
as Bell, where as good as when s-he departed
for a world where, presumably, teapots.

Britannia or otherwise, are unknown, since even
the most careful housewife cannot carry them
across the frontier.

At all events, there was the room, and Bell
and her father, as when the reader first entered
it. And yet not quite : then Miss Muir was
shirt-making and her father splicing his whip ;
on the occasion of this interview Miss Muir was
knitting a stocking, and Mr. Muir doing nothing
at all except looking at his daughter.

Well, I don't know," said genial Bell.

Then why do you speak ?" asked Mr. Muir.

There is not much use speaking ; but a
body cannot always sit dumb."

A man that lived with you might pray to be
deaf," retorted Mr. Muir.

The improvement in* manner, or rather the
slight restraint in language, caused by Gorman's
presence, had long ceased to be apparent, and
the Muirss were once again as rude to each other
as the most affectionate family could desire.
The most perfect freedom of speech prevailed at
Ardilaw; old habits had been resumed like old

clothes ; they were easier than the Sunday garb,
assumed for the benefit of Mr. Trevasson's
nephew. What becomes of the liberty of home,
if the inmates have always to be on their best
behaviour? Gorman, who was but little in the
house, had deserted his own room, and now sat
'' with the rest," snapping at and quarrelling with
his sisters, as naturally as though " reared among
them." Few traces of the '' breeding that came
with him from Kilkenny " were to be seen. The
downward path is easy  apparently the young
man found it eminently so. He 'flung out" at
Bell like a vicious horse ; and Bell attacked him
as though she had been a tigress. Mr. Muir's
pride and vanity were often sorely hurt by his
son's degeneration ; but, upon the whole, he
personally felt the same relief in getting down off
his high horse that he might in taking off a pair
of tight boots and thrusting his feet into easy
slippers.

Among quality he could hold his own with
any one of them still," thought the farmer,
solacing himself when he heard Gorman answer

his sister in kind; but the young fellow had
fallen a great depth, all the coarser side of his
nature had obtained ascendency. It was not
merely the wild blood, the untrained nature, the
animal instincts so long kept in check by prosperity
and civilisation, which were asserting themselves,
but he had actually deteriorated. He had
gone down amongst the common herd of profligates,
and the very fashion of his countenance
was changed in consequence. As a man cannot
pass through fire without being burned, so a man
cannot sin without some hint of the wrong he has
done being written, more faintly perhaps than in
his soul, but still written, across his face.

Doey was right. Gorman had got the bit
between his teeth, and was galloping straight fora
place not often mentioned, except from the
pulpit, in the hearing of decent people ; and in
every defiant movement of his body, and in every
handsome feature, in every word he spoke, there
was a change, which told some evil spirit had
overshadowed him, and turned everything his
fleshly tabernacle held of good to bad. Just as

in some garden we occasionally see all that was
green and fair and beautiful over-night  all buds
of promise, all flowers of grace  blighted and
killed by one night's unseasonable frost, so the
poetry, the chivalry, the greatness, and the grandeur
of Gorman Muir's character seemed nipped
and destroyed by his mistress's coldness.

Men have done the same before ; men will do
the same again. It is an old, old story ; yet when
the hand which writes these words is cold, and
the eyes that read them are closed for ever, it will
still strike some loving heart with a new and
horrible surprise that son, or brother, or friend,,
can let any trouble gain such a mastery over him
as to ruin his life on earth, and peril his hopes for
eternity.

Gorman Muir was doing this. He was, so
Isabella had put the matter, " biting off his nose
to spite his chin ;" and she had been delivering
her sentiments and opinions at great length when
Mr. Muir stopped her.

There ensued a silence broken only by the
maddening click-click of her knitting-needles.

VOL. III. D

Bell could always get through about double the
amount of work when in a bad temper ; probably
that was the reason she knit three rows right
round during the time she sat and said nothing,
and Mr. Muir considered his daughter's words of
wisdom. At length he lifted his head and asked,

*' What makes you say Gorman won't stop
over the winter with us ?''

Had she been deaf and dumb Miss Muir
could not have taken less notice of this inquiry
than was the case.

Mr. Muir paused, then he 'surveyed" Isabella
before he asked,

Did you hear what I said ?"

Yes, I heard"

'* Then why don't you answers'

"It is better to hold my tongue than cause
offence."

Mr. Muir looked up at the "tawse" suspended
above the mantelshelf, secretly longing to take it
off the nail and chastise his daughter. No one
could have accused him of sparing the rod when
she was a child ; but he now repented he had not

'laid on" with greater frequency and fervour.
At that moment he could have found it in his
heart to thrash Bell soundly.

God help the husband gets her!" he thought;
then added aloud,

Who's talking of offence ? I asked you a
plain question, and I expect a plain answer."

"What was it you asked? Maybe I don't
rightly mind."

Instead of repeating his previous inquiry, Mr.
Muir spoke a very naughty word.

I wouldn't swear if I was you," remarked
Miss Muir.

"If you were me it's hard to say what you
might do," retorted her father ; " as hard as to
say what I icill do if you don't give me a civil
answer."

What do you want me to answer ?"

Why you deem Gorman's thinking of leaving
us !" thundered Mr. Muir.

Goodness me ! Is that all ? You needn't
shout so ; don't put yourself in a temper about
nothing."

"Are you going to tell me, or are you not ?"
asked Mr. Muir, half rising from his chair.

"There's no call for you to stir," observed
Bell; " it's a great pity you trouble your mind so
much about one that doesn't trouble his mind
much about j'ou."

This time Mr. Muir rose in earnest.

"If you're set not to tell me," he said, "I
suppose nobody can make you;" and he strode
across the floor and had his hand on the lock,
when his daughter observed,

"I believe you wanted to know why I thought
Gorman meant to take himself off. There is no
secret about the matter, as far as I am aware.
He told me he wouldn't be here long."

"That's nothing."

"Have your own way of it, then; only never
say afterwards I didn't give you fair warning.
You'll have to try and do without him before sou
are much older. He is purposed to leave Ardilaw,
and the county Down, and Ireland. He doesn't
seem to think there is room here to be wicked
enough."

Where does lie think, then, he'll find room
enough ?" asked the farmer. He was still grasping
the handle of the door, and his voice was
harsh with suppressed emotion as he put this
question.

'' He is going to try Australia. He says if he
knew any place further ofl: he'd go there. You
made sure you were doing a fine thing when you
refused Sam Deep the cottage. Maybe you'd
have fared better with his pigs, poor dumb beasts,
than with Miss Boyle, you were so taken up
about."

Mr. Muir did not answer. He opened the
door and walked out. He went up the hill and
looked mournfully at the horses, in which Gorman
had long ceased to take pleasure or interest.

I'm thinking you'd best be considering what
you'll do with this land when your son leaves us
altogether," were the pleasant words with which
Peter greeted him. "He's not on for stopping
in Down, I'm very certain. I'd not be surprised
to hear any day we needn't expect to see him
again. Love's a terrible thing when a man takes

it as lie has clone. It may be all very well, but I
call it foolishness myself. It's not as if there
wasn't another woman in the world but one."

Mr. Muir looked at him almost piteously ashe
answered,

You see, he can't look at it in that way."

*more's the pity, for it is the only sensible
way."

Do you know when he is coming back,
Doey?"

''No more than the babe unborn. He leaves
me with all the weight and care of the stock on
my mind, and never says what he wants done or
left undone. I'm getting very tired of it, and so
I mean to tell your son."

Here he is," answered Mr. Muir ; " you can
tell him now."

0, I'm not going to meet him open-mouthed,"
said Doey. " I know when to speak
and when to hold my tongue. I'll take a suitable
opportunity, never fear, but it won't be when he
comes dragging his feet across the grass that
way. Did you ever see the like of his face now ?

why, his how is as black as night. He is dangerous."


Gorman's brow was black. He 'scarcely spoke
to his father, and he uttered no syllable to Peter,
except to bid him 'get shoes put on the bay mare,
and take her to that address."

'' I have a word I want to say to you, Gorman,"
began his father, as Doey went to catch the mare.

Say it, then," returned the young man
sullenly.

*' Is it true, as Bell informs me, that you are
thinking of going to Australia ?"

Quite true, unless I change my mind and
first kill Berna Boyle, and then blow out my own
brains."

"I would not do that. Your brains are your
own, to do what you like with, of course; but I
think you might turn them to some better use."

What better use ?"

'considering, as nothing else will serve you,
if there's no way you could coax the girl to
reason."

I don't know what you mean," said Gorman.

You know she'll listen to nothing I have to say.
She won't even speak to me now. I met her as I
was coming home, and she turned her head away,
as if the very sight of me was hateful."

"Did she?" exclaimed Mr. Muir, and his
face grew dark as Gorman's own. " Faith, if it
was my case, I'd teach her different. Do you
know what Mr. Garnsey said to me about this
matter ?"

I know what he said to me, the old scoundrel,
and that's enough," answered Gorman.
It was as much as I could do to refrain from
making him eat his villanous words."

I do not see that there need be any Villany
going," answered Mr. Muir. " All she needs, to
my mind, is a little persuading. Once she was
married to you, she'd be glad enough you had
persuaded her."

Gorman turned and looked steadily at his
father.

"Were I in your shoes," went on Mr. Muir,
without flinching from his son's gaze, '' I'd just
carry her off and make her your wife. Better-born

and better-looking women than sbe is, and
rich into the bargain, have been married the same
way, over and over and over again, and settled
down as happy with their husbands as if they'd
gone to church with a troop of friends. There is
no wrong in the notion. The girl likes you and
would marry j'ou if she wasn't too high to own
her love. If you can't live without her  why,
live with her. If the truth were known, I dare
swear there is nothing she would like better than
to be compelled to marry you. Some are that
sort. They go on saying, no, no, and no, all the
time they are dying to say yes."

For a moment Gorman stood silent, then he
asked,

Are you aware you are urging me to commit
a great crime ?"

'crime!" repeated Mr. Muir contemptuously
; " not a bit of it  no such thing !"

Given the soil, no labourer need ever stand still
for lack of evil seed to cast into the ground. Just
as in a waste piece of land there is scarcely a
weed which may not be found flourishing and
taking all virtue out of the earth, so when temptation
finds a waste corner in a man's soul lying
fallow it immediately sets to work to fill it hopeful
with nettles and docks and thistles, not to
speak of meaner plants ; whilst over all the worse
than useless vegetation it throws a glamour of
beauty in the shape of wild convolvulus, which as
it spreads kills everything tender and of fair
repute  wholesome to the mind, beneficial to the
soul.

It chanced thus with Gorman Muir. He
knew  none better  that an enemy was planting
tares in a field where luxuriant wheat should have
been springing. He knew full well he had entered

the service of that master who exacts such cruel
labour, and, spite of all his promises, returns
such wretched wages. He knew he was going as
hopelessly wrong as a human being can go ; there
was nothing about his state he did not know.
Yet he did not stretch out a hand to pluck up
the weeds which were springing so fast. He said
it was Fate. Day by day he accepted more fully
the doctrine of predestination, he exaggerated his
own helplessness ; a mere reed shaken by the
wind, he overrated the strength of circumstances,
he talked to himself concerning 'destiny" as
though he had no power to arrest or mould his
own.

With vehement anger he at first combated his
father's suggestion ; but by degrees, and not slow
degrees either, the idea became familiar to him.
Seed ! Why, the birds of the air seemed to drop
it as they flew. No one allowed him even to
try to forget Berna Boyle. His boon companions
made a standing jest of the great repulse he had
received. Even when no word was spoken, he
felt people were thinking of the girl who would

have nothing to do with him. YhereYer and
whenever he met Mr. Garnsey, that gentleman
had a joke or a jeer ready for the occasion.

"How is she'' he would ask, in a confidential
whisper; "any sign of a thaw yet?
No! What a long and bitter frost!" "You
don't want to speak on the subject." "My good
soul, people may as well gossip before your face
as behind your back." " Why don't you leave
the country  it is simple madness for you to stop
here ? but if you must stop, don't go on exhibiting
yourself in the character of a disconsolate lover.
There is nothing women despise so much." "You
ought to have refused to take her 'No,' which,
by the way, I daresay she meant you to read as
Yes.' " "What, still mooning about with your
heart on your sleeve ! Hide it, man, hide it ; all
the days of the parish are pecking the poor little
thing !" " Haven't you managed yet to drown
that rascal Cupid in champagne ? It does
require an enormous sea to cover so small a
body." " Cheer up, Muir, cheer up. The day
must come when you will thank God the lady

was obdurate." " I am beginning to believe now
we were all mistaken, and that your unfortunate
attachment was for the mother. If it had been
for the unsophisticated daughter, I am sure you
might have won her long ago." "You don't
know how to make love, Mr. Gorman, and that is
a fact. Come to school with me, and I'll soon
teach you how to snare your bird."

As for Bell, her remarks fell on Gorman's
heart like acid on a sore. She took a practical
and prosaic view of the position. To her Miss
Boyle was no angel, heroine, or damsel of
romance. " She is nothing to make a song
about," said Bell. " What you ever saw in her
gets over me. I wonder to see you going about
as you do. You mind me of a sulky child sitting
with its finger in its mouth because it is denied
something would hurt it. You've had a good miss
of the girl, if you could only think it. "What do
you want with a useless fine lady for your wife
who hasn't two halfpenny pieces to rub together?
Somebody who could bring some money in her
hand, and know how to take care of it afterwards,

would be far more fitting. If the old man hadn't
brought you up with such notions, and taught
you to behave yourself, it would have been ' telling '
you and everybody belonging to you. I wouldn't
let Miss Boyle have the satisfaction of thinking
you're vexed ; once she saw you not caring, laughing
and talking, and sticking to your work, it
would be her turn to feel sick and sorry. She'll
never repent not taking you but once, and that
will be always. The day'll come, and before long,
when she'll be sitting fine and lonely, supping
sorrow with the spoon of grief."

'quit that," Gorman would answer, flinging
out of the room.

He was fast growing desperate. Never a day
passed without his father dropping some word
which bore reference to how " easily the thing
might be done."

"Anybody would think Scotland was America,
and the Channel wider than the Atlantic. Why,
you could get her out for a pleasant sail, and be
married and back again before the mother missed
her."

"A likely thing she would go pleasuring with
me when she won't even speak when we meet !"
retorted Gorman.

'' Well, well, if you are so faint-hearted I can't
help it. I only know, if it was my case, she'd
have been Mrs. Muir long since. I wouldn't say
a word if I didn't know she likes you. I wouldn't
take any woman to wife against her wish."

'' I tell you it is of no use trying to tempt
me. I would not do her a wrong to be made a
king."

*' Who is talking of doing wrong ? I am not.
How can a man act fairer by a woman than
marrying her ?"

' You know she will not marry me."

"I think the matter might be put to her in
such a way she'd be glad to marry you. However,
take your own course. I have told you what I
should do; but that is neither here nor there."

A man of Gorman Muir's temperament might
have remained proof against these and suchlike
suggestions had there been no traitor in the
citadel of his own heart.

It was from himself, however, the real temptation
came. He had enervated his moral sense by
plunging into excess after excess, each one of
which left his powers of resistance more weakened
and shattered. Honestly he believed that in the
deepest recesses of Berna's nature the fair sweet
violets of a first love were blooming for him. He
thought of the night when they met in the tender
mysterious twilight  of the shy grace of her
manner in those early interviews before he spoke
of his affection ; he recalled her every word, the
thrilling melody of her voice, the turn of her
head, the fathomless blue of her eyes, the telltale
blushes, the sweet lips, the soft curves of
her young figure, and felt he could not resign
her.

"I would make you so happy  so happy, my
darling," he thought. ''I would lead a new life.
I would be worthy of you. God ! if Thou
wouldst only give me this one blessing, I would
turn from the evil of my ways and sin no
more."

It was a bitter struggle, and one for which

lie had not strength. He could not stand the
siege. Any person might have been certain that
unless he left the country he could never conquer
the enemies marshalled against him. There
were the foes encamped without; but a worse
foe was hidden within  imagination. In fancy
he sketched the details of the flight across the sea ;
he thought of all he should say to her  of all she
might say to him. He would tell her how every
fault he had committed was done for love of her.
He would open his heart to her as he had never
yet opened it. She would pardon ; she would yield.
And then he roused himself from his fantasy, and
looked out on the cold drear reality of his actual
existence ; looked out, and, like one roused from
some blissful dream, closed his eyes again, and
strove  generally with success  to woo back the
dear vision once more.

As suddenly as he rushed into dissipation he
withdrew from it. Long solitary rides, walks
across the hills, hours spent scudding before the
wind, with the swish of the waves lulling his
waking dreams  this is how he spent his days,

VOL. Til. E

while lie told himself he was wrestling with
temptation. And all the time he knew perfectly
well he had taken the bantling to nurse, and that
it was growing in strength and stature to a size
he should not be able to crush. Fairy music was
never sweeter than that borne to his ear on the
gale. In the watches of the night he formed
his plans ; he dreamt his dreams ; he was loved,
happy, successful ; and though the morning might
dawn cold and gray, from behind the clouds the
sun of fancy always came forth, warming the
autumnal landscape, and bathing the whole earth
with a glory which clothed the bare October fields
in the verdure and freshness of May.

All this time he saw nothing of Berna. She
had ceased attending church. He never met her
in the village, but he knew she was better and at
home ; much alone there, also. Mrs. Boyle about
that period spent her life in what Mrs. Pirn called
one " continual gad." None of her friends could
complain of being neglected ; like the little busy
bee, she was here, there, and everywhere at once.

It seemed to her necessary to explain that

Berna had stopped the marriage ; but she refrained
from stating how.

I always knew she would do it," said the
widow. " She could not put up with the notion
of a stepfather. Well, we'll see if she likes teaching
better. She has taken the fancy to demean
herself that way. I have told her till I'm tired
there never was a Vince a governess, or a
companion, or anything unbefitting. I have
implored her not to bring disgrace on us all by
taking a situation. 'If we've only a crust,' I
said, ' let us share it, and don't be breaking my
heart going out tutoring, as if you had sprung-from
nothing.' But there, what was the use of
speaking at all ? You might as well discourse to
the wind as to Berna. She's her father all over."

  .-
 ILUWQIS

Once again Mrs. Boyle was absent from home.
Miss Sheill, it is true, had left Bangor for Belfast
; but the Grays " having made up their
minds " to " put up with the dulness for the sake
of what they could save," the widow was good
enough to cheer their loneliness by frequent
visits, principally undertaken to see if she
couldn't light upon a house with plenty of
room in it, suitable for letting to good families in
the summer'' Upon these occasions Mrs. Boyle
never " took the road " empty-handed. A dozen
or so of eggs, a pound of fresh butter, a fat hen,
which "far more than paid the few mouthfuls
she could manage to get down," were her contributions
to the Gray larder. She never was more
in earnest than when she stated her anxious
desire to 'get suited." She wanted to leave
Clear Stream at once. " We've never had a day's

luck since we went there," she said to Mrs. Gray ;
and we might fall in with a house we'd get for
nothing, or next to nothing, here through the
winter ; and I could he putting things right and
getting straight before the fine weather comes."
This was Mrs. Boyle's ostensible reason for
wishing to get " clean away " from Clear
Stream ; but Berna knew what her mother
desired was to secure the furniture sent there by
Mr. Vince.

I would not put it past him," she observed
to Ruth, " to say I must leave every stick there
is in the house; and though the whole lot
wouldn't fetch four pounds, there's many a thing
would be useful to me and 'Tilda Sheill. You'll
come along with us, won't you, Ruth ? Though
you're not fit for hard work you could dust, and
answer the door, and see no waste was going on ;
and we'd never miss your bite and sup. What do
you think?"

Ruth smiled a shrewd mournful smile as she
answered,

*' I'll go with you, mistress, if you want me.

Though I am not as young as I was once, there is
a power of outcome in me still ; and, supposing
you were taken ill, I think you would like hotter
one you know beside your bed than another that
might be a stranger."

*'I11!" repeated Mrs. Boyle. 'who's going
to be ill? Not. me! I've the best of constitutions,
and there's never been a serious thing the
matter with me since I had scarlet fever, when I
was five years of age."

Kuth smiled again. She remembered that
attack of scarlet fever, and the number of "teens"
to which Mrs. Boyle had then attained.

* And with all my heart," she said, " I hope,
mem, you'll keep your health, and be long as
well as you're now."

What would hinder me keeping my health ?"
asked Mrs. Boyle pettishly; "and I'm sure for
spirit you might search Ireland over and not find
my equal. Many a one would have been brokenhearted
at the treatment I've met with ; but you
can't say you ever saw me sitting down and
making a moan."

You've held up wonderful," agreed Ruth
submissively.

** I never was one to lie down and let people
tramp over me. I mind well what my poor father
used to say, ' Care killed the cat ;' and what's the
use of fretting ? ' A pound of grief won't pay an
ounce of debt.' Look at Berna, now ; she'll bean
old woman before she's a young one. Dull !
Ditch-water is lively to her ! And the ways she
has got, and the notions ! Fancy her bringing
disgrace on us all by going as companion to an
old sailor's widow ! Ha, you'd never in my
youngest days have seen me doing the like of that
now, Ruth, would you ?"

"You're right there, mem," agreed Ruth;
*' nobody wise could ever have event it to you
that you would have accompanied the wife of an
Admiral; but I am not so sure, mistress, it is
altogether so bad a notion for Miss Berna. You see
she isn't like you ; she prefers quiet, and a settled
way of living, and as, you have often told me, she
has nothing to look to when you are gone, it's maybe
best she should begin to earn her bread now."

** I never heard the match of you, Ruth, never !
Anybody listening to you and not seeing me
would think I was an old withered woman; I
only wish Berna may have as good a chance of
living as I have. Many a time I feel as if I'd
bury her ; and perhaps it would be just as well,
for what she'd do without me it is beyond my
imagination to conceive"'

"I don't know, I am sure," said Ruth reflectively
; '' she's a fond creature, and would
miss you sore."

"But she's not going to have to miss me,"
declared Mrs. Boyle.

"I hope not, mem. Lord give you length of
days, and health to enjoy them ; but there's nothing
surer than that we must all die some time."

Many a one has lived to five times my age,"
went on the widow, who felt that such perennial
youth as hers ought to prove an exception even
to the universal rule.

So I have heard," answered Ruth, thinking
of the Patriarchs.

"I do consider it is very hard upon me," said

Mrs. Boyle, " to have a child so headstrong and
obstinate about her own way as Berna ; but I
suppose it's my fault, always giving in to her
from the time she was an infant in arms. Ah !
I was always too quiet and easy. AYhat the
Boyless needed among them was a termagant
instead of a young soft creature, tender as a kid,
and meek as Moses. But there I what's the good
of looking back and crying over spilt milk that
an Atlantic Ocean fall of tears couldn't put back
in the jug ? To my notion, it's best always to be
gay and lightsome. As my father used to remark,
' You'll be merry, Milly, when you're as
old as Methuselah.' "

"And he'd a way himself of smiling back at
Trouble, no matter how black she frowned," replied
Ruth, who had her own reasons for trying
to keep Mrs. Boyle in good humour.

*' Ay, where would you find his like ?"
I can't tell, mem. I never met with one
of the same before or since  I have got as much
in this bag now as it will hold, I think. Will
I fill the other, or"

I'll only need the one, Ruth. It's not my
intention to stop away more nor a week at the
outside. Berna'll want all the help I can give
her, if she's to go decent to Newly. Have I my
bonnet on straight ?"

It couldn't be better, mem. It sets you
beautiful."

Though it's black, and black never did become
me like colours. But of all the mercies, Ruth,
it is to be rid of that heavy crape veil that
weighed on me like a mountain ! Berna would
have been pleased had I gone on disguising myself
in it for ever. It's all very well for her now,
but when she comes to be  that is, if she ever
gets married  a desolate widow, she'll know the
odds, and that widows need all the enlivening
they can get if they're to live their lives at all.
Do you mind Mrs. M'Cann, Ruth, and the way
she went on about her first husband till she
passed all chance of getting a second ? Many's
the time I've laughed to myself thinking about
her."

And, thinking about Mrs. M'Cann, Mrs. Boyle

laughed once more. Indeed, the remarkable
contrast between herself and that lady so tickled
her that she bade good-bye to Berna in the sunniest
of moods, and all the way to the station
talked to Ruth with a tempered equality which
should have proved most gratifying to any one
possessed of a well-regulated mind.

Mrs. Boyle's discourse might have induced
any stranger to believe all her halcyon hours were
spent before she ever met Ulick Boyle.

The shilling she in those days wrested from
the reluctant pockets of Samuel Vince and exchanged
for Kitty Linden's raspberry-puffs, and
white muslins and sashes wherewith to entrap
youths sillier than any bird, might, judging from
her talk, have beeu'thousands of golden guineas.
The giggling girls, the shy and awkward suitors
of her earlier life, she referred to with rapturous
delight.

It was my foolish marriage damped me,"
she declared. " dear, a dear ! and didn't I
think myself the made woman when I got Ulick
Boyle ! Little I deemed the life was before me.

He never could bear rae look at a man, let alone
speak to one. I had better have gone into a
convent at once. And then to leave me without a
shilling on which to enjoy my widowhood ! Berna's
as like him as two peas. She's all against the
notion of a lodging-house. She wants me to try
and live, or rather try and starve, on sixty pounds
a year, if ever you heard the like. I wonder she
doesn't take shame to herself, remembering that's
all I've got. And she says she'll give me the
most of what she can earn, as if I'd have it off
her; besides which she'll be out of place more
than half her time. As I tell her often, ' If you
can't agree with iiUj how do you expect strangers
will put up with you ?' "

Over all these utterances Ruth pondered as
she wended her way back to Clear Stream.
*' Likely it is just as well the mistress has got the
fancy for taking a house. Between us, Miss
Sheill and me might manage to please the lodgers,
and there would be always a roof for Miss Berna
to creep under. The poor master ! if he only
knew his child had to earn her bread !"

*' I feel very content, nurse," answered the girl,
when Ruth said something in the ways of lamentation
to her. " I try hard to please mamma, but,
you see, I fail completely. She will be happier
without me, and I shall be better away'. I wish I
could like her friends, but I cannot."

I don't wish you could do anything of the
sort, dear. They are not fit for you to associate
with. They are very well in their way, but not
your way. Now, if you tell me what your dresses
want doing to, I can get through a heap of work
while the mistress is away. She is going to stop
at Bangor for a week."

Five days of that week slipped rapidly by.
Berna and her nurse sewed diligently, and at
length every article was ready, and most of her
boxes packed. On Saturday evening, after she
had finished tea, the girl sat beside the fire, looking,
by the light of one candle, over the few
treasures she possessed.

They were contained in a miniature trunk,
covered in morocco leather, and ornamented with
brass plates, and comprised, besides some jewelry

of trifling value, two or three books, letters from
the Dowager and Ulick Boyle, and a packet of
papers tied together with a piece of black ribbon.
These Berna laid aside, while she burnt, without
re-reading, all her kinswoman's correspondence.
Thoughtfully she watched the last sheet of
paper ignite, flare fiercely, and finally die out.
Then, one by one, she lingered over the
lines traced by a hand long cold. There was an
indescribable tenderness even in the way she
touched the paper  a pathetic sadness in her
young face.

The whole past seemed brought by a mighty
wave and laid at her feet. Events half forgotten
sorrows, hopes, pleasures, fears  were strewed
around, borne from the wreck of her early life,
and scattered in mournful disorder on the lonely
shore of her troubled heart ; playful allusions
which once provoked smiles were now read
through a mist of tears; pet names, loving
words, gentle advice, devoted attachment, a faith
in her which was beyond expression, the clinging
to the one thing in life that had power to soothe

a bruised and broken in spirit, came back as from
the dead.

Reverently the girl laid the letters on the fire,
and as the last blackened morsel fluttered up the
chimney she covered her face and wept.

There is nothing in life so hard to bear as a
joy which has turned to pain. But Berna, sitting
solitary, felt there was no bitterness in her pain ;
she had not a thought connected with her father
save what was good and beautiful. He had been
foolish, and he bore his punishment like a man.
The fault was his own, and he never blamed the
wife he married for utterly failing to make him
happy.

I cannot bear the trouble as he did," thought
the poor girl. " mother, I wish I could !" and
she cried on till some of the sorrow was drained
from her soul, and the passion of regret for her
father's lost life had spent itself in tears.

The wind was moaning and muttering round
the house ; at intervals heavy rain pelted against
the windows ; the house was utterly silent ; nota
sound broke the stillness which reigned within.

Never before bad Berna felt so desolate as when
sbe took up the last packet of papers and untied
the string.

They were letters  manuscripts, rather  from
Gorman Muir. Sbe began to read them, but was
forced to abandon the attempt ; ber blinded eyes
refused their office, ber heart grew sick and faint,
as sbe thought of the man sbe loved with all
ber strength, yet bad resolved never to marry.
"Never, never, never!" sbe said, rising and
dropping the papers into the glowing turf fire,
the beat of wbicb was no fiercer than the raging
flame wbicb sometimes burnt with such fury in
Gorman's breast.

She stretched forth ber band to rescue one of
the letters, but drew it back again.

No ; they shall all go," sbe murmured ; and
sbe stood silent while the passionate words,
illumined for a moment by the flame, shrivelled
to powder and were gone.

At that moment a loud single knock resounded
through the quiet house. It was rare for anyone
to come to Clear Stream Cottage, especially

after dark; and Berna, startled, opened the sitting-room
door, while Ruth went to see who the late
comer might he.

'rit is a note for you, Miss Berna," she said.
Step inside," she added to the messenger ; who,
stepping in as requested, stood in the hall, a long
whip in one hand and his hat in the other.

'we're going to have a rough night, I'm
afeard," he observed to Ruth.

It looks like it," she answered. " You're
gey and wet."

"I am that," answered the man; "and the
dumb beast's worse."

"Ruth, Ruth!" cried Berna, "this note is
frcm Mr. Gray. Mamma has met with an accident.
I must go to her at once."

Not at this time of the night, surely, miss ?"

Yes, Mr. Gray says they hope it will not
much signify ; but my mother wants me, and he
has sent a covered car over. Fetch my bonnet
and shawl, nurse. I'll be ready in a moment,"
she added, turning to the driver. " Do you know
how mamma met with the accident?"

VOL. 111. F

"No, miss, I do not. The gentleman only
gave me that note, and told me to make all the
haste I could with it. He knows me well ; I've
driven him often. He said you'd likely come
beck with me."

Will your horse he fit to return at once ?
He must be very tired."

Tired is it, miss ? He doesn't know what
tiredness is. I'd like to hear him telling me he
was tired. Up hill and down dale, it's all one to
him. He's not so extraordinarily fast, but he's
sure ; he can do his forty mile a day and never
put himself out."

'' I won't keep you a moment, then," said
Bern a.

I'd best go with you, miss," suggested Ruth.

There's lashing of room, but I don't believe
that they'll be expecting two of you," said the
driver.

I'll just put on my other gown and change
my shoes, and give my face a rub," persisted
Ruth.

'' You'd better not come," interrupted Berna;

'rit might be inconvenient; and, besides, I
should like you to stop here and have everything
comfortable, in case I am able to get mamma
home."

*' I can take you both, and welcome, if you
think they'll be best pleased to see you," said the
man.

No ; I shall go alone," decided Berna,
wrapping a shawl round her and opening the
hall-door. 'good-bye, Ruth ; light a fire in
mamma's room. If I should want you, I will
send over in the morning. Now we can start,"
she said to the driver ; and, followed by the man,
she hurried out into the darkness.

Seized with a sudden panic, however, Ruth
rushed into the kitchen, snatched a cloak, and ran
after her young mistress.

Miss Berna, Miss Berna dear, for any sake,
wait a minute ! I'll go with you just as I am,"
she cried, but the wind beat back the words in
her face. "Miss Berna," she panted, "wait a
minute ! Don't go off in the dark by yourself.
I'm close behind you, darling ;" and struggling

with the latch of the gate, she reached the
lane just in time to hear the driver shout to
his horse and the animal start off at a pace
which rendered all her efforts to overtake the car
unavailing.

It was a night without moon or star. The wind,
high all day, had increased in strength as the
darkness deepened, and though its full violence
could not be felt in the valley, the moment the
car turned up the hill and began to get a little
into the open it was met by furious blasts, which
occasionally brought the horse to a standstill.
The higher they climbed the worse became the
weather. Up from the wild sea, where white
horses were tossing their billowy manes and running
mad races across the Lough, to Craigantlet ;
over the sparsely inhabited country which stretches
thence to Bangor and Donaghadee, the storm came
rushing. Then, after pausing one moment on the
hill-top as if to take breath, it swooped down past
Sunnyside and Ardilaw, strewing the ground with
twigs, and wrestling with the old trees that had

seen so maii} days of summer, and survived such
awful winter weather.

At first, entirely absorbed in imagining what
could be the matter with her mother, and wondering
how she would find her, Berna did not pay
much heed to the war raging around ; but when
the low land was left behind, and the shelter
afforded by the woods around Ardilaw passed, she
could close her ears no longer to the noise of the
rising tempest, and in the darkness she sat in
one corner of the car and shivered.

The very angel of destruction might have been
riding in his chariot of cloud and storm over the
land that night. The wind rushing down the
hillside struck with thuds against the car, in
the same way wherewith giant, though invisible,
hands might have dealt it successive blows.
More than once the panting horse was drawn
sideways across the road, in which position he
could halt better than seemed possible with his
nose in the teeth of the wind ; but at last even
this resource was abandoned. The driver himself
got down, and, taking the creature's head, laboriously

led him, by means of a toilsome zigzag, to
the crest of the ascent.

At that point the gale seemed as if it must
rend the travellers. A gust took the conveyance
as if with the fixed intention of dashing it to
pieces. For a moment Berna " lost her head,"
and stretched forth her hand to open the door,
meaning to spring out.

Before she could do this, the blast had swept
down the hill, the driver was in his seat again,
lashing on his horse, and they were spinning
towards the sea at a pace that defied the storm,
and meeting swept through it. They went down
that hill at a gallop which made Berna hold her
breath.

We cannot be long now," she thought,
*' before we reach Bangor ;" but she did not know
the lie of the land well ; and, what was more to
the purpose, she had only the vaguest idea where
they were going. On, and still on, a horse three
parts bred tearing through the night at the very
top of his speed, the car rocking and reeling as
they sped along  the tempest roaring, the salt

spray, borne inland on its pinions, stinging the
driver's face  a deluge of rain pouring down upon
the land ! Such a night ! such a night ! In the
midst of all her own hurry and trouble Berna
found herself marvelling how it was faring with
those at sea ; and with her prayers for her own
parent there mingled supplications that God
would be gracious to those maids, and mothers,
and children who, like Kuth when Kuth was
young, had a man that night out in the darkness
out amid the storm  out on the cruel, treacherous
sea, battling for his life.

The girl did not know in the least where the
house lay at which her mother was staying ; yet
it seemed to her that a long, long time was consumed
in getting to it.

The night, the storm, the hurry, the darkness,
the fright, of course made the way seem both
wearier and drearier. Still, an immense amount
of ground seemed to have been covered since
Clear Stream Cottage was left behind.

Once again they were on low ground, bowling
along the level as merrily as the wind and rain

would permit. It was a night when a man could
scarce have heard himself speak, even had his
good lot been cast well inland. But they were
now Bearing the coast. Berna, standing up and
craning her head out of the most detestable conveyance
the misapplied ingenuity of man ever
invented, could hear afar off the frantic swish-wish
of the sea on a rocky coast.

But still they were above the sound, which
fact puzzled Berna.

'' Surely we cannot be far from the Grays
now," decided Berna; and then her driver took a
swift turn to the left. She could not see ; how
the man could see baffled her; the car had no
lamps ; there was not a light visible on one hand
or another, before or behind ; the man was driving
carefully, with the sea-spray dashing against the
windows, the wind screaming and howling, the
darkness deepening.

Once more the driver descended, and led his
horse cautiously, first down an incline and then
along a roughly gravelled road beside the raging
sea. She knew nothing of where they were

going, and strained her eyes, in vain, to see.
Suddenly the man pulled up, the door was opened,
a voice said, *now, if you place, miss." A blaze
of ruddy light fell across the darkness.

How is my  " began Berna, and then she
paused, amazed. Even her dazzled eyes could
see the house was a mere fisherman's hut, and
that Gorman Muir was standing on the threshold.

'' Come in, come in," he said, stretching out
his hands as he spoke ; " your mother is much
better."

Even then she did not understand. Almost
without casting a glance to right or left, chilled,
numbed, worn out, unsuspicious, she crossed the
threshold.

What has happened ?" she asked.

"I will tell you in a moment," Gorman answered,
closing the door and shutting out the
howling wind and the driving rain.

By the dull red glow of a turf fire Berna could
see he was strangely pale. The rich brown of his
complexion seemed to have faded to a ghastly
white  even his lips were white.

*' You are not keeping anything from me ?"
she asked. '' My mother is not dead ?"

She was filled with the idea that her mother
had been carried to the nearest shelter, and that
she lay close at hand.

No, no," he replied. " I told you she was
better."

Where is she ? In there ?" and Berna
pointed to a door leading to the only other room
the cabin boasted.

"No, not there."

Then for the first time a doubt crossed the
girl's mind. She did not pause to define it.
She only looked around  at the earthen floor, at
the bare white walls, lit but by the firelight, at
the utter absence of all sign of occupation  before
she asked,

Where is she, and why are you here ?"

'' I will explain. Let me first light a candle."

Though a vague dread was stirring at her
heart, she stood patiently while he did so, with
a hand which trembled to such an extent he could
scarcely hold the match.

"Miss Boyle," lie said, "will you forgive
me?"

What have I to forgive ?" she inquired.

The deception that has been practised upon
you."

It seemed to Berna that her very heart ceased
beating, yet she found voice to repeat,

Practised on me ?"

"Yes. Your mother, so far as I known, has
met with no accident, and is perfectly well. You
are now at Groorasport, not Bangor."

Go on," said Berna, as he paused and
hesitated. She was but a girl  only a weak,
slight girl, who had not yet seen nineteen golden
summers ; nevertheless, there was a power about
her, the while she stood expectant, one hand laid
flat on the rough deal table, the other hanging by
her side.

"I am waiting, Mr. Muir," she observed,
for your explanation."

"You shall have it," he exclaimed impetuously,
making a step towards her.

She did not move, she did not raise a finger ;

but there was that in her face which arrested his
intention of clasping her to his heart.

"I cannot go on as I have been doing," he
cried ; and at the sound of the fierce passion in
his voice Berna inwardly quailed. '' I can't live
without you, and I won't; you must marry me.
If this cursed tempest had not upset all my
plans, we should have been on our way to Scotland
ere now, and man and wife by tomorrow
morning."

*'Mr. Muir, you are mad," she answered.

Am I ? Then it is 3'ou have driven me mad.
Till I saw 5ou I was sane as most people."

Just for a moment the firelight wavered and
flickered before the girl's eyes  under her feet
the ground did not seem quite steady; then,
taking her fear boldly by the throat, she said,

I cannot stop here any longer. If you are
sure there is nothing the matter with my mother,
I will go home at once."

You shall never return home except as my
wife."

I will never be your wife !" She had drawn

the sword and thrown away the scabbard, and at
last he knew she stood at bay.

That was all very well once, my darling," he
retorted, " but things have changed a little now."

"shave not changed," she said. " No power
on earth could induce me to be sour wife."

"Ah, you say that, dearest."

She did not answer in words ; she only moved
across the floor steadily, as she might have done
had that rude hut been Boyle Court, and the hard
bare ground under her feet softest pile, shot back
the lock, lifted the latch, and stepped into the
howling night.

With an angry smile Gorman watched this
proceeding; then, just as she crossed the threshold,
he sprang forward, caught the girl in his arms,
and drew her back within the cabin, a wild storm
oi rain pouring after them through the open door,
while a sweeping blast of the mad hurricane
extinguished the candle and sent the feathery
"white turf-dust flying in all directions.

For a moment he could feel her straining like
a dog in a leash ; then he released her, while,

with an effort of strength, he closed the door,
shutting out the wind and the wet and the driving
spray. He turned the clumsy key in the wards,
and drew it from the lock, ere he spoke again to
Berna.

Could she have uttered a prayer at that moment,
it had been that the howling tempest might beat
in the barrier which intervened between herself
and liberty.

Put all ideas of that sort out of your mind,"
Gorman said, with a grim hardness which, for the
first time in all her knowledge of him, reminded
Berna of his father. " You shall not leave this
house except to step into a vessel which is riding
at safe anchorage close by here. "When the storm
lulls we will go to Scotland, where we can be
married at once. There has been fooling enough ;
it is time all that was ended."

She did not speak; she only looked despairingly
around ; for a moment her glance rested on the
fire.

I know what you are thinking of," he scoffed ;
*' but there is nothing here that will burn."

*'No, there is nothing here that will burn, or
I would set the place on fire."

Only to get away from me !" he cried.
'' Berna, Berna ! my love, my life ! how hard you
are to win, yet what a jewel you will be to wear!"

"Do not call me Berna, sir !"

Only tell me how to woo you "  and his face
grew soft and his tone caressing  " and I will be
your slave, your servant."

She took not the slightest notice of what he

said; she only resumed her old position by the

table  thinking, thinking, thinking  her eyes

averted from Gorman, her whole attitude that of

determined defiance.

For a time he stood looking at her  looking
at the fair face, the firm sweet mouth, the wet
disorder of her hair, the deadly pallor of her
cheeks  and all the evil and all the good of his
nature stirred within him.

Berna," he began, in a tone which seemed
like a soft caress.

She lifted her eyes, and they flashed as she
answered.

I have asked you before, Mr. Muir, not to
-call me by my Christian name."

By what name should a man call his wife ?"
he retorted, stung by the scorn in her voice.

I am not your wife."

I look upon you as my wife."

I will never be your wife, never !"

"Why do you say that?"

"Because no man can compel a woman to
marry him. You have the power to kill me ; but
there is no power which could make me marry you."

Ah, you will think differently about that
matter ere long ;" and he laughed as one might
laugh at the perversity of a child.

Why should I think differently of it ?"

Do you really wish me to tell you  really ?"

Certainly I do."

He paused a moment before answering 
paused as if searching about for an unobjectionable
form of explanation  while his eyes uneasily
sought hers.

Well ?" she said, and her glance did not
waver.

TOL. III. G

Berne BOYLE.

There are some things  " he began slowly,
and then stopped.

** There are some things," she repeated, looking
at him curiously.

Twice he opened his mouth to answer her,
and twice the words died away upon his lips ;
then, gathering together all his courage, he said
desperately,

*' There are some things the most innocent of
your sex might be supposed to understand without
telling. It is abhorrent to me to speak with
such brutal plainness. However, if you must
have it, you will marry me as soon as we can get
to Scotland, because  you have been alone with
me here."

There ensued a dead silence. Inside the hut
the ticking of Gorman's watch was distinctly
audible. Without, the storm raged and raved.
The girl remained perfectly still ; her cheeks were
dyed crimson, and her shamed gaze was bent on
the floor. He uttered no syllable. He was waiting
to hear what she would say.

At last, after a pause, which seemed to him

interminable, she asked, in a voice so low it was
almost a whisper,

"You calculated on this?"

Of course I did. Why otherwise should I
have brought you here ?"

"You thought I should be glad to marry
you ?" in a gradual, though not loud, crescendo.


I believed you loved me ; that it was only
your pride and coyness stood between us ; and
that if once I could break down those barriers you
would put your hand in mine and say, ' I will be
yours for life.' "

"I see ;" and there ensued another pause,
during the continuance of which it might have
been thought the gale had determined to strip
the roof off the cabin. But Berna did not hear it.
In her own heart there was a wilder tempest, in
her own soul a more deadly fear, than that ever
caused by the warring of external nature. She
was struggling with an awful terror. She was
striving to keep outwardly calm. She knew if
once her courafje failed she was lost.

Mr. Muir," she began desperately, and her
voice sounded strange even to herself.

*' Call me Gorman, dearest," he tenderly
suggested.

The swords stung her to madness.

*' How dare you," she asked, " insult me in
this way ? By a tissue of falsehoods, by means
of a most scandalous deception, you have brought
me here ; but you cannot keep me here for ever."

Gorman strode to the fire, and replenished it
with a lavish supply of turf from a creel close at
hand. Then he stood for a time utterly still, his
head hent forward against the rude hack mantel



shelf.

After that pause, which seemed to his companion
endless, he drew a long deep breath, and
returned to the table v/ith such a changed set
expression on his face that he looked like a
different person.

He had previously relit the candle, and the
girl could see every feature in the countenance
which had once so stirred her young fancy.

"If," he began, and even his mellow voice
sounded strange in the listener's ears, " if to love
a woman and tell her so is to insult her, you are
right, and I have insulted you. In no other way
is your accusation true. Will you not sit down ?

I want to speak to you in serious earnest;"
and he placed a clair for Berna, wliicli she
rejected.

Pardon me, then," he went on, '' for sitting.
I am very, very tired," and he flung himself on a
stool at a little distance from where she stood.
I daresay I am a rough rude fellow. You have
often thought me so " (Ash, had she ?) ; " but I
would not wrong you. If, after hearing what
I have to say, you still wish to go home, I will
take you back. I promise you faithfully. Don't
cry, my poor darling ;" for Berna, broken down at
last, was weeping unrestrainedly. '' Were you
so much frightened of me as all that comes to ?
Berna, had you such small trust in a man who
would die for you ? What ! must I not come near
you ? So be it. Your will is my law." And
lifting the heavy shawl, which had fallen to the
ground when she covered her face with her hands,
he laid it on the table and resumed his seat, and
waited till the first vehemence of her sobs was
over.

At my age it may seem a strange thing to

say I never loved any one till I saw you. It is
absolutely true, however. You are my first love ;
most likely you will be my last. Had I not
believed, though, that you cared for me, I would
never have persecuted you as I have done. I
could have taken * Xo ' as bravely as any other
man. The blow might have been hard, but I
should have borne it. All through, however, I
have felt that you loved me ; 3'ou love me at this
minute  "

"I do not," she gasped.

"But you care for something else more,"
he proceeded, as though she had not spoken ;
something which forces you, against the will of
your better self, to seem hard and cold. You are
not hard or cold, though, really ; beneath the ice
of pride your heart is throbbing warm and truelove,
if it were not so, I could not love you !
Some happy day the stream of your affection will
break these wintry bonds, and, overflowing its
banks, bless the arid desert of a life you, and
you only, can change into a garden fair as that
of Eden."

** Never!"

"You deceive yourself; it is not in woman's
flesh and blood to go on turning a deaf ear to
such love as mine. And you do care for me.
You cared for me that summer evening when we
met in the twilight, with the soft grass under
your feet, and heaven only above our heads.
Why, I wonder, did a day ever come to destroy
your first impression of me ! But it is not
destroyed  no, not even now. It is not the man
you dislike, it is my position ; were I Gorman
Muir of Clonmellin or Mount Michael, you would
come to me shyly, and  "

"I would not. If you owned all the land
between here and Ardilaw, I should still give you
the same answer."

Perhaps so. I do not suppose you value
money as you do rank. You are a strange girl ;
yet I think I understand you. Just as a man
may love honour more than a woman, so you
love the something which is an integral part of
your nature more than a man you would have
married had you met him in the station and surrounded

by the circumstances to which he was
brought up. That is the difference between us.
Do you suppose I should love you more if I saw
you blazing with diamonds ? In your plain sad
gown you have ever seemed to me the fairest of
women. "  and he rose and paced the room
"if 3'ou could hut love me more than the
world and the things of the world ; if you could
forget I am the son of a farmer, and have to earn
my bread, I should count myself richer and happier
than any duke in the land ! What single
thing is there in this wide world I would not do
for you ?"

There is but one thing you can do, and that
is, open the door and let me go."

"I have said you shall go if 3'ou wish, but
3'ou cannot do so till the storm lulls a little
Few men could face such a night, and certainly
no woman. You are safe here as if I were your
father. Be content ; I will take you home the
first moment I can, if you bid me ; and when I
have said what I want to say, I will go and leave
you in peace."

She pushed the long hair hack from her tearstained
face, and looked at him.

'eyes, you may trust me," he answered.
Sweet, sweet eyes, that are wet because of
my folly ; tender mouth, that is quivering with
sorrow ; trembling lips, over which no kindly or
loving word ever passed for me ! Somehow I
must have been but a poor, poor lover. A man
should never be too much in earnest when a
woman is in question ; never be too humble ;
never let her know how completely she owns his
heart. Had I loved you less, I might have made
you love me a little. You are all alike. 0, forgive
me, dear ; I scarcely know what I am saying.
Your coldness and your pride have vrell-nigh
turned my brain."

You said you would do anything for me,"
cried Berna reproachfully. " Won't you go, Mr.
Muir? won't you leave me as you promised?"

Yes, if it must be so  out into this howling
night ! Much you care what becomes of me ! If
you heard of my death, I believe you would piously
thank Heaven."

She said nothing. She had nothing to say.
"Why do you drive me to desperation ?" he
asked. " Why is it I cannot hate you as I ought ?
Hard, icy heart ! Supposing you have no love to
give me, you might spare a little pity. There
are women who can make even a refusal mournfully
sweet ; but you  you, from the moment
you knew I vas only the son of Hewson Muir,
you looked more graciously on a beggar sitting
by the wayside than on me."

It was true. She could not controvert his
statement, neither could she argue with him, and
say she was right. Remembering her own mother,
how was it competent for her to speak. to him
concerning the shortcomings of his father ?

"Be just, though," he entreated, eagerly
pushing the advantage he thought he had gained.
Grant that my father is not a gentleman, that
my sisters are not ladies, what then ?"

For a moment her eyes sank under his. If
he said her mother was not a gentlewoman either,
what answer could she make ? But he did not
say that. In the fiercest hour of his pain and

passion Gorman Muir could not have tried Berna's
loyal heai-t by speaking concerning the trouble of
her young life.

' I grant it all," he continued. "Do you
suppose I am blind or deaf? Do you imagine it
was nothing to come back, as if from another
world, and find my relations were made but of
common clay ? Did you ever think what it must
have been to me to live at Ardilaw, amongst those
whose ways were not my ways, with whom I had
not a thought in common ? Berna, be just to me.
Before Heaven, I stayed on amongst my own
people solely that I might be near you and win
you, that I might be able to make money, and
take my sweet bird away to some dainty nest
where she could find peace. Not a plan of my
life but had you for its motive. From the time I
first saw you, you have been in my thoughts by
day and haunted my dreams by night. Make
those thoughts realities, darling. End my long
sorrow and waiting. Marry me, and, as I stand
here, I will never give you cause to rue this
black night's work. No, don't shrink from me ;

I won't kiss you till you say I may  till you say
so without word ! Marry me, and, if you like, I
swear I will leave you, once we are man and
wife, till your soul yearns over me, and you write
'Come'"

She was touched, hut not shaken. She had
gone over it all before hundreds of times. In the
watches of the night her heart had pleaded for
her lover, but her sense had decided against him.
No matter how frequent the struggle, the result
was always the same.

''I will not marry you," she said. 'let me
return home."

"You will not marry me now?" he asked
incredulously.

"I will not marry you, now or ever!" she
repeated.

Then, my God, what is to become of us
both?" cried Gorman. " Berna, Berna, you are
talking wildly ; you do not understand ! How
CSLU I make you understand ? My dearest, listen
to me. It is not for myself now so much that I
speak, but for you, my poor dear innocent darling.

For Heaven's sake, listen to me, and don't be
angry if I speak too plainly ! See, I am trying to
talk calmly. Don't look at me so reproachfully.
I must say what I have to say to you. Till this
night I have done you no harm. All the sorrow
and hardship and suffering have been mine ; but
now I tell you fairly, sorrow and hardship and
suffering will be yours if you do not marry me.
I cannot tell what demon possessed me to entice
you here. If we could stand where we were this
morning, I would shoot myself rather than place
you in the position I have done. But as it has
been done, for God's sake, marry me. I know
what the world will say. Your sex always believe
the worst of one another. No one will ever credit
things are only as they are. Marry me, and I
will spend my life in trying to make you amends
for the evil I have wrought. Marry me, darling,
and we will go away and begin a fresh life in a
fresh place  a new beautiful life in some fair
land beyond the sea."

He was almost incoherent in his anguish and
his entreaties. He flung himself at her feet

on the earthen floor; lie seized her hand, and
pressed his burning lips upon it ; he prayed herby
every memory in the past, by every hope of
the future ; he adjured her by everything a
woman could hold dear ; he lavished upon her
every term of endearment his passionate nature
could utter ; and she only stood looking down at
him with terrified eyes, which held no light of
love in them.

Somehow, as he said himself, he had been a
poor, poor lover. The player who stakes his all
on a single throw more often than not rises a
loser. A cool head and a cold hand make a sure
hand. The game was not for Gorman Muir. He
knew this while he was conjuring her, by all
things in heaven and on earth, to give him the
right to stand between her and the world  knew
it before she said, in those soft tones which
stabbed him like a knife,

*' It is of no use. Even if all turn out as you
say, I cannot marry you."

"But think," he persisted. '' How could you
bear to know jour name was in every one's mouth?

We might be able to keep the matter quiet for a
time, but it must leak out eventually."

I have committed no sin," she answered.

'rand I have, I suppose; yet it will be your
fair fame that will be sullied  "

"Nothing but my own act can ever really
do that," she retorted. " What the world chooses
to say I must bear; but if I were so false to
myself as to marry you, I should have to endure
the pangs of self-reproach as well as of misery."

"I am, then, such a vile wretch that you
think it impossible for me to win a woman's
love ?" he asked, with scornful self-depreciation.

' You could never win mine now," she answered,
in a tone of the deepest sadness 
"never I"

And you will not let me have even the satisfaction
of devoting my life to wiping out the error
of this night ?"

Xo. I should prefer the worst people could
say of me to marrying you."

He looked at her in surprise. At last he felt
she was in earnest.

*well, then, there is nothing more to be
done," he said, folding his arms across his chest,
and looking the very incarnation of angry despair.

** Nothing, except to leave me free to go
home."

You cannot go home while this tempest is
raging ; hut the moment it abates I will take you
back. I promise you that on my honour. Do
not smile so contemptuously. If I have erred, I
shall repent my error through every day of my
future life; and, besides, it was for you. How
could any man think so beautiful a casket held
only a heart of stone ! I will leave you now, if
you promise me not to attempt to leave this
wretched shelter till I come for you."

She hesitated, and made no reply.

"Then I must remain here," he said. "I
cannot have your death at my door. I entreat of
you to promise me. If you will not be my wife,
every moment I stay here may make matters
worse for you hereafter."

"I promise, then," she answered reluctantly.

"I am going, heart of stone," he said, in

VOL. III. H

accents of the most mournful reproach. ''I do
not wish that some day you may know from
experience the anguish you have caused me.
What a cursed fate," he added passionately, *that
out of all the women on earth I should have
given my love to you ! But it is over. I will
trample your memory under foot ; I will strive to
forget your lovely face. There are women who
lead men to destruction, and there are women
who drive them to destruction. You are .one of
the latter; but I won't be destroyed by you  I
swear it ! You have spoiled my life so far ; but
you shall spoil it no longer. Before Heaven, as
I stand looking at you now, I do not know
whether to curse or to bless you."

She remained for a short while mute, regarding
him with an expression which had something
curious in its infinite sorrow. At length she
asked,

May I say something to you ?"

"Say what you choose," he answered; *' it
will be nothing pleasant, I am sure."

"No, it is nothing pleasant' she agreed.

'' Still, say on. I should rather hear you speak
in anger than not hear you speak at all."

*' You have repeated over and over again tonight
that I loved you. Judge how true-what I
am going to tell you is, when I am not ashamed
to say you were right. I loved you once. I do
not mean I should ever have married you ;
but"

He stretched out his arms towards her, with
a passionate gesture, as he cried in rapture,

"You will love me again  "

Never ! Once love is killed, it can never
grow again. The day mine died I knew it was
my own ideal I had cared for ; not you. 0, no 
no  no ! not sou. !"

Why do you taunt me in this way? After
raising me high as Heaven, why do 3'ou cast me
down into Hell ?"

I am not taunting you. It is the last thing
I should think of doing. You have been very
cruel to me. A lonely girl, without a human
being to rest upon, you persecuted me, as you
yourself said just now. You could have left mc.

I could not go away and leave you. You made
my life bitter. You have to-day done me a wrong,
the consequence of which you admit I can only
faintly foreshadow ; but I could forgive you all
these things  "

If there were not some one thing you cannot
forgive. What is it?" he scoffed.

*' I will tell you. I called one day, by appointment,
to see a lady who lives on the Ormeau
Eoad. She was out, but had left a message, and
the servant, showing me up-stairs, asked me to
wait for her. Almost opposite was a little roadside
public-house, at which a car drew up. You
and a girl, and I suppose her brother, got off, and
went into the public-house."

*' I should like to hear the end of your story"'
said Gorman defiantly, as she paused. " That is
not the finish, I conclude."

No ; that is not the finish. After a time
you all came out again ; the girl  0, she was so
young and so pretty !  flushed and excited. She
had lovely light-brown hair  I do not think she
could have been more than sixteen ; and after you

were seated, she put her arm round jour neck,
and laid her head on your shoulder. Her bonnet
was tumbling off, and her brother knocked it on
with a loud laugh ; and you  you laughed, and
the driver laughed too ; and then the car drove
off ; and I  I  I then knew you were not what
you had seemed to me  what I had fancied
you were."

A dull red wave of crimson blood surged up
into Gorman's face, and stayed there. He could
not speak ; he could not even look at Berna.

I cried that night such tears as had never
fallen from my eyes since the morning m} father
died," went on the girl. " I thought I never
could forget the shame of having been told by a
man like yourself that he loved me  me!  and I
was so sorry for that poor young thing ; her face
and her loose brown hair still haunt me in my
dreams."

"Stop," said Gorman hoarsely; "she is not
one fit for you to speak of." And, without adding
another word, he opened the door, and, passing
out, stood bareheaded in the darkness, with the

rain beating, and the spray whirling, and the

'o'

wind shrieking  a man whose own acts condemned
him.

Passing round the cabin, he entered a rude
shed, in one corner of which a horse was tied up ;
in another corner two men lay stretched on some
straw, both of whom stirred as Gorman came in
and securely fastened the hitch. A kntern hanging
upon a nail shed a weird light over the scene.
Without speaking a word, Gorman turned a creel
bottom upwards and sat down upon it, his face
set, his head bent, his hands loosely clasped
between his knees. At last one of the men got
up, and approached him.

"How does she take it, sort ?" he asked.

What business is that of yours ?"

Faith ! I'm thinking it'll maybe turn out the
business of all of us."

Hold your tongue I" commanded Gorman.

With a growl Sniff might have envied, Doey
returned to his lair, while he watched his master
through cunning half-closed eyes.

I hope he mayn't have murdered the girl,"

he thought; "there's a power of evil in thon
face."

The long, long night wore on, and still German
never moved, save now and again to open
the door and look at the sky, still black as ink,
across which the storm-fiends were riding amid
a deluge of rain. Over the rocks close at hand
the sea was spending its fury ; the mad roar and
din of the billows sounded awful in so lonely a
place, amid the terrible desolation and murky
darkness. For ever that night stood out in
Gorman's memory  a night without a star of
hope or ray of promise ! Towards morning the
wind dropped a little. Day dawned with sullen
reluctance, as though loth to commence its work.
The tide had ebbed so far it was almost at its
turn, and the sea-horses, with their wild white
manes, were rushing out into mid-channel. The
rain was still pouring down in torrents, yet even
that seemed to be slackening. The expanse of
tossing billows and sad seashore was depressing to
a degree ; there was no sun to cheer and lighten
the green slopes of Down. Not a living creature

 man, child, dog, or bird  was to be seen,
save Gorman himself. It might have been the
last day of the world, and Gorman the last human
being in it, as he stood looking seaward over the
gray lough, where the waves were madly chasing
each other, thinking of his wrecked life, of the
wild'sin he had attempted, but which he was not
sinner enough to carry through to its bitter end.
Behind him lay first a stretch of soft green turf
soaked and soddened with wet, and then some
rising ground covered with emerald grass, which,
when once wild flowers begin to spring, is dotted
with stars and bells in unimaginable variety.
There thyme yields its perfumes to each wandering
breeze ; there the heather and the gorse, and
lovely weeds, and tiny strawberries, and trailing
blackberry runners grow all together in exquisite
disorder and tangled beauty.

The picturesque cabin no longer faces the
sea ; it alone has vanished ; all else remains the
same. In fine weather the old castle at Carrick-fergus
can be seen from the spot where Gorman
stood ; where the lough widens and merges in

the Channel the bold line of the Goblins is
clearly edible ; to the left lies the little harbour,
where on that morning, now so far away, there
rode at safe anchorage the yawl in which Gorman
had insanely purposed to carry an unwilling girl
to Scotland in order to make her his willing wife.
There are still the rocks that have, since that
awful night, been out amid the howling of the
tempest and the din of the waves. It all looks
fair and peaceful on a fine day in summer. There
is a great charm of rest about the sunny slope,
a sense of pleasant loneliness delightful to one
who has lived pent up in cities; but on that
gloomy winter's morning  smarting under the
consciousness of loss, aching with remorseful
memories of wrong  it seemed to Gorman Muir
a spot accursed, a place whence content and
happiness had fled, never to return.

Slowly he retraced his steps to the shed,
where Doey was making a reluctant toilet by
slipping his arms into a heavy pilot-coat.

"Put the horse in," commanded Gorman.

*ein where ?" asked Peter, astonished.

Are you a fool 7 In the car, to be sure."

With a gesture of intense disgust, Mr. Doey
flung off his over and under coats, and proceeded
to obey instructions with the muttered commentary
that " he hoped he oughtn't be the only
fool going that morning."

Whilst he was hooking on the traces, his
master came and stood beside him, regarding the
rickety conveyance with a strange abstracted gaze.

Where am I to take her this time ?" asked
Doey, referring to the car, not to Berna.

Nowhere," was the reply.

Faith, then, and it is a queer notion, harnessing
the beast to stand out in this wet draughty
hole ! He might as well be in a bog."

He's not going to stand ; but I mean to
drive him myself."

Mr. Doey, who was backing the horse, suspended
this operation. 'master," he said, in a
low whisper, though there was not a soul to hear,
YOU haven't murdered her, have you ?"

Gorman laughed mercilessly. " No," he said,
only perhaps because I did not feel tempted."

"Then what call have you for the car, sort?
what are you going to do with the lady?"

"What is that to you ?"

"It may be a heap to me. I've run a serious
risk over this business to please you, and it's
my right to know now what is in your mind at
this minute. If the weather moderates  and
I'm not afraid but that it "will  the wind is
not so contrary but with a bit of tacking we
might make Kirkpatrick easy before dark."

I don't want to make Kirkpatrick. I intend
to drive Miss Boyle back to the place she was
brought from."

"My heavens! Are you mad?" exclaimed
Doey. " No, Mr. Gorman, it's no use looking
that way at me. I'm as gt)od a man as yourself,
though I haven't as much money to play
at chuck with. Liberty's as sweet to me as putting
a rope round your neck may be to you. I
don't know what the sentence is for such a game
as we started to play, but it's not long since it
was a hanging job ; and. if you had not told me
faithful she should never see Ireland more unless

she saw it as jour wife, I would have had nothing
to do with the matter."

For answer, Gorman only seized the horse's
head, and began leading him round to the front
door of the cabin.

Stop a minute, master ; if you've done
nothing more, you've swore her, haven't you ?
Maybe you haven't a Testament handy ; but
there's a bap in my pocket : swear her on that,
it's better nor nothing."

You'd better stand clear," advised Gorman,
in a tone which meant *' Danger."

At least, let me take the reins, sort."

Gorman's eyes flashed. " You old scoundrel
!" he cried. *' Do you think I would trust
her with you if thee was a convenient quarry
anywhere about ?"

I brought her to you safe enough from
Ardilaw Hill," retorted Mr. Doey. '' Well, well,
have your own way of it, and see where it will
land you. I wouldn't be standing in your shoes
this minute for something. Mind, you must keep
me clear ; if there is law and justice in the land,

you must keep me clear, and I'll expect to be
well paid for the distress of my mind, over and
above what I was to get anyway''

Gorman entered the hut, the bare misery of
which the sad morning light brought into full
relief. Berna was standing ready ; she looked as
if she had never sat down all night. The turf
fire was now a mere heap of white feathery
powder; the bare walls showed long stains of
wet ; through the blackened rafters the thatch
was plainly visible. Gorman glanced remorsefully
around. Here was a palace to which he
had brought his queen, who answered his
greeting with heavy e'es and pale cheeks,
but spoke no impatient word, no sentence of
reproach.

"How is it to be ?" asked Gorman ; "am I
to take you back ?"

She merely inclined her head in reply.

You have thought it all over?"

"Yes."

"You have been hard upon me in your
judgment."

She turned her head aside with a weary
gesture, as she said,

''I will go now, Mr. Muir ; I have only
waited since dawn because I promised you that
I would."

Berna ! my darling ! can I never set
the wrong I have done you right ?"

She stopped on her way to the door. "Never
mind about that," she murmured ; " only  "

"Is it sin no more, you mean ?" he asked
bitterly.

She did not speak, but she looked at him.
Through future years full of toil, trouble, and
temptation, he carried the memory of that look
like a talisman.

If the drive to Groomsport by night had
seemed long, the return journey by day appeared
endless. The horse was well-nigh spent before
they got half-way to Craigantlet. Three times
Gorman was forced to descend and lead it up the
hill, encouraging the creature with cheery words
as well as his sad heart would let him. Once
the summit was gained they got on better. Down

towards the valley, past Finney's Farm and Artis
where the chimneys were smoking, and the
indefatigable Bell already up, the car howled
rapidly ; along the mudd' lane they splashed
and floundered. '' If only now," thought German,
'' we can reach Clear Stream without meeting
any one, all may yet he well."

They did not meet a creature. They stopped
at the gate. Gorman almost lifted the girl out,
and they hurried together through the tiny shrubbery,
and across the bridge and into the house,
the door of which stood wide open.

Pith met them in the hall; at the first
sight of their worn faces she guessed almost
how matters had fallen out.

"Don't speak a word, Miss Berna," she
whispered; *the mistress came home last night
not half an hour after you had gone. They've
got a boy down with the smallpox at Mrs. Gray's,
and all the arts of man wouldn't have kept your
mother in the house once she knew it. She's
been going on about you all night like a madwoman
; but I have coaxed her to lie down, and

made her a cup of tea, and she's asleep now.
For any sake, Mr. Muir, don't be stopping here.
I wouldn't for untold money she woke and saw
you. She's neither to hold nor to bind."

"I am going," said Gorman. "Good-bye,
Miss Boyle ;" and he was turning away without
another word, when she stretched out her hand
to him. " God bless you !" he added, pressing
it in both of his ; and then Berna and her nurse
were alone, looking at each other in silence.

Mrs. Boyle was, indeed, neither to '' hold nor
to bind." Ruth had in nowise exaggerated
that lady's mental condition. Her previous
states of ceaseless restlessness and maundering
imbecility might have been described as calmly
wise when contrasted with the temper which
had entered into possession of a chamber never
thoroughly swept and garnished. What with
dread of "losing her beauty," rage because
Berna had " gone off with a vagabond, whose
like for wickedness could not be found in the
county," and fury because the young man had
been so far " left to himself as to take up with
a bit of a child "  the widow's ravings were
maddening to hear.

"I hope you're satisfied now," she said to her
daughter. "You'll be the talk of the town; nota
child playing itself in the gutter but will point

VOL. III. I

a dirty finger after 3'ou. dear ! was it for this
I took the trouble of bringing you up respectable,
never letting you hear a word but what was of the
best, and setting you an example the Queen's own
children, maybe, don't see before them "? If there's
law, though, in Ireland, I'll be even with that
rogue ; he's taken this way to be revenged on me
because I'd have nothing to say to him. Here,
get out of my way; don't be standing there
ma-making me, I'm sick of such falseness 
looking as you could hardly bear the sight of a
man coming to speak a pleasant word to me,
and then taking the first opportunity of starting
off with him, in the dead of the night, too ! Fine
carrying-on, I'll be bound, there have been herewith
you and that old hypocrite Ruth ; and me
so unsuspecting, I never gave a thought to any
wrong-doing. Ah, it's true enough, still water
flows deep ! There is no conception of the
depth of you. I always did say nobody living
would ever be up to the cunning of Ulick Boyle,
but you are craftier still."

Will you let her alone, mem ?" interposed

that " old hypocrite " Ruth. " Trouble enough
has come upon her, though none of her own
making; and it would be more fitting if you
were trying to comfort her at this minute instead
of talking in the wild way you are doing."

Things have come to a pretty pass, I am
sure," exclaimed Mrs. Boyle, 'when a lady
born comes to be lectured by her own servant !
I'll be glad if you'll suit yourself as soon as you
can. I only hope you may get another mistress
the masterpiece of goodness I have been to you."

''I am beholden to you, mem, for many and
many's the kindness," answered Ruth, '' and I
have never said a word to the contrary; but I
won't stand by and hear the child I nursed accused
of doing things it never would have entered
into her head to think about. As for leaving you
till Miss Berna goes to Newr}, that I won't do.
After she is gone, you may get rid of me as soon
as you like."

"If anybody had taken their Bible oath,"
declared Mrs. Boyle, 'the day would come when
you'd be willing to leave me, I'd have said they

had no more sense than a calf, and we all know
what a foolish, shambling sort of a creature a calf
is ; but it's well to be seen I am poor now and
thought a nobody of among yoa. Wait a bit,
though. Everything has a turn  even the salt
sea ; and maybe you'll be repenting yourself in
sackcloth and ashes  sitting among the cinders
like Job  when you see me rich and considered,
and merry as it's my nature to be, and as I would
be if it wasn't for the misery of my life. There
never was a truer word said than that misfortunes
never come single. I've had enough to break a
bank. And as if all my past troubles were not
enough, there's this scandal Berna has got herself
into, that'll make us the sport of the county."

"If you would only keep it to yourself, mistress,
the county need not be one bit the wiser."

"And let the Muirss have the say all their own
way? No, thank you, Faith; that may be your
notion, but it's not mine. There is not a living
soul but will be told how we've been served  a
lone widow and a helpless child. AYhat's that
you're saying, Berna? You wish I would not

mention that subject ? Trust me ! You ought
to have considered how jour sin would find you
out before you got into such a scrape. Just lay
my bonnet and shawl ready, Ruth. Though I'm
hoarse with the cold, I'll lose not even one day
before going to see Mr. McCurdy as to how we
can pay them out. 0, and indeed, it's he's the
clever lawyer ! A red-hot Orangeman ; and yet
they say there's nothing he delights in more
than getting off a Roman. I don't think it's
Christian myself to be willing, even for money,
to do a good turn to the Pope's followers  still,
Jew or Christian, there's not one like him in the
North for knowledge and impudence. What are
you wringing your hands for, girl ? If you're so
fond of Mr. Gorman Muir as all that comes to, you
had better go after him again, and stop with him,
though it does not seem as if he wanted you."

For once, Berna did speak strongly, but she
might as well have spoken to the wind. Mrs.
Boyle remained resolute.

If you have no respect for yourself, I have
respect for you," declared the widow. 'i'm nota

child to be taught, and I'll not be instructed by
you. I'd just wish you to tell me what I'd say to
your father hereafter when he comes up and asks
me, ' How did it happen, Millicent' (he never was
free and familiar like the way some men are), you
let them as brought disgrace on my daughter off
scot-free ?' No; I'll do my duty by you, though
you haven't done your duty by yourself. Where's
there another mother, I wonder, would sacrifice
herself to you as I am doing ? I'll miss the train
if I'm not smart. It's seven years that villain
will get, if he gets a day."

"Never heed her, dear," said Ruth, as Mrs.
Boyle left the room to array herself for the conquest
of Mr. McCurdy and the destruction of
Gorman Muir. " There's not an attorney but
will tell the mistress the best thing she can dois
to go home and keep a quiet tongue in her
head. What matter if she does go the round of
the lawyers ? They're all sworn to secrecy, like
the priests ; and maybe she'll be content when
she understands there is nothing to be done,
and nobody to do it."

If ever a man were driven well-nigh to distraction
with the drivelling folly of a would-be
client, Mr. McCurdy was that man.

During the whole of his legal experience he
had never felt so thoroughly mystified. Advice he
gave one moment he was forced to retract the
next. No kaleidoscope could have shaken up
the multiplicity of patterns the widow presented
before him. He had a clear head, but it reeled
with the mass of unconnected narrative to which
he was forced to listen.

"Good heavens !" he cried at last, " I thought
from what you said, to begin with, the girl was a
mere child, and now I gather she is getting on for
twenty years of age. Your best and wisest plan
is to do nothing. It is one of those cases in
which 'Least said the soonest mended.' If they
like to marry, give them your blessing. I am
sure I hope they will be happy. ' All's well that
ends well,' you know. Now, you must really excuse
me, I have clients to attend to. No; I'm
sorry to appear rude to a lady, but I have already
given you more than an hour of my time. Ross,

show Mrs. Boyle out. Good-morning, ma'am ; I
am truly glad matters are no worse. They might
have been, you know."

It was late before Mrs. Boyle returned home,
dispirited, cold, faint, wet, miserable. She had
during the course of the day received many hard
knocks, the worst of all coming from "'Tilda
Sheill," who said, " There is not a thug wrong
with Hughes Gray but chicken-pox, only Mrs.
Gray didn't know how else to get lid of you
civilly. She was in town to-day, and told me
so herself," added this candid friend, who had
begun to doubt the expediency of going shares
with Mrs. Boyle even in a boarding-house for
gentlemen.

*rand if I was you'' went on Miss Sheill,
and had a daughter misbehaved herself, I would
not go singing the story through the streets like
a ballad. You'll only make a laughing-stock of
yourself. People will be screaming to hear you
thought the young man was after you till you
found Berna had managed to catch him. You
took us all in finely, but not near so well as you

took in yourself. You never had much sense,
Milly; but I scarce thought you would be so
simple as to suppose a young man would make
love to an old woman while a young one was
near."

This was the cruellest cut of all. Mrs. Boyle
held her to her guns, but Miss Sheill captured
them one by one. She knew the widow's age
to an hour, and she had no mercy. When Mrs.
Boyle left this companion of her youth she felt
that the world was very cruel, and she strangely
lonely in it.

"Lay my things past, Berna," she said; "if
I never want them again, they'll come in for you.
I think I'll go to my bed, Ruth; as everybody
remarked to-day, I'd no business to be out with
such a cold on me. A drop of hot whey might
take this weight off my chest. What's that you're
saying, Berna dear? Wouldn't I like a basin
of arrowroot ? I would, well, if I could only
swallow it ; but I couldn't. My heart is in my
mouth, and there is a lump in my throat as big
as an egg. Yes ; you may help me to bed if

you wish. I've been working for you all day,
and this is the end of it."

I am afraid mamma must be very ill, Ruth,"
remarked Berna, later on in the same evening.
''I don't know when she kissed me of her own
free will before."

She has got a bad cold on her, miss; she'll
be herself again in the morning," answered Ruth,
with unconscious irony.

At Clear Stream Cottage the dinner-table was
laid after the peculiar fashion that found favour
in Mrs. Boyle's eyes. She liked to take her meals
as though life were either an eternal picnic or
the commencement of a hurried journey, which
necessitated food being swallowed standing and
with loins girt.

There was nothing the widow loved better
than a raid into the pantry, where '' she could eat
a mouthful of whatever was going." Next to this
delightful proceeding she inclined to upsetting
all usual arrangements.

For example, were tea the repast in progress,
she immediately thought she should like a slice
or two of ham, '' as much as would lie on the
blade of a knife ;" and when Ruth added eggs she
was wont to say, ' The extravagant creature, it's
well to be seen she hasn't to pay for all this,"

Berne BOYLE.

and then, under protest, eat what yas set before
her, " or else the good victuals will just be
thrown out."

Ten days had passed since she was '' laid by"
with that cold contracted in looking after the
interests of her '' thankless daughter."

During that period she ordered her household
by having her bedroom-door set wide, and screaming
directions to Ruth along the passage ; and
when she got better she at once proceeded to find
fault with everything which had been done during
her illness.

"You're a fine useless pair," she declared, with
scorching irony. "If it wasn't for me the house
would soon go to wrack and ruin. You'd best
make up a stew of that mutton-bone, Ruth, with
plenty of potatoes ; and 0, but those potatoes are
the take in, I'd every bit as soon eat soap ; that'll
be enough for two ; as for me, I only want a cup
of tea and a bite of bread. If things go on as
they are doing, I suppose I won't be able long to
have even that. What's that you are saying,
Berna  you'd like a cup of tea, too ? Well, you

are not going to have tea, miss ; you'll eat and
keep up your strength, and give people no cause
to say you are breaking your heart because that
good-for-nothing Gorman Muir won't have any
say to you. I dare be sworn he thinks he is
going to get off scot-free, but he will find out his
mistake. He forgot he had me to deal with !
Ruth, get the dinner as soon as ever you can.
Yes, I wouldn't say but you are right, a poached
egg might help to keep up my strength ; I feel
sinking for want of support."

This, then, was the composite meal spread
in the only sitting-room Clear Stream Cottage
boasted. The fare could not be considered other
than plain, but Berna cared little for that. Had
there only been quietness therewith, she would
have welcomed a much drier morsel than that
savoury stew Ruth had concocted from the mute


Mrs. Boyle was in the act of pouring out a
cup of tea, while Berna helped herself to a portion
of the dish in which potatoes played a principal
part, when a loud double knock caused the widow

almost to drop the pot. " Mercy on us !" she
exclaimed, " who can that be ?"

*' It's Mr. and Mrs. Vince," said Ruth, in a
whisper, opening the sitting-room door. " They
can wait a minute while I whip the dishes out."

You'll do no such thing !" exclaimed Mrs.
Boyle. " Let them see for themselves the way
we have to live. Maybe it'll shame Eichard.
Don't stand there like a stock or a stone, but
let them in;" which Ruth did.

"Well, Eichard," said Mrs. Boyle, as that
gentleman entered the hall ; "so you've come at
last to take a look at us ! Better late nor never,
you know. Come in ; come in, both of you.
We were having a morsel of dinner; beggar's
dish, that your servants would turn up their noses
at, is good enough for poor people like us."

I am extremely fond of Irish stew," said
Mrs. Yince good-naturedly.

You're welcome to the whole of it, then.
It makes me laugh to think of your eating such
food. I can't help thinking of that man's ewe
lamb in the Bible."

Stew is not exactly your ewe lamb, Mrs.
Boyle, is it?" asked Mrs. Vince. "We have
come to talk about this ewe lamb, tbougb," bedded
kindly, laying ber band on Berna's shoulder.
''My poor child, what is all this story
about Mr. Muir ?"

'rab, what, indeed! Sbe may well be afraid
to look you in the face. As if I hadn't trouble
enough before, sbe must bring this disgrace upon
me. She'll tell you nothing. Sbe's as secret as
the grave; but I am not going to bold my
tongue, sbe may be very sure of that."

It seems to me a great pity, Mrs. Boyle,"
said Picard Charles, " that you bave not, as you
express the matter, ' belt your tongue.' A great
scandal might, with the exercise of a little prudence,
bave been averted."

''I suppose you'll tell me next it was my
fault Gorman Muir cajoled ber into going off with
bim."

I am sorry to bear such a version of the
affair. I understood the grossest deception was
practised upon your daughter."

"So it was, the worst of deception. I'll tell
you in a minute what the double-faced wretch
did," declared Mrs. Boyle, proceeding immediately,
and at great length, to explain Gorman's
wickedness, Berna's slyness, and her own manifold
perfections. Once or twice Mr. Yince shook
his head in impatient deprecation of the widow's
volubility. No one could edge in a word whilst
the stream of her eloquence flowed glibly on.
Even Mrs. Yince was unable to stem the torrent,
and sat listening in dumb amaze to the utter
folly of the widow's talk.

As for Eichard Charles, he held his hat in his
left hand, occasionally smoothing the nap with
his right, in order to soothe a perturbation of
mind incapable of removal. That day the world
seemed very black to Mr. Yince  the glories of
Craigvallen, the satisfactory state of his banking
account, the high respect with which many  very
many  persons regarded him, the presence of
Marcella, daughter of etcetera, failed to restore
his equanimity.

Mrs. Boyle sat in the only armchair the

apartment contained ; Berna had taken possession
of a stool close beside the hearth, her head resting
against the black marble mantelpiece, her
eyes cast down, her cheeks white, her hands
listlessly crossed in her lap, appealing to no oneby
word or glance, yet hearing perforce her
mother's diatribe and also the words of wisdom
which, like pearls in the old fairy tale, dropped
with slow and measured fall from Mr. Since's
lips.

It was with no goodwill of his own Eichard
Charles had driven out to Clear Stream, but he
could not wash his hands of Mrs. Boyle and
Berna unless he quarrelled with his wife. The
seed sown by his cousin had grown apace. While
she was still complaining about her head "being
stuffed up " and her windpipe closed, to say
nothing of a lump in her throat "like an apple,"
and a " rawness across her chest " that made her
fit to scream every time she drew a breath," the
evil crop was springing and ripening. All sorts
and conditions of men and women had heard
something of the tale  a paragraph had crept

VOL. III. K

into the local papers, which, before Mr. Yince's
*' attention was called to it," blossomed out into
quite a sensational narrative.

Then, indeed, there ensued a bitter time for
Eichard Charles. Some enemy discoursed, at the
length of about a column, on Miss Boyle's position
and antecedents. Boyle Court figured in the
story, as well as all the Boyless who had ever
owned that property ; while, on the other side of
the house, Berna was described as closely connected
with our distinguished townsman, Eichard
C. Yince, Esq., of Craigvallen ; Ulick Boyle's
unfortunate marriage, which was stated to have
been 'romantic," the writer referred to with a
covert insolence that stung Eichard Charles to
the quick ; not to mention that Mr. Samuel
Yince (a once well-known character) was dug upto
do duty as grandfather in the exciting tale.

Mr. Yince almost ground his teeth with rage.
This was the last sort of publicity that virtuous-man's
soul craved. Thus to be gibbeted with
old Sam Yince ! thus to be dragged down to the
level of the Muirss ! to have people stopping him

in the streets in order to commiserate Miss Boyle
and ask for further particulars ! to know those who
did not love him had got hold of a story they
would never let die  a story which might crop up
at any after time, and injure his own girls' prospects
when they arrived at a marriageable age 
the thing was awful ! Why  why had he ever
listened to the voice of Marcella his wife? why
had he ever taken Clear Stream Cottage for
Mrs, Boyle ? Why had he not insisted either
on cutting her altogether, or sending her off to
Dublin or Liverpool ? Why 

'pilchard," said Mrs. Yiuce, when his
musings had reached this agonised point, '' we
must go to Clear Stream and see this poor girl.
If ever in her life she needed a friend, she needs
one now."

Then Richard Charles swore as great an oath
as such a man ever could swear, that he would not
go one step to Dundonald, and that neither should
his "wife. If Miss Boyle had so far lost all sense
of decency as to run off with a man, why, she must
take the consequences.

That she shall not, alone," said Mrs. Yince.

"Marcella," replied her husband, '' sou forget
yourself strangely."

Marcella swept across the library, where this
conversation took place. She was a portly woman,
as has been already mentioned  a woman with a
presence. ''Mr. Yince," she said, laying one
white hand on the table.

She did not speak another word  she only
looked at him, but that was enough. He knew
the hour had come when he must either fight or
submit. He chose the wiser course, and  submitted.


You shall not go without me," he said, after
an eloquent silence. ' My judgment is opposed
to mixing ourselves up in the matter ; still, I am
willing to do what I can to hush up so great a
scandal."

Mr. Yince at once decided in his mind the
best thing to do was to marry Berna to Gorman,,
and ship husband, wife, and mother off to some
distant colony.

I shall not hesitate to write a cheque for a.

handsome amount to compass such an end," he
declared.

"lam afraid a cheque will not be of much
use," said Mrs. Yince.

"A cheque must always be of use," replied
Mr. Yince, with conviction ; and his wife, who
like the galled jade had felt the smart of poverty,
did not contradict his statement.

Then the carriage was ordered round and they
drove together to Clear Stream.

"It is necessary for you now," he judicially
summed up at last, addressing his youthful kinswoman,
" to adopt one of two courses. We
cannot undo the past; so we ought to try to
make the best of the present. I do not wish to
say anything harsh, but it is impossible for us to
blind ourselves to the fact that this scandal will
most seriously affect your reputation; and you
cannot repair it except by marriage or a criminal
prosecution."

Berna did not move or speak  she scarcely
seemed to breathe.

Which shall it be ?" asked Richard Charles,

vainly trying to import an accent of persuasion
into his tone.

Still Berna made no reply.

Marriage seems to me the true solution of
the difficulty. I certainly consider 'Mr. Muir
ought to marry you, and that you ought to marry
Mr. Muir."

Berna's lips moved, but no word escaped
them.

Why don't you answer your cousin ?" cried
Mrs. Boyle querulously. " He's your own first
cousin once removed, and you can't get over that;
though you may consider your relations on the
mother's side scarcely good enough to look at."

Apparently, Berna did not consider her relations
on the mother's side at all good enough to
look at, for, without casting her eyes towards Mr.
Vince, she said,

"I shall not marry Mr. Gorman Muir, and
I shall not prosecute him."

"But you must do one or the other," explained
Mr. Vince.

** Why must I? As I told you before, I have

no complaint to make against Mr. Muir, and if
I had I should not make it."

Did ever anybody hear to the like ?" demanded
Mrs. Boyle, grasping the elbows of her
chair with both hands, and raising herself into
a sitting attitude. *' Here's a girl enticed away
in the dead of a winter's night, with nothing on
her but a plaid shawl and an old crape bonnet  "

The dress Miss Boyle had on, or whether
she had on none, cannot affect the question,"
interposed Mr. Yince.

Well, well, that may be your notion of it.
Mine's different; and, if it came to the bit, I
don't suppose you'd like to be taken away out of
your warm bed without a rag of clothes on you."

Mr. Vince looked at his wife, and (figuratively)
gnashed his teeth. He was a man who,
all his life long, had sedulously devoted himself
not merely to making money, but to correcting
those errors left untouched by the refined training
of the Ballynure Lancastrian school. He
had been at the utmost pains to improve his
grammar, colloquially. He spoke with a certain

amount of precision. He fancied he had got rid,
at one fell swoop, heth of the Irish accent and
of all Irish idiom. Helped by Marcella his wife,
he felt he should not much care into what great
rank wealth and Heaven decided he should go.
One day he might wake to find plain Eichard
Charles Sir Richard ; or he could hold his own
amongst lords  yes, her Most Gracious Majesty
(if so advised) could scarcely refuse to make him
Lord Craigvallen, or, if she thought best, Baron
Craigvallen of Craigvallen. As befitted a truly
loyal Orangeman, he decided that the will of his
Most Gracious Sovereign Lady should be his law.
Such were the dreams, sweet and pure, of Eichard
Charles ; the terrible reality of his life was awaking
to the fact of being first cousin to a woman
whose accent was horrible, and who talked quite
freely of " coming to the bit," and assumed an
indecent tone of familiarity when addressing
himself.

Mrs. Boyle," he was good enough to explain
to Marcella his wife  and it must have
seemed pleasant to the lady to find so great a

mind 'could, on occasion, descend to trifles 
** says *you ' instead of ' that,' and ' nor ' instead
of 'than;' what can one do with such a person
?"

'' It would not signify to me," retorted his
wife, " what she said or left unsaid if she were
not such a fool."

"I do wish, Mrs. Boyle," remarked Eichard
Charles, finding his wife indisposed to come to
his assistance, " we could discuss this most
unfortunate business in a connected and reasonable
manner."

That's good, too, and me the only one
among you takes the right way of looking at the
disgrace we are all under ! There's Berna, sitting
as calm and unconcerned as you please, and saying
she has no cause of complaint against the
deceiving wretch carried her off to the uttermost
parts of the earth  she couldn't have gone much
further in the time if she'd had wings like a
dove  to bring sorrow and ruin upon her."

Berna compressed her lips, but spoke never
a word.

"Without going quite so far as that, Mrs.
Boyle," replied Mr. Yince, "I may say it is a
most serious matter, as your daughter will probably
find to her cost ere long."

She has done that already," interposed the
irrepressible widow. " It only happened ten
days ago ; and yesterday morning she had a
letter from Mrs. Admiral Crane, saying she
couldn't think of having a girl that had got into
such trouble living under the same roof with
herself. Ever since, I've been at her. I was
hoarse enough before, but I'm worse now. If
I'd been well I'd have gone up to Mr. Garnsey, '
and asked him to send a constable to take that
chief of the world off to prison. I know right
well what the end of it will be. She'll let him
get clear out of the country, and then turn round
and blame us all for not having justice done to
her."

With a sort of dumb appeal, Berna raised her
eyes to Mr. Vince.

"My own opinion, Mrs. Boyle," he said,
answering the girl's look, "is, that the true

solution of the difficulty is conciliation, not
revenge. I have seen the young man. He
called upon me  called at Craigvallen, in fact;
and, I must confess, expressed himself with great
propriety. I consider Mr. Gorman Muir "  here
Eichard Charles turned to Berna  " so far as
personal appearance and outward manner are concerned,
a far from objectionable person. Away
from his friends he would  ah I  pass muster
very fairly in ordinary society'. Mrs. Yince
agrees with me. Am I not correct, Marcella ?"

'eyes, certainly," answered Mrs. Yince
briskly. "I was quite taken with him, Berna.
So sorry for his mad freak ; so devoted to you !
So handsome, so audacious, so gallant. I declare
I felt more than half inclined to fall in love with
him myself."

There are some subjects, my dear," remonstrated
Mr. Yince, " about which it is not well
to joke. I consider this a very serious matter,
Tery serious indeed."

"He'll find it so before I'm done with him,"
declared Mrs. Boyle. " It'll not be one thousand

pounds, or two thousand, he'll get off v.ith, I
can tell him."

"Money will not patch up a woman's reputation,"
said Mr. Yince sententiously.

Isn't that the very thing I've been saying
to Berna ? Ah ! as I told her, she thought she
was a made girl when she enticed Gorman Muir
to take notice of her; hut she'll find the difference
now everybody's crying shame on her forgoing
off with a man old enough to he her
father."

*' Mrs. Boyle, if you cannot discuss this
unhappy affair in a sensible and proper manner,
I must decline to interfere in it."

I never asked you to interfere. I can
manage my own concerns for myself. I don't
want any help or advice : and as for letting
Berna marry such a man  even if she was old
enough to marry him, which she isn't  I would
sooner see her in her cof&n."

Mrs. Boyle, do not say that," entreated
Mrs. Yince. " It is really the best thing Berna
can do."

"I shall say it. I'll say what I choose,
without your leave asked or granted. Do you
think, because 3'ou are a few years older than
me, I am only to speak at your bidding ? You
don't know Gorman Muir as I do. You don't
understand the handful I have got in Berna."

"What we do understand," said Mr. Since,
rising, " is that you are amenable neither to
feeling nor reason, and that the less we have todo
with you the better. You were not remarkable
for discretion when you were young, and
you have certainly not gained wisdom with
years."

"Other people, perhaps, though rich, are no
wiser than I am," retorted Mrs. Boyle.

"That is a question into which I must
decline to enter," said Mr. Since loftily.

"Well, you have the temper!" cried Mrs.
Boyle; "but don't heed me; as you know, I
was always a spoilt child."

I know nothing about that," replied Mr.
Yince ; " all I know now is you are a very foolish
old woman. Come, Marcella, we are only wasting

our time here ;" and, with a hard set face and
a defiant mien, Mr. Vince stalked out of the
room, followed by an indignant wail from Mrs,
Boyle of " Old woman, indeed !"

The year 1851 had gone out as calmly and prosaically
as year could depart. A dull damp
autumn was followed by a green Christmas and
fat churchyards. It was a season which in some
insidious fashion brought death to many, illness
to most, and low spirits to all. Even Mrs. Boyle
the Dowager  Mrs. Boyle 2:>ar excellence, who had
a strong will and a marvellous power of asserting
it  waxed weak under the burden of such mild
weather, and, troubled with a nasty cough, kept
the house, whilst her sleek carriage-horses ate
their heads off in a roomy stable, and Forbes,
her young coachman, who was only seventy
years of age, enjoyed a compulsory holiday 
as little to his taste as to that of the lady he
served.

Mrs. Boyle was bored to death. She had long
been bored ; but at that particular time she felt
more bored than ever. Life was not turning out

as she had expected ; and when a human being
has passed fourscore, and found so far the whole
game of existence a losing one, it is most unlikely
that at the eleventh hour he or she will get dealt
out such a hand of trumps as can compensate for
the poor or unavailable cards Fate was pleased to
accord previously.

Married while quite young still in her early
teens  to a man she loved ; rich, beautiful, wellborn
 what girl ever started with fairer prospects
?

But on her wedding she was not half matured,
and when at nineteen death struck down a husband
she adored, her real character was still undeveloped.
At first well-nigh inconsolable, for the
sake of her son and daughter the young widow
took up the burden of living, and bore it bravely.

She never married again. If she could have
loved a second husband much, she loved liberty
and power more. With a wisdom and liberality
rare in women even now  but rarer by far at that
time she ruled her household, governed her
children, and managed the estate.

For a while suitors came to her, but at last
even the most importunate left this exceptional
widow in peace. She was not one of those women
who keep their lovers as friends. Even had she
been thus inclined, she was far too great a prize
to be resigned with equanimity.

You do not refuse me because you loved
your husband to distraction," said one man,
smarting under the bitterness of a refusal, " but
because you are devoted to yourself." There was
an enormous amount of truth in this remark, and
as the years went by it was a truth which became
more and more patent. Mrs. Boyle was a good
mistress, a liberal landlord, a staunch friend ; but
beyond everything she was a grand lady. Whatever
or whoever else she might forget, Felicia
Boyle was always remembered. Even in her
earlier womanhood she adopted a style of dress
which might have befitted some countess in the
days when persons of condition wore clothing it
would have been accounted sin for the commonalty
to copy.

All through the district she was called, before

VOL. III. L

she lead counted thirty summers, Lady Boyle or
Madame Boyle  Mrs. Boyle, never. She accounted
herself a very great woman. She had
been presented at Court. She had tripped stately
minuets, and danced with dukes and ambassadors,
and all the fine gentlemen of whom London,
no doubt with reason, once felt so proud. She
never gave up what she called her connection.
"I have a daughter coming on"' she said. " I
shall have to find a suitable alliance for my sou.
It will not do for me, meantime, to lead the life
of a recluse."

Which was all very well; only ill-natured
people were not slow to remark that, after her
daughter's death  after her son had chosen a
wife for himself  the Dowager kept up her state
more determinedly than ever. In high dudgeon,
the deposed Queen left Boyle Court, and repaired
to Cheltenham, where she dwelt after a sort of
monarch-out-of-business fashion; while her grandson
Ulick was growing, as she fondly hoped, in
comeliness and grace. Through him she trusted to
gain the happiness her own son, with his prosaic

and utterly unobjectionable marriage, bad deferred.
Everything, we are falsely told, comes to bim
wbo waits. Madame Boyle believed, if sbe only
waited, sbe should still see some male belonging
to ber cutting a distinguished figure in politics,
the army, or the navy.

*' There is no other profession for a gentleman'"
sbe was wont to say ; and Ulick proved so
entirely of ber opinion that, carrying bis practice
a little further than ber theory, be decided not
to enter any profession at all.

Wby should be ? Tbe bear to Boyle Court
lacked no manner of thing that was good, and ibis
grandmother, wbo, clever tbougb sbe might be,
bad vague ideas on the subject of diplomacy, not
merely supplied bim with far more money than
sbe ought to bave done, but belt firmly to the
delusion that the young fellow would settle down
ere long, and get into Parliament, and be Prime
Minister before be was fifty.

Once again ber hopes were doomed to disappointment.
His ill-starred marriage scattered
the fairest and fondest illusion of ber life. Having

chosen such a wife, Ulick Boyle was doomed.
Anything else might have been remediable, but
not silly Prince. This awful misfortune, this
terrible disgrace, caused the Dowager to bow her
head and refuse to be comforted.

Still, though the tree was stricken, the roots
had life, and, in time, around the bare trunk of
dead hopes and disappointed ambitions there
sprang up suckers, green and full of promise,
that had this time for sap the future of a young
and capable girl.

I will train her," thought the Dowager ; "I
will take and make her my own. She shall come
out early, and marry soon. She shall be the mother
of future statesmen. We will go to London,
and mis with the best society in the metropolis."

It was a natural scheme, and seemed feasible.
As a child, Berna spent weeks and months at
Cheltenham, where she " got the air of England
on her tongue," which, later on, so stirred her
mother's wrath. Afterwards the Dowager sent
her to school, and paid the bills with rejoicing.
Year by year the girl grew in grace and beauty.

She will do," decided her benefactress ; and
then, in a spirit of lofty condescension, she proposed
to accompany Berna when the girl returned
to Boyle Court for her summer holidays. She
had not seen the place for over forty years, and
she had never seen the fair Milly at all. It was
an awful visit. Though the Dowager only  as
the lady she afterwards referred to as " that
horrible creature" said in her detestable iritis
"put in" a week, sufficient wretchedness was
compressed into those seven weary days to have
served for a lifetime.

Berna never recalls that period without a
sense of shame and misery. The morning when
the Dowager sent for post-horses to Westport,
and shook the dust of Boyle Court off her feet,
will remain stamped on her memory till she dies.

*' As your father has chosen to make his bed,
he will have to lie upon it," were her last words
to Berna. '' As for you, decide between your
mother and me. Either you give her up or I
give you up. I do not wish for an answer now.
I will write to your unhappy father from Cheltenham

;" and then again  to quote Mrs. Boyle 
she 'took herself of in a fine tantrum," pursued
by what Milly really believed to be the scathing
utterance of " Joy go with you !"

Berna's decision not to desert her mother 
her "mad, ungrateful, wicked, perverse decision "
(vide letter on the subject)  was a cruel blow to
the Dowager.

"All my life long," she thought, "I have
been planning for others, and no single project
has ripened to maturity. I will plan no more.
Herbert and his wife must manage without me.
I will never take an interest in or care for any
other human being."

This was easy to say ; but she had always
cared for Berna, and never ceased caring for her,
despite the way " the foolish, foolish girl " clung
to her " wretched mother "  spite even of the
scandal in which she at length became involved.

"It is a sad business," was the only comment
she made to Sir Herbert, who broke the news,
and was, perhaps, not so sorry to tell bad tidings
as he ought to have been, " but I can do nothing.

When the silly child elected to cast in her lot
with her mother's dreadful connection, of course
I was obliged to cease all intercourse. If she
ever really wants our help she will write."

The Dowager expected Berna to write. Day
after day, week after week, she waited, but Berna
made no sign ; and then the dull Christmas
weather came, and a green unhealthy New Year ;
and the Dowager decided life was a great mistake,
and that Cheltenham was a most undesirable
place in which to reside. " Why do I stay here ?"
she thought. " When I get a little better I will
consider the question of taking up my residence
in London, where I can mix with my kind. I
do not desire the society of widows and invalids ;
and really Herbert and his wife, who will come
over to cheer me up, weary me to death. 0, that
poor girl ! that poor, stupid, ridiculous, mistaken
girl!"

One day the Dowager felt more bored and
more low than usual. She had given orders she
was not at home to any one except the doctor, and
she, therefore, expressed a considerable amount

of indignant surprise when her maid presented
her with a card hearing the name of Gorman
Muir, and asked if she could see the gentleman.

' Why, you know how ill I am !" she exclaimed.

"Burton told Mr. Muir you had a severe cold,
ma'am ; hut he said so earnestly he wished to
speak with you on particular business, Burton
thought I had perhaps better bring up his card."

"Burton is an idiot, and so are you. What
is the man like ?"

"He is young and handsome, and  "

"Do you suppose I care about his age or
looks ? That is not what I want to know. Is
he a farmer, or farrier, or what?"

"He looks as grand a gentleman, ma'am, as
Sir Herbert himself. Burton sas he is the
image of Colonel Fortescue, who was reckoned
the handsomest officer in the army, when  "

"Now, Heaven grant me patience !" exclaimed
the Dowager. " Show the man up. Just give
me that shawl to wrap round my shoulders, the
room is chilly." Having invented which pleasant
fiction, the old lady wound a square of exquisite

white lace about her throat, and, with a touch of
her former coquetry, soothed back her snowy
hair to receive the last man she expected would
ever have come to see her.

Yes, he was handsome  more than handsome.
Sir Herbert himself" could not be accounted
one half so good-looking. For a second the
Dowager paused surprised ; then, glancing at his
card, she said a little insolently, 'You are this
person  Mr. Muir, I conclude ?"

I am Gorman Muir, madam," he answered ;
the person whose name you may have heard
mentioned in connection with Miss Boyle."

I think I have," agreed Berna's great-grandmother
slowly, casting down her eyes and
considering what she ought to do next.

Gorman looked the ancient lady over  looked
at the white hair brushed back from her face ; the
Marie Stuart cap, of richest lace ; the delicate
fingers, glittering with costly rings ; the thick,
costly black silk, which fell in heavy folds around
her stately figure ; at the clear-cut, haughty
features ; the piercing, dark eyes ; the set mouth ;

the room furnished with a lavish luxury  and
thanked God he had come to beg no favour for
himself  that the resolution formed before he left
Ireland was one everything he saw tended to confirm
rather than shake.

Pray be seated, sir," said the Dowager at
length, waving her jewelled hand with a stiff and
stately courtesy.

"I will not detain you long," answered
Gorman, availing himself of the proffered chair.
*'I considered it only my duty to call and speak
to you about the trouble I have caused Miss Boyle.
What I want to say," he went on, finding the
Dowager made no answer, " is, first, that I, and I
alone, am the only person entitled to blame throughout
the whole affair. Though I believed, and
still believe, Miss Boyle was once not wholly
indifferent to me, I desire to state that never, byword,
or look, or sign, did she give the smallest
encouragement to my pretensions."

The Dowager inclined her head.

It gratifies me, Mr. Muir," she answered,
*' to hear you make so just and necessary an.

admission. At the same time, I must remark
that, so far as I am aware, none of Miss Boyle's
relatives ever supposed she looked with the
smallest favour on your advances."

Gorman bit his lip ; and then, in a tone as
scornfully polite as the Dowager's own, replied,

"It is so extremely difficult to tell what
relatives may or may not think on any subject, I
think it quite as well to let you know Miss Boyle's
disdain for me equals your own."

'your statements sound a little contradictory.
You say she once  how shall I express myself ? 
cared for you."

"1 am sure she did. Before she knew I was
Gorman Muir, and a struggling man, her young
fancy went out to meet my devotion, or, since the
beginning of time, all lovers have been wrong in
their intuitions. In her nature, however, there
is one passion stronger than tenderness, one
passion strong and cruel."

Indeed ! and that is ?"

Pride, which could not endure the fact of
h er suitor being only a farmer's son."

For a moment Mrs. Boyle paused. It seemed
to her so impossible this suitor "smith his highbred
courtesy, his mellow voice, his charming
accent, his splendid figure, gallant bearing, and
handsome face, was 'only a farmer's son;" she
was forced to try to gather her wits together before
she said,

"I should be loth, Mr. Muir, to speak a word
likely to wound you ; but I find it necessary to
ask whether you consider Miss Boyle's feeling
wholly unnatural ? Remember, that while putting
this question, I fully recognise the personal
advantages you possess, and am quite willing to
believe your mental gifts are equally great."

Thank you for a far too flattering estimate
of a very commonplace man. Yet, though commonplace,
I am a man ; and therefore venture
to say, if we are to talk at all, I should like to talk
to you on an equal footing, and without any fear
of giving offence."

So far, Mr. Muir," said the Dowager, " you
have shown me no necessity for talking at all ;
but if we are, as you suggest, to talk, you can

certainly do so freely. Should I find anything
you say fiend me, I shall not hesitate to stop
you at once."

Without waiting for a second, Gorman took
his heart in his hand, and, never considering
diamonds, or lace, or rank, or pride, or any other
small item, answered,

Naturally, a man who loves a woman regards
her as standing on a higher level than his own ;
what I fail to see, however  what I have always
failed to see  is why Miss Boyle should regard my
father as being on a lower rung of the social
ladder than her own mother."

For a moment the Dowager did not reply.
Waiting for her to speak, Gorman forcibly
realised from whom Berna inherited her pride
and her great gift of silence. On the other
hand, his hostess was considering she had never
before met a man who, without actual rudeness,
could hit out so straight and so hard. Even on
the ground of variety, she liked his audaciousness,
though she did not mean to let him
suspect that fact.

"I have not the pleasure of knowing your
father, Mr. Muir," she said, with freezing politeness;
' but I have the misfortune of being acquainted
with Mrs. Ulick Boyle. Am I to
understand you consider that your father and
Miss Boyle's mother stand on the same footing ?"

"Hardly," answered Gorman; "but it would
be difficult for me, without apparent incivility, to
explain the difference between them."

Do not, I entreat, allow any small matter
of that sort to raise a barrier against our perfect
comprehension of each other," said the Dowager,
slowly fanning herself. There are times when
the operation of fanning can be performed so as
to madden the beholder. Gorman felt the operation
was maddening him.

"Thank you, greatly," he returned. "As
you are good enough to permit me to express my
opinion, I will do so. Mrs. Boyle, though no
doubt possessed of many excellent qualities, can
scarcely be considered quite a gentlewoman ; and
assuredly she is not very wise. My father is nota
gentleman, but he is wise."

The Dowager leaned back in her chair, and
fanned herself with still greater deliberation.

"Which of the twain, Mr. Muir, should you
consider the more gentle ?"

Comparisons are invidious," answered German
; " and, besides, I am not perhaps a fair
judge."

Meaning, of course, you are sure your father
is the better man of the two."

As you choose to put it, there is no resource
but to answer yes. In many respects my father
is really a most able man."

"If you allowed Miss Boyle to guess your
opinion of her mother, I am not surprised at her
rejection of your suit," said the Dowager, with an
irritating smile.

I cannot lay the flattery to my soul that any
word I ever spoke influenced Miss Boyle's decision
in the least," answered Gorman; "but whatever
the reasons of her refusal may have been, it is
useless now to discuss them. She refused me
not once but twenty times. I am not a specially
humble man, yet had I thought asking her the

twenty-first time would have caused her to change
her mind, I should have tried my fortune over
again. That, however, is all past and done with."

The Dowager furled her fan, and looked at him
surprised.

"You have not, then, come," she said, "to
urge me to exert any influence over my young
relative ?"'

Gorman laughed; but it was a hitter and a
mirthless laugh. " You mistake me," he answered.
"I would have done almost anything
(you may know that by what I did do) to gain
Miss Boyle for my willing wife; but I would
not marry her unless she came to me of her
own accord, without influence or compulsion.
Till the night when I committed that mad act
which might well have broken a weaker woman's
heart, I Cd not understand her ; I thought she
was coy and proud. She is proud, but she is not
coy. She told me  "

Suddenly he broke down : in the middle of his
sentence he stopped. The very repression he had
put upon his words and manner overstrained his

strength. He could not go on. He rose and
walked to the window and stood there, watched
by the Dowager, who did not utter a syllable.
"I beg your pardon," he said, returning when
his passion had spent itself, "I did not know
I was so weak. The first matter about which I
came," he added hurriedly, to prevent comment
on what had passed, *'I have done with; the
next has its origin in my reckless folly. God
knows, I would sooner have shot myself than
brought the sorrow I have upon the only woman
I ever loved. I felt sure she would marry me
willingly, remember, or I never should have
placed her in such a position. I do not say
this in the way of excuse, because nothing can
excuse me, but I want you to know the facts.
She will let me make no reparation. I stayed
in the neighbourhood, so that if any of her
friends wished to proceed against me I should
be at hand. I would have given myself up,
but that I feared by greater publicity I might
hurt her even more than I had done. Everywhere,
on all possible occasions, I have spoken

VOL. III. M

Berne BOYLE.

about her as a man should speak of the woman
he hoped would be his wife. I have amended
my life, and my own small world knows it is
only because I love and honour her that I have
turned from evil and shall strive after good. It
all sounds but little, yet there is only one thing
more I can do, and that is entreat of you to help
me to help her."

"Help her how?"

Some day she will want money. Probably
that day is not far distant. Her mother is ill  "

Would she had died a quarter of a century
since !" exclaimed the Dowager.

*' I am a poor man," went on Gorman, unheeding
the aspiration. " I was brought up to
expect wealth, and then cast out because a vindictive
woman lied concerning me ; and all the money
I have been able to realise, except a very few
pounds, is contained in this envelope, of which
I hope and trust you will take charge. You can
offer assistance to Miss Boyle; I cannot. She
might take it from you ; she would not from me."
"Miss Boyle's mother," said the Dowager,

*' would accept alms even from a total stranger ;
but Miss Boyle, unless she has changed her
nature, would not now accept a gift from me."

You do not know, you cannot imagine, the
misery of the life she must have led  a life that
has eaten the grain out of existence. Ah ! I can
see a change even since I knew her. Every one
who would love and care for her Mrs. Boyle
offends. There is Mr. Vince, a man who, though
he has risen from the ranks, has risen very high
indeed. At first he paid the rent of Clear Stream
Cottage, and made some annual allowance besides*
Mrs. Boyle has so maddened him he refuses to
continue any assistance after May. It is the same
with every one else, and eventually they will be
left utterly friendless. I asked Mrs. Vince, who
not merely belongs to a high family, but is as
good a woman as ever breathed, to see to my 
my  to Miss Boyle, I mean.

I love her as if she were my own daughter,'
she answered, '' but what can I do ? Mr. Vince
forbids my visiting his cousin, and all through
my married life I have made it a rule to try to

please a husband who has been generosity itself
to me.'

"Here is Mrs. Yince's photograph," added
Gorman, taking out his pocket-book and handing
a carte to the Dowager. " I asked her to give
me it, so that when far away I might comfort
myself by looking at the likeness of one most
truly fond of the girl who would not let me try
and make her happy."

She has a capable face," commented the
Dowager. Her hand shook a little, and her voice
had a jealous ring. " Yes, certainly there is
-strength in Mrs. Yince. And so even she cannot

o

manage Mrs. Ulick Boyle. I am not surprised
to hear it. I never met with such a woman.
I do not believe out of Bedlam or in it her equal
could be found."

'rand yet, do you know," said Gorman,
that I should consider her eternal babble
sweetest music if she were the mother of my
wife ?"

*' Do you mean to say you would live in the
same house v/ith her ?"

Certainly ; I told her daughter so, and
thereby most unwittingly gave offence."

The Dowager raised her eyeglass and looked
at Gorman.

Imbecility can go no further," she remarked
at last. 'you must have been very deeply in
love ! Not to bring back my lost youth, not to
raise my husband from the dead, not even to
regain my beauty  and that, you will say, is
going as far as woman can  would I live for
three days under the same roof with Mrs.
Ulick Boyle!"

"And if you saw what her daughter has
to endure, and how she bears the reproaches
which are heaped on her, you would not wonder
that I feel towards that daughter as I do.
But I must not go on wearying you in this way.
To revert to my request. There is no human being
I can ask to stand between my darling and utter
poverty save yourself. Do not refuse my prayer.
I shall never trouble her or you again. I mean
to die as utterly as a living man may. I shall
have no means of knowing how it fares with 

with  Berna ; but there is enough in that envelope
to keep her from knowing actual want for sometime.
You are irritated against her for loyalty to
a most silly and selfish mother. Do not refuse
what I beg, though, on that account. Ah, do not
shake your head. You will consent  I see you
do. Thank you, a thousand times over ! I am
going now, with a lighter heart."

"Stop," she said, as he rose to go, 'you must
leave me some address, so that I may give an
account of my stewardship."

"I cannot do that," he answered. "From
to-day I shall be as dead as though the grass
were growing over me."

Where are you going ?"

Where neither friend nor foe will find me."

"That is nonsense," she retorted; "you
must come and see me again."

"Never," he replied, "never;" and he walked
across the room.

Wait a moment, Mr. Muir'' cried the
Dowager, rising. " I want to speak to you. There
is something I wish to say." But even as she

spoke he was gone. She heard the hall-door
close, and, hurrying to the window, saw him
striding along the street.

What can he he going to do ?" she wondered,
while, forgetting her ailments, she stood vainly
speculating about his intentions.

Just then a recruiting party passed by, their
caps gay with streamers, their manners enticing,
their looks jovial.

*' That is what he means to do," she thought
with conviction ; and, going back to her chair, she
sat looking at the fire with dry bright eyes.

I wonder the girl refused him," she considered
; " but he would not have made her a good
husband, even had other things been equal. Each,
impulsive, unbalanced, but 0, what a lover !"

''I CANNOT tell you, Captain Ludbam, how deeply
I feel your kindness."

It was the Dowager who spoke ; and the gentleman
she addressed was that same graceless
officer who had once, according to Miss Isabella
Muir, gone up the staircase at Ardilaw three steps
at a time.

The quondam Ensign was only adorned with
'youth and beauty;" but the lady had put on
all her bravery, and received her visitor with a
genial and stately courtesy which utterly failed to
produce the effect she intended.

Subsequently, in the ease of familiar intercourse,
Carline's former lover was in the habit
of alluding to Mrs. Boyle senior as a " tough old
girl;" but on the afternoon when, by his own
appointment, he called to see her, any one might
have supposed him the best of young men  a

young man who played the harmonium and instructed
choirs, and got up classes, and 'personally
conducted " Sunday-school children when
they went out for a summer outing.

I thought I had better answer your note
verbally," he said, after a few polite preliminaries
had been gone through. " Your friend has
enlisted in the uncommon name of Jones  John
Jones."

Ah !" exclaimed the Dowager ; and she drew
a long breath.

Seems to me a pity ; but I suppose he
knows his own business best."

"1 suppose so," she answered a little doubtfully.


Is there nothing to be done in the matter ?"

*' Not that I know of."

*' He would not thank any one, I conclude,
for writing to his father ?" said Captain Ludham,
in the way of a suggestion. '

It would be necessary first to find out who
his father is."

*' Do you not know the gentleman who has

the happiness to call him son ?" asked the
officer.

The Dowager reddened and hesitated.

'because, if you do not, I do," he proceeded.
Our new recruit is not a man to be readily
forgotten. I recognised him at the first intention."


"Indeed!" said the lady, disconcerted.

Yes ; the man you mean is Gorman Muir.
Between such attached friends of his as I am
sure we both are there need be no affectation of
mystery. I only saw him once before ; but he
left an indelible impression on my memory. He
had the handsomest black horse I ever beheld,
and he came leading it across the sunlit fields of
Ardilaw, where his father was superintending the
carting of hay, if I remember rightly. The meeting
between papa and prodigal  I suppose he
must have been somewhat of a prodigal, though
he certainly did not look like a man who had fed
on husks and outrun his credit at his tailor's 
was touching in the extreme."

Were you acquainted with his father, then ?"

asked the Dowager, mystified not merely by such
an amount of unexpected information, but by the
manner in which it was conveyed.

Well, very well ; and his father knew me
also well. He treated me with enormous kindness,
to say nothing of an amount of plain
speaking quite paternal. I met with a bad accident
in Down, and was laid up at Ardilaw for a
long time ; so long, indeed, that I became quite
a member of the Muir family. Charming family :
all original, all diverse, yet all delightful ! I
recall the period I spent amongst them as one of
the brightest spots in my life. Nice sort of
ancient rookery  good house, fine old trees, large
rambling garden overrun with weeds, wandering
stream ; just the place in which to dream
away a summer. I quite regretted having to
leave."

"And what kind of person is Mr. Muir the
elder ?"

He does not ' favour ' his son, as he himself
would say ; but I am sure the son is a chip of the
old block. Personally, Mr. Muir reminds me of

the scenery about the Causeway  grand, but
rugged. Roses and lilies do not grow wild on
that bleak stony soil. There is a touch of the
north wind about him, which might seem repelling
to a person who did not know his kind heart
well. Of all the family. Miss Muir is the child
who most resembles her papa. How I should
delight to see her once more !" added the officer,
with pensive tenderness.

But who and what is Mr. Muir ?" inquired
the Dowager. "I am under the impression I
heard he was a farmer."

*' So he maybe; but there are farmers and
farmers. Besides, farming is the chief industry
of Ireland  if one may so far misuse the word as
to talk of industry and Ireland in the same
breath. No one whose soul is not dead goes into
business of any kind. He prefers to tickle the
ground, and, as the ground grows nothing well
except grass, very little tickling is required or
given."

"I am an Irishwoman myself," said the
Dowager.

"I should not have thought it," answered her
visitor.

"And proud of the fact."

I do not wonder at that. Irish ladies are
the most beautiful and charming in the world."

"I fear you are a sad flatterer."

*' No, indeed ; though I have been a good deal
in Ireland."

At which remark the Dowager laughed. This
is a sort of thing which pleases some persons,
even though they may be very wise and eighty
years of age  precisely as a rattle pleases a child.

And had Mr. Gorman Muir any profession?"
she asked presently (lest these amenities should
go too far), reverting to business.

"I do not think so, but I am in no position
to answer with certainty. His father did mention
that at one time he had a fancy for entering the
army."

"He has carried out his fancy now," said the
Dowager grimly.

Yes ; but after a very different fashion."

There followed a moment's silence, which was

broken, to quote Captain Ludham's mental reflection,
by the '' Faubourg St. Germain."

*' I fear I am troubling you with a great many
questions ; but a little time back you referred to
Mr. Gorman Muir returning home in the character
of a repentant prodigal. Had he previously
left his father's house in disgrace ?"

"Scarcely," laughed the officer. "He was
only two years of age when his mother's uncle
did about the most foolish and unkind thing
possible, namely, adopted him. He was brought
up in the midst of wealth; taught to consider
himself the heir to a good property ; and then, ina
moment, cast out like Ishmael ; not exactly for
laughing at any elderly Sarah, but for some
scandal connected with his great aunt."

"With his  " suggested the Dowager, who
believed her ears had deceived her.

His great-aunt. Forgive my alluding to
such a matter. It is not a thing one would
mention before a miss in her teens; but staid
people like ourselves are not to be frightened by
shadows. I believe there was not a word of truth

in the story. When we were stationed in Kilkenny
I saw the lady, and should feel excessively
uncomfortable if she owed me a grudge. For
some reason she wanted to be rid of young Muir,
and so trumped up a story about his being too
fond of her, which her husband believed and
acted on."

But, excuse me for a moment. I think, if
I heard aright, you spoke of a great-aunt."

When an old man is silly and a young
woman wise, fifty years or so of disparity sinks
into insignificance. The great-aunt is under
thirty, Gorman Muir under thirty likewise.
Being a particularly shy person, it will not, perhaps,
be necessary for me to say more."

"I am afraid Mr. Gorman Muir is very
wicked."

So many excellent people have decided. He
may be. At all events, over that affair very few
cared to give him the benefit of any doubt. My
own conviction is he was somewhat hardly dealt
by, and that, had he been only ordinarily prudent,
he might have crept back again into favour.

However, he chose to go a break-neck pace, and
wind up with a final escapade which has, for
some reason best known only to himself, ended
in the Queen's shilling  and John Jones."

*' It seems a terrible story. Is his mother
living ?"

No. Mr. Muir has been the happy husband,
and is the still happier widower, of three
wives. When I was at Ardilaw he publicly
announced, to all whom it might concern, that
he did not intend to essay any further matrimonial
experiment."

Was his first wife this young man's
mother?"

"Yes; the daughter of Mr. Gorman of
Clonmellin. She was not merely a lady, but
her people were possessed of a fine property. It
may give you some idea of Mr. Hewson Muir's
capacity when Iter you he induced this Katherine
Gorman to leave her home in order to marry him."

"Indeed!" exclaimed the Dowager.

That is what has prejudiced people against
Mr. Muir. In a country where heiresses are few

and far between, and many men of good position
looking out for them, it is natural one of the
number should be grudged to a person of no
known family. Miss Gorman, had she married
suitably, would have brought a good dowry in her
hand; as matters stood, Mr. Muir only received
about a thousand pounds, which he has increased
to a creditable amount."

Eeally, Captain Ludham, your knowledge of
this strange family seems exhaustive."

There is nothing remarkable about the
matter ; after all, Ireland is a very small place,
and there are very few people in it."

The Dowager slowly fanned herself. She
was considering her next step. Captain Ludham
watched her with interest.

I wonder," she said at last, "whether I
might venture to tell you I have special reasons
for wishing to glean as many particulars as possible
about this reckless and unprincipled young
man ?"

It would be disingenuous of me to affect
ignorance that such is the case."

VOL. III. N

Do you mean that you  "

I mean that I know a good deal of the difficulty
you must have had with the Muirss," he
answered, smiling. At last he felt they were
getting to the kernel of the business. " That
was one reason why I thought it better to call,
rather than write."

The Dowager bit her lip. Here was a dreadful,
perhaps dangerous, young man. She began to
feel sorry she had communicated with him. He
had a pleasant face ; frank, free, guileless manners ;
moreover, he was one of her own order : nevertheless,
she did not quite like the turn affairs
were taking. She had thought to lead up to
the matter with skilful diplomacy, and, behold,
there seemed to have been no need for diplomacy
at all.

We fellows who are always knocking about
the world, moving from place to place," said
Captain Ludham, when she had reached this precise
point in her regret, " of necessity become
acquainted with a great variety of people, hear a
lot of strange stories, and obtain a vast amount



of information concerning families. Some of us
forget ; some of us don't care about anything or
anybody but ourselves ; some of us (not many) do
make a bad use of our knowledge ; some of us
feel that we should like to help a lame dog over
his stile if such helping did not involve much
expense or trouble."

"And under which category am I to class
you ?" asked the Dowager, with would-be playfulness.


Well, I have never played the rule of Good
Samaritan. Good Samaritans seem to me, as a
rule, awful bores. But still, if, without inconvenience,
I could pick up a fellow who was down, I
think I should pick him up. In this case, however,
there is every reason why I ought to stretch
out my hand. Young Muir's father laid me
under obligations I can never repay ; and this
escapade of the unruly Gorman places me in a
difficult position. I cannot take any notice of our
friend the new recruit, who must be merely John
Jones to me ; and yet, it is most disagreeable to
be obliged to ignore his existence."

*' Do you not consider it strange that he
should have entered your regiment ?"

Did not know I was in it. I exchanged
from the Rutlandshire Ragamuffins more thana
year ago. He would have avoided me like a
pestilence. I wish devoutly he had."

Do you suppose he recognised you ?"

Certain. A horrified look passed over his
face  poor devil ! Pray excuse the expression.
I don't know what to do, I confess. I rather
hoped you had some plan. It was freely said  "

"What was freely said?" asked the Dowager,
as he broke off short.

Pray do not be vexed  people will talk,
you know."

"That is perfectly true. But what I want
to know is what they talked about  that is, if
the talking concerned me or mine."

Of course, you must be aware that young
Muir's abduction  shall I call it ?  of Miss Boyle
was a good deal more than a nine days' wonder
across the Channel. The Gormans of Clonmellin
are well known in the North of Ireland, and

Mr. Trevasson equally well known in the South.
When once a tale of that sort gets about, it flies.
All kinds of rumours were flying. A relation of
mine happened to be quartered in Belfast at the
time, and, according to his account, bets were
made that  "

*' Having begun. Captain, you ought not to
hesitate about finishing."

Thank 3'ou, that is quite true ; it is far
better for me to tell you exactly the state of
public opinion. The general idea seemed to be
that Miss Boyle ought to marry him, and that
she would."

"Because he had deceived and entrapped her
away from home ? Certainly a most remarkable
conclusion !"

*' Still, Mrs. Boyle, put it as you like, the
facts are extremely awkward. At first, the mother
makes a fearful disturbance  goes about like Saul,
muttering threats and calling down fire from heaven
upon the culprit's head. The story gets wind,
and everybody waits to hear what is done next.
Nothing is done. Mr. Yince, one of the northern

lights, and as great a prig as ever I met at a
heavy provincial dinner, interferes, and nothing
comes of his interference. Not a single person
connected with what the newspapers described as
an ' outrage ' is called to account. All at once
there seems as anxious a desire to hush up the
matter as there was at first to publish it abroad.
The young lady's mother, who at one time was
always to be met with in Belfast, frequents the
gay streets of that fashionable resort no more.
Mr. Yince declines to hear or say anything on the
subject. An elderly and sadly proper old lady,
who had arranged to receive Miss Boyle as companion,
refuses to ratify the arrangement. Mr.
Gorman Muir rides to hounds, lounges up and
down High Street, and is to be seen in many
other places, but nobody thinks of cutting or
interfering with him. Can you wonder that the
wisdom of Ulster is all at sea? Do you marvel
that people say they ought to marry each other ?
I understand your natural anxiety. Upon my
word, I came here solely to help you if I could."
I fear the pity I felt for a wild and untrained

young man has given you cause to misjudge my
motives," said the Dowager.

Not at all. I honour you for them. Money
and not much money either  can, I suppose,
make your young relative and Gorman Muir
happy. You are willing to find that money.
You are right. Marriage is the true solution of
the difficulty. Let the lady be what she may,
the Irish will always agree to think her wrong
till she is a wife. If I can help you in anyway
 What is the matter, Mrs. Boyle ?" he
added, as the Dowager suddenly fell hack in her
chair pale and trembling. "I am so grieved.
Let me ring for your maid. No *? Forgive me, I
entreat, for talking with such brutal frankness !
You were so calm I had not a notion ; and I felt
you really ought to know how the thing was
looked upon."

"Sir," she said, wiping her eyes, "you do
not know Berna Boyle, or you never could have
suggested such utterly baseless slanders against
a helpless girl."

"I suggest slanders!" repeated the officer.

My dear madam, you have utterly misunderstood
me. It was only because I knew she had
been slandered  that I know she will be slandered
that I came here. Why, you yourself must
have had some idea of the kind, or you never
would have wanted to learn the name under which
Mr. Gorman Muir meant to seek the bubble
reputation."

*'I have given you occasion to misunderstand
me and my intentions," returned the lady, with
proud humility. "Explanation is impossible;
but you certainly have misunderstood me.
Nothing could grieve me more than a marriage
such as you suggest. It would be unfitting in
every way."

Of course you are better acquainted with the
state of the case than I can be  "

"I believe it is no secret that Mr. Muir
exhausted every argument to induce my young
kinswoman to look favourably upon his suit, and
failed."

'* I know that was said, but, I fear, not generally
believed."

And the only motive which aroused my
interest in the lover was a doubt as to whether
at some point in the transaction Miss Boyle
might not have been  all unwittingly, perhaps 
to blame."

That was extremely thoughtful of you."

Her mother, a most silly and objectionable
woman, having somehow got mixed up with persons
unsuitable, I should imagine, as associates,
the girl may  though it seems to me unlikely 
have given this young man some encouragement."

She may," agreed the officer promptly.

"I do not believe she did," said the Dowager
resentfully; "but it is not impossible he might
have misconstrued her manner."

"He might."

And it seems to me a terrible thing for anyone
possessed of his manners, appearance, and
presumably education, to sink, on account of a
love disappointment and one rash act, into a
common soldier."

It is. I can say, positively, you are not
wrong on that point."

Therefore I wish to know what becomes of
him."

And not to take any steps towards procuring
his discharge ?"

Certainly not."

Or enabling him to enter the army in a
higher grade?"

You have totally misapprehended me."

And if, without rudeness, I dare venture to
express my thoughts, you have utterly puzzled
me."

May I ask how ?"

How ! Good Heavens ! here is a man who
has done the greatest wrong almost a man can doa
girl"

Surely, Captain Ludham, you are putting
matters far too strongly."

"It is you who do not realise matters, Mrs.
Boyle. You may think you know the world well,
but you cannot imagine the capital the world
makes out of a thing like this. Whether by her
own will or his, the girl was away from home for
hours. Why, had such a thing happened to one



of Mr. Muir's daughters, he would have had a
license or a warrant before the day was out!"

You may be very sure Berna Boyle's friends
will never apply for either."

Then they are wrong. I have never seen
Miss Boyle, but I declare to you were she my
sister I would put matters in train for doing her
justice before I slept. These things stick like
burrs. I entreat of you to buy this young man
off, and arrange matters so that he and your
relation can be married without delay. I would
buy him off myself but that I feel sure such a
course would only result in his enlisting again
the next day."

"You are extraordinarily kind."
I am really very much in earnest."
And so am I. Believe me, please, when I
assure you there is nothing I desire less than to
see my' great-granddaughter the wife of this unfortunate
man. Further, if I wished such a
match, she would not agree to it. I know her :
know her pride and her self-will. If she would
not for my sake give up a mother whose lightest

word must cost her a heart-pang, is it likely she
would take a husband who tried to win her by
compulsion ?"

It is impossible for me to answer," replied
the officer. " Women are enigmas."

Men imagine so ; but the reading of their
natures is, nevertheless, simple enough."

Is it ?" retorted Captain Ludham. *' I
should not have thought so ; but I am open
to conviction. Perhaps you will tell me why 
though you neither wish to benefit young Muir
nor marry him to Miss Boyle  you are anxious
to know what he does in the future."

"I am interested in him."

"Why? Ah, you can't or won't tell me,
but I can tell you," went on the officer laughingly:
"because he is a mauvais sujet  in
other words, a bad lot. Ladies love sinners :
the greater the sinner the more they love him.
Moral young fellows like myself, who go to
bed early and eschew cards and forswear champagne,
and never say naughty words, and dance
only with the girls our mammas like and approve,

are abhorrent to your sex; whereas a
dashing sergeant in the devil's brigade commands
all your sympathies. I can comprehend
the infatuation. Sinners have the strongest
charm for me. For no earthly consideration
would I abduct a woman in the high and mighty
Gorman Muir fashion. Yet I envy him for his
daring. My mother says I have no heart.
Perhaps that is true. Nevertheless, I admire
a rough and ready lover when I see him ; and
I only wonder your relative did not go to Scotland
with him and return Mrs. Gorman Muir.
Had I been a vvoman, I could not have refused,
him after such a touching proof of his affection."

I imagine jou are not in the least in
earnest," said Mrs. Boyle.

"Am I not? Well, at any rate, you will
see whether I do not help Muir by every means
in my power."

Then perhaps you will not consider it too
much trouble to keep me informed of his whereabouts."


*'I will do so with the greatest pleasure;

and if occasionally you permit me to call, shall
account myself more than rewarded."

I do not know how to express my thanks."

The compliment is entirely on my side.
Should you at any time find cause to reconsider
your decision, you will not hesitate to say so, and
let me try to assist you."

Such a time is unlikely to come. Nevertheless,
I will remember your offer gratefully."

In some countries about a hundred small
coins represent a penny ; no doubt those hundred
small coins have their use, though all eyes cannot
discern it.

In similar fashion, modern society cannot
change or receive the smallest token of truth
without a thousand comparatively useless words
surrounding the transaction. It is perhaps for
this reason men who go straight to the point are
usually deemed fools or hypocrites.

We have arrived at a state of life and condition
of mind in which mahogany is only thought real
when French-polished. Sitting apart, however,
in a dreary barrack-room, Gorman Muir felt that

this sin and its expiation, robbed at last of all
glamour of romance, were terrible realities. For
he had left behind everything a man cares for or
values ; cut himself adrift from friends, hope, and
country ; and all because he loved a girl too much
he with whom the position had been before
reversed during all his previous life.

In the after time Berna never cared to recall even
to herself the wretched months which ensued after
that wild night she spent listening to the raging
storm and the lashing of the waves at Grooms-port.
She had been often miserable enough previously,
God knew ; but all the troubles of her
young life faded into insignificance when contrasted
with the scorn and sorrow she was then
called upon to face and bear.

To the continual blister of her mother's
tongue the outer world now added its irritating
savin ointment of contemptuous malice. It is
easy for any one to say he despises society's
verdict, but when the verdict comes to be passed
it is hard to bear. Berna found it very hard.
The whole of the blame was laid at her door.
Pride, vainglory, and hypocrisy were the least
of the sins attributed to the " widow woman's

daughter." When she passed through the village
she knew the idle gossips standing before their
open doors were whispering about her; if she
met two men on the road they significantly
touched elbows, and then fell to talking about
Gorman Muir and how '' things stood between
the girl and him."

Whether actual sin were attributed to her or
not, no one took her part. " Set her up, indeed !"
said the best disposed faction. ' What more
could she want than a fine handsome young man,
who has gone clean to the devil because she
thinks herself too good for him ? She may wait
a while before such a chance comes her road again.
There are not many would care for a girl with
such a white face and burdened with such a foolish
old mother, too. As Hewson Muir says truly
enough, she has laid a spell on him. That sort*
without a bit of blood in their cheeks, are never
just right. And look at the way she keeps herself
to herself  it's not natural. Did ever you know
about the white bird at Gray Abbey that used to
sit its lone  never another near it ? Well, she

VOL. III. o

minds me of that bird. There's something
strange about her ; but there, she's half English,
and they're all queer alike."

"Never tell me !" another would declare. " If
Gorman Muir didn't take her, he'd his reasons ;
pack of nonsense saying she wouldn't have him :
she'd only have been too glad of him. Grander
than Gorman, is she ? Why, man, you'd make a
dog laugh to hear you ! That silly old wife of a
mother of hers was the talk of Belfast once upon
a time ; and as for Sam Vince, many's the day
I've seen him so drunk he'd to hold on the car
for fear he'd fall off. There was no pride about
him; he never refused a glass from anybody
willing to pay for it."

As for Mr. Muir, he had nothing to say either
way except that '* the young Jezebel had parted
father and son, and that she had neither heart nor
sense nor feeling. She's waiting, most likely,
for the Lord-lieutenant to come along and
ask her to set up housekeeping with him," he
declared with bitter irony. " Well, well, it
may chance before she dies she may cast a

longing backward glance at Sannyside and German
Muir."

I would sooner," wrote Gorman, " have
cut off my right hand and plucked out my right
eye than caused you such grief."

It was his final farewell  the last letter he
wrote on Irish soil  and then he went to Beech-field
to bid Miss Garnsey good-bye.

Be kind to her," he entreated.

''I cannot," she answered.

Then he laid his hand on Miss Garnsey's
shoulder, and looked straight in her plain shrewd
face, before he said,

"You will be generous for my sake  for' the
sake of a man neither you nor she will ever see
again."

lonely heart ! solitary Berna ! How
lonely, how solitary, she felt when Gorman had
really gone, no words can tell.

Free were all the roads and lawns and hedge-paths
now to traverse. Under the arching trees
now came no horseman to stir the girl's heart
and vex her temper. One human being had

taken himself out of her daily life, and the whole
world appeared empty. The very streamlet
seemed, as it ran, to murmur and lament for the
handsome romantic lover who would listen to its
murmur no more.

He was gone !  nor father nor sister nor friend
knew whither. Had he died he could not have
vanished more utterly. Berna's prayers in church
need no longer have been disturbed by the thought
of a pair of rare brown eyes. Yet those eyes had
never previously haunted her as they did now
their owner looked at her no more. She could
sing, and there was no eavesdropper to listen.
She could stand beside the arch in Knock graveyard,
and never a soul come nigh to interrupt her
musings.

Like her mother, the girl began to feel very
weary of that placid village. Its fair face chafed
her ; the soft green hills, the belts of dark plantation,
the distant heights, the glimpses of sea
and mountain, only awoke memories she would
fain have forgotten.

Let us go away, mamma," she cried at last

in her despair. 'let us go to England, or anywhere
on earth away from Down."

"0, that's the tune, is it, now?" retorted Mrs.
Boyle. "We're to pack off, bag and baggage;
take our staffs in our hands and shoulder our
wallets, the minute 3'ou want to move ! When I
wanted to go, when I was fairly sickened of the
desolation of my life, it was ' Where would we find
a sweeter home ? I think we were fortunate to
meet with so quiet a cottage!' Dear, dear! it's
no wonder I'm worn to a thread-paper with your
whims and fancies. When you're about it, you'd
best say where we'd get money to go to England
or any place else. If you were like another
girl, it's sitting down this minute you'd be, pen
in hand, confessing your manifold sins and wickedness
St. Paul bids you think about, to the
Dowager  you might tell her the bad child you've
been to the best of mothers. If you said you'd
fairly broken my heart, you wouldn't be beyond
the mark. If she knew all the stiff-wickedness
that's in you and could hear my cough, which
would frighten her, she might send some sort of

help to take us away from this hole, where
Pilchard Yince buried us alive out of his sight, as
Abraham did Sarah."

"It's no manner of use talking about going
now, Miss Berna," said Ruth solemnly; "the
mistress isn't well enough to go, even if you'd
the money to take her. AVait till the fine weather
comes, and then, if please God we get the
cough under, maybe Mrs. Yince would give you
a helping hand to move her to the shore. She's
ill, dear, at last in earnest. She's far worse
than she lets on."

And so the weeks went by, and life at the
cottage dragged slowly and anxiously away.

One day in the early spring Mrs. Ulick Boyle
sat in the little parlour at Clear Stream cowering
over a turf fire. No child's puzzle, cast
aside in haste and confusion, could have looked
less likely to be made serviceable once more
than the widow. She was thinner than ever,
but her figure had lost all its former symmetry.
Huddled together regardless of appearances, her
black dress brown with wear, her cap cast aside,

an old shawl drawn across lier bosom and tied
round her waist, she no more resembled the
still frisky Milly, who returned to Belfast determined
to be seen and to conquer, than the featherless,
disconsolate, excommunicated Jackdaw of
Rheims  that bird which, in the pride and glory
of his sleek wickedness, stole the ring.

Poor Mrs. Boyle ! if her summer had been a
long one, it was all over now ; not even the ruddy
sun of autumn threw any cheering beam across
the drear landscape of a wasted, useless life.
Over the bare fields, wherein no crop of promise
had ever sprung, whence no golden grain
was ever carried, winter, in a moment, as it
seemed, began to stretch a pall of misty gloom.
There had been no intermediate state of crisp
October  of gorgeous colour  of woods where
the withered leaves of a kindly and useful past
make a fragrant pathway for the feet of those
pacing . slowly onward to a land where the trees
are green eternally, and flowers bloom for aye.

She had never conned a lesson save in the
school of folly. She had never really cared for

nor considered any one save herself; she had no
root of goodness, no depth of soil ; and accordingly
when the evil days came, she shrivelled up under
adversity's cutting wind.

For months she had been ailing, though she
said, " I'll he right well come the spring, Ruth ;
and then they'll find, spite the way they've
striven to keep me under, that I spring up better
nor the blessed grass. As my poor father (you
mind him ?) used to say, ' A cat has nine lives ;
but you have ninety, Mills'"

Just about that time Mrs. Boyle seemed to
find it hard work to sustain one life, even though
possessed of ninety. The green, damp winter
had, to use her own expression, " tried her sore."
Cold followed cold. She was racked with pains,
which she stoutly denied were rheumatic.

It's like your fun," she said, when this was
suggested, "making an old woman of me !" She
missed the congenial society which had upheld
her. " I'm almost dead for the want of a bit of
life," she complained. The future looked very
dark. The time was approaching when, according

to Mr. Yince's statement, all help from him
was to cease ; and in fine, if the widow did not
say 'all things are against me' it was merely
because that particular Scriptural expression did
not chance to be included in the strange medley
of biblical odds and ends stored away in her
shattered brain.

Why or wherefore she did not know, but her
'luck had turned," and the conviction that this
was so proved a very bitter pill to swallow.

During the previous summer her sun had
seemed in the ascendant  now it was below the
horizon.

The friends who delightedly gathered round
to hear of the conquest she had made, and ask
particulars concerning the notable captive of her
bow and spear, had long been conspicuous by
their absence. One by one they dropped off.
Even the last of the party, Mrs. Gray and 'Tilda
Sheill, had achieved the feat of making Mrs.
Boyle understand it was possible to have too
much of a good thing.

Amongst all her former acquaintances there

was not a person who had not wearied of the
widow. 'there is no good in her," said Mrs.
Gray to Miss Sheill, after the pretended outbreak
of smallpox episode ; " I never could call my
house my own while she was coming to it. She
was either ' on the go ' from morning to night,
or else sitting in that old armchair, talking
nonsense such as a child would have thought
shame to speak. IVe often quaked for fear any
person of sense might call while she was here.
I'm fairly tired of her. 'Tilda, and so I tell you."
They were all tired of her. With a touching
unanimity, when Mrs. Boyle's former acquaintances
found there was no man breaking his heart
for the widow  that Richard Yince had withdrawn
the light of his countenance, and that the great
man's cousin would shortly only be able to
reckon on sixty pounds a year  they suddenly
discovered Milly "had gone off wonderfully,"
"trouble had changed her," she "wasn't the
woman she was ;" and then they began forming
plans for her future which should cause her to
remove a long way from Belfast.

There was no single spot on the world's surface
where, they felt assured, she might not do
better than near them. Times had changed, and
not for the happier. Not a soul now said, " Stop
among us that sou know, Milly, and that know
you."

Sensitiveness was not a fault which could be
attributed to Mrs. Boyle ; yet as it is not wholly
impossible to make even a rhinoceros feel, conviction
at length entered her mind that 'she wasn't
wanted."

There are few things harder to bear than
knowledge of this kind, and Mrs. Boyle did not
bear it at all well. She fumed and fretted, and
tried to conquer Fate ; but it would not do. When
a lady is received by another lady who enters a
room attired for walking, and who does not sit
down or ask her visitor to sit down, the combat
becomes unequal. Further, when she is not
offered " bite or sup," and her querulous complaints
of ill-health are answered by wondering
remarks as to why the invalid does not stop at
home and nurse herself, it is as well to throw up

the sponge at once. One day Mrs. Boyle did
this. It was then her poor puzzle was cast aside,
never to he pieced together again in this world.

*' I feel mighty cold and chilled, Kuth," she
said, on her return home. "Make me a drop of
two-milk whey. Maybe it would warm me."

To the end of her life Berna Boyle will always
thank God that she " stuck to her mother." That
mother had tried her as only woman horn of woman
can try a woman ; hut at the last she won her reward.
To say that Mrs. Boyle ever grew loving and
motherly would he to assert an impossibility ; hut
during the course of those few sad months she
turned to her daughter, and clung to her with a
tenacity which, though it had its source in utter
feebleness of character, did duty for all the affection
she was capable of feeling. She never ceased
to find fault with Berna ; there was nothing the
girl could do that gave entire satisfaction. Her
faults were constantly recited ; her sins of omission
and commission furnished the text for many
a rambling sermon. But as the widow tottered
onward, disputing each step of the way along

which Death was leading her, she developed a
restless liking for Berna, and never seemed at
ease unless the girl were by her side.

A doctor had been called in ; but now Mrs.
Boyle *' wouldn't have him at any price."

If I'm to die, let me die in peace," she said.
And indeed, when a patient is in low spirits and
wants keeping up, there does seem some cruelty
in talking about decline and a broken-down constitution,
the rules of ordinary prudence having
been overstepped, with a few remarks thrown in
about advancing age, and people being unable todo
with impunity when old the things which at
twenty left no ill effects.

"I wonder how he would like for anybody to
say the things to him he said to me ; and beside
his white hair I'm a child, in a manner of speaking.
I'd like well for one of the big men out of Belfast
to see me. If Pilchard Vince was not made
of pig-iron, he might have brought somebody
with sense to give me something. Ah, when the
doctors can do no more for him, maybe he'll wish
he had spent a trifle of his filthy lucre on me.

But it'll come home to him, never fear. I mayn't be
here to see, but whoever lives can mind my words.
What's that you're saying ? Will I let you write
and ask a clever doctor to come down ? If that
isn't you all over ! I'd laugh if it didn't hurt my
inside. There's the fee to come from ? Have
you found a full stocking in the thatch, or a crock
of gold in the chimney ?"

It was a more sensible question than Mrs.
Boyle usually adventured on. At that moment
the domestic purse was sadly lean. Berna and
Ruth had been what the master mind styled
** madly wasteful." That they refrained from
spending on themselves was only an additional sin.

"Just as if I wanted anything more than a
cup of weak tea and a bit of dry bread !" said the
widow. " But you're that foolish, Berna, you'll
leave us naked beggars before you've done, I can
see plainly."

The household could not have proved much
worse off had this dismal prophecy been accomplished.
Heaven only knows what Berna had
hoped in the way of help ; but it is certain that,

owing to her " wild way of getting everything
came into her head," the pecuniary position had
become desperate. In May a half-year's income
would be due ; but then Mr. Vince's help was to
cease, and they were in debt to Mr. Muir, with
whom Mrs. Boyle, for reasons of her own, had
continued to deal.

"Never you trouble your head about me,"
he said to Berna, with a rough sort of consideration.
" I daresay we won't fall out over
the account." And again : "Your mother never
will be fit to move at May, even if she'd got a
place to move to. Stop as long as you like. I
wouldn't wonder but me and Mr. Vince could
make that all right between us. After what
you've done me out of. Miss Boyle, you needn't
be making as if you couldn't thole being a pound
or two in my debt. I'm vexed for your mother.
She's a foolish woman, I allow ; but there's not
much harm about her. Once the fruit comes in,
we'll keep her supplied constant. She always did
allow the Ardilaw black currants were the finest
she ever tasted."

And Berna could not answer either in assent
or dissent, or even smile, when she remembered
why her mother had so praised the produce of
Mr. Muir's garden.

Poor mamma," she thought ; '' poor, poor
mamma !"

For the beginning of the end had come, and
the end itself could not be far remote. It was not
always now that Mrs. Boyle was able to walk even
so far as the parlour. Often, when she did getup,
she remained entirely in her bedroom ; while
for days together she remained in bed, declaring
vehemently all the time she was "getting on as
well as well could be."

I was just looking round me," she said,
on that breezy afternoon in April, seated close to
the fire, and bending forward so as to get the
full benefit of whatever heat it gave out, 'rand
considering how soon a house goes to wrack and
ruin when a mistress is laid by. It's well to be
seen you haven't had me dusting, and settling,
and contriving. Often and often I lie awake in
mv bed, wondering what you'll do when I am

gone. Tell me that now," she added, turning
suddenly towards Berna.

mamma, do not talk in that way !"

In what way ? Why, you poor foolish
thing, I declare you are crying ! You are a
fine one to have about anybody that's ill ! I'm
not going to leave you. Many's the time I
know you have thought you'd be better without
me, taking your own headstrong way. But
you've found what that has done for you ; and
now, when I pass a word in joke, you can't
bear it, but begin whimpering like a baby  and
I, that never could endure the sight of wet
eyes!"

Berna went to the hearth rug, and knelt
beside her mother, and said,

I will try not to vex you," strong the
wasted cheek in an agony of sorrow; "but do
not talk about leaving me. I cannot bear it I"

You see who was right after all. Where
would you find another to put up with you as
I've done ? I was always good to you, Berna,
always. I never lifted my hand to you, though

VOL. iir. p

you've often angered me sore. Maj-be, if I'd
beaten you more, things might have been better
for us all; but my heart wouldn't let me.
Many's the time, when you were a child, you've
turned and looked at me with those big eyes of
yours, till I wondered sometimes if you were
right in your head."

"Perhaps I was not, mother  perhaps I am
not now."

"I don't know that I would go as far as
that. You've improved wonderfully since I've
had you all to myself to train up in the way
you should go, through green pastures and beside
still waters. It's inconceivable the effect good
example has. Besides, you wanted taking down,
and you have been taken down. Goodness knows
it's a broken and a contrite heart you've caused
me; but if the disgrace is of benefit to you in
the long-run, you'll not hear me complain. As
my father used to say, when I was running my
legs off, first for one and then for another, ' The
last person you ever think of is Milly Vince.' "

Shall I put a pillow to your back, mamma ?"

"What would I want with a pillow? To
hear you talk, anybody might think I was getting
ready for my grave. I'd be easy enough, mind
and body, if it wasn't for wondering what we'll
do about money."

** I wish you would not vex yourself about
money. We shall get enough, somehow."

If that isn't your father all over ! I never
could get him to listen to a word about his
affairs ; and see the end he came to. And then
there's you wouldn't behave as you ought. Why,
we might have been rolling in comfort, instead
of starving with the cold and hunger, had you
known how to keep yourself to yourself, and
leave a man alone who wanted to have no sort
of say to you."

"Perhaps I was all wrong," agreed Berna
meekly; " but do not think about that now."

I wonder if you wrote to Richard Vince, and
said you were sorry for the shame and trouble
you have brought on us all, and will try to bea
better girl in the future, whether he would
send us a few pounds ?"

I do not know, mamma. I can try."

"After all, maybe it might be better not tolet
yourself down too low. He would perhaps
cast it up to 3'ou afterwards. Ah ! he is the mean
wretch, and she's not much better ; and that just
minds me of something I want to say to Ruth.
Call her, Berna."

How are you feeling yourself now, mem ?"
asked Ruth, as she entered.

"0, I am well enough ! Ism only sitting
over the fire resting myself. I'm not going to
die yet awhile  I'm not thinking of dying.
Still, I suppose even the best of us must go to a
better world sometime. More's the pity. I am
sure this world is good enough for me ; but, of
course. He that made it ought to be able to judge,
and it's not everybody is contented and happy
like me."

'rit's not everybody wants to stop here,"
remarked Ruth, feeling something was expected
from her.

"Isn't that what I've been saying? Well,
when I have to go  I'm not going yet, and it's

likely as not, with my good temper and fine constitution,
and easy way of laughing at the worst
of troubles, I might live a couple of hundred
years yet. But supposing I happened to be
needed in heaven in a hurry, and had to start
at once, I want to tell you, I'll never rest in
my grave if you put me in Dundunald churchyard."


** Mamma, mamma !" moaned Berna.

What's the matter now ? I am not afraid like
you. I've done my duty faithfully, and no one
can say a word to me whenever I go. What I
want you both to promise me is, that someway
you'll get me to Bally sure. It's no use talking
to Richard Yince. He'd lay me in any hole
the back of a ditch he'd consider good
enough for me. Do quit crying, Berna; it
provokes me to see you. Can't I speak about
a funeral or anything comfortable without starting
the tears running down your cheeks like
pebbles ?"

"If it'll be any ease to you, mem," said
Ruth  and her own eyes were not dry or her

voice quite steady  " I'll promise to do all
that lies in my power to take you where you
want ; still, you must mind it's a long, long road."

** I know that. But I never was one made
any objection to travelling ; and I'd be decently
put in the ground there, which I wouldn't here.
The people for miles round would come to the
burying just for curiosity, and on Sundays
they'd be saying to one another, * This is where
Milly Vince is that made the great match.'
While at Dundonald, if anybody ever talked
about me at all, it would be only as the widow
woman whose daughter went off with a man
wanted nothing to say to her of any sort or
description."

When you cannot stay with us, mamma,"
said Berna, in a voice choked with tears, "we will
try to do what you wish."

Say you will do it, and then I'll be content.
With all your faults, I never knew you break
your word. You will ? That's right ; not that you
could have done less, after all I've gone through
for you. And, Kuth, you'll see me over yourself,

won't sou '? All I it's a fine heartsome place
up there ; not like this, nothing but trees and
houses, but bare as my hand, with the wild
wind sweeping across it. When I get better, we'll
go and take a look at my calf-ground, won't we,
Berna ?"

*eye-es, mamma."

Did you ever see her like ?" demanded Mrs.
Boyle : " roaring and crying as if she wasn't a
year old. For all you've been such a bad child
to your mother, you're fond of me, though, aren't
you, Berna ? And I think you might as well write
a line to Richard, and try if he can't be shamed
to sending a crumb or two from his wasteful
table to prevent his own uncle's daughter dying
of starvation."

I will write tomorrow," said Berna, deferring
the evil day ; but when the morrow came there
was no need for her to write. A letter arrived
from Bath, enclosing a banker's draft for fifty
pounds.

'we're made now  we'll do yet!" exclaimed
the widow ; and there was a terrible contrast

between her jubilant words and cracked weak
voice. "I knew the old woman couldn't hold
out for ever. She's got to a time of life when,
if she intends to make her soul, she ought to
be making it. She'll be sending us lots of
these  maybe one a month, I wouldn't wonder
a single bit."

We can have a doctor from Belfast to see
you now," suggested Berna, feeling it better to
defer the question of future benefactions.

It oughtn't be so ill done, though I
grudge the money, and would rather put it past
to buy a new dress for myself. I think if I
only could get as far as Lindsay's, and see what
they have fit to put on my back, I'd feel a heap
the better for it. But there, where's the use of
talking in a place where's there not a car standing
for hire !"

The new doctor did not fall into the mistake
the old had done. He said the patient ought
to be kept up, and that she was quite at liberty
to rise, and even walk in the sunshine, when
she felt strong enough to do so.

"Well!" he exclaimed, echoing Mrs. Boyle's
question, " of course you will soon be as well as
ever you were ;" and then, when he was going
away, he said to Berna, " Better keep your mother
cheerful. Nothing accelerates the progress of
disease so much as despondency. With care,
the poor lady may still last some months."

"Do you mean that she is dangerously ill?"
asked Berna. " Cannot you cure her ?"

The College of Physicians could not do
that," he answered gravely ; " it's a mere question
of time."

Yes, it had come to be a mere question of
time, and not a long time either. Though
patterns were sent for and brought out to Clear
Stream, that new dress was never bought. Mrs.
Boyle thought she would let the purchase " stand
over " till able to go into Belfast herself, and turn
everything upside down in her search for a bargain.
Before a month had passed she began to
wander a little at times, and talk of the old days
and her father, as though both were still present.
In that delirium, caused by utter physical exhaustion,

there was nothing said Berna had not
heard hundreds of times before, when the sufferer
was strong and well ; but the story sounded
differently when heard in the watches of the
night ; when the feeble voice smote upon the ear
with a weird sense of unreality, and mirth
sounded strange, and weak laughter horrible, in
view of the grim presence that pervaded a room
in which Death could almost be seen, waiting
patiently for his victim.

She recalled all the old scenes  tossing restlessly,
she would murmur the name of someone
who had been lying for years under the
churchyard sod. She had many fretful complaints
to make about the Boyless' *' wicked hatred
against a harmless young wife;" but of later
events her memory happily seemed to hold no
account.

In her lucid moments  if, indeed, lucid is a
word which could ever properly be applied to that
unstable, wandering mind  she conceived the
wildest infatuations to see all sorts and conditions
of persons.

She would have liked the very beggars
brought in, that she might talk to them, and
occasionally grew quite excited when her fancy
was crossed.

But through all she never forgot to seek her
daughter's hand ; never seemed content when
Berna left the room. Restless while dying as
she had been in the days of her health, she could
not remain quiet for any lengthened period ;
indeed, at the last, Ruth would not have known
she was dead, had it not been for the sudden
and utter stillness of the room. It was at the
dead of night, and Berna hoped her mother slept.
Ruth, however, stole noiselessly to the bedside,
and, lightly moving the sheet, looked at a face
on which the gray shadows were already settling.
"It is all over, Miss Berna dear," she said, in a
solemn whisper.

Yes, it was all over; and the noblest and
least selfish woman that ever breathed could not
have been nursed with greater care, or mourned
over with truer, tenderer grief.

She'll trouble nobody any more," was Miss

BERXA BOYLE.

Muir's comment, in a tone which implied Mrs.
Boyle had been a long-suffering saint, throughout
her life misunderstood and persecuted by the
inhabitants of a wicked world.

Probably no man ever, in a religious and respectable
way, felt more rejoiced than Mr. Vince, when
he heard that 'almighty God, of His great
mercy, had taken unto Himself the soul of"
Millicent, relict of Ulick Boyle.

Of course he said it was a very sad thing ; but
he did not think so  quite the contrary. Had he
spoken out his mind, people would have found
he looked upon Mrs. Boyle's "translation" as a
most happy event.

Had it been possible for him to unbend, he
could have shouted and danced for joy. She had
been a thorn in his flesh, a cramp to him, a
running sore, a dread by day and a terror by
night; and now he had done with her, at all
events, till he too passed the boundary, when he
earnestly hoped he should find himself in a
world wide enough to avoid all chance of contact
with his own first cousin.

"My dear," he said to Mrs. Yince, "I have
bad news from Dundonald. That objectionable
person, Mr. Muir, called at the office to-day, tolet
rae know Mrs. Boyle died at a quarter to two
this morning. I at once went out to Clear
Stream Cottage to offer such assistance as might
be required."

That was most good and kind of you," exclaimed
Mrs. Yince, even while she thought that
this extraordinary act of generosity was merely
a thank-offering to whatever might be considered
as an equivalent to the Blessed Virgin in the
mind of a good Presbyterian.

At such a time I could not remember any
small pique of my own, or any indiscretion on
the part of Miss Boyle," answered Mr. Yince,
with a modest consciousness of virtue.

'thank you, Eichard, thank you heartily."

** While Haffey was calling a car, I wrote a
couple of letters, communicating the distressing
intelligence to the Dowager and Sir Herbert
Boyle. I thought"

They would be as glad to hear the news as



yourself," was Mrs. Vince's mental finish to the
sentence, but she only said, " Of course they
ought to know, and as soon as possible, too."

*' If it had not been for that unfortunate business
about young Muir, Miss Boyle might have  "
"Fiddlededee!" interrupted Mrs. Vince. "The
Dowager will see to her now poor Mrs. Boyle is
out of the way."

You think so ?"

*' Don't think  feel sure. Richard, we must
have the girl here at once."

Mr. Yince cleared his throat twice.

Do you know, Marcella," he said, " I think
we ought to proceed cautiously. Impulse is very
well, but prudence is better. I do not wish to
say one word which might cause you to imagine
T found fault with your kindness to my relative ;
for in estimating it, I never can forget it was
on one connected with me you showered benefits.
Still, we may do well to remember that
it involved us in much unpleasantness with the
poor creature who is gone, and that we have
children of our own growing up, for whom

Miss Boyle would prove an undesirable companion."


'' We must make up our minds, though, now
as to what we mean to do about her," answered
Mrs. Vince. " While we are hesitating, the
Boyless will have invited the girl ; then it will be
too late for us to take the initiate."

' But only consider, my dear, the talk there
has been about her."

Put an end to it by asking her here. Everyone
will understand she never could have been
invited to Craigvallen unless you were quite satisfied
that she was not to blame."

*' There is much in what you say," agreed
Mr. Yince ; and then he paused, as if, struck
afresh by his own greatness, he was anxious to
survey it.

"All this time I have forgotten to ask how
Berna herself is."

The old servant says but poorly. She was
lying down, being completely exhausted. I propose
to go to the cottage again early tomorrow.
Meantime, I have left all necessary instructions.

The only difficulty seems to be that Mrs. Boyle
expressed some sort of wish to be buried at
Ballynure, which of course is out of the question.
Why should she wish to have all that was
mortal laid at Ballynure ?"

'why, indeed," echoed Mrs. Vince, "having
once left that earthly paradise ?"

Such a proceeding would be most inconvenient
and  undesirable," remarked Mr. Yince.

Of course it would. All I hope is that she
has not extracted any promise from Berna about
the matter."

"That is exactly what I fear she has done;
and though such a promise must, under the circumstances,
have been of necessity conditional,
still it is not improbable Miss Boyle may attach
undue importance to it."

Then I ought to go to Clear Stream with
you to talk to tie poor girl. What can it matter
where we are buried ?"

In his heart Mr. Vince considered it mattered
a great deal to him ; but he did not express this
sentiment, for he honestly considered Mrs. Boyle

VOL. III. Q

ought to have had no preference on the subject,
and that if her mind were so ill-regulated as to
entertain one, no human being was bound to
regard it.

Berna, however, held a different idea. She
bad promised that her mother should be buried
at Ballynure, and she meant to keep her word to
the letter. She was obliged to Mr. Vince, and
grateful to his wife ; but she stuck to her text.
No argument could induce her to waver. It was
the last wish of her dead that she could ever
gratify ; and though Mr. Yince evinced anger and
Mrs. Vince regret, she said she was sorry to go
against their advice and wishes, but the funeral
must take place at Ballynure.

Kuth and I can see to it all, Mr. Vince,"
she faltered; "we must not trouble you."

Of course it is necessary I should attend to
the matter," answered Mr. Vince, rising in stern
anger. He was not accustomed to be crossed;
and from the first, as he thought, the dead woman
and her daughter had disputed his will.

Do not ask that girl to my house," he said

to his wife. " The Boyless may do as they like ;
but I will sever the connection now. She is as
self-willed as her mother was foolish. Nothing
but evil and annoyance can come of continuing
the acquaintance."

I did ask her," answered Mrs. Vince ; '' and
she refused to come."

All the better," retorted Mr. Yince.

If there be any truth in the old adage, Mrs.
Boyle's corpse ought to have been happy exceedingly.
On the day she was buried, a wild storm
of wind and rain swept over the lonely graveyard
where she elected to lie " among her own." From
far and near the Vince clan gathered to do honour
to one who had been, as a toothless old gentleman
declared, the " flower of the flock." Mr.
Vince, muffled up to his ears, scanned "his
family "from beneath the shade of a huge umbrella,
and decided he had never previously conceived
there were so many Vinces on earth.

But they all treated him with great deference,
and the clergyman, seemingly possessed by an
idea that the rich man was broken-hearted by

reason of his loss, shook hands in quite a touching
way after the service, and said, "In the
midst of life we are in death," and '* We are here
to-day and gone tomorrow," and " Comparatively
quite a young woman, I understand ;" while the
countryside, assembled in force, collectively
touched its hat, and felt greatly elated because
Richard Charles recognised and stopped to speak
with a few persons in the crowd.

*' The poor mistress had as grand a funeral as
heart need desire to see," sobbed Ruth, as she sat
before a '' neighbour woman's " fire, while her
soaked garments were being dried; and popular
opinion fully confirmed this statement. Mr. Vince
had " done the business " thoroughly. He had
disliked the idea of returning to the scenes
of his youth  to the place where he and his
had been so poor; but money judiciously spent
could have made an even worse experience pleasant.


There was no one who could have accused him
of meanness in connection with his cousin's
funeral. Everything was " befitting."

If she had been a countess he could have
done no more," was the unanimous verdict.
Every one was satisfied  even the Vinces, who
had a carouse at the village public, paid for by
Eichard Charles. That good man and true, on
the plea of being obliged to return at once to
Belfast, declined to take so much as a crust with
his relatives; but perhaps on this account they
enjoyed themselves all the more.

'the daughter will go to her father's relations,"
decided the Yince connection. " She'll be
best out of Ireland after that trouble with young
Muir."

Perhaps she may refuse their offer," ventured
one sceptic.

"Trust her!" was the answer; 'she'll jump
at the chance."

But Berna did not jump at the chance when
it came in her way.

'*I should much prefer being independent,"
she said to Mrs. Yince, who drove out to Clear
Stream in order to discuss the Dowager's letter
with her. "You know, none of papa's family

ever liked mamma, and supposing I turned to
them now, it would seem as if  as if  "

''Xs if what?" asked Mrs. Yince a little
sharply.

'ras if I was not so sorry as I am, because
mamma is dead ; they might even think I felt
glad she was gone."

Good Heavens, who would not be !" thought
Mrs. Vince, but she only said aloud,

"My dear child, be reasonable; do try to look
at things from a rational point of view. Knowing
what you gave up for your poor mother, how
could the Dowager possibly misjudge you now?
Besides, you see what she says, ' Death pays all
scores.' "

"I do not imagine the Dowager quite thinks
that; I do not know exactly how she could,"
answered Berna, remembering the years of estrangement
between her father and his family,
recalling the period during which her mother
had worn and tried the Boyless, and dragged
their pride and dignity through the dust of
earth's commonest roads.

I believe the DoYage to be perfectly honest
in what she writes," returned Mrs. Yince ; 'rand,
at all events, you have no right to peril your
whole future for the sake of any sentiment, no
matter how natural, loyal, or lovable that
sentiment may be. It is your life you have to
make or mar now, not your mother's. Cherish
her memory as much as you like, but j'ou can
do that quite as well living among good people,
and moving in a good rank in life, as moping
here in sackcloth and ashes, or earning your
bread, a thing which your father's daughter
ought not to do. You owe a duty to both your
parents. You have amply discharged that due
to your mother. Now consider your father a
little. If he were alive, what would he tell
you to do as regards going to Cheltenham ?"

Berna did not answer. She walked to the
window and looked out. She threw up the
sash, and plucking a rose, began studying it
intently.

"Well, what are you puzzling about'' asked
Mrs. Yince.

"I do not know that even  " began the girl
slowly.

That even what ?" asked Marcella.

That even if my father were here, his advice
could help me much. In the first place, had he
not died I could never have been situated as I am.
In the second, I doubt very much whether advice
is really so useful as people imagine."

I don't know that it is," agreed Mrs. Yince,
remembering how entirely she had managed
that business of Eichard Charles for herself,
both before marriage and after. " But we need
scarcely enter upon an abstract argument about
the matter. Supposing you are right, what
then r

"I have only been thinking that putting my
mother out of the question, perhaps  perhaps I
ought not to go to Cheltenham at all  now, or
ever  except for an occasional visit. It is not as
though I had remained with the Dowager from
the first. That would have altered matters. I
have lived half a lifetime  at least so it seems
to me  since she bade me choose between my

mother and herself, and I am old enough
now to know what she did once she may do
twice."

You mean  "

"I mean that some day we might again differ
in opinion, and after leading a Hfe of luxury I
should find it harder to face the world than would
be the case at present."

There is some sense in what you say, though
I do not think there is very much," answered
Mrs. Yince. '' At all events, I do not suppose it
can be necessary for you to decide on any special
course immediately, and you have money enough
for all present requirements."

*' Yes, quite enough," Berna answered ; but
she did not tell Mrs. Yince she had paid the debt
to Ruth, and all the other debts caused by her
mother's long illness, and that the amount remaining
in her purse would scarcely suffice to provide
herself and Ruth with bare necessaries for three
months.

She could have been frank enough with Mrs.
Yince alone, but behind that lady's kindly face

she always saw looming darkly the stern hard
presence of Eichard Charles.

I will try not to trouble any of them further,"
she thought with some bitterness ; which was
ungrateful, for Mrs. Vince really loved and had
her interest at heart.

'' Give Berna a little time," she wrote to the
Dowager. "Her wound is still very green and
tender ; besides which I really do think she cared
greatly for young Muir, and would have married
him had his relations been even ordinarily presentable."


So the Dowager waited; but Ulick Boyle's
daughter made no sign. Alone with Ruth in the
cottage at Clear Stream, Berna considered what
she was to do, with an aching heart.

Pretty Carline Cragland, who chanced to be
stopping at Ardilaw, came to say, " Robert had
bid her ask Miss Boyle whether she wouldn't stop
with them for a while."

It's a pleasant place we've got near Dumfries,"
she went on; 'rand you'd be quiet, and
could just do as you liked. I did not care for it

at first ; but now I'm well content. The air is
good, and I think the change would set up your
health."

The offer was kindly meant and kindly put ;
but Berna shook her head. " I must think about
earning my living," she answered.

And 0," cried Carline, shyly raising her
lovely eyes to Berna' s face, '' why couldn't you
have taken poor Gorman ? Sure, he'd never have
let you do a hand's turn ; he'd have worked his
fingers to the bone for you ; the very ground you
walked on was dear to him for your sake. Man
never cared for woman more than he cared for
you. A better brother could not have been, I
am sure ; when I was broken-hearted almost, and
fighting hard with my father not to take my
present husband, Gorman was more like a mother
to me than aught else. I am happy enough now
happier, maybe, than I had any right to expect
to be ; but I was sick and sorry, shamed and
tired of life, and longing to creep away and lie
down in some corner and die ; and I'll never
forget it to him, never, the way he'd come after

me, and talk about the trouble, till half its weight
seemed gone."

Berna had never heard the story of Ensign
Ludham's misdoings ; so Carline told it to her
then. With many a pause and many a gap and
many a hesitation, that love-dream, the end of
which had so nearly been disgrace, was related
to ears that burned as they listened.

It seemed an awful story to Berna ; she felt
as if she could have risen and done battle with
the man who had so nearly dragged down to ruina
trustful, innocent, foolish girl. And then more
and more she thanked God she had never let her
heart plead for Gorman so successfully as to
become a member of the Muir family.

I know Gorman has brought a heap of
trouble on you," went on Carline, unconsciously
planting another dagger in Berna's breast at the
very moment she was engaged in devout thanksgiving.
"He put it in people's power to talk,
but he never meant to vex you. It was my
father set him on. Robert always said that ; and
Sally heard a word or two let drop when they fell

out, the time Gorman left Ardilaw, that confirmed
his notion. My father's a just man and a good,
though he is hard ; but he can't stand being
crossed, particularly by a woman. For my own
part, I think most of us are as good as the
men, to say the least of it."

Good gracious ! and she might have married
into such a family as this if she had not been
wise as a serpent ! Berna shuddered. *' Better
be happy than proud," her old nurse had once
told her. " No  a thousand times no !" decided
the girl ; besides, she could not have been happy
amid such surroundings.

'rit will be no great hardship to earn my

own living; but I could not have borne that,"


she thought, as she stood at the cottage-door,

watching Mrs. Cragland tripping over the bridge

Gorman's feet had so often trodden. And next

day she said something about " earning her living"

to'Mrs. Gray, who had called to invite the girl

for a week or tyro over to Bangor.

*swell, if you are still set to go out, and

don't want any salary, I wouldn't say but we

could get on together," suggested Mrs. Gray.
You might make yourself very useful about the
house."

Berna felt a very demon of pride stirring in
her heart, but she did not actually say "no."
She knew the certainty of daily bread was not to
be despised  besides, this might prove an opening
to something better. ' Thank you," she said, '' I
will think of it."

"I'm in no hurry," returned Mrs. Gray;
take your own time."

So Berna stopped on at the cottage,
withering," to quote her nurse, whether to goto
Bangor or not. It was at this time she received
an offer which fairly astonished her. It
came from Miss Garnsey.

"I want a companion of my own age, sadly,"
explained that young lady. " I think we might
get on together. Will you try whether we can or
not ? Papa says he would like you to come "
which assertion was indeed quite true, Mr.
Garnsey having added it would be a comfort to
see a pretty face about the house for once. "Let

me drive you over to Beechfield, and you shall
see whether you like the old place."

Berna did not wait five minutes  she did
not wait one  before closing with this osier.
She asked no time to consider ; she took no
advice.

I shall he glad to go to you," she said
simply.

That is right ; when may I come hack for
you ? To-morrow ?"

"Yes  if you like," hesitated Berna.

0, Z shall like : tomorrow, then !" and Miss
Garnsey went off laughing.

"I hope it may be for sour good, my lamb,"
said Ruth ; but she said it doubtfully.

Gone to Beechfield, is she ?" remarked Mr.
Muir, when Bell told him the news. 'faith,
maybe she'd reasons best known to herself forgiving
my son the go-by."

Ay," capped Miss Muir, " Lyle Garnsey
would be a husband worth having, with Beechfield
at his back. But she hast got him yet"

Gone to Beechfield," thought Mrs. VincOj

as she folded up Berna's letter; " I wonder how
she will like that ? It is a mistake, but I must
try to make the best of the matter to the old
lady."

For some months Berna liked life at Beech-field
very much indeed. She was not a " companion
" in any sense save that of perfect equality
and friendship. Had she been her sister, Miss,
Garnsey could not have shown greater consideration
and kindness. She was treated like one of
the family, with such courtesy superadded, as
might have been extended to some honoured,
guest.

"I want you to feel Beechfield your home,"
said Miss Garnsey. " I wish to keep you here."
Of Mr. Garnsey they saw, till close on Christmas,
very little indeed. Most of the time he was
in Dublin ; and the two girls led a quiet peaceful
life, undisturbed by visitors, going into society not
at all. By slow degrees Berna's mind recovered
its tone. She grew stronger mentally and physically
; but the better her health became, the more

VOL. III. R

a certain pensive melancholy deepened. Little
by little she again took up the burden of existence,
helped to do so perhaps by Miss Garnsey,
who for some reason began to evince an interest
in other matters besides dogs and horses. The
grand piano, so long disused, was put in order.
Seated by the fire. Miss Garnsey goat through
a vast amount of needlework for the poor.
She liked Berna to read to her while thus engaged
 poetry and romance. Once she despised
song, verse, and fiction ; but she had " found her
heart," and learnt in suffering that lore which
might once have won for her love.

So far, they had exchanged no confidences.
There was a story about which neither spoke.
The weeks passed by, and Gorman Muir's name
was never mentioned, till one stormy day in January,
when Miss Garnsey broke a long and thoughtful
silence by saying, " So you did care for him,
after all!"

Berna was so surprised she could not answer.

I have been wondering ever since you came
here whether you did or not," went on Miss

Garnsey, laying down her work, and looking with
serious wistful eyes at the girl Gorman had loved.
"What made you treat him so hardly? Had a
man cared for me as much as he cared for you,
I must have ended by giving him my whole heart,
even though I hated him at the first."

Berna's head drooped a little, but she spoke
no word.

'' Did you part in auger ?" asked Miss Darnley.


"No."

Why did you send him away ?"

"I think you ought not to ask me."

I think I ought. Do you know, there was a
time when I should have been glad to see you
dead rather than his wife ; but that is all gone
and past. It was a hard thing for me to ask you
here. I had to fight a battle with myself before
I could fulfil the promise I made him. Did you
suppose I really wanted a companion, and that
companion a woman  I, who had lived all my
life alone or amongst men ?"

"I am very sorry," said Berna. It was a

feeble expression, but it was the first that rose
to her lips.

"You need not be sorry, for you have done
me good. I do not dislike you now, I like you ;
but I want to know  0, I do so want to know 
how you could find it in your heart to let him
go, loving him all the while, for you did love
him ?"

Yes, I loved him."

Then why did you not keep him ?"

I cannot tell jou," answered Berna.

You will not, you mean. If you had seen
him as I saw him the night he left, I think jon
would have said ' Stay.' We stood beside that
window, and he told me all. It was bitter suffering
for me to hear him speak as he did about
you  I, who would have given anything on earth
for one word of love ! Had he asked me to go
with him, I would have followed him through the
world ; I would have been thankful for even a
crumb of affection ! Shall I ever forget that
parting  ever  ever  ever ? My heart broke
when he said good-bye !"

Poor Berna ! If she never understood before,
she knew now her own heart was broken too.

And 3-0U would not stretch out a finger to
keep him ! You sent him away, a wanderer on
the face of the earth ! You deserve to be miserable,
and I rejoice to know jon are !"

"lam miserable!" The words were wrung
from the very depths of her soul.

Yet if he came back again now this minute,
what would you say to him ?"

"I do not know."

''I do. You would say, 'I will not marry
you.' And then, when he went a second time,
you would like him to return and pray to you
once more. His father stood between the wind
and your nobility, forsooth ! Had it been my
case, I would have taken him, father or no father,
sisters or no sisters I Adhere could you find a
man like him  strong, tender, generous, impulsive,
yet staunch ? 0, when I think of the way
he spoke about you  as of one scarcely lower
than the angels  I wonder how you could treat
him as you did!"

YhJ did he"

"Why did he talk to me about you  is that
it ?" asked Miss Garnsey, as Berna paused. "Because
he was anxious ; he knew you were lonely ;
he feared you might want a friend. He asked
me to be your friend, if you ever stood in need of
one ; and I, poor fool, could refuse him nothing.
It was hard to do what I did ; but, God knows,
if it had been fifty times harder, I would have
done it for his sake  I would, I would."

Berna put out her hand, but Miss Garnsey
would have none of it.

** Don't do that," she said. " Since you came
here I have asked myself over and over again
what charm there is about you which could so
enslave a man. I do not know; but, then, I ama
woman. Do not mind what I say. I would
not say it if I could help it ; but when I think
of how he cared for you, I seem to  "

She broke off in the middle of her sentence,
and began pacing up and down the room.

'' Do you wonder why I talk in this way to you
now ? It is because I want you to do one thing for

him. I want you to take your grandmother's
offer, and go to her. He hoped she would ask
you ; he hoped you would agree ; he loved you
better than himself; he understood you thoroughly."


Do you wish me, then, to leave here ?"

"No, not irish ; but you cannot stop much
longer. Are you so blind as not to see why ?"

What can you mean ?"

I mean  no ; stay, if you like, and find out
for yourself; only, should anything disagreeable
occur, do not blame me. As I gather, if you
reject your grandmother's latest advance, it will
never be renewed. I may tell you she has written
also to me, and that I am sure you ought to consider
her wishes. Granted that she did not like your
mother  there was no sin in that. You told me
she sent money to her ; what more could she do ?
You cannot force people to love each other by
Act of Parliament. What she says is perfectly
true : if you must be a companion, be a companion
to her. She is old ; she is lonely ; she
wants some one to talk to. She thinks it unfitting

you should occupy a subordinate position
in a stranger's house ; so do I. No one, except
yourself, can imagine why you have so long declined
to go to her. You ought to go."

Her last letter to me was certainly most
kind," said Berna, with thoughtful slowness,
mentally recalling each word it contained.

Perhaps you may have had some absurd
idea that you ought not to leave me," scoffed
Miss Garnsey; 'that I could not do without
you ; that you were bound in gratitude to remain
and keep me company in this delightful house.
If you had any idea of the sort, dismiss it. I
managed to exist before you came ; I daresay I
shall contrive to live after you go. You know
now why I asked you here. It was not easy forme
to ask you ; but your society has been pleasant.
Remember that ! 0, here comes papa !
Really we ought to feel honoured ; I do not know
when he spent so much time in the drawing-room
as he has done during the last fortnight  not
within my memory, at all events."

What is not within your memory, Lydia ?"

asked Mr. Garnet, gently closing the door behind
him.

The delight of seeing yon beside the
domestic hearth." answered his daughter. " You
seem lately to have developed quite an affection
for this spacious apartment."

Miss Boyle has altered its character," he
said gallantly. '* I do not know how I can ever
thank her sufficiently for making you feminine.
Like the rose, you lacked one grace, my dear.
Like the angel, Miss Boyle has conferred it."

*what a delightful compliment to us both!
Unaccustomed as I am to flattery from the
paternal Hps, I feel incompetent properly to express
my thanks. You must make some pretty
speeches for me in my absence," she added, turning
to Berna. '' Perhaps, if you are very good,
you might persuade papa to explain to you exactly
what he means by the word feminine  possibly
needlework and poetry, singing and use of the
globes."

You are a very saucy girl," said Mr.
Garnsey, following his daughter with his eyes, as

she moved to the door. ''I wish, Miss Boyle,
you could make Lydia walk across a room as
well as you do."

These personal remarks hurt my feelings,
papa," remonstrated Miss Garnsey. *' I shall goat
once, as I do not know what you may say
about me next. Do not make our young friend
too vain, though. Admirable as she is, it might
be possible to spoil her;" and Miss Garnsey was
not seen again till she appeared at luncheon.

Where is Miss Boyle, Anna ?" she asked the
maid who was waiting.

If you please, ma'am. Miss Boyle has a
headache, and hopes you will excuse her."

Miss Garnsey said nothing while she helped
her father to a cutlet. When they were alone,
however, she looked across the table and smiled.

"I am afraid," she remarked, "you have
been almost too complimentary to Miss Boyle;
like myself, she is not accustomed to flattery."

Mr. Garnsey bit his lip, but made no rejoinder.
He poured out a second glass of wine,
and drank it off. Miss Garnsey finished her

piece of pudding, and thought about many
things.

Yhat are 3'ou doing?" she asked, entering
Berna's bedchamber, where she found that young
lady on her knees before a trunk.

Packing," was the explicit reply.

What is the matter ? What has happened ?"

"I must leave here at once."

]\Jiss Garnsey burst out laughing. " So sou.
have found out for yourself ! I knew it was
coming. You would not take good advice, you
see."

For answer Berna covered her face with her
hands, and broke into passionate weeping.

"Don't cry like that  it will do no good;
don't, child !" and Miss Garnsey sat down on
the cai-pet beside her, looking very much inclined
to cry too.

''I could not have believed any man would so
insult a girl," sobbed Berna.

There came a set stern expression about Miss
Garnsey's mouth.

You did not know worthy father," she said.

Berna's tears flowed without restraint. She
rocked herself to and fro in an abandonment of
misery.

"It was very bad, then?" suggested Miss
Garnsey at last.

Very  bad  dreadful !"

I am horribly sorry. Did he say anything
about Gorman Muir ?"

"Yes. 0, what am I to do?  what am I todo
?" cried the girl hysterically.

"Dry your eyes and bathe your face, and
then we will talk things out together. Tears
won't mend affairs. Do as I tell you, while I
think matters over."

No one who had only seen Miss Garnsey
tramping about the country with her dogs could
have imagined the soft affection, the womanly
tenderness, with which she took Berna, who could
not restrain or control a passion of grief that
amounted to a paroxysm, in her arms, and drew
the weary head down on her shoulder.

My poor child  my poor, poor child ! Ah,
there was one who would have shielded you from

all this, if you had let him. Where is he now,
I wonder ?"

"You will not prevent my going?" moaned
Berna.

No ; but we must think where you are to
go. Wait  wait. Yes, that is the best plan.
Mrs. Vince will help you. She will tell you
what to do. Of course I know Mr. Vince was
vexed at your coming here ; but Mr. Vince is not
Mrs. Vince. I will go with you to Craigvallen ;
and when I have seen you safe there, I can come
back by myself."

No ; I must not take jou out on such a day.
Besides, I shall be better alone."

Miss Garnsey hesitated.

'You will promise to be guided by Mrs.
Vince's advice ?" she said at last.

Yes  implicitly."

'rand 3'ou will accept your grandmother's
offer?"

I suppose I must."

Do not speak so mournfully. Th-e prospect
is not very dreary."

0, if you knew what your father said I"

I do not want to know what he said, and
you had better forget all about it as soon as
possible. If his remarks drive you to Cheltenham,
they will have effected a splendid result. I
shall see you safe to the train, at any rate. Do
not wait to pack your clothes ; I will attend to
that afterwards. Have you money? Here is
my purse. You can repay me any time or no
time. When Gorman Muir comes back, what
shall I tell him ?"

He will never come back," answered Berna.
*' He told me he never should."

"Never is a long time. A man always comes
back, except from the grave," returned Miss
Gamsey sententiously. " I wonder what Mrs.
Vince's advice will be ?"

Mrs. Yince's advice assumed the form of a
statement.

iien Berna had said all she had to say, the
wife of Richard Charles rang the bell.

Tell John," she said, "to have the carriage
at the door in time to catch the Liverpool boat."

The Crimean War was over. Englishmen had
clone what England expects her men to do  their
duty. The pride of Russia was temporarily
snuffed out. On the 30th September 1855, or
on the Sunday following, a thanksgiving had been
offered up in all churches and chapels in England
and Wales, and in the town of ,
couched in that propitiatory language
which modern divines seem to think must find
favour in the eyes of The Almighty.

But spite of all our protestations we were not
humble, and we had not been so very good.
On the contrary, we, as a nation, were uplifted
greatly. We felt we stood above all other
nations ; once again we were on our own dunghill,
and crowed greatly. The men who had died,
the men who had suffered, we reckoned as little
or nothing. To compass peace, to send up the

Berne BOYLE.

Funds, we felt quite content to know women were
widows, and children orphans. Had we shown a
bold front at first, there need not have been so
many widows and orphans. History repeats
itself. What was being done in the Crimea in
1854-5 is being enacted now in Egypt. If we
manage to get clear out of Egypt, we shall wipe
our saintly mouths, and think we have inaugurated
a reign of peace for ever.

The Indian Mutiny followed that small trouble
in the Crimea. We have had several tiny wars
since then. Perhaps England might be wise to
abandon her intent study of the Three per Cents,
and look back over the road she has travelled.

Before me, while I write, lies a copy of that
wonderful prayer of thanksgiving  especially " for
the Capture of the Town of Sebastopol."

Reading, I can but consider what a marvellously
self-sufficient and foolish race we are.
Experience seems to teach us nothing. At the
close of each war we sit down to inaugurate a
Millennium evolved out of our own internal
consciousness. Even the Times  while admitting

the fact that we had added in one year
16,000,000Z. to our National Debt and exposed
our troops to two terrible repulses  on the last
day of 1855 shook hands all round with its
readers, and congratulated them on not being in
the position of our vanquished foe, vvhose "trade
is almost annihilated," and who 'has been
driven to suspend specie payments !"

During the time that, according to the same
authority, " we were keeping keen wintry watch
on the Crimea, and executing the stern decree of
Providence on the great stronghold of a mighty
Empire," life in London was going on in very
much the same way, as though 'ewe" had not
been fighting at all. People danced and gave
dinner-parties, went to balls and spent money,
married and were given in marriage, died and
left personalties which the Illustrated London
Neivs reported just in the same way as it did last
week, and as it will do next.

A few thousand men were killed ; there was
mourning in many homes ; but the great mass of
Englishmen went forth to their labour and their

VOL. in. s

pleasure as regularly and calmly as they might
have done had we been at peace with Russia.

Two ladies, at all events, who resided in a
small house in Mayfair, pursued the even tenor
of existence with a regularity which bordered on
monotony. One was old, the other young; one
was Mrs., the other Berna, Boyle. They had been
living together for nearly twenty-four months, a
time long enough to prove to the Dowager that
most human plans are vanity. She had wished
her young relative to marry well, and Berna would
not marry at all. Suitors had come, and suitors
had gone, but the girl smiled on none of them.
It never became necessary to tell any man that old
story the Dowager felt ought to be confided only
to a future husband. Berna had slipped out of
her teens, and was close on three-and-twenty,
and yet she seemed as far off marring as ever.
Living in an atmosphere of ease and luxury, her
beauty had developed till few girls could be found
to compare with her, even in London, that great
conservatory of English beauty. Figure, face,
voice, manners, were alike charming. Looking

at her, the Dowager would shake her heal
sadly.

"A spoiled life," she thought, *' if she never
can bring herself to care for any one."

About the beginning of the year 185G, when
peace with Russia was celebrated with such rejoicing,
Mrs. Boyle's spirits rose in what seemed
to Berna an unaccountable manner.

Nothing, so far as she knew, had occurred to
cause this change. Her own heart felt as sad a&
ever. Go where she would, do what she chose,
one face, she believed she should never see again,
looked at her across the years ; one voice sounded
in her ears ; words tender and passionate haunted
her. When other men came wooing she contrasted
their colder utterances with sentences
which were full of fire. She had never been kind
to him, and now he was gone she knew what a
Avast the world seemed. Away from contact with
the members of his family, she half forgot how
objectionable they were ; she knew her association
with them need only have been of the slightest.
He would have gone where she wished, done as

she liked ; her people should have been his people,
and her God his. She might have taken his hand,
and led him by the path of loTe up the heights of
heaven ; she had repelled affection which was
at least disinterested ; she had been hard and
cold. Ah, how often in the night-watches she
heard again his cry, "-dy cruel, cruel love !"
She had ruined his life ; she had driven him
from his country. Yhat was he doing ? what
had he done since they parted ? Married, perhaps.
And then her lonely heart sobbed in sorrow
and bitterness over the supreme misery of its
empty desolation.

She knew now what she had lost, what she
had spurned. She had thought pride would
support her, but in the time of trial it proved
but a broken reed.

They were sitting alone after dinner, silent
in the quiet firelight. Berna thought her grandmother
was asleep, till this sentence broke the
stillness :  

"Berna, I want to speak to you seriously."

''I will give serious attention," answered the

girl, wondering who the fresh suitor might be, 
but not doubting that a fresh suitor had arisen ;
for the world supposed she would be an heiress,
and where the prey is, there the birds of the air
gather together.

'during the time you have lived with me I
have kept strictly to the spirit of the two promises
I voluntarily made to you : one, that I
would not mention your mother:* with any feeling
of ill-will ; the other, that you should not be
urged into any uncongenial marriage."

What you say is more than true, and I have
often longed to thank 3'ou for your forbearance."

''I have been disappointed," went on the
Dowager ; '' it would be idle for me to deny that.
I hoped you would have married long ere this.
Though still strong and active, I am getting old,
my dear, very old ; and what I desire most in
this world is to see you settled before I receive
that summons none of us can refuse to obey."

 " How could I live without you ?" murmured
the girl.

Indeed, I do not know. Without a home of

 TOur own, "without home-ties, I fear you would bea
most miserable woman. Gaiety appears to have
no charm for yon ; the troubles of your girlhood
seem to have clouded your life. Your tone of
thought is grave, not to say sad ; you are earnest ;
Tou want work of some kind. You need an
interest in existence. If I were dead, where and
with whom could you live '? Herbert's wife is all
very well, but she is wrapped up in her children ;
and there is no niche in that household you would
fill. I want you to marry, my child. When you
have a husband who will take care of you, I shall
feel happy  but not till then"'

"I wish I could do what you desire, but it is
beyond my power''

' Men have proposed for you most girls would
have been proud to accept."
'I know that."

Then why will you not marry ?"
'' Because I can care for none of them."
' Is that because you care for some one else ?
Berna dear, be frank with me. There must bea
reason for your indifference. When youth,

wealth, rank, and talent come courting, girls are
not usually so cold as you."

There was a dead silence, during which Berna
heard nothing, save the moan of her desolate
soul.

If what I am going to say be true, do not
deny it. Make no answer, and I shall know.
You loved that youni]j man Muir : tou love him

Iso  I

still r

''It is not my fault," said Berna deprecate

I have not accused you of any fault."
"It is not of my own free will I ever think
of him," declared Berna, with burning cheeks
and trembling voice. '' If I could but forget  if
I only could forget, you should not have any
cause to find fault with me."

I am not finding fault with you."
'I do not know what you must think of such
folly. I feel ashamed of myself. To-night, when
I am alone, I shall recall what I have said just
now, and lament my own weakness more than you
can do."

' Are you certain it is weakness ?"
Yes, because from the first I knew he could
never be anything to me. And yet, if you had
seen him, you would understand how hard it
was to feel I must say ' no, no,' to the end."
''I have seen him, and I can understand."
You have seen him  lately !" and Berna's
heart gave a leap, and then seemed to stand still.
No, not for a long time  I saw him immediately
before he enlisted."

Enlisted ! Did you say enlisted ?"
Yes, that was what I did say."
Why did you never tell me that before ?"
Why should I ? What better or happier
would you have been for knowing he was facing
death?"

*' My God !" said Berna faintly, " I never
dreamed of this !"

He came to me and left some money in
my hands for you. I wish he were here to
reclaim it. Don't look so wretched, child. He
is not dead ; he has been badly wounded, but  "
"Wounded!"



"Where is j-our pride now?  if ever you had
any. Remember, you are giving your pity to a
common soldier."

I have no pride left," moaned the girl. ''
my poor Gorman  my handsome, gallant, daring
lover  to think of your serving in the ranks !"

*' It was the best thing he could do," retorted
the Dowager ; " and he did it for your sake. He
brought all he had in the world to me  for you ;
and I took it, because  well, I do not know why
I took it."

You have heard from him since he went
away ?"

Never  never once. He enlisted in a
feigned name. He has fought and suffered and
proved his courage in utter silence. Through
the years he has made no sign ; it is not likely
he will make a sign now. He put the barrier
between you he knew he could not leap. Better
forget him, Berna."

*' I can never do that."

*' But, my child, you could not marry a man
who has only about a shilling a day ; who has

mixed with the commonest and roughest in the
country; who must have sunk all pretensions
to being a gentleman ; dio is less your equal
now than he ever was ; who, mad though he may
have been in the past, would not be mad enough
again to ask you to be his wife."

*' No ; he will never ask me again now."
Then you ought seriously to think of marrying
some one else. I have told you that unless
you marry I shall only leave you one hundred a
year."

One hundred a year will be more than
enough for me."

*' Very well ; if you are satisfied it does not
signify, I suppose, that I am disappointed. Do
not try to coax me, child. Let us forget this conversation.
I hoped  but never mind what I
hoped. It is best that we have come to an
understanding. Somehow it seems to me you
have made a terrible mess of your life."
"And what have I made of his ?"
Precisely what you would make again if you
lead the chance ; besides, I daresay he has been

very happy. Our troops have had delightful
weather and a pleasant picnic in the Crimea.
Why should you fret ? One had hut to look at
Gorman Muir to know a soldier's life was the
very life for him."

Under what name did he enlist ?"

"Ah, that is my secret."

"You have some means of hearing about
him, dear, dear granny ?"

Yes, occasionally."

"If you should hear, will j-ou  "

' I cannot say ; I shall make no promise ; we
had better never recur to the subject again. It
is of no use, Berna, clinging about me and kissing
me. There  there ! when I know whether he
gets over his wounds, perhaps I may tell you.
Dear me ! if you were so fond of him, why did
you not marry him, and avoid all that dreadful
scandal, which I shiver to think of ? Well, what
is it now. Burton ? A gentleman by appointment
to see me ; 0, I remember  show him
into the drawing-room."

Before the Dowager returned, Berna had

leisure to go over the whole Crimean campaign
and picture Gorman as a prominent figure in
every charge which meant success to England.

Through a mist of tears she saw him fighting
wounded, suffering. Her heart was too full
for thought, as in a vision she saw scene after
scene passing before her eyes.

And I never knew," was the refrain of her
tired heart  " I never knew !"

All in the dark, Berna ?" said Mrs. Boyle
at last, lading a hand on the girl's shoulder.

"I  I had forgotten," she answered, startled;
*' I have been dreaming, I fancy."

Well, wake up now ; there is a trooper in the
drawing-room, who has brought me news of
Gorman Muir. You may go and talk to him if
you like. It seems the poor fellow has suffered
frightfully."

Berna rose, but then paused irresolute.

"Are you not anxious to hear what this person
has to say ? He knows your friend very well indeed.
His name is  John Jones."

Like one half blind, Berna moved slowly to

the door, and groped her way to the drawing-room.


Against the chimney piece, on which burned
one wax candle, leaned a man, whose face was
turned from her. Trembling she advanced towards'
him. As the rustling of her dress caught
his ear he looked up and turned !

He was pale and worn and wan, a mere shadow
of his former self, but with a glad cry she
recognised him.

"Gorman, Gorman !" she panted. Ah, what
had he not passed through since he asked her
so to call him.

My darling !" and he took her to his heart.
*****

"Well, this is very pretty!" exclaimed the
Dowager, entering shortly after, and surveying
the picture of her great-granddaughter standing
with face hidden on her lover's breast. " Really,
Mr. Jones, I think you are too bad ! Don't runaway,
you silly puss. After such conduct I shall
insist on your marrying this young man, if he is
still willing to take you."

May I many her this minute ?" asked
Gorman, his bronzed face radiant with happiness.


I think 3'ou had better make np your mind
to wait till tomorrow," laughed the Dowager.
Come, Miss Berna, you may give me a kiss. I
am a very happy old lady, my dear, and it is you
have made me so."

What I want to know," said Sir Herbert Boyle,
is this  what are they going to live on ?"

They are going to live," answered the
Dowager, " upon the income Mr. Trevassoii
decides to allow Mr. Muir, and the yearly amount
I shall settle on Berna."

I was not aware Mr. Trevassou had forgiven
his nephew."

Long ago he found out he had nothing to-forgive.
When his excellent wife eloped with
Colonel Denton, she left a letter behind boasting
of the division she had caused, and glorying in
her wickedness."

Then we may presume Mr. Muir will eventually
come into possession of Mount Michael '?"

I do not know. I believe he must eventually
succeed to Clonmellin. Both Mr. Gorman's
sons are dead, and by the deed of entail, failing

male heirs, the property reverts to the eldest
son of the eldest daughter."

"Upon my word, Berna has not done badly
for herself."

And what I propose to do is to leave half my
fortune to her and half to you."

Thank you," said Sir Herbert, who would
have liked it all. " And what about the Muir
family ?"

The happy couple will no doubt act as they
think best in that matter, tempering, probably,
intimacy with discretion."

'' I do not exactly see why, if Berna meant to
marry the man at last, she did not marry him at
first."

I should say she could not explain that little
puzzle herself. However, we needn't trouble our
heads trying to solve that enigma now."

When is the marriage to take place '?"

When the milliners and others are graciously
pleased to let us have the wedding
bravery."

Is not that Mr. Muir crossing the street?"

"Yes, with Major Ludbam. He saved the
Major's life, you know. I wonder how it is, they
do not 'seem to get on well together !"

Ludham is a confoundedly bad lot, though
he did fight like twenty demons. Am I to give
away the bride ?"

*' Of course. Miss Garnsey has expressed
her willingness to be bridesmaid on a curious
condition. 'I shall not come,' she writes to
Berna, ' unless I am assured the best man is
young and good-looking'' "
 " And is he ?"

He is one of the handsomest men in the
county Kilkenny."

*' So that everything promises to go off well ?"

"Very well. Mr. and Mrs. Vince and the
little Vinces are all coming over for the ceremony.
Mr. Trevasson hopes to be present, also
Mr. and Mrs. Gorman."

So that poor Mr. Muir is the only one left
out in the cold ?"

Poor Mr. Muir was invited, but he had the
rare good sense to decline for self and family."

VOL. III. T

I never was at so merry a wedding," said
Major Ludbam to Miss Garnsey, over the
breakfast. " It makes me quite long to begetting
married myself. My only regret is that
Muir would not let me have any finger in the
pie. As he got so badly wounded in my behalf,
I wanted to give him a wife, and he would not
let me. I then asked to be best man, and he
would not have me. Any one might think he
owed me a grudge for having stood between me
and death."

Miss Garnsey looked at the speaker very
steadily while she said,

** I do not suppose he is sorry he saved your
life ; but should you really think it likely that he
is glad r

He ought to be, considering the admirable
person I am, and how much I should like to
marry into the family, and have Mr. Muir for a
papa-inlaw. That pretty sister of his, Carline,
married some stupid farmer, I think ; but  happy
thought !  there is Bell. Do you know Bell, Miss
Garnsey ?"

Intimately."

Muir," called out the Major, " I do so
want to have another wedding. Do you think
your sister Bell would have me ?"

You can ask her," answered Gorman
grimly.

That would be worse than Balaclava !"
whispered the Major to his companion.

THE END,

London :
aOB"ON AND SONS, PRINTERS, TASCRAS Road. N.W.



'':.#.-'-

-

r'"''/f'  'J

y\S

".rl



1 '#>:

, r  " \ ;fe

*Sr

1. ~ ''-

''r" 

'%

"-. 'ffv-

u

V :; .

'*3#

I



j;:#>vrF;

sjd

z

-m

M&.

cg-m'-Q'-'M



/f#-<=3

 fS.

m

\ ' >' jy

-3

;:vp?;.

i

r#' : kP

V v >f' !'.--' ' - " /

-m


