CHAPTER I.

Enlightenment.

pow are you thinking of spending
your Christmas ?'

Very quietly,' answered Selwyn.
It was a question he had earnestly
desired to avoid, but with Mr. Kerry as
examiner-inches, and cross-examiner as well,
there was no escaping anything.

You'll be going down, I suppose, to your
old place ?'

No, my friends kindly asked me, but the
journey and other matters would cost too
VOL. II. 20

much, and besides, I should have to bethinking
about coming back as soon as I got
there.'

Why don't you ask for a week ? Cramsey
is giving me a week. If he hadn't I'd just
have taken one, so he thought he might as
well make a virtue of necessity.'

But you have been here a great deal
longer than I '

That makes no difference at all, and if It
did, what's the good of you and Trosdale
being as thick as thieves if he won't give
you a day or two extra ? Put it to him ; he'll
let you ofo without a word.'

I dare say he would ; but I don't care to
ask for leave so soon '

Soon !' interrupted Mr. Kerry ; * haven't
you been in this devil of a town for more
than five months ?'

I have ; but anyhow it would not be much
pleasure to me to go back to a place where
everyone belonging to me is dead.'

And sure you have nobody living belonging
to you here,' said the Irishman.

That is quite true,' answered Selwyn, not
very cheerfully.

I'll tell you what I'd like well you would
do,' began Mr. Kerry, after a short pause.

And that is ' prompted Selwyn, not

without many misgivings as to the particular
recommendation or suggestion which was to
follow.

Just for you to ask a week from Trosdale 
you'd get it right enough  and cross with me.
The cousin I'm going to see would welcome
you with all the veins of his heart ; and
though he's not exactly one of the tip-tops,
still he's a man as lives in as good a house as
you'd wish for ; farms his hundred statute
acres, and farms them well ; keeps a couple of
good riding horses  sometimes more  and a
brace of greyhounds. You would have a day
or two's good coursing  for his house is
under the shadow of Sleeve Donald  and no
end of diversion. They live like fighting-cocks
 turkeys and geese and game of all
sorts. There is nothing grand about the
place it is, maybe, a bit rough and tumble ;
but I don't know a visitor comes off any the
worse for that. They'd be that proud to
make you welcome I couldn't express. My
cousin is not to say an old man, yet he's not

20  2

SO young neither. He married a woman who
brought him more than herself"  what you
ought to look out for  a good fortune ; and
they have a couple of daughters  fine lumps
of girls as you'd wish to know  up to every
manner of devilment. Lord ! you should see
them at Hallowed. Well, a word's enough,
and I have spoken ten at the least. Will
you come with me  yes, or no ?'

I am afraid it must be " no," ' said Selwyn,
really touched by Mr. Kerry's kindness,
and struck by the novel household described.

Why must it ?' asked the other. ' They'd
make a king of you.'

I cannot say how friendly I think this is,'
said Selwyn, laying his hand on Second Liverpool's
Assistant's coat-sleeve ; ' but I do not
feel in spirits for general society at present.
As I told you, I mean to spend this Christmas
as quietly as possible.'

Well, you might be quiet as a hermit at
Inchbarran. You could have a room and the
mountains mostly to yourself, and not a living
soul to say, ' Why do you ?" or " Why don't
you ?" The change would be the making
of you. Say *' Yes  I'll come." '

I cannot Indeed. Thank you ever so
much ; but it is quite impossible.'

This refusal seemed to impress Mr. Kerry
greatly. He did not make any direct answer,
only began to kick his heels dolefully against
the leofs of the table on which he had seated
himself, while he broke into what, perhaps,
he intended for a lyrical exposition of the
joys Mr. Serle was casting from him :

" Each  I am her as makes the stir,
From Cork along by Skibbere-na,
All the day we drinks strong tay

An' whisky too, says North Creina." '

That is a very remarkable song you are
singing,' ventured Selwyn, as Mr. Kerry
triumphantly whooped out the last six words.

It's a right good one,' retorted Mr. Kerry,
who for some reason seemed to take Selwyn's
innocent observation in ill part. ' Maybe you
never heard the whole of it ?'

I never heard any of it before,' answered
the other.

" Oh ! who are ye that comes this way ?' "
resumed the singer,

' So like the Empress Deianira " '

'Like the Empress what ?' asked Selwyn,
fairly nonplussed.

Deianira, man  are you deaf ? There,
you have put me all out. That's one of
Phil's songs, and grand he sings it when he
has had a glass or two. You'd best change
your mind, and come along with me. You'll
never regret it ; and you needn't be thinking
it's wanting to catch you for either of the
daughters I am. They are both promised ;
girls like them can have their pick and choice.
It's all fair and aboveboard  feather-beds
you'll sink in, and that rise like mountains on
each side of you ; fires fit to roast an ox ;
spiced beef, the taste of which you'd never
forget ; as much of the best Danville's
whisky as ever you care put your lips to, and
lashing of everything. Now, I'll count on it
that you'll cross with me on the twenty-third.
So no more.'

Indeed, Mr. Kerry, I feel sadly vexed to
seem to slight your kindness, but I cannot
accept your invitation.'

And why can't you Y

For one reason, because I don't want to
spend the money.'

Why, it would be far and away cheaper
for you to go to Phil's than stay in your
lodgings. The fare over and back is next to
nothing, and it is only a step in the railroad,
and we get on by the mail-car that will
charge us two shillings a-piece  and elegant
travelling it is too. Ireland is not like here,
where you've to be putting your hand in your
pocket before you can cross a street almost.
They've only a couple of servant girls
at Inchbarran, and if you give them a
shilling a-piece they'll think they are made
men. Come, now, you won't be stiff
you'll bear me company on Tuesday sennight
?'

It is very kind of you,' Selwyn answered,
but I wish you would not press me, for I
have quite made up my mind to stay quietly
in Liverpool.'

Well, well !' exclaimed Mr. Kerry. ' Well,
well ! you are a queer fellow ! What are you
going to do with yourself?'

I will see when the time comes,' returned
Selwyn, badgered to death.

Who are you that ax my name } crooned
Mr. Kerry lugubriously, kicking his feet

against the les of the table in time to his
mournful ditty :

" Othello, Wat Tyler, or Julius Caesar,
Or are ye Venus of great facie,
Or that old fogey Nebuchadnezzar ;

Or maybe ye are Pluto stout,
Or jolly old Bacchus, drunk and hearty?"

It is to Trosdale's you're going for your
Christmas dinner, I suppose ?' he broke oft
suddenly to observe.

Selwyn flushed to his hair. He had hoped
that perchance he might escape ; but the
Irishman was inexorable.

]mr. Trosdale has kindly asked me,' he
replied.

I deemed as much,' said Mr. Kerry.
Then, after a moment, ' I deemed as much.
Bad luck to him for a Trosdale ! and bad
luck to him again I repeat. What did he
want meddling with you ? No franker,
pleasant young fellow, though I say it to
your face, ever came into this cursed old
barrack ; and you kept the same till my
gentleman laid a spell on you. And what
are you now? I'll tell you  another man ;
that's what Trosdale has done  changed you

as the fairies change babies. Ay, it is a
spell he has laid on you. When I am over
at Phil's, I'll speak to Father O'Neill about
the matter.'

I beg you will do no such thing,' cried
Selwyn in hot anger.

Ah ! there you go ; that is Trosdale allover.
He has got you safe enough. I had
best be off now, I'm doing no good here.
It's little use wishing you a merry Christmas,
so I'll just keep a quiet tongue in my head.'
With which impossible resolution Mr. Kerry
departed, inquiring dolefully in a subdued
tenor :

" Won't you dine with me to-day ?
I'll tell you who we'll have for dinner,
And lest you should refuse to stay,
I'll send for you a horse and crupper.
Magillicuddy of the Reeks,
O'Donoghue Glen, the Duke of Gloster,
Oliver Cromwell, and Brien O'Linn " '

But at that point the outer door slamming
behind the Irishman cut off the remainder
of his guests.

Good Heavens ! What a nuisance you
are !' thought Selwyn ungratefully. ' Can I

not eat my Christmas dinner where I please,
without your permission ?'

The young man's heart was very hot
within him. Never before had he met with
anyone so pertinacious as the Irishman.

Mr. Trosdale was quite right,' he considered,
in great dudgeon. ' It does not do
to make intimates of people who will persist
in taking an ell when you have been so foolish
as to give them an inch. And yet I am confoundedly
sorry,' he went on, softening as
Mr. Kerry got further and further away from
him. * He has been very good to me. Still
I could not, if I would, give up every friend
I have in the world to please him, and that's
about what it comes to. I must shut him up,
once and for all, if he says anything more
about Trosdale, and it is very hard, indeed,
to be forced to quarrel with one man because
I like another better.'

Selwyn, however, was not driven to such a
necessity ; for Mr. Kerry found so much todo
in the way of what he called ' redden' up '
before he started on his travels, that he had
rarely leisure even to circumvent the Long-room
gang.

It is wasted to a shadow I am,' he said,
with a rueful laugh, when he came to plant
his foot on the pillar in Third Liverpool
prior to his departure. ' But never mind, I'll
fill out when once I get to Phil's ;' with which
cheerful prophecy he departed, accompanied
to the boat by * Mister Serle,' whom he insisted
on introducing to the captain and many
of the minor officials.

I hope you will enjoy yourself,' said Mr.
Trosdale's Assistant, as they paced the deck,
regardless of a drizzling rain and the black
smoke which puffed now and then in their
faces.

Faith, there's no fear of that,' rejoined
Mr. Kerry. 'What's troubling me is the
sort of Christmas you're like to spend.
Everyone to his taste, though. I knew an
old Scotchman once who declared that, for
thorough harmony and cheerful conviviality,
there was nothing to be compared to a good
funeral, so I hope the merry-making in
St. Paul's Square may suit you. There's
the bell. Well, good-bye till we meet again.
God be with you. Amen.'

It was with a sense of ashamed relief

Selwyn saw the vessel glide from her moorings
and steam away from the harbour lights
into the darkness, and yet he felt an inexplicable
sadness steal over him when the
figure of Mr. Kerry, frantically waving his
hat, grew blurred and indistinct, and at last
faded totally out of sight.

He was more than usually Impressionable
just at that time, and the depressing evening,
the murky river, the stillness where all had
been a minute previously noise and bustle,
produced an effect out of all proportion with
the cause.

He took a long turn through the less
frequented Liverpool streets before retracing
his steps to his lodgings. /\s the Christmas
season drew nigh, his soul waxed faint and
feeble by reason of old memories. All those
he had lost  those he could never within the
compass of this world, wide as it is, hope to
possess again  came shadows from shadow-land,
and stood sorrowfully beside his hearth,
as though grieving that It was so solitary.

They came with such pity and love and
yearning on their remembered faces, which he
should see no more for ever as he had seen

them, that he was often forced to rise and go
out into the stormy night and the driving
rain to exorcise his fancy ; and then he had
to return because the notion of those ghostly
hands stretched forth to meet him, those
eyes full of wondering sadness at his flight
from their wistful gaze, seemed to him more
than he could bear.

In St. Paul's Square these phantoms rarely
appeared, and, when they did, it was but to
pass across the field of Selvvyn's vision and
vanish like the shadows they were.

How should I have got through Christmas
Day, had Mr. Trosdale not invited me?' was
the one idea which kept constantly recurring
to his mind. ' I must have walked the
streets, for I could not possibly have stayed
indoors.'

On the last 25th of December he had
refused to go to Sea Court because his uncle
did not care to accompany him, and the dear
old man seemed low.

To the close of his life he knew he should
feel glad that he had not taken his pleasure,
and left one whose goodness to his own kin
was like God's summer and winter, inasmuch

as it never changed alone when the end
came.

For the end began late on Christmas night,
and ere the bells crashed out their greeting
to the New Year Selwyn had no kith or kin
left to him on the earth.

Therefore this, the first Christmas of his
loneliness, had seemed very terrible in anticipation.
He felt he could not spend it with
Mr. Kerry, or any of the few men who had
made advances to him. To pass it solitary
in his lodgings, or go away all by himself to
some place where he could walk beside the
sea and think of those loved and lost, with
the waves moaning an accompaniment to his
sorrow, seemed preferable to that.

Neither, since there was always mirth and
jollity at Sea Court, did he, though sure of
the most cordial and sympathetic of welcomes,
feel inclined to go there ; and his
spirits were sinking lower and lower at the
prospect before him, when Mr. Trosdale's
invitation  ' If you have no better engagement,
Serle, will you eat your Christmas
dinner with us ?'  came to cheer his heart.

I shall be very glad indeed,' he answered,

with an earnestness which set Mr. Trosdale
again thinking.

At the end of a few days that gentleman
said carelessly, while sorting his papers :

Could you not come to the Square on
Christmas Eve, and stay till after the new
year ? There will be little doing in the office ;
your landlady is certain to go out pleasuring,
and I should be delighted to see more of you.
We can put you up without the slightest
inconvenience.*

At the words Selwyn's heart leapt for joy,
but he could frame no answer except, ' You
are so kind, Mr. Trosdale. You are too
kind to me.'

Well he knew where he could be ' put up '
in a little bed-chamber partitioned off the
length of the drawing-room, where he had
washed and brushed up ' times without
number  a chamber looking out over St.
Paul's dreary church and drearier graveyard,
yet which seemed pleasant and homelike to
the young fellow. He thought he should
like greatly to spend a little time under Mr.
Trosdale's roof ; yet, after his first impulsive
utterance, modesty or some other feeling

urged him to add ' that he feared, if he came,
he might cause inconvenience to Miss Tros-
dale.'

Madge is never inconvenienced,' declared
Madge's father ; * and she would like you to
be with us, I know.'

After this statement, Selwyn accounted it
odd that Miss Trosdale should say, as she
did say :

So you really intend spending your
Christmas here ? It is very good of you,
but I am afraid you will find it sadly dull.'

If the young man she addressed had been
given to light compliment, Miss Trosdale's
look and Miss Trosdale's manner must have
frozen any graceful flattery on his lips. As
things were :

I shall not be dull,' was the only reply he
could make ; and he went home thinking
with passionate bitterness, ' She might have
been more civil, particularly so near Christmas
 she might have been more civil.'

At last the 24th of December arrived,
and Selwyn, after he had locked up the
office, bent his steps to St. PauFs Square,
where Mr. Trosdale stood at the door to

accord a welcome which only lacked the
touch of a woman's sympathy to make it perfect.
But that he was not destined to receive.

Madge is spending the evening with one
of her many friends,' explained Mr. Tros-
dale  ' a little dance, or something ; so you
will have to make yourself as happy as you
can with me alone.'

Quite sincerely, Selwyn answered he always
felt very happy with Mr. Trosdale. Nevertheless,
he was conscious that if Madge had
only remained at home long enough to say,
I am glad to see you, Mr. Serle,' he would
have been happier still.

Mt is a great pleasure to me to have you
here,' said Mr. Trosdale, standing after tea
in front of a glowing fire. ' I like to talk to
a young man full of hope and energy  with
life before instead of behind him. What
would I not give to be in your shoes ! With
my present experience, what a brilliant future
I might make for myself! When I think of
the years I have lost years that can return
no more, I feel as if I could curse the
evil destiny which cast me tied and bound
into that social abyss, a tax-office.'

VOL. II. 2 1

I have heard you say something to the
same effect before,' answered Selwyn, ' with
surprise ; for, though a tax-office is not perhaps
the place in which one would choose to
spend one's life, still in all careers there must
be some unpleasantness ; and I should have
thought, in your position '

You would have thought in my position I
might rest content with the pittance Government
deems sufficient to maintain a gentleman.'


I suppose the remuneration does seem very
little to you,' said Selwyn, rather abashed,
though standing to his guns ; * but yet many
gentlemen have to be content on much less.
My father, for instance,' he added diffidently,
never possessed a third of your income,
and my poor old uncle was happy enough
on halfe

But then their professions conferred on
them social advantages. A curate is a king,
an emperor, when compared with that
miserable pariah, a Surveyor of Taxes.'

You speak bitterly. Do you really consider
the rank you hold low ?'

Mr. Trosdale laughed sarcastically.

Low ?' he repeated. ' You ask that 
you, who have been in the office ? Low !
Can't you tell the estimation in which a
Surveyor is held by the tone every
beggarly tradesman who comes to make a
complaint adopts towards him ? Low !
There is not a calling in the Directory, that
can be followed in a fairly honest manner,
which is not to be preferred to the business
of a Surveyor. On every side he is
hampered by his responsibility for the actions
of irresponsible persons. If one of his Collectors
administers the law with impartial strictness
 and that is how every Collector ought
to administer it  the Surveyor is reprimanded
by the Board of Inland Revenue, and peremptorily
asked, ' Why, sir, did you allow this to
go on ?" On the other hand, when he ventures
to remonstrate with the Collector, he is
promptly told the Collector is the servant of
the Local Commissioners, and accountable to
them only. The whole system,' went on
Mr. Trosdale, warming with his theme,
'under which the Income Tax Acts are
administered is grotesquely impracticable 
the misbegotten offspring of some childish

21  2

theorist, who was afraid of the cursed tax
he had created, and hampered it with checks
which protect nobody, and securities which
only pamper sinecurists.'

It certainly does seem said Selwyn
thoughtfully, ' as if there had been an attempt
at combining two systems. I never
understand, for instance, why the Local
Commissioners do not make the assessments

Why ?' interrupted the Surveyor hotly ;
why because they won't. Why should they ?"
They are not paid for doing it ; and there is
no one to enforce the legal obligation. They
have a Clerk, a solicitor in good practice (you
know him), who draws i,ooo a year for
acting as Clerk to the Commissioners ; and
what work does he do ? Make the assessments
} No such thing. He has a Clerk,
who has an Assistant, who receives the
Income Tax Returns from the Assessors, and
sends them down to the Surveyor, with the
skeleton of the assessment which is to be
xTiade. Then the Surveyor sets to work to
make it.'

*So that the Surveyor does what the Clerk
to the Commissioners is paid for doing ?'

Exactly ; and for practical purposes there
might as well be no Local Commissioners at
all. The fool who framed the Act thought
he was providing a set of paternal angels,
who would watch carefully over the interests
of the whole community, and see that the
Act did not press hardly on anyone ; who
would use their local knowledge to redress
grievances, and in a word see fair play all
round. Instead of that, what happened at
the Commissioners' meeting the other day }
You remember how long we waited before
any Commissioner came ? At last old Elliott
rushed in, with his watch in his hand. " Dear
me, Mr. Symonds," he said to the Clerk, with
the faintest nod to us ; ** my horses are
standing. I hope there isn't much to do."
Is Mr. Pamphlet coming ?" asked Symonds.
"' I don't know ; but I can't wait to see.
What's this? Where am I to sign it? Is
it all right . Oh, well, you must get another
signature at your leisure. Good-day; there's
nothing more, Is there ?" And so he went
off, without having once looked at the assessment
which he certified as correct ; and that
assessment, Mr. Serle, went then and thereto

the Collector, and he has collected money
on it, every penny of which is illegally collected
until the assessment is signed by a
second Commissioner.'

But surely,' said Selwyn, ' if that were
known, the Clerk to the Commissioners would
get into trouble.'

No ; the Surveyor would. Though the
Surveyor has no more control over the Commissioners
or their Clerk than he has over
the Lord Chancellor, though they snub him
when he protests, and snap their fingers at
him when he remonstrates, yet the Board
would censure him heavily for any irregularity
of this sort.'

Pleasant, certainly remarked Selwyn.

Isn't it ?' retorted Trosdale  * isn't it
pleasant ? And what is even worse, is that
all the unpopularity falls on the head of the
unfortunate Surveyor. I heard a thickheaded
jackass arguing, the other day, that it was
only the Surveyors' greediness for power
which led them to usurp the functions of the
Commissioners. I could hardly help laughing
in the idiot's face. Is it likely that the
Surveyors would allow so much extra work

to be thrust on them If they could help
it?'

It is an anomalous system,' Selwyn said.
I don't quite see how it has grown up.
But what appears to me more extraordinary,
is what you say about the small consideration
in which the Surveyors are held. How do
you account for that, Mr. Trosdale ?'

'Why that,' said his host, 'comes from
the nature of the appointments. Gentlemen,
as a rule, won't take them. You must see
for yourself, by this time, that the work we
have to do is essentially dirty work. Don't
you feel that ? A man makes us a return of
his income ; and, without paying any attention
to it, we assess him at half as much
again. He comes and remonstrates ; and
we put all manner of prying questions,
which he ought to resent by kicking us.
Then we demand an account, which is practically
telling him he is a liar ; and even
when we get his account, as likely as not
we refuse to accept it.'

Selwyn laughed as If he were a little vexed.

I do greatly dislike putting those questions
he said.

Of course you do. And why ? Because
you feel contaminated by the Impertinent
suspicions you have to put Into words. As
I was saying, it's very rarely that a gentleman
will take one of these appointments.
He's not wanted in a tax-office ; he's as
much out of place as  as  well, as our friend
Kerry would be at a decent dinner-table.
And because the public do not find gentlemen
to deal with, they naturally don't attempt to
deal with them as gentlemen. I heard a
man the other day abusing you. What did
he call you ?  " an Insolent puppy," wasn't it ?

Worse than that. He said I was "a
d  d red-headed, insolent blackguard." But
I didn't mind him in the least,' added Selwyn,
who had minded * him ' greatly.

Perhaps not,' answered the Surveyor ;
but It Is galling to think any low scamp
can use language of that sort with Impunity,
to the representative of such a department as
the Inland Revenue. It Is sheer mismanagement,
Mr. Serle, which has allowed so scandalous
a state of affairs to grow up. Whenever
you see a contemptuous attitude on the
part of the public, be sure It originates in

the mistakes of the heads of the department.
I say the Inland Revenue Is corrupt  It Is
rotten to the core

I hope it may soon improve then, since I
shall have to spend my life In It.'

1 hope you will not ; you would be mad
to do It. For a few years, while you are
young, and finding out where your strength
lies, you may well stay in the service ; but
for a man with brains and intelligence, not to
speak of the Instincts of a gentleman, it is
the last place on earth to rest content. If
I had sons I would say to them '' Dig,
plough, drive a cart, do anything, be anything,
rather than a servant In the Inland

revenue.

That is not a very bright look-out for me,'
observed Selwyn.

It is not a very bright look-out for any
man decently born and bred. It may be all
well enough for fellows like Kerry and
Cramsey  fellows to whom a situation In a
tax-office Is promotion, and the wretched
salary wealth ; but for a young man of parts,
of the most ordinary intelligence, possessed
of the slightest sensitive feeling and any

desire to get on in the world, our office is
death

But what is a man who has stumbled or
strayed into it to do ?'

Take his salary till he finds out what
he is fit for. You will discern ere long
the road you are suited to travel, and then
you can resign. That is the best of the
Civil Service  you can always resign.'

I do not think I should like to resign,'
remarked Selwyn, to whom this seemed remarkably
cold comfort. * My poor old uncle
always said: **A rolling stone gathers no
moss." '

According to your account, your uncle,
although he did not roll, does not seem to
have gathered much moss.'

Perhaps not, but he was very happy and
contented.'

Well, let us hope you may be happy and
contented, and gather some moss too,' answered
Mr. Trosdale ; * and now let us
forget the office. It is not so pleasant a
subject  I don't know how we chanced to
drift into it. Come into my special sanctum.
As we have a long evening before us I will

show you some things that will interest and
surprise you

Nothing loth, Selwyn followed his host into
a room which must, it at once occurred to
him, have been the same where Mr. Kerry
was not even invited to ' sit down off his
feet,* or asked, as he pathetically complained,
whether he had a mouth on him.'

I was not the better for my visit,' he
said, ' not by a youthful,' which was perhaps
stating the case with unnecessary precision.

'Sit down, sit down,' entreated Mr. Tros-
dale to his more favoured guest, and Selwyn
did so and looked about him, finding plenty
to reward his scrutiny.

In that room, which was crammed, there
appeared everything a man in Mr. Tros-
dale's position might have been supposed not
to want.

The fireplace was blocked up by a portable
forge ; in front of a window giving on to a
small back-yard stood a stove, the smoke
being carried away through a pipe which
passed through a square of zinc let in where
a pane of glass had been. In one corner
Selwyn espied a carpenter's bench and lathe,

and in another a vice and anvil ; a long deal
table littered with rough drawings and papers
occupied a large part of the floor, while the
walls were lined with shelves that groaned
under the weight of pamphlets, blue-books,
newspapers, patent journals, scientific works,
wooden patterns, bottles containing chemicals,
scales and weights, parcels of all sorts and
sizes, retorts, measuring glasses, and a
variety of other valuable refuse which might
well have caused a model housewife to pray
for a fire.

Now,' said Mr. Trosdale, who, while
Selwyn was taking soundings of the strange
place in which he found himself, had been
unearthing from a huge chest various brown-paper
scrap-books, which he laid on the
table ; ' now you shall see for yourself what
I might have done had I not been for years
and years bound body and soul to a corpse
which would have totally paralyzed the
energies of most men.'

And having thus distinctly indicated that
he was the one man whose powers even the
dead whisht of tax-work had been unable
totally to crush, the Surveyor proceeded to

show his Assistant some of the tasks he
found heart and leisure to essay out of those
hours when he was serving her most gracious
Majesty.

Had any curious Inquirers who wished to
learn how far egotism will carry a man been
wandering about St. Paul's Square on the
Christmas Eve of 1879, he would scarcely
have found a finer study than Mr. Trosdale,
holding forth in that littered room held sacred
to genius.

Madge was securely absent, he had the
field all to himself, and accordingly, mounted
on the only hobby he cared to ride, he spurred
straight on. Not a detail of any one of the
wonderful things he had Invented, perfected,
been forestalled In, robbed of, lacked money
to secure, was Selwyn spared. His young
head ached with trying to follow his chiefs
rapid narrative ; but he was Interested In the
confidence, nevertheless, and flattered by It
enormously.

To those whose knowledge of life is limited,
a discontented man always seems half a hero,
and even If he had not known it before that
Christmas-tide ended, Selwyn must have

been well aware his host considered himself
an ill-used and unappreciated individual.

This was his remission, and he did not hide
his belief under a bushel. Every person in
the office was of course aware Third Liverpool
held the enviable position of being a more
wronged man than any other of the wronged
men who drew their salaries with praiseworthy
regularity ; but no one save young
Serle knew precisely how he had come by
this faith.

Selwyn himself, indeed, spite of constant
complaints, vague hints, and endless references,
had hitherto only seen Mr. Trosdale's
position from that gentleman's own point
of view dimly and uncertainly. On that
memorable Christmas Eve, however, the
Surveyor let whole floods of light illumine
the wide landscape of a misspent life.

A dreary retrospect, save for the faith and
the hope that had lit up its gloom a record
of office work which the man hated, and
invention which he loved. The duty lying
close to his hand he never discharged, while
faithfully serving a friend who as yet had
paid him no wages except in fairy gold.

Not in heaven were Mr. Trosdale's works
chronicled ; but rather in Southampton Buildings,
London, W.C. There all interested in
such lore might read writ large the name of
Martin Trosdale, St. Paul's Square, Liverpool,
patentee of inventions, improvements,
adaptations.

Had the money spent in compassing even
the first step along that well-beaten highway
which generally leads to ruin been capitalized,
the interest would have procured many a
small luxury the modest household in St.
Paul's Square lacked, while the amounts
netted by her Majesty's servants at the Patent
Office from her Majesty's other servant,
Third Liverpool, were simply enough to have
provided an adequate income for his own old
age, and for the old age of his daughter after
him.

Yes, within the flimsy blue wrappers that
contained the specifications of those inventions
for which Martin Trosdale had
been granted provisional protection, in those
formal applications that set forth his intention
to proceed, in those parchments, adorned
with a rosin seal as large as a saucer, and

quite as brittle, familiar to the sight of every
man who elects to spend his substance on
patent rights, there lay most of the money
earned during nearly half his lifetime by the
Surveyor. What had he not invented,
indeed ? That were perhaps easier to tell
than the full tale of things, small and great,
concerning which Mr. Trosdale alternately
lauded and bemoaned himself ; for the novelties
patented In his name were mere drops in
the ocean when compared with the great ideas
he had been robbed of or forestalled in.

Here was a rake, for instance, an Incomparable
rake. If Selwyn would kindly look
closely into the drawings, he would see how
immeasurably superior It was to all other
rakes that had been in vogue since Adam
went hay making in Eden. It was a rake
that would work of itself. Well  would Mr.
Serle believe it ?  a scoundrel of the name
of Melridge somehow got a hint on the
subject, and the very day before Mr. Tros-
dale applied for Provisional Protection
wrested the rake out of the hands of its
legal owner.

He got all the great agricultural Implement

makers to take It up, and he is making
a fortune  he has made his fortune indeed
by means of what was really even my invention
'

It was the same with everything. From
coffee-pots to steam-engines Mr. Trosdale
believed he could add the final charm
each needed to make it perfect. There
seemed nothing too small and nothing too
great for him to undertake.

But all I have ever attempted,' he said
at last, with an air of pardonable triumph,
pales Into Insignificance beside my blast
furnace. To-morrow you shall know all about
that. It is getting late now, and you had
better go to bed,' which Selwyn did, with the
promise of abundant scientific talk on the
morrow.

VOL. II. 2 2

IN ST. Palls.

Noticing though the prospect of
another long tete-astute no doubt
seemed, Selwyn next morning
piously decided to attend church, a place for
which Mr. Trosdale evidently felt as little
fondness as for the tax-office.

The young man walked across to St. Paul's
alone, and returned from it with no one save
himself for company.

He lingered a little in the vestibule after
service, hoping Madge might join him ; but
as she made no effort to do so he retraced
his way through the dreary graveyard, feeling
she was indeed a most inexplicable girl.

I should so much have liked to like her,'
he thought ; ' but if she will not let me,
there is no help for it.'

They dined early off turkey and plum
pudding, the former being a present from
Mr. Ashford, who though absent in the body
desired that some worthy memory of him
might be recalled at the Christmas board.

Mr. Trosdale was loud in his praises of
the bird  unnecessarily so, though the turkey
was not one to be despised.

Except the Surveyor, no one ate much :
the guest because his heart felt full and
his spirit faint; Madge because Christmas
seemed to produce the same depressing
effect on her that set times and seasons
usually do on those who have passed
their first childhood and not attained their
second.

After dinner she left her father and Selwyn
without apology, and they saw her no more
for hours. Where she was gone Mr. Tros-
dale seemed neither to know nor care.

She goes her way and I go mine,' is a
very elastic phrase, and one which may
cover any extent of domestic division.

The dull, heavy day might well have
dispirited a younger and livelier man than the
Surveyor; but it did not produce any 

 2

pressing effect on him. On the contrary, he
seemed to enjoy it thoroughly.

He stirred the fire into a still more
cheerful blaze, and as an appropriate accompaniment
to the wine, walnuts, and other
good cheer provided for their entertainment,
produced his blast furnace and delivered an
exhaustive oration on its inception and
progress from birth to maturity.

I am about at last to reap my reward,'
he said. * I shall make my fortune, I shall
become famous ; I have been only waiting for
money to protect and introduce it. A friend
is going to find me the money, and directly
the new year comes in I shall give my agent
instructions to push on the patent as fast as
possible. Till he tells me he has done so I
dare not make the principle of my invention
generally known ; but I will not lose a moment
after he has made me safe. Then everything
will be changed. After long years I shall
be able to take my right position in society
and live up to it. Madge, too, will see that
her father was not a mere visionary, and be
rescued from the drudgery which it galls me
even to think a child of mine has to endure.

You will see her differently placed before
very long  see her happy, admired, sought
after.'

I am so glad, I am so very glad,' said
Selwyn eagerly, which utterance was wrung
from him as much by the hint of good things
In store for Mr. Trosdale as the promise of
deliverance from thraldom for Madge.

I believe you are,' answered Mr. Tros-
dale, as though there were something well-nigh
incredible In the notion of any man
being pleased at the well-doing of another ;
I really believe you are.'

You may be sure I am,' rejoined Selwyn,
half shyly putting out his hand, which the
Surveyor took and held while he said :

Do you know, I think it possible you
might hasten the coming of Good Fortune a
little.'

I ! how ? only tell me in what way, and
I will do everything I can to hurry her.'

If you could make the drawings for me it
would be a great assistance.'

Selwyn's face fell.

I do not draw very well,' he hesitated ;
but then he brightened up and added, * I can

try, however, and I will try my best. When
shall I begin ?'

Not to-night,' replied Mr. Trosdale.
I have not proper materials in the house ;
but tomorrow, if you like. You are certain I
am not asking too much ?'

Nothing you could ask would be too much
returned the young fellow, little knowing
what he was saying ; ' I am greatly obliged to
you for letting me be of this slight service,
that is, if I can finish the drawings to your
mind.'

Only do them as well as you did your
uncle's pump, and they will answer every
purpose,' said Mr. Trosdale  a reply which
would have aroused uncomfortable suspicion
in many minds ; but Selwyn was not suspicious,
and he took the words merely as a
reassuring compliment.

For a good part of the evening he employed
himself in making sketches, of which Mr.
Trosdale approved very highly.

And to think,' he observed pathetically,
that you are wasting your time in a tax-office
!'

When people make observations of this;

kind, they generally omit to say how time
could be spent better than in following the:
particular avocation disparaged ; but it is an
easy way of sowing the seeds of discontent,
and men who are not contented themselves
seldom like to see others satisfied.

I am afraid answered Selwyn, * if I had
to earn my living by my pencil I might have
to wait a long time for breakfast.'

Ah ! you will view matters with different
eyes one day,' said Mr. Trosdale ; and then
he reverted to his favourite theme, and told
his Assistant what he intended to do whenever
the success of his latest invention was
secured.

I shall throw up the office, of course, and
leave Liverpool ; buy a place in or near
London, possibly, which I can make my
head-quarters. I mean to travel a good deal,
and see what other nations are doing. I
ought to go to America, too  there is no
country in the world where a practical man is
so fully appreciated.'

It is not altogether pleasant to sit and hear
plans discussed in which the hearer has no
part or lot ; and while he listened, Selwyn

felt the old loneliness and desolation creeping
towards him. The Trosdales, who had just
crossed his life, would pass out of it, and he
would be nothing to them any more. They
had met as ships meet on the ocean, but erelong
each would fade out of sight of the other.
Then he would be quite forgotten, and more
friendless than ever. He was nothing now
to anybody ; even his dead did not need
him, though * for ever and for ever he would
need them.'

At that moment when existence seemed
most cold and cheerless there fell upon his
ear the strains of ' God the Lord passed by,'
with which Madge had that day played out
the sparse congregation of St. Paul's.

Was there ever anything so fine composed
"? he thought in church, and the music
sounded even more spiritual as it broke the
stillness of the silent house and swept aside
the sordid aims, the petty prospects, to which
Selwyn had been listening. Higher and
higher swelled the song, till it culminated in
that magnificent outpouring of rejoicing and
praise :

Holy is God the Lord ;'

and the listener, dropping his pencil, sat
entrapped in the glorious sounds, which
came like a message from a better world.

Mr. Trosdale watched his Assistant narrowly.


I did not know Madge had come in,' he
said, not without a touch of irritation.
Should you not like to go upstairs ? You
are looking tired. My stupid details have
proved wearisome.'

Selwyn denied being tired, and declared
he had enjoyed Mr. Trosdale's conversation
enormously ; but added, a little wistfully :

Perhaps Miss Trosdale does not care to
be disturbed when she is playing.'

I rather suspect Miss Trosdale likes an
audience,' replied Madge's father cynically.
However, we will see.'

And so saying, he motioned Selwyn to
precede him out of the dining-room and
followed his guest upstairs.

Madge had just ended as they entered.
Her fingers were on the final chords, and
her face still wore the rapt look of one
whose eyes have caught a glimpse into paradise.


For a second Selwyn did not speak ; but,
as she turned, he went over beside her and
said :

That is exquisite.'

Do you think so ?' she asked, and her
voice had in it a dreamy softness he never
heard before.

Yes, I do,' Selwyn answered. * I thought
to-day in church it was the loveliest thing I
ever Hastened to ; but, somehow, it sounds
different to-night.'

Not so lovely i' and she smiled a little
sadly.

Quite ; but there is something in it now I
failed to catch this morning. Perhaps I
understand it better.'

No ; I played it better. I always do
play better when I am alone.'

I told your father I was afraid we should
disturb you,' said Selwyn, feeling his old
shyness returning in all its acute misery.

That is not what I meant. All I intended
to say was, I can play better when I do not
feel anxious about the matter  in other words,
when I am not nervous. Perhaps it sounds
strange to imply that I ever am nervous ; but

I assure you the slip the choir made in the
anthem to-day caused me to fail in everything
I attempted afterwards

You did not fail in anything,' said Selwyn;
and then wondered at his own courage.

She shook her head.

I am glad you like " God the Lord passed
by," ' she added, as she absently turned the
leaves of the ' Elijah.'

I think from " Night falleth around me "
to the end of " Holy is God the Lord," the
finest portion of the whole oratorio.'

Perhaps 1 am very fond of '' Thanks

be to God, he liveth the thirsty land." '
And she struck the opening bars of that
choral.

Do you really not sing, Miss Trosdale ?'

I rarely do sing, for my voice is very
poor.'

I wish you would sing for me.'

Do you ?  then I will' And without
another word she played a few chords and
began Liszt's setting of ' Du bist wie eine
Blume.'

She was right ; she had not much voice,
but there was that in it which, like her playing,

stirred the deepest depths of Selwyn's
soul.

The simple song touched him so much that
he could scarcely thank the singer.

You have a great love of music,' she said.

And I cannot play a note.'

That is strange,' she remarked.

Does it seem so to you ? And yet when
a man admires beautiful scenery no one is
surprised that he is unable to draw. Sometimes
I fancy people who are entranced with
an effect are happier than those who have
knowledge of each detail which goes to produce
the effect.'

They may be. Still, I think I should like
best to know a great deal about the details.'

And as for me, I am afraid it is a case
of sour grapes,' answered Selwyn.

Madge, are we to have no supper to night ?'
broke in Mr. Trosdale, who had for some time
been moving restlessly about the room. ' Been
ready for an hour and more ! Then why
could you not have said so ? Fact is,' he
added sotto voce to Selwyn, as they went
downstairs, * she forgets everything when
she sits down to the piano.'

I should not care what she forgot, If she
would only be kind and pleasant as she is
to-night,' thought Selwyn. And it really
seemed, for a few days, as if his wish was
about to be granted.

Miss Trosdale was amiability itself. She
stayed more at home, she talked to Selwyn,
she played for him, she sang for him, she
listened to his memories of his old home.
Mr. Trosdale could not secure half so much
of the young man's society as he desired.
Nevertheless, the drawings progressed, and
there was as much conversation about patents,
the blast furnace, and all the elegant trifles
Third Liverpool had thrown off like sparks, as
any man need have wished.

The days flew by as no days had done
since Selwyn came to Liverpool, and it was
the 2nd of January, 1880. A new year had
come, and he stood by the window sorrowfully
considering that he must soon go back
to Mrs. Wells and Everton, when Mr. Tros-
dale crossed over to the window too.

A miserable place and a wretched lookout,'
he said, in severe disparagement of
St. Paul's Square.

I shall always think of it as a beautiful
place with a magnificent view,' answered
Selwyn. * Have been so happy here

I wish you would stay here then.'

I have already paid a most unconscionable
visit,' hesitated Selwyn, wondering if he were
about to be pressed to lengthen that visit
still further.

If you really are comfortable under this
roof [' If!' repeated Selwyn under his
breath] ' I wish you would come and live
with us. No  do not make any answer
now. Think the proposal  which I make
in all seriousness  over for four-and-twenty
hours, and then tell me whether there is any
just cause or impediment why you should not
install yourself here. I imagine you must be
sometimes lonely in your lodgings, and I am
often lonely too ; for even when my daughter
is at home she is not the companion she might
be. You have seen our home  it is never
different. To-morrow, then '

No, now,' said Selwyn hurriedly. ' There
is nothing I should like better than to stay
here ; but I cannot intrude on your hospitality
for ever, and '

Put the matter on a commercial footing, if
you like interrupted Mr. Trosdale. ' If you
are too proud to live here as my guest, live
here as my lodger. Pay me something 
twenty pounds a year say.'

My rooms alone cost me double that at
present.'

'Then they cost you far too much,' remarked
Mr. Trosdale. * However, think the matter
over ; and, if you believe you could be happy
here, we will arrange the  s. d. question to
our mutual satisfaction. Now it is high time
you were at the office. I cannot go therefor
an hour or two yet.'

I suppose Mr. Serle will not be back
to-night ?' said Madge, entering the room
five minutes after Selwyn had left the house.
I see he has packed his portmanteau.'

I have asked him to stay for a little while
longer,' answered Mr. Trosdale, looking undauntedly
at his daughter, who, though she
seemed a good deal surprised at this intelligence,
made no comment except ' Oh !'

I wish you would not be so satirical,
Madge,' said her father.

- ' I am not satirical. I am only surprised ;'

after which answer neither pursued the conversation.


With a light heart Selwyn that evening
unpacked his belongings. Between himself
and Mr. Trosdale everything was arranged
satisfactorily.

His chief had consented to take more.
Selwyn, not to be outdone in that generosity
which consists in putting one's pride in one's
pocket, had agreed to give less. He was
free now of the house in St. Paul's Square
not as a visitor, but an inmate ; and kind and
honest though Mrs. Wells might be, he found
the change from his lonely rooms and solitary
meals almost too pleasant to be real.

With what ardour he devoted himself to
the drawings of the blast furnace, with what
zealous care he brought out all the details,
how sedulously he studied accuracy to the
merest fraction of an inch, need scarcely be
chronicled here. He threw his whole heart
and soul into the invention ; he listened with
intense interest while Mr. Trosdale dilated
son its innumerable merits. He heard Vir.
Ashford was financing money to float the
scheme, and restrained his tongue from any

injurious remarks about that gentleman. He
wrote letters beautifully vague at Mr. Tros-
dale's dictation by night, and ran errands for
him by day : in a word, no paid clerk would
have done badly what Selwyn did well for
nothing. He toiled at the office for his principal,
who was often compulsorily absent, and
he toiled out of the office for his kind friend,
who was good enough to take him into confidence
concerning every difficulty that came
in his way.

Yet he was most happy, and his constant
cheerfulness at last seemed to produce an
effect even on Madge.

She took an interest in his reading, which
at that time related chiefly to iron and the
processes used to convert it into 'pigs.' She
borrowed from him the classics of Mr. S.
Smiles, with which he had only lately become
acquainted, and also perused another work
she found on his dressing-table, entitled,
Unappreciated Geniuses.'

Are you about to join the great body of
inventors, ]mr. Serle T she asked one day,
when he was poring over the Scientific
American,

VOL. II. 23.

I !' he repeated, in amazement. * Why, I
could not invent anything were it to save my
life

What a blessing !' she exclaimed.

But I can admire people who are cleverer
than myself.'

I suppose so. You are at an age when
hero-worship is natural, and probably laudable.
It is a disease, however, and I wish
you well over it.'

But if there were no inventors, Miss
Trosdale '

'With all my heart I wish there were
none.'

Selwyn would have liked to argue this
point with her, as he would have liked to
argue many others, but she was so decided 
so dogmatic, her father said  that argument
proved difficult.

Still, for a time she was very pleasant, spite
of her antagonism. Then a change came over
her which the young man could only ascribe
to caprice or temper.

'Are you not very well, Miss Trosdale?'
he asked one day, when she had been more
than usually ungracious.

For a moment she looked at him in surprise,
like a person awakened from sleep ;
then she left the room without a word.

Her father was manifestly discomposed by
these moods, and perpetually urged Selwyn
to take no notice of them : ' It is only her
way,' he explained.

But I am afraid my being here annoys
your daughter. I had better go. I am sure
1 had far better return to Everton,' he said
one evening.

*You had better do nothing of the sort.
Madge would miss you as much as anyone.
She likes you greatly. I know she
does.'

Selwyn thought if so, she had a very strange
mode of showing her attachment. He felt
greatly hurt. She had that day refused his
offer to fetch her some trifle she wanted from
town ; snubbed him when he returned to tea
carrying a roll of music he had ordered for
her from London ; and rose from table
before the meal was half finished, saying she
must go over to St. Paul's.

Never mind her,' advised Mr. Trosdale.
/ never mind her.'

232

UNIVERSITY 0.

\amo\s UBRR

But Selwyn could not help minding her ;
and he lit a cigar and went out to try if a
stroll round the square would calm his
ruffled feelings.

For nearly an hour he paced the flags,
and yet he failed to find any comfort.
It was a beautiful night : a new moon
was looking down on the dingy square
and beautifying it, the graveyard seemed
weird and strange, while in the old church
the tones of the organ rose and fell,
soared and sank low, wakening in the
young man's heart a terrible pain.

Why does she hurt me so ?' he marvelled.
'What pleasure can she find in
making me miserable ?' and he stood still
for a moment, trying to solve the riddle
of a woman's mind. * I will not trouble
Mr. Trosdale with the matter. I will have
it out with her this night;' and throwing
the cigar he had just lighted away, he
strode round the square till he came to
the gate through which she was wont to
pass.

As he reached it, he met the organ-blower
returning from his labours.

Has Miss Trosdale gone home ?' he
asked the lad, who knew him.

No, sir ; she's inside. She said she did
not want me any more. She's just putting
away the music'

In the clear moonlight Selwyn stood
waiting for the girl, but she did not
come. The organ had been silent for full
ten minutes, and yet the player failed to
appear. Selwyn walked up to the door, and
pushing it open, entered the church. All
was silent as the dead sleeping around,
and the intruder caught the spirit of
the stillness. What could Madge be doing
in that lonely building, in the solemn mystical
moonlight, all alone '.

Quietly he stepped into the nave, his footfalls
making no echo ; he looked towards the
organ, but it was closed, and the candles were
out. Where could she be ? A great apprehension
filled his heart. What could have
happened ? He would have spoken her
name aloud, but that he felt afraid of the
sound of his own voice. He turned and
peered hither and thither irresolute, when all
at once his eye fell on something dark kneeling

before the communion rails. It was
Madge. i\ shaft of moonlight coming
through one of the windows flooded the
pavement just behind her, and showed the
bowed figure, the face buried in the hands,
in a very abandonment, as it seemed, of
grief

As he paused for the moment transfixed,
Selwyn heard the faint sound of sobbing.
Then he made his way stealthily from the
church, closed the door noiselessly, and
passed out into the night, pierced to the
soul.

What was this grief she needed to carry
into God's very temple, which she could not
lay down even there t He had sought her,
meaning to have their quarrel out ; but now,
never  never  never  would he trouble her
about his own petty trials.

She might flout him if she pleased, refuse
his friendship, scorn his gifts, despise him
because he was not rich, or great, or learned,
or handsome, or renowned. He would bear
any indignity she chose to put upon him, for
between him and her irritable and unjust
words he knew he should for ever see the



figure of a sorrowing and broken woman
kneeling before her Lord.

He watched , till he saw her cross the
churchyard and enter her home. Then after
a sufficient time had elapsed, he followed her
into the house.

Made ASKS A QUESTION.

Selwyn had been over five weeks
in St. Paul's Square. Time passed
quickly in that strange little
nook. At the office nothing particular occurred
during January. Mr. Kerry, of course,
was in high dudgeon at the step which had
been taken during his absence, and expressed
his opinion concerning 'old Trosdale's '
goings on in extremely forcible language.

Spite of this, however, Selwyn and he remained
good friends.

I'll never quarrel with you,' said the
Irishman. * No matter how far anybody
leads you astray.'

As for the official work it was in a greater
tangle than ever. Mr. Trosdale found his

own business so difficult to manage that he
had almost relinquished attempting to attend
to such a mere trifle as her Majesty's. Selvvyn
did his best, but his best could not be regarded
as excellent.

Thistlethwaite attended to nothing save by
fits and starts, while Holt continued systematically
to do as little as he could avoid doing.

Occasionally Mr. Kerry looked in, 'to lend
a hand," as he said, ' in sorting the cards ;'
but he did not visit Third Liverpool as frequently
as formerly, and in good truth Selwyn
did not want him.

Mr. Trosdale's affairs were becoming so
completely bone of his bone and flesh of his
flesh that the Irishman's chatter seemed to
drive him crazy. How soon would the incomparable
furnace be revealed to an admiring
public ?  when would its inventor receive
some portion of those immense sums an
adverse fate had for so long a time been
withholding from him  when should he see
his chief happy, prosperous, taking his right
place among men, and enjoying the evening
of life as he said he had never had the chance
of doing its mid-day ,

Selwyn tried to picture him wealthy, residing
in a large house, having servants at
his beck and call, going into general society,
and in turn receiving guests. There was
nothing incongruous in imagining Mr. Tros-
dale among such surroundings, but yet his
young friend could not keep the crystal which
showed these great things steady. When it
shook, the scene would instantly change to
St. Paul's Square  the dingy old house  the
rooms he knew so well  the furniture that
seemed as familiar as the chairs and tables
he had been acquainted with from childhood.


Already Selwyn was experiencing, by reason
of his intense sympathy with Mr. Trosdale,
that heart sickness which is caused by hope
deferred. Every hour, every minute, he was
expecting something that never seemed to
come. Day after day found his chief still
waiting for Mr. Ashford, day after day
found Mr. Ashford still waiting for his capitalist,
who had promised to find the funds
needful to present the blast-furnace to a
delighted world.

Without a word being exchanged, Selwyn

learnt to know by Mr. Trosdale's fitful
activity or irritable lassitude whether the
news from head-quarters had been good or
the reverse. Now 'the matter would be
settled certainly in a week.' Again, Mr.
Ashford 's ' friend had been called to London,
and nothing could be decided on till his
return.' All this time her Majesty's money
matters were attended to only by fits and
starts. Piles of letters accumulated. Complaints
from Somerset House were incessant.
Papers which demanded immediate attention
were thrust into drawers and forgotten ; indignant
ratepayers called again and again to seethe
Surveyor, who was always absent, and
Selwyn felt distracted between his anxiety
about the patent on the one hand, and his
consciousness that the work was more behind
than any work could ever have been before.

On one dreary afternoon in February he
was alone in the office, feeling particularly
depressed. He was thinking of that fiendish
blast-furnace, and the authorities at Somerset
House, and a peculiarly irate member of that
large and offensive family, the general public,
who had just left him after some disagreeable

remarks, when Mr. Trosdale hurriedly
entered. The Surveyor looked haggard,
almost wild, threw his hat on the table with
such force that it spun to the edge, and then,
flinging himself into his arm-chair and spreading
his arms over the desk, laid his head
down upon them and groaned aloud.

For God's sake, sir, tell me what has
happened !' entreated Selwyn, trembling in
every limb.

The worst !' answered Mr. Trosdale,
without looking up.

The worst!' repeated Selwyn mechanically.

Yes. After keeping me knocking from
post to pillar all this time, that fool  that
dolt  that scoundrel  that ruffian, refuses to
advance a penny.'

Mr. Trosdale lifted his head as he spoke,
and Selwyn saw his face flushed with rage,
and streaked as if by the white fingers of disappointment
and despair. * I may as well die
at once,' he continued. ' I cannot struggle on
any longer ; no man has made a braver fight,
but fate is too much for me. The sooner I
am under the sod the better,' and he let his
head fall again.

It was dreadful to see him sitting thus
hopeless and beaten ; his disordered gray hair
gave an additional pathos to his attitude.

The grief of age is always more heartrending
to witness than the sorrow of youth,
and Selwyn felt everything which was generous
and tender in his nature touched by the
sight before him.

Do not give way,' he entreated. * Bear
up a little longer.'

 Why should I bear up any longer ?' asked
Mr. Trosdale, without changing his attitude.
Why should 1 not give up, when there is
nothing to hope for  nothing left but despair ?'

Is it a large sum of money that you need ?'
ventured the younger man, who had always
before feared to put any question which
might savour of impertinent curiosity.

What is the use of asking ? The sum
needed would seem a trifle to many  it would
once to me ; but I might as well require ten
times the amount  it would be just as easy to
get.'

Do not think me intrusive  indeed I do
not mean to be so ; but I have a little money,
and '

Mr. Trosdale laughed scornfully.

Five pounds, perhaps ?' he said. ' Thank
you ; but I am afraid all you have been
able to save out of the salary the Somerset
House wiseacres consider sufficient to secure
efficient men would not help me much.'

I have more than five pounds,' answered
Selwyn ; ' not through any saving or good
management of my own. I have nearly four
hundred, and you are welcome to the half or
more if it is any good.'

He was not prepared for the effect these
few words produced.

The Surveyor lifted his head, withdrew his
arms from the desk, and stammered out :

This  is not a jest . You are not joking,
are you ?'

'Joking?' repeated Selwyn, horror-stricken
at the suggestion. * I hope you do not think
I could jest at such a time.'

I  I did not know,' answered Mr. Tros-
dale. ' I have been so constantly disappointed
I have been so tried. Ashford's tidings
were such a blow to me, and then the revulsion.
I  couldn't ' and the man covered

his face with his hands and burst into tears.

Selwyn stood silent, genuinely shocked.
He did not know what to say or what to do
and he was cudgelling his brains to devise
some word of comfort when Mr. Trosdale,
dashing the tears from his eyes, exclaimed :

I'm a fool ! What an ass you must think
me ; but the blow this morning was too much
for me, and I am faint and weak.'

 I saw you ate no breakfast, and I am
afraid you have had nothing since.'

No. - Ashford's news was food enough
for one day  more than enough.'

But you will take food now ?' urged the
young man. * Let me send Tom for a chop.'

With a gesture Mr. Trosdale negatived
Selwyn's sensible proposal.

How soon can you get this money ?' he
asked, with feverish impatience. He was
like a ravenous man, too hungry even to say
thank you ' for the bread he clutched.

In a few days was the answer.
Then it is not in Liverpool ?'

No, it is in the Funds ; I must write to
my uncle's solicitor to get it for me.'

He will not let you have it.'

He cannot help letting me have it.'

Mr. Trosdale laid a hand on his arm,
and looked at him with anxious, craving eyes.

If you fail me,' he said, ' I shall die.'

I won't fail you.'

And you will write now  this minute ?'

I will ; but you must first let me send
Tom for a chop.'

No  write  write  I will eat afterwards,
when I know the letter is posted.'

Do you think two hundred will be
enough ?' asked Selwyn, as he took out notepaper
and envelopes.

'Ample, ample ! Make haste and finish,
some one may come in and disturb us.*

Thus entreated, Selwyn dashed off a few
hurried lines, saying he had immediate need
of the amount, and begging Mr. Kershaw to
send it to him without delay.

What have you said ?' inquired Mr.
Trosdale.

For answer, Selwyn gave him the letter.

I am going out ; I will drop it in the box,'
remarked the Surveyor, rising as he spoke ;
I always intended you should have some
benefit out of my invention ; but now I will
give you half the profits.'

I do not want any profit cried his
Assistant ; ' I won't take a penny. As for this
money, I am thankful I have it to lend to you.'

If you had only thought of it before,
what a world of anxiety you might have
spared me !'

I am sorry, Mr. Trosdale ; but indeed I
had not the smallest idea that such a sum
would be of any use to you.'

It only means success, and success means
life,' after which exhaustive summing up the
Surveyor went to have his chop, while
Selwyn, flushed with the consciousness that
he had quite accidentally done his chief a
great service, made an onslaught on the
standing crop of her Majesty's arrears with
a lighter heart than he had carried in his
bosom for many a day.

What has occurred to put my father in
such good spirits T asked Madge that evening,
when she and Selwyn were left for a few
minutes alone.

He knows that he will have money very
shortly to secure his furnace.'

Is that it ? I am so sorry.'

'Will you forgive my saying. Miss Tros-
voL. 11. 24

dale, that I think you do not understand all
that means to your father ?' Selwyn's tone
was judicial, even stern. He had been long
desirous of helping forward the course of
reform which he felt sure would render
Madge herself much happier. He was
willing to condone any misconception on
the part of this incomprehensible girl towards
himself; but he felt the attitude she assumed
when the invention lying close to her father's
heart was mentioned deserved every reprobation.
The young lady, however, did not
seem to view matters in the same light.

I have known my father longer than
you, Mr. Serle,' she remarked with a contemptuous
smile. ' However, we need not
discuss the matter ; you are glad apparently,
and I am sorry : that is all there is to be said
at present.'

Her words were like a cold wave flowing
over the sunny strand of Selwyn's enthusiasm.
Whenever he woke during the night, and he
woke often, it was not the idea of Mr. Tros-
dale's recovered cheerfulness, but Madge's
dissatisfaction, which recurred to him. It
seemed so unnatural for a daughter not to

sympathize with her father, that he felt more
puzzled than ever as he viewed the width
and depth of the gulf that evidently separated
them. If he, a comparative stranger, felt so
deeply interested in all Mr. Trosdale's
designs, was it not marvellous to find that
the same plans divided him from his only
child ? And after having considered this
problem till he fell into uneasy sleep, Selwyn
would wake again with a vague feeling of
everything in his life having gone wrong-oppressing
him.

He did not hear from JMr. Kershaw by
return of post ; instead, he received a letter
from Sea Court which grieved and annoyed
him greatly. The lawyer failed to answer
his request for money with a remittance ; on
the contrary, he went to Air. Adams and laid
Selwyn's application before the oldest and
kindest friend that young man possessed.

The poor boy has got into bad hands,'
was the Squire's comment.

I am afraid he has fallen into bad courses,'
amended the solicitor.

'And I thought we could trust him so
fully!' sighed the Squire.

24  2

It is evident he is in trouble of some
sort,' answered the solicitor.

No lad was more carefully brought up.
I had the most perfect faith in his honour
and prudence. I never felt a moment's
anxiety about him.'

'Young men will be young men replied
Mr. Kershaw.

Yes ; but they need not be bad young
men,' retorted the Squire ; to which the other
answered nothing.

I thought I had better see you before
sending the money,' went on the lawyer,
after a pause. ' Of course, if he insists on
having it, no one can prevent his doing what
he likes with his own.'

I will write myself,' said Mr. Adams ; and
he did write, just such a letter as a loving
father might pen to a son he feared had gone
astray. ' Whatever the trouble may be,' he
said, * tell me, and I will help you to the
best of my ability. I will advance the money
myself, if it be absolutely imperative to pay
such a sum ; but when I think how hard the
little hoard which you have at command was
gathered, the self-denial each pound represents,

my heart feels very sore and sorry for
you and the unselfish dead. My boy, no
matter how far you have gone wrong, it is
never too late to turn back. Think of those
who loved you much and are gone. Consider
your own future, which it is for you to
make or mar, and be wise. Say what you
want such a large sum of money for, and let
me advise you. I will not judge you harshly.
You were young and inexperienced to be
thrown all alone into the wickedness of a
wicked town ; but I thought your dead
mother's prayers would be a shield to you.'
And thus, with a little more to the same
effect, this faithful friend ended a letter which
it cost him much orgies to write.

Never in his short life had Selwyn felt so
shocked and annoyed. The view Mr. Adams
took was so natural, it could not arouse indignation
; yet the very fact that he had been
cruelly misjudged cut the young fellow to the
heart.

What a world this is, in which the worst
thought always occurs first,' he considered ;
and then, even before the red flush had faded
from his face or his hand was quite steady,

he wrote assuring Mr. Adams that he was
utterly mistaken. * I have got into no mess
he said ; ' I have not gone wrong. I want
this money to lend to a friend, who has need
of it for an honourable purpose ; and I entreat
of you to believe that I am telling you
the simple truth.'

By the same post he repeated his request
to Mr. Kershaw in somewhat peremptory
terms, with the result that within a week he
was enabled to hand a draft for two hundred
pounds to the expectant Surveyor. But the
letter which enclosed that draft from his late
uncle's solicitor was couched in the coldest
and most formal terms, whilst the tone of
Mr. Adams' answer to his earnest protest
told him he had contrived to estrange one
whose kindness never failed, and whose
acquaintance was an honour.

The Squire, while * not presuming to advise,'
felt it only his duty to say plainly :

That any man who could ask such a
youth in Selwyn's position to lend him so
large a sum of money must be either a reckless
spendthrift or a designing rogue.'

As he read, Selwyn looked across at Mr.

Trosdale, and smiled to consider how mistaken
the Squire was.

'When the furnace is well before the
world I will tell Mr. Adams all about it, and
show him how utterly he has misjudged us
both ;' and he hinted, when he replied, at a
speedy explanation, which would put everything
right ; to which the Squire's rejoinder
was very brief:

Experience has taught me that a mystery
means either folly or sin. I do not blame
you ; but 1 feel quite certain you are being
duped. We must each, however, pay in
some shape or other for our education in the
world's school. I hope you may get off with
two hundred pounds, though I doubt it.'

Nothing could be harder or more unreasonable
than this letter, Selwyn felt, and at the
same time more hopeless to answer. If a
man will not see with your eyes, where is the
oculist who can make him do so ?

Already this moral blindness, which afflicts
so many people, was causing him annoyance,
Madge, Mr. Kerry, Mr. Adams, Mr. Kern
could not be persuaded that his vision
alone was accurate. It was most trying, and

naturally his sympathies were fully aroused
for himself as well as for Mr. Trosdale.

When one knows one is right, it proves
very hurtful to be thought in the wrong, and
the only balm Selwyn could find to soothe
the wounds inflicted by his unbelieving and
too - zealous friends was the approaching
triumph of the furnace, destined to eclipse all
other furnaces. Had he been offered the
choice, he would no doubt have preferred
that some greater, grander, nobler invention
had occurred to his chief.

Something very beautiful or very wonderful
; something on all fours with telegraphy,
or electricity, or steam, or aerial navigation,
would have seemed a much finer matter thana
prosaic furnace, which only professed to do
better what had been done well enough before
by plenty of other people. He believed
in the furnace implicitly, though he did not
understand its peculiarities in the least. Perhaps
he believed in it all the more because of
his very incompetence to criticise. It was to
save fuel, and yet to produce a greater heat
than any in use ; but as Selwyn was not a
manufacturer, the savings of coal and the

production of heat did not appeal to his heart
so much as such matters ought. He was
still young and foolish, and a flylng-machlne
would have charmed his fancy much more
than any heating apparatus ever Invented ;
but he checked his mind when It went off on
any such discontented wanderings.

I am like Naaman, the Syrian,' he thought
(it will be perceived that association with
Madge was already producing Its natural
effect), ' wanting large means used when
little will serve the purpose better. After all,
so long as Mr. Trosdale Is rich and happy,
what can the nature of his Invention signify ?
And I shall have helped him to success.
How rejoiced I ought to feel.'

But had he searched his heart, he would
have found that rejoicing was far from him ;
that unrest had taken the place of content ;
that anxiety watched beside his pillow ; and
that a continual uncertainty seemed to walk
with him by day, and lie down with him at night.

The whole weight of the office lay on him.
It was with difficulty he could get Mr. Tros-
dale to attend to Important matters, or
extract sufficient Information to enable some

pressing duty to be performed in even the
most perfunctory manner.

For the first time also since his arrival in
Liverpool his health really failed. He missed
the walk to and fro his lodgings. He spent
so much time in Mr. Trosdale's close unhealthy
den at St. Paul's Square that he
began to lose appetite and vigour. He lay
awake so long at night considering the
fiendish pranks enacted by everyone who
touched the furnace, that he did not feel inclined
to leave his bed when the hour came
for him to rise. A nervous irritability with
which he was often seized seemed scarcely
less trying than the causeless despair that
made him occasionally take very dark views
of life, and especially of his own future in the
tax-office.

I knew how it would be,' Mr. Kerry remarked
one day. * Trosdale's changing you
as the fairies change the babies, and it is sore
my heart is to see the wreck he is making of
you.'

What do you mean ?' asked Selwyn pettishly.
* I have a cold, and so have you, and
so has everybody in the office. Is there any

miracle in that ? The miracle would be if we
had not colds.'

Mr. Kerry shook his head. ' There's
many a sort of cold he remarked oracularly,
and departed.

Selwyn's cold certainly was bad. It made
him feel ill all over. He ached from head to
foot, and was in that state of mind and body
when even a slight contradiction seems the
last straw added to an already heavy burden.
It had been arranged that he was on that
afternoon to take the detective duty in
which Holt and Thistlethwalte alone delighted
; but as Selwyn looked out on a
muddy pavement and a downpour of rain, he
said to himself : * No one shall catch me
roaming about the town on such an errand in
weather like this,' and turned again to the
pile of work that lay beside him.

He had intended also, when he left St.
Paul's Square, to go to the theatre in search
of a change of some sort, and it was understood
that he would not return for tea ; but,
as time wore on, he knew he felt as little
inclined to go pleasuring as to go testing the
depths of mendacity that can be plumbed by

sundry of her Majesty's lieges when acquiescence
in the assessment of her Majesty's taxes
is in progress.

Not going to the play after all ?' cried
Mr. Kerry, meeting him in the corridor ;
'and I have just put old Tompkins off till
tomorrow (I told you he was coming in to
have a pipe with me), that I might be free to
see the fun myself

There's nothing to hinder yoitr seeing
the fun, that I know oV, answered Selvvyn,
*only I won't go to any theatre this
evening.'

Where will you go then ?'

To bed,' retorted the other.

Do ; and wrap your feet up in a flannel
petticoat, and rub your nose with the grease
of a tallow candle, and take a stiff glass of
hot grog with butter in it  and '

Confound you, Kerry ! Can't you see
I am ill ?'

I see you've a bad pain in your temper ;
and I don't know but that's the worst ailment
of all ailments man or woman can'
be laid up v/ith/

Setde the question for yourself. I amin

no mood to discuss It,' retorted Selwyn,
driven to the verge of frenzy.

Well, you have my best prayers. Sure,
they won't hurt you.'

So far from accepting this offer in a good
spirit, Mr. Serle made a very naughty reply 
a reply so naughty, indeed, that subsequently
he felt ashamed to recall it. When he got
rid of his cold, and found himself again in a
right frame of mind, he could not but agree
with * Pet Margery's ' dictum on a somewhat
similar occasion, that he had used a word no
young gentleman should allow to pass his
lips.

He was far too hot and angry at the time,
however, to do anything save elbow Mr.
Kerry  who had planted himself in the
middle of the passage  to one side, and flee
through the filthy, wretched streets  and oh !
how filthy and miserable the Liverpool streets
can be  to St. Paul's Square, as if to a City
of Refuge, though it were  but a little one.'

There, however, he was doomed to disappointment.
For the first time in his
experience Mr. Trosdale's house wore no
look of welcome. On the contrary, it might

have been any house  any one, in fact, of the
ten hundred thousand houses that never seem
to smile a welcome to living being.

He opened the door with a latch-key Mr.
Trosdale had given him, and went into the
sitting-room.

The fire had been just made up, to last
evidently for hours ; it shone red through the
two lower bars, but above towered a huge
mass of black coal. The gas was turned
low ; no table spread for tea ; no kettle singing
cheerily on the hob ; no smell of fat
muffin, slim crumpet, homely scone or luxurious
sally linn ; no little whet, such as Mr.
Trosdale loved, in the way of potted shrimps
or char, pickled salmon, or more delicate
pate.

Instead, there was utter despair  the blackness
of desolation. Selwyn took the situation
in at a glance. Probably he could not have
enjoyed society if there had been society to
enjoy, or eaten food if he had found a feast
prepared ; but the fact that he could have
neither did not tend to make him look more
cheerfully at existence.

When he told Mr. Kerry he meant to

return home and go to bed, he spoke the
literal truth. At the office bed had offered a
very inviting prospect ; here, however, where
nothing else presented itself, bed did not
seem so captivating. As he toiled slowly up
the stairs  his cold was of that not uncommon
description which adds, apparently, tons to
the weight of a human body, particularly as
regards the limbs  he thought what a fool he
had been to say anything about going to the
theatre and not coming back to tea.

I wonder where Mr. Trosdale has gone,'
he thought, looking into the drawing-room,
where some glowing embers told a fine fire
had been. ' Ah ! this is better,' going over
to the hearth and sinking into an easy-chair.
I'll just sit down and warm myself, and then
turn in and with a feeling of content he
leaned back and, without ' turning in,' fell
asleep.

He slept as it seemed to him for hours,
though in reality the time might have been
counted by minutes, and but few even of
those. He dreamed he was again at his
uncle's cottage, overlooking the sea, across
which there fell that light we never behold

in our waking moments. It was a lovely-summer's
morn, and as he stood feasting
his eyes on the remembered scene, he
felt the heat of the mid-day sun stealing into
his chilled frame and diffusing a delightful
warmth.

Along the path leading from the house he
saw afar off his uncle advancing towards him
just as he had seen his relative a hundred,
hundred times in the happy days that in
waking reality could return  ah ! never more.

The old man came nearer and nearer, unchanged
in gait and carriage  his silvery hair
stirred by the light wind, a smile of ineffable
content on his calm face answering Selwyn's
cry of, * I am so glad to be back ; I have been
so lonely !' Then in the sunshine they stood
together, hand clasped in hand, looking each
into the other's eyes, till some voice exclaiming
' Mr. Serle ' made Selwyn start, and so
awake.

For a moment he felt dazed ; the spell of
his dream still held thrall over him, and he
could not at first remember where he was.
The fire had not quite burnt out, but the
room was dark, save for a gleam of light

which came through the door Selwyn had
omitted to close when he entered.

No one was beside him, no one was speaking
to him ; but on the landing two persons
were talking.

'What is it you want to know about
Mr. Serle, Madge ?' asked Mr. Trosdale, in
answer to his daughter.

Selwyn grasped the arms of his chair,
and was about to rise out of its cosy
depths when Madge spoke again, and
said :

I want to know how long he is going to
stay here.'

Her tone was sharp and irritable, and passed
into the young man's heart as a bullet might
have done.

How long is he going to stay ?' Mr.
Trosdale's voice was deprecating. It seemed
impossible to disturb the conference now.

He came here to spend Christmas-week,'
pursued Miss Trosdale, ' and he has stayed
here ever since, and we are now in the middle
of February. Does he mean to stop with
us always ?'

Do you object to his stopping, Madge ?'
VOL. II. 25

I objected to his coming, and I object
to his staying was the uncompromising
reply.

I am afraid you will have to get over
your objection then returned Mr. Trosdale,
evidently waxing wroth.

Why, what do you mean ?'

That he is going to stay here altogether.'

Are you serious ?'

 Perfectly ; I never was more serious in my
life.'

Then, papa said Madge, and a curious
change came over her manner, which was
now as quiet and determined as it had been
before angry, ' you must manage the house
for yourself, for I can do so no longer. I
have worked hard, I have denied myself the
smallest luxury. I have saved every penny
I could save, to make you comfortable and
to keep out of debt ; but I will not work, or
deny myself, or save for Mr. Serle.' And
having delivered this manifesto she was
turning to go downstairs when Mr. Tros-
dale detained her.

'Wait a minute, Madge  what is it you
want ?'

I want what I seem never likely to have,
some ease of mind.'

Pooh !', returned her father, ' you know it
is useless talking in that way to me.'

How am I to talk then ?' she retorted*

'Just now, please to condescend to particulars,
and tell me the special form which
you wish what you call ease of mind to assume.'

 Money !' answered the girl defiantly.

Money I of course, I might have known,
it is always money with you.'

It is always money with everyone who
has to pay tradespeople and maintain a decent
appearance on almost nothing. However,
I need not trouble you further ; we can
revert to the old plan which worked so
admirably, and '

We will do no such thing,' Interrupted Mr.
Trosdale In a rage ; ' do you Imagine that
with my mind occupied as It Is I am going
to be harassed by baker and butcher, and all
the fry of duns that swarm around a house
as flies do about treacle ? Clearly understand
while you live with me you will continue
to act as my housekeeper, and you will
be civil to Mr. Serle.'

252

I must have more to keep the house on
then,' she retorted ; ' and as for Mr. Serle, if
he is to Hve here he ought to pay. We are
not in a position to board a young man for
nothing.'

Perhaps you would like us to set up as
lodging-house keepers.'

I should not mind in the least.'

Great heavens!' exclaimed Mr. Tros-
dale, ' was ever man so afflicted as I am,
first by my wife, then by my daughter T

Stop !' interposed Madge ; * say what you
please about or to me ; but do not speak of
my mother. I know what a wife she was. I
know all the bitterness of the life she led
so uncomplainingly. I will not have her name
brought into any matter between us ; and as
for Mr. Serle, if you have really asked him to
stay here indefinitely, you vmstgiv me more
money, that is quite certain. Things cannot, .
and shall not, go on any longer as they have
been doing.'

'Oh, dear me, dear me!' moaned Mr.
Trosdale ; * am I never to know the meaning
of the word " peace '? '

If this question were addressed to his

daughter, she did not vouchsafe any answer ;
instead, she walked defiantly downstairs,
across the hall, and out of the house.

Next minute Mr. Trosdale followed her
example, and Selwyn found himself alone.

He was wide enough awake now, and yet
his happy dream that came to him in blessed
sleep seemed more real than this blighting
trouble with which he tried to wrestle in full
possession of his faculties.

He stood in the middle of the room feelings
like one bereft of reason  was he going crazy }
had he imagined it all ?  could such things
really have been said about him?  could it be
that he had sat and listened to the story of
his owen shame spoken aloud, and that by
Madge? 77 an unwelcome guest ; > staying
on in a house when he was not wanted ; he
eating bread earned by a girl ; he putting an
additional burden on her ; he a bone of contention
between parent and child ! He would
go ; he would go that minute ; he would not
even stop to pack his things  he would put
up at an hotel for the night  he would write
a line to Mr. Trosdale, and send it by a
porter. The house seemed to choke him ; the

scent of the rose-leaves and the musk and
the lavender made him feel faint and giddy ;
he stepped out on to the landing, which was
empty as his own heart, went down the stairs
he never again meant to ascend, and passed
out into the night.

Grim and solitary lay the lonely churchyard,
where the forgotten dead were sleeping,
around St. Paul's, lighted up for evening
service.

Madge was gone there ; in a minute more
he could have heard the organ pealing forth
had he not fled from the Square. He forgot
his cold  languor and weariness seemed to
have dropped from him like a heavy mantle
laid aside ; he did not fed the rain pouring in
torrents, or notice that the men and women
he met looked strangely at him as he pressed
forward to a phantom goal through the
darkness.

A COMPACT.

:@ HOUGH he often subsequently
tried to recall where his weary-feet
wandered on that night, Selwyn
never could precisely remember the route
he took, the long and devious ways he
traversed.

All he ever felt sure of In after days was
that, wet and disreputable, he had pushed
open the swing doors of a great hotel, and,
after one dazzled moment, slunk back ashamed
to enter, and that then, after hovering close
to the heart of Liverpool till the noise of Its
ceaseless throbbing seemed to drive him
distracted, he struck out, with some vague
idea of finding quiet, for the country, which
he never reached.

He passed through dreary streets  walked
mile after mile  the docks lying to his left,
and the distant sand-hills far on in front, with
the rain-swept air growing colder and colder,
and the health-giving smell of the sea becoming
stronger at each step he took ; the noise
of the town getting fainter, and the silence of
the suburbs deeper  till at length, with a chill
like that of death on him, he stopped suddenly.
It was then he 'came to himself,' and knew
he literally had not a dry thread of clothing
on him, and was fagged out.

The rain was, for the time being, over 
the change in the night might have been one
of the causes tending to sober Selwyn's
fevered brain. The wind blew keen and raw,
and he shivered like one in an ague lit as he
stood, with reason restored to him as it comes
back to a man after delirium.

What am I doing here?' he thought, and
then, for the first time, the height and length
and depth of his own impulsive folly began
to perplex him.

The darkness, the loneliness, the horrible
cold, were so real as to thrust his mental
grievance for the time into the background.

What was he doing there, indeed ? Subjecting
himself to a risk of the most serious
illness  putting himself to well-nigh inconceivable
discomfort  fretting himself almost
out of his senses, and all because a girl, who
had never been over-civil to him, said he
ought to do what he was doing, namely, pay
for his board.

How absurd it all seemed when reduced to
facts ! What was there in such simple words
to send him forth into the night as though
possessed ? Something had been wrong with
him all day. Now he came to consider, he
could not leave Mr. Trosdale's house with
such discourtesy. He must leave it, of course,
eventually  making some excuse perhaps 
because he ought not to widen the wide
breach between father and daughter. Why
had not Mr. Trosdale said he paid  though
little ? It was not with any good will of his
the amount chanced to be small. He would
think it all out quietly. He would not rush
off to an hotel. He would sleep on the
matter  second thoughts were always best.

It must be getting very late. He wondered
where he could meet with a conveyance.

Perhaps, though, he had better walk,
for he was drenched and cold  cold. How
tired he felt ! No one but an idiot would
have acted in such a fashion. And so thinking
he turned back, now dozing as he walked,
again starting, awake, to find himself in unfamiliar
streets  still getting nearer and
nearer to Liverpool, where the lights were
not so many or the noise so great as when he
left it ; on past the docks ; on between great
rows of lofty warehouses that seemed to frown
darkly as he passed through the misery and
squalor and vice, the aspect of which he
knew too well  and then, at last, one turn
which brought him into St. Paul's Square.
His fingers were so stiff and numbed he could
scarcely feel his latch-key ; he made two
futile attempts to open the door, but at last
succeeded. After many hours he was in light
and warmth again. How pleasant the very
air of the house felt  how bright and cheery
the dinner-room looked as Mr. Trosdale
came out with a smile and a welcoming
Back again, Serle ?' which changed the
next instant to ' What on earth is the matter ?
Where have you been T

As his chief put that amazed question,
Selwyn saw Madge come and stand behind
her father, looking at him with utter wonderment.


Why, Mr. Serle !' she said, ' is it possible
you have been out in the rain without an
overcoat or umbrella ?'

Selwyn looked round, as if an umbrella and
an overcoat might have been expected to
follow him into the hall.

I forgot them,' he answered, In such a
dazed way that Mr. Trosdale might be
excused for thinking what he really did
think.

You had better get off your wet things
and go to bed,' he observed. 'Here  what
Is all this ?' he added, catching hold of Selwyn
as he reeled, and would have fallen. ' Why,
you are as wet as if you had been in the
Mersey. I will help you upstairs  no good
sitting down, you are only likely to get a chill.'

I'll be all right In a minute,' answered
Selwyn. ' I'm  I'm '

There is something the matter, papa,'
suggested Miss Trosdale.

I think there Is,' agreed her father drily ;

a good deal the matter,' and they both, with
grave faces, contemplated Selwyn, who,
utterly beaten, sat on a chair in the hall  his
head leaning against the wall, his hair
drenched, his cheeks white, his eyes half-closed,
his mouth a little open.

Come,' began Mr. Trosdale, * you had
better make an attempt to get upstairs. I
will help you  give me your hand,' and he
took Selwyn's unresisting fingers in his only
to drop them instantly. ' Lord save me,' he
exclaimed, ' you are like death ; what has
befallen you  have you been in the river ?'

Selwyn shook his head and smiled faintly.

I shall be better in a minute,' he murmured
; ' then I can get upstairs.'

Something very serious has befallen him,'
observed Miss Trosdale ; 'Ann had better go
for a doctor.'

'Pon my word, I think it is the best thing
she can do,' agreed the Surveyor. *What a
state he is in  I cannot imagine where he
has been.'

Madge did not answer a word, but after
despatching the servant for a doctor, she went
to the kitchen, saw there was plenty of hot

water, ran up Into Selwyn's room, laid out
everything he was likely to require, turned
the gas higher, and then sped downstairs
again, to find her father still looking helplessly
at his Assistant.

What do you think of him ?' she asked.

I don't know what to think,' answered
Mr. Trosdale, who was Indeed perplexed to
an extent.

I wish the doctor would come,' said
Madge uneasily ; and even as she spoke Ann
returned, almost too breathless to make it
quite clear that Dr. Mangin was close at her
heels.

'He only turned back to get his Instruments,'
explained the woman. * I hear his step now,'
and she opened the door wide to admit a
cheery, jolly-faced gentleman, who even while
giving his right hand to Miss Trosdale and
his left to the Surveyor found time to glance
at the patient and Inquire :

What Is all this ?'

We know just as much about the matter
as you do,' answered Mr. Trosdale gloomily.
I left him well, save for a cold, at the office,
and he returned as you see.' 

He must have been in the water,' said
Dr. Mangin, wiping the hand with which he
had touched Selwyn.

He may,' answered the Surveyor, in a tone
that impHed nothing was impossible.

He Ives with you, does not he ?'

Yes, he Ives here.'

Then let us get him up to bed  no use
trying to prescribe till we have these wet
clothes off. Now just keep quiet, my young
friend, will you ?' he continued, addressing
Selwyn, who was heavily trying to state he
would be quite equal to going upstairs presently.
' Take his feet, please, Mr. Tros-
dale  that is all right,' and with the slightest
nod he told Ann to follow while they carried
the lad upstairs as they might had he been
dead.

'Ah! miss, dear, go and sit down,' entreated
Ann before she followed. * Sure you are
white as a corpse. Don't be taking on  the
doctor '11 bring him round, never you fear.'

Ann, Ann, he looks '

I know, darling, I know ; but you're
wrong. He'll be laughing at it all after a
day or two. He'll have to lay by for a while,

but that's nothing'. It is you that are troubling
me. If you fall ill, what is to become of us
all?'

I shall not fall ill. Go  go up to them,
they want you.'

They did want her  to take away Selwyn's
dripping clothes, to fetch hot blankets and
boiling water, to kindle a fire in the drawing-room,
and bring brandy, which the doctor
administered to his patient, who was almost
asleep, out of a teaspoon in small sips.

I have not the faintest notion what is
really the matter with him,' he said at last.
From some cause utter exhaustion has
ensued, but I think in the morning we shall
find him much better. If you like I will
look in through the night, but I fancy rest
is all he wants. Some one had better
stop up.'

I will,' remarked Ann.

So that if he should be worse or want
anything '

I'll run round,' finished Ann.

Really such a servant is a pearl of price,'
decided the doctor, as he walked home, reflecting
upon a case which puzzled him a

good deal. ' To-morrow I shall know more
about it,' he thought.

But the morrow did not bring any great
enlightenment with It. Selwyn, still heavy
with sleep, very weak, hoarse as a raven, and
quite unfit to get up, had no better explanation
to give of his previous night's escapade
than that he believed he had not rightly
known what he was doing.

I must have walked about for hours,' he
said ; ' that is how I got so wet. I felt very
queer all day, and I grew worse towards
night.'

You selected an extraordinary evening for
your stroll !'

Yes ; but I did not know it was raining 
really.'

Well, I am bound to believe you, but it is a
curious story. I should advise you not to
play such a prank again. You have had a
narrow escape of a dangerous illness.'

Poor Selwyn, to whom any serious sickness
was a strange experience, thought his
ailments quite bad enough. Three days
elapsed before he could leave his bed, and
even then he felt weak and giddy, though he

essayed no longer journey than across the
drawing-room.

As he sat in an easy-chair by the fire, the
whole conversation between Madge and her
father seemed to re-echo in his ear. While
he lived he thought he should never forget it.
Yet what an ass he had been, what a stupid,
foolish fellow to rush off in such a paroxysm
of vexation, and feel so hurt because he had
heard what he was never meant to hear.

Looking at the glowing grate Madge had
piled high for him, his heart grew as soft as
it had grown hot and angry that night.

What kindness had these people left
undone } No son could have been better
treated, more tenderly cared for. Three
and four times a day Mr. Trosdale came
back from the office or elsewhere, to see
how it fared with him. The piano was
closed. Madge sent away her pupils,
and kept the house silent as a cloister.
Nothing money could buy or friendship
think of was grudged him. No one in the
establishment seemed to exist save for his
service.

How could he leave them .  and yet it

VOL. II, 26

was right he should do so. How might he
ever go out from the warmth and shelter of
such a home into the world in which he was
so lonely ?

Oh ! if only he had not heard, or having
heard, had he but confronted them boldly
and spoken then and there !

After all the goodness they had shown
him, was it possible to tell them he must go ?
And yet how was it possible for him, knowing
what he knew, to stay ?

Backwards and forwards his thoughts
swung with the wearisome monotony of a
pendulum. Anyone could see something
was harassing him, and yet still he evaded or
repelled all the doctor's questions.

I know very well,' said that gentleman
half jocularly, * that you are in trouble and
want an adviser. I can't do much more for
you in the way of medicine, but let me prescribe
for a 'mind ill at ease." Come, what's
the scrape . I am not so old but that I can
remember when I was young and foolish like
yourself. Out with it  confession is good for
the soul : is it murder or larceny .-* robbing a
church or eloping with an heiress ?'

No, I am not In any scrape  indeed.'
That's all nonsense, if you'll excuse my
plain speaking. I know very well there has
been more than a cold the matter with you.
However, I don't wish to force your confidence,'
and Dr. Mangin went off slightly in a
huff.

Shortly afterwards Miss Trosdale came
into the room. She was looking very pretty
and very pleasant, and she smiled sympathetically
on Selwyn, whose appearance did
not do great credit to the amount of attention
that had been lavished upon him.

This must be sadly dull for you, Mr.
Serle,' she said. ' I wish we were able to
amuse you in some way. Should you like
me to play for you, or do you not feel strong
enough ?'

Selwyn lifted his eyes and looked at her
with an expression she did not in the least
understand.

If you would play for me, if it would not
tire you, there is nothing in the world I should
enjoy so much.'

She laughed, and saying it was delightful
to play for so friendly an auditor, turned to

the piano and began one of Schubert's
sonatas.

As usual, after the first minute she forgot
she had a Listener. She forgot her cares.
She soared beyond her narrow life, and passed
into a world where music alone had power to
carry her ; and all the time Selwyn was considering
that mighty problem whether to stay
or eo, and if he went how he should leave.
Then suddenly it came upon him what he
would do, what he had best do, and having
made his decision, he said, as she struck the
last chord :

Miss Trosdale.'

Thinking he had need of something, she
rose instantly and crossed to the fireplace.

What can I get for you ?' she asked, finding
he did not proceed.

Miss Trosdale'  it was harder to go on
than he had anticipated, but he meant to finish
for all that.

Yes ?' she said interrogatively.

'- I have a confession to make '  he was in
the middle of the stream now, and he must
strike out for the other bank as boldly as he
could.

A confession !' repeated Madge, a good
deal surprised, and yet not perhaps utterly
astonished ; * is it a very serious one ?'

To me it seems so.'

Then if I were you I should not make it.'
There was such excellent sense in this

advice that Selwyn paused, but only for a
moment.

I am afraid I must,' he said, * for it concerns
you as well as myself; the fact is'  
hurrying on in hot haste as he saw she
was about to interrupt him  * on Monday
evenings last I came straight home from the
office. I felt ill, and as there was no one in,
I sat down here, and I suppose dropped off
into a doze, from which I was roused by hearing
you and Mr. Trosdale talking about me.'

She flushed to her temples.

Stop a moment,' she said, raising her
hand.

He stopped obediently. He thought she
was going to speak ; but without uttering a
word, she seated herself in the nearest chair
and remained perfectly silent, while he sat
silent also.

They stayed thus for full two minutes.

which seemed to Selwyn as long as any
previous two hours in his life ; then she lifted
her eyes and said : ' Now go on.'

I do not know how to go on,' he replied ;
I have nothing more to say.'

Then why did you begin to say anything ?'
she asked. ' Why could you not have left
me in ignorance that you had heard what you
were never intended to hear ?'

The floodgates were open at last : it was
easy for him to go on now. Speech came to
him readily, as it had never done during
the whole of his acquaintance with her.

Why,' he repeated, * do you think it possible
I could have stayed here and remained
silent ?'

It would have been better,' she answered.

Then I should have felt ashamed to look
you and your father in the face. I should
have esteemed myself a traitor not to tell
you I had heard " what I was never intended
to hear." You were very bitter against me,
Miss Trosdale  very hard upon me.'

I was,' she said ; ' and I am sorry.'

Why should you be sorry ?' he asked
wonderingly.

Because I misjudged you  because I did
not know. My father has since told me of
the arrangement between you. Why he did
not speak of it long ago, I cannot imagine.'

I wish he had.'

So do I ; it would have saved us all a
vast amount of annoyance.'

I am vexed to think I should annoy you ;
and yet, you see, I was forced to speak, because
I felt I could not stop in this house
after what I had heard.'

 You will leave it now,' she interrupted
eagerly ; * that is what you were going to
tell me ?'

If you wish me to do so, I have no
choice. But oh ! Miss Trosdale, do not
wish it ; do not punish me too hardly for
what I really could not help. Without making
a scene it was impossible to let you know I
was within earshot, and even had I done
so '

I understand,' she remarked, mentally
supplying his ellipsis, and there was silence
again. ' This is what has been on your
mind,' she began at last. * You owe your
illness greatly to 

Eavesdropping,' he finished.
That was not the word I meant to use
remarked Madge, smiling in spite of herself.

I had heard, and I could not forget  I
can never forget,' murmured the lad, for he
was still In heart but a lad, and his weak,
broken voice sounded strange through the
stillness.

She put one white hand over her face, partly
covering It, while she said, not as if speaking
to him :

'No, we never can forget ; that is the
worst of It.'

I do not know that I should wish to
forget,' he went on inconsequently, ' for I
hope I understand you a little better than I
did. I am but a poor sort of fellow, not very
bright or clever ; but I should be a poorer
and stupider fellow than I am if, through my
illness, I had not learned to see things differently.
I often used to puzzle myself about
you ; now I shall never puzzle myself again.'

He paused, and she did not help him.
She sat motionless, thinking  thinking as he
had seen her doing fifty times before ; and ashe
watched, there recurred to his memory

that evening when in a shaft of moonlight
she knelt in the old church, alone as she
thought, with God.

If you send me away  if you say I must
go,' he continued, with a passionate tremor
in his quiet tones, ' I shall go, of course. But
you do not know what leaving here will
mean to me. I have been so happy in this
house. I '

Are you not talking too much ?' she
asked.

No, for I want to tell you how lonely,
how miserable I was, until your father began
to be kind to me.'

Oh ! he was not always kind then ?'

He never was unkind, Miss Trosdale ;
but when I came to Liverpool he found that
instead of an experienced Assistant, Mr.
Dandison had sent a griffin, who knew nothing,
and would have to learn the whole of
his work.'

Did my father teach you ?'

Selwyn flushed painfully, for the girl's eyes
were fixed on him as she asked this question.
He would have given much to be able to
answer ' Yes,' but he had still to learn many

things besides quinto et sexto Victories 
amongst them, the art of lying glibly.

He did not, I see,' she said, which was
a remark scarcely likely to lessen Selwyn's
embarrassment.

It was not to be expected that he should,'
answered the young man loyally.

I quite agree with you there,' she observed.


Why will you misunderstand me, Miss
Trosdale '. A Surveyor in a town like Liverpool
has more important duties to perform
than drilling raw recruits, and I was nothing
better.'

At all events you learnt something ?'

A person cannot be long in a tax-office
without becoming acquainted with the routine,
and I tried hard to make myself useful.'

And, in fact, made yourself so useful that
my father finally took a fancy to you ?'

Hardly that. I think Mr. Trosdale
began to like me from the time he found I
knew some little about matters which interest
him.'

Ah !'

And ever since then his kindness has

been greater than I can express. I do not
know what I shall do when I have to leave
St. Paul's Square.'

I know said Madge. ' You will, believe
me, Mr. Serle, the moment you leave here,
take your first step back into the road leading
to happiness and wealth.'

He looked at her in amazement.

Happiness and wealth !' he repeated. ' Do
you know, Miss Trosdale, you are speaking
to a young man on a salary of a hundred
pounds a year, who has no living relative,
and who has not a soul he loves left on
earth.'

Even so,' she said, ' take my advice and
go. We are not fortunate people to be connected
with. We shall bring you nothing
but disaster. We have not done so remarkably
well for ourselves that we are likely
to do well for anyone else.' she added
bitterly.

You really wish me then to leave ?'

' Have I changed since I first saw you ?'
she asked. ' Have I not always tried to
show you I felt my father was doing you no
service by bringing you here } I am glad at

last to have the chance of speaking plainly.
If you were my brother, my only brother 
the youngest child of my dead mother,' with
a ring of tender pathos in her softened voice,
I could give you no better advice than to go.'

Why r

I have told you  because we can do you
no good, and may do you much harm. You
have been very straightforward with me, Mr.
Serle, and I will endeavour to emulate your
frankness. You are young  you have abilities,
I suppose, of some sort  you have a
career before you  the years contain all sorts
of possibilities for a man so absolutely untrammelled.
Why should you spoil all your future
chances by electing to cast in your lot with
people who live in St. Paul's Square  with
myself, a teacher of music  with my father,
as confirmed a gambler as ever wrecked his
own life and that of everyone belonging to
him?'

She rose as she ended her sentence, and
flinging a piece of paper she had been nervously
twisting into the fire, stood before
Selwyn a very embodiment of the spirit of
denunciation.

The repression it was her wont habitually
to exercise made her passion, when it found
vent, all the stronger. Now Selwyn saw one
side of her real nature, knew what had
attracted him to her, felt that the more she
strove to push him away the closer she was
drawing him to her.

A gambler !' he echoed. ' Surely you are
mistaken  Mr. Trosdale is no gambler.'

She laughed outright.

Certainly you are what you said, a very
griffin. Do you think there are no gamblers
save those who spend their nights over the
card-table . What are betting men ? what
are speculators ? what are inventors ?'

Men deserving the most profound admiration
those who are unable to understand
their trials can offer,' said Selwyn reverently.
But for them the world would '

Pray do not go over it all again,' she
interposed. ' I have had their praise sounded
till I am weary.'

But, Miss Trosdale  forgive me if I
worry you  when a man devotes his means,
his life, his talents, to perfecting one
idea '

One  go on, I am with you so far.'

Selwyn stopped as if shot. In the face of
facts he could not pursue his argument, so he
shifted his ground.

Do you think you quite understand your
father ?' he asked diffidently.

I fancy it is more important to know
whether you do,' she answered. ' Mr. Serle,
we have got to-day on very unpleasant subjects,
and I know you consider me wrong
and unfeeling. Yes, yes !' she added, as
Selwyn exclaimed ' No, no !' ' Therefore I
want to try to make you understand that you
are not to imagine, because I talk in this way
because I cannot sympathize with my
father  that I do not love him. If I did
not, whom should I love ? I have no one
else  no other in all the world. I was not
fourteen when he was left to me a solemn
charge by the nearest and dearest friend I
ever had, or ever shall have. Could I only
see him happy and successful, I should care
little what happened to me. It is because I
cannot believe any of these inventions will
ever bring him aught but trouble that I am
so bitterly set against them  so anxious no

Other person should be bitten with the same
mania.'

She stopped, but Selwyn did not speak.
It was his turn now to keep silence.

I am not on the whole sorry you did
overhear my outburst the other night, and
that you decided to speak about it she at
last continued with an uneasy laugh, ' because
I have now the opportunity of saying
what it is best should be said without disguise.
For five-and-twenty years, at all
events, my poor father has been pursuing a
shadow. He has sacrificed time, money,
position, to what I cannot but consider a
chimera. For years we have been going
steadily downhill  getting poorer and poorer,
dropping lower and lower in the social
scale. My father's grandfather was an
admiral, who moved in the very highest
circles ; my mother's grandfather was Lord-lieutenant
of his county. I am a paid
organist, a teacher of music  glad to take
pupils at half-a-crown an hour.'

Again she paused, and again Selwyn did
not speak ; he was thinking  thinking as he
had seen her do, so often.

I have only one thing more to say,' she
continued, after a minute's pause, ' and that is
in my own excuse '

Not to me,' interrupted Selwyn ; ' please
never to me.'

A look of swift surprised pleasure crossed
her face even as she said :

To you, certainly, of all people. Any
other night in the year, perhaps, had you
heard me speak to my father about you and
money matters, it would have been indifferent
terms ; but '

Miss Trosdale, if you only knew how
this pains me, I believe you would not goon.'


I believe,' she answered calmly, * that
when you lay your head on your pillow tonight,
you will feel all the happier for
having heard me say I was wrong. My
temper got the better of me, Mr. Serle. I
have not a good temper, but, as a rule, I
keep it well in hand. I had that day, however,
been harassed simply to death by a
thousand petty trifles, and  and you know
the result. I have since told my father how
grieved I felt for my rudeness to him, and a

great reign of peace has since ensued. He
met me more than half-way ; this, I think, is
all and with a deprecating gesture she
would have passed out of the room, had
Selwyn not caught her dress.

'One moment,' he cried. 'Miss Tros-
dale, how can I thank you enough for your
frankness ?'

She looked down on him with a beautiful
light in her wonderful brown eyes, the while
she answered :

I only followed your example.'

Before you go, may I ask you one
question  only one T

You may ask me ten thousand, but '

You reserve to yourself the right of
answering ; however I will put my question,
at any rate. Is it solely because you think I
may become bitten with a mania for invention
that you wash me to leave ?'

Broadly speaking, yes.'

And if I assure you I have neither the
talent nor wish to invent '

You may not now  but what about hereafter
?'

I believe I can answer for myself. I do
VOL. II. 27

not come of an imaginative or speculative
stock. So far as I know, we have always
been perfectly plain, matter-of-fact sort of
people, content with our lives and our
position, and quite satisfied with the reward
God saw fit to give for our work.'

And yet I think I have heard my father
say a certain young gentleman, owning a
similar name to Mr. Selwyn Serle, did not
feel quite contented in her Majesty's service,
or with her Majesty's pay.'

Selwyn sat straight up in his chair  no
doubt as to his answering that question.

'Miss Trosdale,' he said, *if some night
you came home '* harassed simply to death,"
to quote your own expression just now, and
declared you wished you had no pupils, and
desired never to hear another note of music,
do not you think it would be rather hard if
your statement were taken seriously ''

1 do ; and '

'And there have been times, I confess,
when taxes and taxpayers seemed too much forme
 when I hated the Inland Revenue Office,
and felt that I should like to leave it for ever ;
but I knew all through my little fits of discontent

I should be insane to quarrel with
my bread and butter, and I am not going to
quarrel with it. I shall try to serve her
Majesty faithfully, and take her pay for
honest work done so long as I live, probably


But my father says he will make your fortune
as well as his own, and that he hopes
you will not remain a Civil Servant very
long.'

I hope you will not think me ungrateful
when I say I should prefer a small fortune
made by myself to a large one made for me.
The thing I want most to see is your father
a rich man. For myself, I am quite content
to plod on in safety, as I am doing now.'

I can't tell you  I can no tell you how
thankful I feel to hear you talk so sensibly.'

You might have heard me talk sensibly
long ago, Miss Trosdale, if you had only
given me the chance. You need not fear
my going off at a tangent. I have no high
notions ; I have no great ambition ; I do not
mean to get into debt, or to bring discredit
on my name if I can help it.'

You are a very sensible young man.'

27  2

And now that you understand me, may I
remain here   '
 You must decide

No. If you dislike me  if I am a trouble
to you  I will not stop an hour

You are not a trouble to me now, and I
do not dislike you ; on the contrary '

Then let me stay. You said a while ago
if I were your brother, the youngest child of
your dead mother, you could give me no
better advice than to go. I think a man
must take charge of his own life, and I am
sure it is well for me to stay. Miss Tros-
dale, you have no brother, nor have I a
sister: let me try to be a brother to you  I
do not think you will find me disloyal

I am sure you will not be that '

Then the outcome of all this misery  for
I have been miserable  is happiness. You
know me better now, and I may stay.'

It is for you to settle. If you truly
believe remaining in this poor place will add
to your happiness, let it be as you say ;
now you must have some beef-tea / and
disengaging her dress, which he had held
all the time, she left him.

AN EVENING PARTY

Three days later Selwyn was running
up the stone steps leading to
the tax-offices, when, hearing himself
hailed from below, he paused, and saw
Mr. Kerry toiling after him.

Anybody might think you were in the
height of good spirits,' remarked the Irishman
reproachfully.

So I am,' answered Selwyn.

It's well to be you ; and where have you
been all this time ?'

Mostly where I told you I was going  in
bed.'

Get out with you !'

Fact  upon my honour ! I have been
ill '

*A likely story, and you going up these
stairs on the wings of the wind. Where
have you been ? Trosdale told me you were
taking a few days' holiday. " And the Lord
knows," I said, *' he has need of one !" '

Selwyn could scarce help laughing outright
at this stroke of diplomacy on the part
of his chief, but he answered with grave
composure :

I have been taking holiday, but only as I
tell you.'

And you were ill, and not merry-making ?'

111  not merry-making.'

And the old hyena never let on a word
that you were bad, only made me believe-back
luck to him !  that you were gone off
somewhere on the spree.'

Anyhow, Mr. Kerry, I am back again
now, ever so much better than I have felt
for months past, and very glad to see you
again.'

You'll find a fine crop of work waiting for
you.'

I must mow it down, then, as fast as I can.'

For a sick man you're in wonderful
spirits.'

I am all right again now.'

So it seems. I don't know what has come
to the lot of you, I'm sure. There's Tros-
dale as pleasant as if somebody had left him
a fortune ; you just out of the doctor's hands are
light as a feather ; and as for Cramsey, there's
no end to his politeness. He calls me
mister," and tacks *' if you please " to every
sentence I hope such changed ways don't
mean death and destruction.'

I hope not either, and the spring coming

on.'

It's nice spring weather  rain, rain, rain,
slush up to your knees, and a wind fit to cut
your head off. However, if you are pleased
I may be. I must get on to my work,
though. Perhaps you won't be grinning allover
your face, as you are doing now, when
you see your lot. The devil a thing Tros-
dale or Holt or Thistlethwaite has done this
week and more. Trosdale must be mad,
and I told him so.'

He was pleased, of course ?'

Faith, it's little I care whether he is
pleased or displeased ! A man should not
take his pay if he means to do nothing for it.

If It was the Lord Lieutenant I'd say the
same.'

Well, I'll go and try to do my work,'
answered Selwyn, who did not much relish
the turn conversation was taking ; and he
hurried on to Third Liverpool, followed by the
remark from Mr. Kerry :

I wish you joy of it.'

All day long Selwyn steadily ploughed his
way through the mass of arrears, which did
not seem to have been touched by anyone
during his absence. Mr. Trosdale came in
twice, but merely to write some private letters ;
while after luncheon the clerks both made
themselves conspicuous by their absence.

There will have to be some change made
here, and that before long,' considered the
Assistant. ' I will speak to Mr. Trosdale
to-night.'

My good fellow,' said his chief, when he
broached the matter to him, *I know all you can
say against Holt : he is a lazy, drunken vagabond.
Thistlethwaite also is a lazy, drunken
vagabond, and they are both unscrupulous
liars ; but when either likes to work he can
get through as much in an hour as any other

clerk In the offices in a day ; and occupied as
I am just at present, I could not think ot
bringing a stranger Into the place. When I
have got my matter well in train I will
devote my attention to finding capable men.'

But really, Mr. Trosdale '

Yes, I am aware ; everything is in a
frightful condition. No one can feel the
position more keenly than I ; in fact, if I did
not thrust the state of affairs at the office
from me I should be actually unfit to attend
to my own business. But I shall soon be
more at leisure, and then I give you my word
Third Liverpool shall be thoroughly re-organized.
Do your best for me, Serle ; the
strain cannot continue much longer.'

Very heartily Selwyn promised he would
do his best, and very honestly did he fulfil
that promise. He went to the office early in
the morning, so as to get a couple of hours'
hard work over before any member of the
clamorous public could put in an appearance.
He set his shoulder so resolutely to
the wheel, that somewhat to his amazement
he found it actually move without outside
help from anyone.

'Don't overdo it, my boy,' entreated Mr.
Kerry, 'though it gladdens me to see you
laying your soul into your work. Except
myself there's not another in this building
beside you has a bit of consideration for
Victoria. It is cruel, it is, to watch the way
she is treated by her servants ; but mind what
I say, though : don't overdo it, or you'll breakdown
again.'

Had Mr. Kerry only known it, there was
not much fear of such a catastrophe. The
finest tonic on which a man can begin his
day's work is happiness, and Selwyn now felt
inexpressibly happy. He had not been slow
in availing himself of his new privileges.
Madge at once became his constant care.
To ease her, to serve her, to think for her,
to save her trouble, proved the delight of his
life. He never now allowed her to return
home alone at night ; wherever she might be
he managed to accompany her back to St.
Paul's Square. He was her very double,
faithful as a dog, and as little wearisome,
always thinking what he could do for her,
seeking no reward save the consciousness
that he was lightening her burden by a little.

His devotion and unselfishness must have
touched almost any woman, and it affected
Madge deeply. It was the pleasantness intercourse
too ; by almost imperceptible degrees
they dropped into the closest friendship.

As they walked together he told her all
about his past life, while she, without knowing
what she was doing, fell into the habit of
mentioning any incident connected with her
daily experience which interested or amused
her.

Ere long Selwyn learned to know the
peculiarities of all 'my employers,' as Madge
laughingly called her lady patrons. Odd,
many of them were ; trying, a few ; but not
one seemed to be unkind.

No,' said Madge, summing up, ' I can
truthfully say every woman whose child I
have taught has in her own fashion been good
to me. None of the trials novelists are so
fond of describing have fallen to my lot. Asa
rule I have been treated far more like a
daughter than as a teacher.'

It was a strange life for the pair to lead,
yet one most innocent. Through their own
beautiful Bohemia they wandered with as

little thought or fear of Mrs. Grundy as
children. It was a free and fair land across
which their way led them at that time ; andover
and over again Selwyn blessed the
chance which broke down the barriers that
had kept Miss Trosdale and himself well-nigh
strangers.

Though they had to do without so many
things 3oung persons in their rank of life
regard as mere necessities, Madge and Selwyn
were, during that time of unconstrained intercourse,
incredibly happy. He went with her
when she paid an evening visit to Cleveland
Square on a quest for bargains ; they were
wont to treat themselves to St. George's
Hall on Saturday evenings, when they could
hear good music for sixpence ; he executed
little errands for her as he went to and
from the office. She looked for his homecoming,
and abandoned herself to the pleasure
of having so faithful a friend with an intensity
which was part of her nature.

It cannot last, I know,' she told him one
day ; * but it will be always pleasant to look
back upon.'

Why cannot it last?' asked Selwyn.

Because nothing which is agreeable ever
does last she answered sententiously ; 'and
that reminds me Mrs. Gibbs is going to send
you an invitation to a dance  her first dance
of the season.'

How have I come to such honour?' asked
Selwyn.

She wants young men  she always is
short of young men  and she asked me if I
thought " our lodger " would care to join
them.'

And you said ?'

I said I thought he would very much.
Her parties are not exactly what the Americans
call high-toned, but there is a good deal
of amusement to be got out of them for all
that. I nest go, of course, in the way of
business, and you must go too. Mrs. Gibbs
will treat you as a person of great distinction.'


I will certainly go with great pleasure
  '

You dance, I hope ?'
Yes, I dance.'

That is right. I shall put on my grandest
bib-and-tucker, and trust you will make yourself

look most distinguished. Mrs. Gibbs
says she makes it a rule never to know any
but the best people.'

Next morning Selwyn duly received Mrs.
Gibbs' card, and also a note from that lady,
in which almost every second word was
italicized, begging him not merely to favour
her with his company, but to bring any very
nice young gentleman of his acquaintance
with him.

I don't know any nice young gentleman,'
said Selwyn.

You must try and find one,' answered
Madge. ' Do. Is there not some lad in the
Inland Revenue Office who would enjoy a
dance ? I think there must be.'

I cannot think of any likely person at
the moment. I suppose she would not care
for Mr. Cramsey ? I dare say he could wash
out a waistcoat for the occasion.'

She would care for anybody new,' was
the reply. ' Perhaps in the course of a few
days inspiration may come to you.'

Many a true word is spoken in jest  inspiration
did come to Selwyn that very
morning from a most unexpected source

while he stood looking out of his office
window, both arms supported on the ledge.

The open space beneath was full of pigeons
that came flocking down from the dome in
countless numbers, as If they were expecting
to find corn growing among the stones, victims
probably of some practical joker amongst
their ranks ; and Selwyn remained watching
them till he fell into a brown study, from
which he was roused by a thump on the back
and a familiar voice exclalmlna- :

I'll give you a penny for your thoughts,
though I doubt if they are worth half the
money.'

The intruder was Mr. Kerry, of course,
who had stolen on tiptoe across the room in
order to give his young friend a fright, which
he did so effectually that Selwyn, startled out
of his wits, answered at once :

I was thinking If there were anyone I
could ask to go to a dance with me.'

The words were no sooner spoken than he
would have recalled them if he could, but
they had fallen upon attentive ears.

If you're looking for a dancer, young
man said Mr. Kerry, drawing himself up

and smiling a smile which was proud in its
humility, 'you maybe content, because you've
found one.'

Selwyn looked dubiously at the speaker.

I did not know you danced,' he said.

Dance, is it ?' exclaimed Mr. Kerry in a
sort of expostulatory howl ; ' there isn't a
better dancer in Ireland. Why, when old
Phil Maroon, rest his soul, took his fiddle
down from the shelf where the hens roosted,
and scraped out " The wind that blows the
barley," the pig himself began to caper, and
we used to dance till Phil got so drunk he
couldn't see out of his eyes, and tried to rub
them with the fiddle-bow.'

You know all that's no good unless you
can valse,' said Selwyn desperately.

Waltz !' cried Mr. Kerry, * and why not ?
If Daniel Kerry can't waltz better than the
Liverpool men, may the devil throw fat in
my eyes, and that's a good Irish oath. There
isn't a waltz of the whole lot of 'em I couldn't
dance like a Patagonia before you had got
shut of the feeding-bottle, let m tell you.
Dew ten, tro ten, glide, lurch, and Boston
rockaway, there isn't a secret in Terpsichore's

bosom but Dan Kerry has scratched it out.
I tell ye, I'm your man; ye'll find it hard
to match me.'

Evidently Mr. Kerry was so determined to
accept the invitation which had not yet been
offered to him, that Selwyn was sorely perplexed.
Mr. Kerry was not by any means the
companion he could have desired. He had
no confidence in the powers to which his
friend so boldly laid claim. Nor did he feel
hopeful that Mr. Kerry's conception of the
garments suitable for an evening party would
correspond with his own. On the other
hand, Madge had implied that the guests
would not be hypercritical on this or any
other point, and he felt that this might be an
opportunity of acknowledging some of the
real kindnesses which he had received. Mr,
Kerry did not leave him long in doubt as to
his intentions.

It's mighty fortunate that I haven't anything
on hand just at present he remarked,
or else I oughtn't have been able to oblige
you. Where did you say the good people
live who' re giving the dance, and when is it
to come off .'*'

VOL. II. 28

Seeing that there was no escape, Selwyn
gave him the address ; and, with the view of
looking after him closely from the first, proposed
that when the evening arrived they
should go together. But this arrangement
Mr. Kerry, for some reason best known to
himself, declined.

The days passed swiftly, and at length the
momentous hour struck, and found the residence
of Mrs. Gibbs brightly illuminated.
Gas burned in all the rooms, and an arrangement
of three Chinese lanterns rendered the
passage of the staircase dangerous to any
person of more than middle height. Several
turnip lanterns, stuck upon the area spikes,
served the double purpose of marking the
house and of collecting a crowd of street
boys, who made disparaging remarks upon
the guests as they arrived. Within, everything
was arranged upon the corrected principles.
The folding-doors between the drawing
and dining rooms were taken off their
hinges, and the floors of both rooms anointed
so liberally with beeswax that the foot
adhered firmly thereto, and at every step
required some effort to extricate it. Considerable

pains had been bestowed upon the
arrangement of the flowers, pots of which
were placed, not in corners, but wherever the
passage was narrowest and it appeared probable
that the dancers would require most
space* The word ' Welcome ' was hospitably
exhibited upon the walls, beautifully executed
in rice, grains of which were continually
falling off; and, sticking to the beeswax
floor, rendered motion of any kind perilous.
However, everyone said the general effect
was most tasteful, and the guests were loud
in their praises, very loud indeed.

At the door of the drawing-room stood
Mrs. Gibbs, a short, stout, red-faced lady,
with black hair and a perpetual smile. She
was clad in a sky-blue silk dress, which fitted
her so tightly that it was difficult to understand
how she had managed to get into it.
She found breath enough, however, to welcome
Selwyn very hospitably, to inform him
that no introductions were required, and that
his friend had already arrived.

In an agony of trepidation Selwyn looked
round to ascertain what Mr. Kerry was
doing, and espied him seated on an ottoman

282

beside two young ladies, who giggled so frequently,
and so constantly covered their faces
with their handkerchiefs, that it was clear
Mr. Kerry had found some subject of
conversation greatly to their taste. When
he saw Selwyn, Mr. Kerry hastened to meet
and present him to ' Miss Julia and Miss
Clara Persia.'

Miss Julia Pershaw sings like a seraph,
she does,' commented Mr. Kerry on completing
his introduction, sand Miss Clara's
going to play for her. We've been talking
about you.'

Indeed ?' said Selwyn ; ' I hope. Miss Per-shaw,
that my friend was speaking kindly of
me.'

Oh yes, Indeed he was,' said both ladies
at once.

You'll not tell him what I was saying
now,' interposed Mr. Kerry in a blandishing
manner.

I don't know,' simpered Miss Julia ; ' I
think I shall.' .

We all know, however, that the best laid
plans of mice and men ' gang aft alley ;' and
accordingly, whilst Mr. Kerry was speaking,

Selwyn had discerned Madge entering the
room, so that when Miss Julia Pershaw
glanced round to reveal to him the slanders
which Mr. Kerry had been circulating, she
found his place vacant. She did not attempt
to conceal her vexation.

Well, I'm sure !' she said, biting her lip.

Her sister smiled, and Mr. Kerry observed
:

Ah ! a man doesn't want to hear himself
laughed at. Did you think he was
going to stay while you told him what I said ?
You should have listened to me.'

And with an air of conscious superiority
Mr. Kerry took the fan from Miss Pershaw's
hand and fanned himself with it.

Selwyn's mighty rich,' he observed, after a
short interval.

Is he ? Then why does he live with the
Trosdales?' asked Miss Julia, whose heart
was beginning to swell with feelings the
reverse of charitable.

That's a secret,' observed Mr. Kerry
mystically. Then he added casually : ' It's
himself has the taste for beauty.'

If you mean,' said Miss Julia, who was

gradually being strung up to a high pitch of
venom, ' that he shows it by talking to that
odious Miss Trosdale, I can't say I agree
with you. She's no more figure than a scarecrows


*Ah,' said Mr. Kerry, in his most impassive
manner, and fanning himself meditatively,
' there's some as thinks different.'

If you're one of them, you'd better give
me my fan, and go and talk to her yourself,'
said Miss Julia very sharply.

Sure, that's a very good suggestion,' said
Mr. Kerry, but he did not move for all that,
till he saw fit to do so.

Meantime Selwyn had been pressing
Madge to dance.

'You can't possibly play all the evening,'
he said. ' You must have some help. I will
ask Mrs. Gibbs.'

Indeed, you will do no such thing,' she
answered. ' Imagine Mrs. Gibbs' astonishment,
if I told her I was not going to play !
No, you can't help me with that music ; you
had much better leave it alone, thank you !
That was Mr. Kerry, wasn't it, whom I saw
you talking to ''

Yes. How did you know that ? Oh, I
remember now. He told me he had calledon
your father.'

Yes,' said Madge ; ' it was rather unfortunate.
Here he comes ; he means to
claim acquaintance.'

Shall I stop him ?' asked Selwyn quickly.

No, no,' she replied ; ' let him come. I
don't mind.'

Having left Miss Julia Pershaw In a vexed
and nervous condition, which made her long
to slap somebody, Mr. Kerry, feeling greatly
pleased at the piece of mischief which he
had achieved, advanced jauntily and approached
Miss Trosdale with his most
affable smile.

Kerry,' said Selwyn, seeing that the
thing was inevitable, * I believe you know
Miss Trosdale .'

Mr. Kerry shook hands gravely, and
inquired for the Surveyor with as great an
appearance of Interest as If he had not seen
him that afternoon, assuring Madge that he
had a great regard for her father.

I dare say you have seen him since I
have,' she answered ; * but he went away

very well this morning. I am glad to find
there Is so much mutual regard In the Tax-offices.'


'deed and there is said Mr. Kerry;
and your father knows me very well. Ita
good turn he did me, a year ago.'

He never told me of that,' said Madge.
Pray what was it ?'

Sure, I was vaccinated !' said Mr. Kerry,
in a dolorous whining voice. * And '

But at that moment Mrs. Gibbs came up,
looklnor more than ever as if she were
choking.

So sorry to interrupt you,' she gasped.
but they're all ready, Miss Trosdale, and if
you co7tld \.y a waltz.'

Madge sat down, while Mr. Kerry, seeing
that there was no chance of completing his
story just then, whispered to Madge behind
his hand, * I'll tell you after a bit, when we're
quiet ;' and went away to secure the hand of
Miss Clara Pershaw for the dance.

There was not much fault to be found with
Mr. Kerry's dancing. Any person who was
hypercritical might have said that he threw
his legs about too much, rather as If he were

afraid of ' kicking the pig ' at every turn. But
nobody criticized such slight peculiarities at
Mrs. Gibbs' party, and the Irishman passed
muster very well.

Selwyn breathed more freely when he saw
his friend's performance, and felt at liberty
to go his own way without anxiety. He
danced with Miss Julia Pershaw, whose
conversation turned principally upon the
Licensed Victuallers' Ball, which had taken
place two or three evenings before, and of
which he was led to believe Miss Pershavr
had been the acknowledged beauty and principal
attraction.

The dance was no sooner over than Mr.
Kerry ungallantly darted away from his
partner, and coming towards Madge, who
had turned half round upon the music-stool,
he said tenderly :

I was going to tell you about the civil who
vaccinated me.'

Again it was Mrs. Gibbs who frustrated
the confidence.

Oh, Miss Trosdale !' she said, * do, like
a good soul, go and see what is the matter
with Archie. Don't you hear him crying ?

Poor lamb ! he wants to come downstairs.
But you'd better not bring him.'

And then, as Madge departed on her
errand of consolation, Mrs. Gibbs turned to
Mr. Kerry and observed :

Children are a great trial, Mr. Kerry.'

'They are that,' he replied; 'but when
they've got a good mother, they're as happy
as the sky is high.'

Mrs. Gibbs smiled complacently.

I think my children are happy,' she said,
and waddled off well pleased to discourse to
others of her guests.

During Madge's absence, Miss Julia Per-shaw
sang a plaintive song about the ocean,
which was said to moan with peculiar mournfulness
whenever a true lover died of a
broken heart. It met with much applause,
and was hardly finished when Madge returned,
and dancing being resumed, was continued
without any further interruption until
the announcement of supper. By a stratagem
which made Selwyn long to kick him, Mr.
Kerry managed to take Madge in to supper,
and thereby found at last an opportunity of
pouring out his story of her father's goodness.

I give ye my word I swelled up like an
orange,' he said ; ' there wasn't a bit of me
that wasn't sore. Sure, it's very remarkable
that an old wizard of a doctor can do all that
just by scratching you.'

Here he stopped, and looked steadily at
Madge, who answered politely :

It is very remarkable, Mr. Kerry ; how
much you must have suffered !'

Ah !' said Mr. Kerry ; and there was a
world of meaning in his tone. 'It is remarkable
 that's true. It was affliction, it
was : real affliction. I give ye my word,
when I came to the office the next day, I
hadn't got the heart of a calf. Selwyn,
there, might have cheated me, or any other
greenhorn. By the eternal powers, but I
was low ! And I sat all morning looking
out of window into the street, and thinking
of the cabins and the pigs and the hens, that
I maybe wasn't going to see any more.'

Mr. Kerry's voice broke here, and he
looked very sad.

Dear me !' remarked Madge, not daring
to look him in the face. ' Don't you think
you must have fancied you were more ill than

you really were ? Vaccination is not usually
considered to be so dangerous.'

There's some as thinks It Is,' said
Mr. Kerry impressively. * But this Is what
I wanted to tell you. Just as I was at
my worst, In comes Trosdale  that's your
father,' he explained, looking hard at Madge.

She nodded, and the narrator continued :

'And he said, " Hullo, what's the matter ?
You look all anyhow to-day." So I told him,
and he said, '' Look here, why don't you rub
your side with goose-grease ?" '

Here Madge burst into an uncontrollable
fit of laughter. Mr. Kerry, who in the course
of his pleasing anecdote had gradually tilted
himself more and more towards Madge's
chair, sat instantly bolt upright, and looked at
his neighbour with a stare of such severity,
not to say displeasure, that she steadied herself
by a strong effort, and with grave sweetness
asked him to take her back to the
dancing-room, which service he at once
rendered with studied ceremony. A few
people were already re-assembled, and without
preamble Madge began to play a waltz,
the sound of which soon drew more guests

from the supper-table, and dancing again
became general.

For perhaps an hour Madge played on
steadily, making the intervals as short as
possible. Mr. Kerry, to her relief, did not
come near her, but divided his attentions
between the two Miss Pershaws and several
of their friends. By the time midnight
arrived the decorum with which the evening
had opened was considerably relaxed. Mrs.
Gibbs' British wines  raisin, ginger, and
elderberry, to say nothing of a very superior
and sugary champagne  had warmed and
softened hearts on every side. Hands were
tightly squeezed, asides spoken  not always
in a whisper  and the furious progress of
some of the couples in the wild mazes of the
dance threatened danger to life and limb.
Madge began to be conscious that a great
deal of noise was going on behind her,
and at the termination of a polka turned to
ascertain its cause. The first sight which
she beheld was Mr. Kerry, reclining on
an ottoman which held just three people.
On his right and left hand sat a Miss
Pershaw, and, in order that his behaviour

might be quite impartial and thus escape
exciting jealousy or remark, he had openly
placed an arm round the waist of each young
lady. His face shone with unusual animation,
and the drooping eyelids of the two
Miss Pershaws, as he addressed alternate
compliments to them, showed that a kind of
triangular flirtation was in progress.

If none of the other guests had gone quite
so far as Mr. Kerry, there was yet considerable
license in their behaviour, and several
flirtations of the most barefaced character
were going on. Selwyn was the only unoccupied
man in the room. He was standing
in the doorway, looking horribly bored, when
Madge ceased playing, and came over at once
to her side.

Can't we get away ?' he asked peevishly.
I'm tired to death of this.'

I thought you were quite happy,' said
Madge demurely. ' Look at Mr. Kerry-do
look at him !'

I see him said Selwyn grimly. ' I'm not
likely to forget him.'

Shall I tell you what he told me at supper }
No, I don't think I will  at least, not now. I

shall keep that until we are all in very low
spirits.'

Before Selwyn could answer, Mrs. Gibbs.
who had been talking to Mr. Kerry, ambled
across the room.

Do you think, Miss Trosdale,' she asked,
with her sweetest smile, ' that you could
play the accompaniment to '' Tell me, my
heart " ?'

I'm afraid not, unless I had the music,'
answered Madge. ' I don't remember ever
seeing it.'

It doesn't matter one penny bit, Mrs.
Gibbs,' Mr. Kerry called, without changing
his amorous position. * I'll sing it without
any music at all !'

And, suiting the action to the word, he
threw his head back, and opening his mouth
wide, began in slow and mournful tones,
embellished with a rich brogue : ' Tell me,
my ** short," why morning's prime looks like
the fading eve, looks like the fading eve, the
fading eve ?' Words cannot describe the
lachrymose manner in which Mr. Kerry propounded
this absurd conundrum. His voice
sank almost to a whisper at the last ' fading

eve,' but it revived on the * gruppetto ' which
began the next bar, and which he executed
with a kind of howl that astounded his
listeners. ' Why,' Mr. Kerry went on, still in
search of information, * why the gay lark's
cele-he-he-he-stial chi-i-i-i-me shall tell, shall
tell the soul to grieve ' (here darkness settled
down on Mr. Kerry's soul, and misery folded
her wings over him), * the soul to grieve,
to grieve, to grieve ?' Sadder and more
funereal came the tones of the singer's voice,
more and more mournful grew his face, and
the corners of the two Miss Pershaw's mouths
dropped in sympathy. * The heaving bosom '
(went on Mr. Kerry, rocking himself dolefully
to and fro) * seems to say. Ah, hapless
maid' (here he glanced expressively round
at Miss Julia Pershaw), * your love's away,
your love's away, your love's  your love's
away!' Mr. Kerry insisted on this depressing
statement as fiercely as if someone
had contradicted him ; but finding no
opponent arise, he became at once jocular
and tender. His face was wreathed with
smiles as he again addressed a ridiculous
,and unanswerable question to his heart, this

time Inquiring * why summer's glow a wintry
day beguiles ?' and further, * why fading
nature smiles ?' If fading nature smiled,
however, her good spirits were as a thing
of nought In comparison with Mr. Kerry's.
Never was such a display of singing heard,
such roulades, such grace-notes, turns and
trills executed with the utmost courage, and
with a length of wind which seemed unfailing.
'Your love Is near!' shouted Mr. Kerry In
Miss Pershaw's ear, and that young lady
started back appalled. * Ah, happy maid,
happy maid !' he screamed at the top of
his voice, whilst Madge whispered to Selwyn,
He will certainly break a bloodless.'
Fortunately, however, Mr. Kerry was near
the end of his song, and with a last wild
whoop, which might have been heard half
across the county, he ceased, and sat looking
round at the guests with a smile of conscious
self-approval.

Loud was the applause and many the congratulations
showered upon him ; unanimous
also were the requests for another song ; for
Mrs. GIbbs' guests generally appreciated a
powerful voice In singing. Miss Julia Pershaw,

VOL. II. 29

however, who had held her taper fingers
to her ear during the latter part of the song,
rose, and, disengaging herself from Mr.
Kerry's circling arm, remarked :

I think, If you are going to sing any more,
I'll be better on the other side of the room, or
I shall have no head left

The suggestion that he should oblige the
company with another song was quite to
Mr. Kerry's mind.

Don't go !' entreated Mr. Kerry, who
was greatly gratified by the request that he
should again oblige the company. ' I'll give
you something better still this time. " Lo,
here the gentle lark, weary of rest," ' he went
on, ' '' from his moist cabinet " '

His what ?' asked Miss Pershaw.

His moist cabinet,' replied Mr. Kerry.
Sure, that's his nest, and he wanted to get
out of it because it was wet with the rain.'

But why Is it called a cabinet ?' persisted
Miss Pershaw.

It's evident you don't read poetry, or you
wouldn't ask,' Mr. Kerry replied, with great
presence of mind. ' But we'll never get the
song sung If you keep on asking questions.'

Unfortunately, at that moment there was a
movement among some of Mrs. Gibbs'
guests, who began to take leave. Miss
Pershaw whispered to her sister that their
maid had come for them, to whose care
Mr. Kerry relinquished her with more
alacrity than might have been expected.
Indeed, he remarked subsequently that 'she
was a heavy girl, that green-eyed Pershaw.
While Selwyn was finding Madge's cloak,
Mr. Kerry retreated into the supper-room in
company with Mr. Gibbs, just to have 'a
youthful ' out of a bottle vouched for by the
minister, a worthy old gentleman, whose appreciation
of this particular beverage was so
keen that he declared it was ' fit to be preached
about.'

And a good deal better worth it thana
lot of the things you parsons tell us said
Mr. Kerry sotto voce, as he hurried out to
rejoin Madge and Selwyn. Alas ! however,
for the fickleness of friendship ! Though
he had enjoined the young people to
wait for him, they were gone. Mr.
Kerry's youthful had taken too long to
swallow.

29  2

When was it they started ?' he asked,
finding the birds flown.

They can scarcely have turned the corner,
sir the parlour maid answered.

Whereupon Mr. Kerry, without pausing to
say another word to anyone, seized his hat
and rushed into the street.

MR. TROSDALe's news.

LATED with having given Mr.
Kerry the slip, Selwyn hurried
Madge along the pavements at
acing speed.

He knew they were not safe from pursuit ;
but by taking short cuts, known, as he fondly
believed, only to himself, he trusted they
might reach home before the enamoured
Irishman overtook them. There could be
no mistake about the sentiments Mr. Cramsey's
Assistant entertained towards Miss
Trosdale. Selwyn was not blind, and a
child might have seen Mr. Kerry's feelings
were of the tenderest description. Madge,
too, had not repelled his advances. On the
contrary, she seemed rather to encourage

them, merely for her own amusement possibly
; but Mr. Serle did not approve of
such amusement. In his fraternal capacity
he felt it his duty to discourage all flirting
and flightiness on the part of his sister, and
he was heartily congratulating himself on the
success of his strategy, when faint cries were
heard in the distance  cries coming nearer and
nearer  cries such as those wherewith a shipwrecked
sailor might despairingly endeavour
to arrest the attention of a receding ship.

Don't look round,' entreated Selwyn, who
well knew what these sounds portended.

I must. I could not possibly be so rude
answered Madge, which was very irritating to
the young man, who knew very well she
could be more rude if she chose. '

But she did not choose. Instead, she
stopped dead, and waited in the bright
moonlight till Mr. Kerry should come up
with them.

What do you mean, Serle, by taking
a young lady through the streets at a hand-gallop
?' he exclaimed. ' Why did you not
wait for me as I bid you ? Indeed, Miss
Trosdale, he has no more manners thana

calf, and I'm ashamed of him. Take
my arm  do ! You must be tired after
playing so honos. Lean the whole of your
weight on me. Don't be afraid ; I could
stand more than that.'

Thank you, Mr. Kerry ; but I must hold
up my dress.'

And a lovely dress It Is, too. There was
not its like in the room.'

You are very kind to say so.'

It's very kind oi yoic to say so. Well, and
what did you think of the party T

I am more anxious to know what you
thought of it. Mrs. Gibbs' parties are not
quite new to me.'

Faith, it was mighty pleasant. Mrs.
Gibbs is a little keg of a creature, so tightly
hooped she can't get about very easily ; but
she did her best. I consider she tried very
hard to make the thing go off well, and
so did Gibbs. So did everybody, without it
was Serle there.'

Certainly, I should never have ventured
to make myself agreeable In the way you
did,' retorted Selwyn.

Is it with the Pershaws you mean?' asked

Mr. Kerry. ' Sure, they expected it. Girls
like them don't think anvthinof of a man who
isn't pretty easy with them.'

But you were so very easy suggested
Madge.

*Ah! they're not worth talking about,'
answered their recreant admirer.

I felt ready disappointed at not hearing
you sing *' Lo, the lark." You emerged with
great triumph from your controversy about
the cabinet with Miss Pershaw.'

She's a foolish sort of being,' returned
Mr. Kerry. 'If she'd had a grain of sense,
she miorht have known it was a kind of turnup
bedstead the poet meant.'

Madge's laugh rang out clear through the
night.

See there, now,' lamented her admirer,
you're arrays making game of me.'

Because you are so funny,' said the girl.
'I did not know you were such a singsmith,

Kerry,' interposed Selwyn, who thought it
high time to stop this bandying of airy
nothings.

It's not much you know about me, for all
your learning,' answered Mr. Kerry in a tone
of injured greatness.

I cannot tell you the delightful surprise
your singing was to me,' observed Madge ;
you must have practised a great deal.'

You may say that ! I was head man from
the time I was a child In our chapel choir.'

But they did not let you sing '' Tell me,
my Heart," surely, in chapel ?'

'You are at it again,' said Mr. Kerry.

At what ?' asked Madge.

Making fun of me ; but I don't mind 
upon my conscience, it only pleases me. If
laughing at Daniel Kerry gives you any
pleasure, laugh away. I'd lie down for you
to tramp over me, rather than you should wet
the sole of your foot. Serle knows the opinion
I have of you. There's heaps you'll find to
flatter you, INIIss Trosdale, but I'd like you
to remember not one of the lot maybe would
do for you what I would.'

I really do not know how to thank you,
Mr. Kerry,' said the girl, decidedly taken
aback by this statement.

I don't want you to thank, now, or ever.
I want to do something for you, If It Is only
to make you laugh ; you don't often get a
laugh out of Serle, I'm sure. There's no

fun in him  no more than in a March
wind.'

We must not keep Miss Trosdale standing
in the cold,' declared Selwyn, as a sort
of commentary on the Irishman's remark.
They were in St. Paul's Square  indeed, at
Mr. Trosdale's door  and a deadly fear had
come over him that Madge might ask Mr.
Kerry in. If so, they certainly never would
get rid of him.

Speak for yourself !' indignantly retorted
the other ; * who ever thought of keeping her
in the cold ? Good-night  or rather good-morning
 Miss Trosdale; and Heaven
bless you.'

'Good-night  or rather good-morning,'
repeated Madge, giving him her hand. * I
have passed a most enjoyable evening.'

Likewise I  it was a foretaste of heaven,'
rejoined Mr. Kerry, looking up at the sky.

If you are going home I will walk part of
the way with you,' suggested Selwyn desperately,
for he deemed it not wholly impossible
a proposal of marriage might follow
before Madge re-entered her home. ' The
night is beautiful.'

So it is,' agreed Mr. Kerry ; 'and as you
are always fond of a walk with a wink
Madge failed to see, ' you may as well take it
with one that'll keep you out of harm. Once
more good-night. Miss Trosdale.'

She stood on the threshold, looking after
them for a second. When they had walked a
few paces, the two men, moved seemingly by
one common impulse, turned, and, seeing her,
took off their hats, which greeting she acknowledged
by waving her hand  then she closed
the door.

As she did so, Mr. Kerry groaned like one
in severe physical pain.

She's like a jewel in a swine's snout !' he
declared pathetically.

Selwyn glared at him askance, too angry
to speak.

You and Trosdale's the swine  but shea
jewel beyond price,' went on the other indelicate
explanation, perfectly unmindful, if
he ever knew it, of Solomon's rendering of
the same matter.

I am very sure you are not in a condition
to say what she is,' retorted Selwyn, provoked
beyond endurance.

Do you mean you think I am drunk ?'
I do

That all comes of the way you have of
measuring other people's corn in your own
twopenny-halfpenny bushel. It's a habit
you'd best get rid of  for it'll grow on you.
And for the rest, I would have you know that
I am soberer than yourself.'

Then I must be drunk indeed !' said Selwyn
soothingly.

You can tell that best. It is not a matter
for me to judge of  only, remember, it was
you said it, I didn't.'

I wish you would walk a little faster. We
shan't get any sleep at this rate.'

And who cares if we don't ? Who would
want any sleep after parting with such an
angel ?' And finding prose inadequate to
describe Madge's perfections, Mr. Kerry,
leaning against a convenient lamp-post, broke
into song :

Oh, my love's like the red, red rose
That's newly sprung in June ;
Oh, my love is like the melodies
That's sweetly played in tune.'

Then she is not in the least like your

singing,' said Selwyn, making an ineffectual
effort to move his friend.

You may as well let me alone. I'll stay
here till I've done answered Mr. Kerry,
gazing rapturously up into the heavens, which
apparently inspired him to compose a verse
entirely original :

Oh, my love is like yon pale, pale moon
That sails serene through azure sky ;

Oh, my love is like the bright, bright tear
That beams so tender in her eye.'

Don't you think you'd better be getting
home, sir V suggested a policeman at this
moment.

No, I don't,' replied Mr. Kerry.

You can't stay here, you know, wearing
out the lamp-posts '

But Mr. Kerry was far too much excited
by his poetic triumphs to listen to the voice
of reason.

Let me alone, man,' he said. ' Your love
isn't like the pale, pale moon.'

No, she ain't,' agreed Policeman V. very
decidedly.

But mine is,' declared the enamoured
swain with persuasive pathos.

Well, if she is, that is no reason why you
should rouse the street.'

Do come along, Kerry,' entreated Selwyn,
in an agony lest Madge's name should be
blurted out. * I don't want to stay here all
night

Get along with yourself instead of dictating
to your betters. I'll stay here till morning
 till mor  er  king  do  hath appear.'

Come, sir, you must move on ; we can't
have this.'

What's the row, Stevens ?' asked an inspector
who was passing at the moment.

Only a gentleman who is in liquor and
won't go home, because he says his love is
like the moon.'

So  she is. Isn't she, Rafferty T

'Oh! it's you, Mr. Kerry, is it! Hadn't
you better be thinking about bed ?'

Bed ! Who wants to go to bed ?'

' I should think you did. See, I am going
your way. Will you let me walk with you ?'

Yes ; heavenly night for a walk, isn't it ?
What a good thing you came up when you
did  saved a row. For two pins I'd have
knocked that impudent fellow down. He

objected to my singing. I have been singing
all the evening. I have been at a party.'
There can be no doubt about that.'

Slap up party  dancing  supper  the
height of diversion ; but the liquor wasn't
good. Take my advice, Rafferty, and never
go anywhere that the liquor is doubtful.'

There was plenty of it, I suppose, anyhow,'
surmised the inspector.

Such as it was. Ah ! Rafferty, look at
that moon ; isn't this a night for love and
lovers ! Do you remember that place so
lonely  a place for lovers and lovers
only ?'

I can't say I do, sir.'

Man, you have no soul ! Well, now, as it
seems  hold your arm steady  you are dragging
me off my feet the way you lurch.
What was I saying '.  oh ! as you are a dumb
animal without sense or discernment, I will
sing you Judy Callaghan. Do you know
Judy Callaghan }''

As well as I do my prayers.'

Faith ! and if you were one of these
heathenish English that would not be saying
much. Do you know Judy Callaghan, Serle ?'

No ; and I don't want to know her.'

For that very speech then you shall.
Come round here and give me your arm 
this fellow is not able to bend his the right
way. That is better. Now be careful where
you are going, and don't pull me over. See
there, you are not a bit better than Rafferty.
Walk slow, or I can't sing.'

For heaven's sake, don't try.'

You'll spoil your voice, sir,' added the
inspector.

** Domine dirige nos," which being translated
means " Devil a bit"  my uncle taught
me that. Ah ! he was the learned man. If
he hadn't dug with the wrong foot it is Pope
of Rome he might have been.

" Oh ! my love is like the pale, pale moon
That sails so calm through azure sky " ' 

'You were going to sing Judy Callaghan,'
interrupted Selwyn.

Ah ! I thought that would fetch you.
How does she begin, Rafferty T

'' 'Twas on a windy night," ' said the inspector,
thus appealed to.

So it was. Now hold hard, both of you,'

and in a sort of mirthful whoop Mr. Kerry
broke forth :

" Tvvas on a windy night,

At two o'clock in the morning " 

What do you mean, dragging me along till I
haven't a puff of wind left in me? 

" An Irish lad so tight,

All wind and weather scorning,

At Judy Callaghan's door.
Sitting on the palings,

His love tale he did pour,

And this was part of his failings." '

I wouldn't take on so, sir,' advised the
inspector, as Mr. Kerry showed symptoms of
bursting into tears. * She wasn't worth it.'

And that's true,' said the vocalist. ' But
don't be interrupting me. See, the song gets
livelier now,' and he essayed a little fling
by way of accompaniment, which tried the
powers of his supporters to keep him up.

Sing if you must, but for heaven's sake
don't dance,' entreated Selwyn.

For answer, Mr. Kerry opened his mouth
wide, and shouted In a beautiful staccato :

VOL. II. o

" Only say,

You'll be Mrs. Callaghan,
Don't say nay,

Charming Judy Callaghan." '

You had best not make such a noise, sir ;
somebody may be wanting to go to sleep.'

Indeed, and that's just what she did,' and
Mr. Kerry went on :

" You lie fast asleep,

Snug in bed and snoring."

I don't think It was right to put that In,
Rafferty. No lady ought to snore.'

Many a one does though,' adventured the
other.

There, I'll sing no more. You are both of
you deaf adders. Besides, here we are at
home ; come In  come In and have some
whisky that never paid the Queen  God
bless her and keep her from rogues and
robbers, a half-penny. Serle, you feel In
my pocket for the key. No, Rafferty, you
mustn't go without a glass. Well, If you are
both sworn teetotalers, more's the pity 
that's all I have to say. Many thanks to
you for your entertaining company.' And
having so spoken, Mr. Kerry, as sober apparently

as any judge, found his latch-key
for himself and walked into Miss Dormer's
hall with great steadiness and dignity, leaving
Selwyn at liberty to return to St. Paul's
Square, which he did in a state of mind
impossible to describe.

Two things had been revealed to him
during the course of the evening : one, that
he thought social gatherings, such as Mrs.
Gibbs' soul delighted in, weariness ; the
other, that his fraternal feelings for Madge
were all nonsense  he loved her  he had
loved her from the first.

And this knowledge was not a pleasing
revelation to him. It came upon him with a
shock  bringing with It none of the rapturous
exultation young men almost invariably experience
when first they eat of the tree and
their eyes are opened. As a rule, the fruit
seems sweet enough at first, whatever it may
do afterwards ; but Selwyn did not so regard
his new possession.

Doubt, jealousy, difficulty, with a vague
sense of disloyalty, all oppressed him as he
hurried through the familiar streets, which
looked white and unreal in the moonlight.

302

His life seemed unreal, somehow, too  he had
cut adrift from the old safe moorings and
was floating he knew not where, on a stream,
the current of which grew swifter and swifter.
He could not think  his mind felt restless
and unquiet  he longed to be alone in his
room, where he could look out on the solemn
graveyard and consider the great changes
wrought by only a few hours.

What would Madge's father say when
he heard a young Assistant-Surveyor was
in love with his daughter ? He had views
for her, Selwyn knew ; but those views
might not include Mr. Serle as a future
husband.

There were lights in the sitting-room
window as he reached the door. How
earnestly he hoped Madge was not waiting up
for him ; how nervously he pushed open
the door ; how he started when he heard Mr.
Trosdale's voice saying :

I am glad you are back at last. Come income
in.'

Mr. Trosdale was seated at the table
looking over some papers.

I have great news for you !' he exclaimed,

glorious news. Shut the door, man, and
sit down. Ashford has been here this evening,
and I am to start for Glasgow with him
in a few hours. He has an introduction to
Piddick, the largest ironmaster in Scotland,
probably, except Baird. Ashford feels confident
he will take my furnace at once.'

But I thought you were going to that
house in Sheffield,' said Selwyn, a little
confused by this complete change of plan.

So I was ; but there would appear to be
some screw loose with those Sheffield people.
I don't know what it is, and I do not care,
now I am in communication with Piddick.
You do not seem to realize the enormous
importance of such an introduction.'

As the young man had never even heard
Piddick's name before, Mr. Trosdale's impatience
seemed a little unreasonable ; but
Selwyn only answered :

I am very glad indeed to hear the matter
is at last being put in motion. You start by
the first train, I suppose }'

Yes ; and I have waited up in order to
speak about the office. You will do your
best to keep matters going till I return ?'

You know I will. How long do you
think you shall be away ?'

A few days  a week at most. You will
finish that account, and send it up to Somerset
House. I have signed it.'

Selwyn felt a little surprised at this statement,
for he knew Mr. Trosdale must have
returned to the office in order to affix his
name ; but he made no remark, only said the
account should be completed as soon as
possible.

I wish Thistlethwalte had not chosen to
absent himself just now,' remarked the
Surveyor irritably.

It was not a gracious observation, as his
Assistant evidently felt, for he answered :

He has never showed at the office since
you got him that allowance for overtime,
during which he did not do an hour's work.'

'When he likes to buckle to,' retorted Mr.
Trosdale, ' he can get through as much In a
day as any other man in a week.'

That may be  only it is a pity he likes to
buckle to so seldom.'

You can't have everything,' replied the
head of Third Liverpool ; ' and at any rate we

have more Important matters now to think ot
than Thistlethwaite. He may be back tomorrow.
If not, I dare say you can get on
without him till I return. If you are in any
difficulty, Kerry no doubt will put you right.
Madge tells me you took him to Mrs. Gibbs'
party. I was glad to hear it. He is a useful
fellow, and a little attention of that sort is
well bestowed. Here is an address which
will find me, but don't write unless necessary.
Above all, do not worry me about the office
Everything must wait till this business is
settled. There is no more that we need say,
I think. You had better get to bed. I shall
lie down, though it scarcely seems worth
while. When we meet again, I hope you
will have to congratulate me on being a rich
man.'

From my heart, I hope so too,' answered
Selwyn ; and he was quite sincere, though he
believed riches would sign the death-warrant
of his own desires.

For long after he went upstairs, he sat by
the window looking over the graveyard,
bathed In moonlight, thinking upon all that
had happened since the first evening he

entered Mr. Trosdale's house. His boyhood,
his early home, seemed in a few hours
to have receded to an incredible distance,
while at the same time his future had grown
terribly dark.

At last he went to bed, intending to rise
when he heard Mr. Trosdale stirring; but,
contrary to his expectation, he fell into a
sound and dreamless sleep, from which he
was only awakened by Ann, who brought
him warm water and the information that it
was very late.

All in a hurry he dressed and went downstairs,
to find breakfast laid for himself alone.

Beside his plate was placed a little note
from Madge, saying she intended taking
advantage of her father's absence to spend a
few days with her friend Mrs. Graham.

'Ann has promised to take every care of
you,* she added.

AX OFFICIAL VISIT.

X the Monday morning following
Mr. Trosdale's departure, Selwyn
went to the office with the intention
of unravelling a troublesome mass of
accounts, to which he had hitherto been unable
to devote himself.

Thistlethwaite not having returned, he was
forced to depend on the assistance of Holt,
to whom he had talked very seriously, with
the intention of trying to train him to take
the senior clerk's place.

It was discouraging work, for Holt's Intellect
was not of the brightest, and his mind
had an irritating tendency to elude the grasp
like a marble which is stepped on. He made
sufficient progress, however, to give his tutor

some hope concerning the future, but on that
especial morning Selwyn would have given
worlds for Thistlethwaite's clear head and
exhaustive knowledge of taxes.

Soon after noon, having spent three hours
in unavailing efforts to understand a system
of accounts he firmly believed to be fraudulent,
Mr. Trosdale's Assistant decided to
seek Mr. Kerry's help, and went across to
that gentleman's office, which he found In
possession of a person whom he knew by
sight as an accountant in a small way o{
business.

There had clearly been some considerable
divergence of opinion, for the visitor. In a
towering passion, was storming at Mr.
Kerry, who stood beside his desk looking
perfectly calm, and uttering not a word in
acknowledgment of the abusive torrent
poured forth upon him.

You  you  you insolent-fellow !  do you
hear me .' the accountant stuttered. 'I'll
report you to Somerset House  I'll go up
this day and see the Secretary  I'll find out
whether a man is to be kept waiting here for
thirty minutes before he gets a decent answer

to a civil question, and has to go away
without it after all. Do you think, sir, that
we who pay taxes have no right to come
here ? Is this a private office, or one kept

up to transact public business ? D n it,

sir, why don't you answer me ?'

Is it me you're speaking to ?' inquired Mr.
Kerry, quite as if he expected to be told it
was not.

You  you,' repeated the man, his voice
quivering with passion, * is it you ? Of
course it is ; and I demand a reply couched
in proper language. Let me tell you that
the time for riding rough - shod over the
public has gone by, sir.'

I've told you what to do ! Appeal to the
Special Commissioners.'

But they won't be here for three months.
I might as well appeal to the devil !'

You'll be able to do that later on,' said
Mr. Kerry courteously.  ' What is it, Serle '
Do you want me .' Accounts ? Wait a bit,
I'll come now. I've just about done with
this civil gentleman, so I'll bid him good-morning.'


And with this remark he slipped past the

angry accountant, as that individual was
preparing for another outburst, and followed
Selwyn into Mr. Trosdale's office.

'I'm glad to be shut of that pig!' he
observed. ' He's given me a headache
shouting.'

With ]mr. Kerry's aid the complicated
accounts resolved themselves into a very
simple matter ; and in an hour Selwyn had
completely mastered them, and exposed their
fallacy. Then having, with his friend's help,
made an additional assessment of the proper
amount on the too clever firm, he threw
down his pen with a sigh of relief.

Come and get some o-zone, you white-hearted
chicken suggested Mr. Kerry.
Faith, Serle, It's lucky for you that your
uncle didn't make you an accountant or an
average adjusted.'

They went out, and bent their steps to the
Landing Stage. It was Mr. Kerry's favourite
walk, and one which In the first part of their
acquaintance the two had frequently taken
together.

Come here,' said J\lr. Kerry, when they
reached the end of the stage, where there is

a platform on a lower level than the rest of
the structure, which makes a not uncomfortable
seat, commanding a fine view down the
river. * Come here ; it's warm and sunny,
and we'll have a talk like what we used

'I am afraid I must not to-day,' answered
Selvvyn. ' I do not like leaving the office
longer than I can help. Let us have some
dinner  I'll stand it. Where shall we go ?'

That Welsh ale is mighty good at the
place you took me to a while since,' said Mr.
Kerry, in a softly genial tone. * We'll go
there.'

Selwyn and Mr. Kerry had not left the
office more than half an hour, and Holt,
not expecting visitors, was indulging in a
quiet nap on two chairs behind the partition,
when the sound of some person entering disturbed
him.

That's not one of the public,' said he to
himself.  It'll be Tom, and he's coming
through. I say, Tom, bring us In some
coals  that's a good fellow !'

Who are you speaking to, sir ?' inquired a
sharp voice ; and Holt sprang up as if he
had been stung.

It was not Tom who presented himself,
but a tall gentleman, scrupulously neat, and
carrying a small black bag. He regarded
Holt severely, but the clerk, not at all
abashed, opened the attack by asking
angrily :

*What do you mean by coming into the
Surveyor's private office ? The public are
expected to stay outside the counter.'

No doubt,' observed the visitor drily.
The public are not expected to see what I
see. But there Is no need for excitement,
my young friend. I know Mr. Trosdale
personally ; he will not consider this an
intrusion. Have the goodness to hand me
one of those chairs, and tell me when he will
be in.'

The manner of the stranger's speech
cowed Holt, and as he handed a chair he
answered :

Of course, if you are a friend of Mr.
Trosdale's, it's all right. But I couldn't
know that. He won't be back at all to-day.'

Indeed ! He is ill, perhaps ?'

No ; he's away on some business.'

And when is he likely to be back ?'

I don't know

Really ! Then perhaps you can tell me
where his house Is ? I have particular
reasons for wishing to see him

You won't find him at his house,' replied
Holt, who now began to feel quite at his
ease, and inclined to indulge his passion
for conversation. ' You'll have to go to
Glasgow, If you want to see him.'

Oh ! then he has gone to Glasgow on
business ?'

Holt nodded.

How unfortunate ! I might as easily
have come in earlier in the day

But you wouldn't have seen him then.
He's been away since the middle of last
week.'

Mr. Trosdale's friend gave a little nod,
which might have indicated surprise or disappointment
; and then, without replying,
took a black book from his bag and referred
to it.

Mr. Serle is not here either .' he said,
lifting his head from the book.

He's out just now, but I don't think he'll
be long. He's gone to dinner.'

I think I will wait and see him then. Can
you give me a newspaper ?'

Holt felt sure that he was on safe ground,
and produced the Referee from his coat-pocket,
apologising for its being crumpled.

I do not know this paper,* said Mr.
Trosdale's friend,  though I have frequently
heard of it. It seems to be a sporting
print.'

*The best published,' Holt replied. \I
always like to have it on Sunday morning, so
that I can read it in bed.'

Humph !' and the visitor spread the paper
out on Mr. Trosdale's desk. ' Now, I will
not detain you. I imagine you have work
to do.'

Somewhat unwillingly Holt went to his
seat in the outer office, and resumed his
work. Before long he had an uneasy feeling
that the stranger was watching him intently,
though when he turned round he always
found the paper interposed between them.
He had noticed that the visitor had very
keen eyes, which, even while he was talking,
darted round the office, taking accurate note
of everything, and a vague suspicion stole

over him that after all it might not be a private
friend of Mr. Trosdale's who appeared
so determined to see some one in authority.
It might be as well to get Kerry to come
and see whether he knew the man. He was
about to carry out this notion, when the
stranger remarked :

Mr. Serle is away longer than usual,
surely ?'

Oh no ; he is sometimes longer than
this.'

You seem short handed here. Have you
not another clerk i'

Thistlethwaite ? Yes, but he's away
now.'

What, he too ! Then you have to do the
bulk of the work ?'

This was a supposition which exactly
pleased Holt.

Ay !' he said, ' and without either thanks
or pay for it. Thistlethwaite's away half his
time, and as often as not there's no one but
me and Mr. Serle in the office for days together.
So it is no wonder the work's
always in arrear ; it's not to be expected that
two people can do the work of four, more

VOL. II. cri

especially when they do not get an extra
halfpenny for it.'

Very hard, certainly. But the Board
grants extra allowances, I think. Surely
Mr. Trosdale told me that a handsome
allowance for overtime had been granted to
his clerks a few weeks ago.'

Yes, they did grant overtime. Thistle-thwart
swore he wouldn't do the work without
it ; and so Mr. Trosdale wrote up, and
said it couldn't be done. But I never had a
penny of it. Directly he got the money
Thistlethwalte went off on the boose, and we
haven't seen him since, except when he
comes to draw his pay. It's not fair upon me ;
I don't know why I stand it. Here am I,
slaving like a black till I can't tell you what
time at night, without getting a red cent for
it, while Thistlethwaite's off to Blackburn, or
some such place, with a lot of rowdy fellows,
and he won't come near us till he has spent
it all, and then likely as not he'll have to take
a holiday with his old friend Dat.'

Who is Mr. D. T. ?' asked the transfer.

Holt laughed noisily.

Do you not know what D. T. is .' he asked.

I have not that pleasure.'

You may count yourself lucky then. Dat.
is delirium treineiis.'

Oh ! and an old acquaintance of Mr.
Thistlethwaite .''

I believe you,' and Mr. Holt winked.

I'm afraid,' remarked the stranger, ' you
have a great deal to put up with. It seems
to be the old story of the willing horse. But
does notMr.Trosdale interfere to protect you,
and to secure you a fair share of the extra pay ?'

Not he !' exclaimed Holt indignantly ; ' so
Ions: as he isn't bothered he doesn't care a
tinker's damn what happens. If I was to
tell him anything about it, my time in this
office 'd be short. Besides, he doesn't want
to know. Five days out of six he only comes
here to sign papers, and goes away again in
an hour.'

Mr. Trosdale's friend smiled gravely, and
was about to pursue his inquiries, when the
door opened and Selwyn entered.

Mr. Dandison !' he exclaimed, stopping
short. Then, recovering himself, he advanced
into the office, and said : ' I am sorry I did not
know you were coming, sir.'

i  2

No doubt you are,' remarked the Chief-inspector
grimly ; * but be consoled, Mr.
Serle  I have found your clerk most communicative.
I assure you I have passed the
last half-hour very profitably.'

There was a caustic dryness in his tone
which made Selwyn long to wring his neck,
especially when he recollected what awkward
disclosures Holt had it in his power to make.
Rapidly he surveyed the position, and saw at
once that the Chief Inspector must have
wormed out most, If not all, of the things it
was important to conceal. Six words with
Holt would have been of inestimable use,
but It was impossible to obtain them. Looking
up, he became aware that Mr. Dandison's
eyes were fixed on him, and with something
of the courage of despair in his voice he said :

Do you propose to make a long stay in
Liverpool Y

Long enough to satisfy myself upon some
points about which I am rather doubtful now.
I shall be here tomorrow, and possibly also
on Thursday. By-che-bye, Mr. Serle, if you
know Mr. Trosdale's address, you had better
telegraph to him that I am heres

So he knows Trosdale's away !' Selwyn
reflected. ' The devil take Holt's chattering
tongue !' Then, speaking aloud, he said,
Holt, give me the telegram forms.'

To do Holt justice, he would not, for anything
short of a very large inducement, have
betrayed the movements of his chief, or revealed
anything concerning the office, if he
had known to whom he was talking. His
alarm when he heard Mr. Dandison's name
was ludicrous, and, even in the midst of his
own perplexity, Selwyn could hardly help
laughing at the nervous way in which the
clerk sprang up to execute his order. After
having upset a bottle of red ink over a fairly
written assessment, and thrown a tumbler
down into the coal-scuttle  mishaps which
Mr. Dandison regarded with the same steady
and sarcastic look of comprehension  the
telegram forms were produced, and Selwyn
was beginning to indite a rather long message
to his chief, when the Inspector said very
quietly :

As the telegram is on official business, I
will sign it, Mr. Serle.'

Selwyn, cursing him inwardly, tore up

the form which he had already written. In
place of it he wrote another, simply announcing
the fact that Mr. Dandlson had arrived
and wished urgently to see him. This Mr.
Dandison deliberately perused and signed,
after which Selwyn gave it to Holt, with
instructions to send it off at once.

'Well,' Mr. Serle, the Chief Inspector
began when Holt had gone, ' what am I
to say to all this ?'

If any hope still lurked in Selwyn's mind
that Mr. Dandison would make a lenient use
of the advantage he had gained, the tone in
which these words were uttered must have
dispelled it. The Chief Inspector's gray
eyes shone with a steely glitter, his thin lips
were tightly compressed, and the voice which
came from between them was as cold and
keen as the east wind which at that moment
was blowing in the streets. But the fighting
instinct was strong in Selwyn that day ; and as
it needed only the appearance of things going
against him to make him reckless of consequences,
he answered with perfect hardihood :

Pray make your question a little plainer,
Mr. Dandison. I am in a difficulty how to
answer it.'

I do not wonder at that. Really, Mr.
Serle, considering how small your opportunities
have been, you have picked up the habits
prevalent among Surveyors of a certain class
with the most extraordinary aptitude. Six
months, is it not ?  you will correct me if I
am wrong  since you came to me in Somerset
House ; and I should have said then that
your prospects were as good as those of any
man in the service. At first you made a good
impression on me, an excellent impression.'

Well, sir ; and in what way have I forfeited
itr

The Chief Inspector shrugged his shoulders.

If you can ask such a question as that
he said, ' I am afraid it is almost hopeless to
continue our conversation. But I understand
I am not to take your question literally. You
put it rhetorically ; in fact, you wish to over
out the ground. Well, then, I will tell you,
sir. Mr. Trosdale, your Surveyor, has been
absent from this office without leave.'

That is not my affair,' Selwyn answered.

Not yours ? Whose then ? Pray, Mr.
Serle, do not trouble me with these fantastic
replies. If Mr. Trosdale should set

himself to rob an absent man of his goods,
would you by maintaining silence abet him in
his purpose ? Of course you would not. But
you allow him to plunder the Board of Inland
Revenue without remonstrating. It was your
duty, sir, to have informed me, unofficially,
of what was taking place.'

Then I may tell you,' answered Selvvyn,
I would rather throw up my appointment.
I am neither a talebearer nor a detective ;
and I understood I was sent here to assist
Mr. Trosdale, not to spy upon his actions.'

To assist him in his lawful work, sir, not
in defrauding the Board,' the Chief Inspector
replied, and a dark flush overspread his face.
'You are hard of understanding, Mr. Serle;
wilfully so, I Imagine. But even you must
know that no member of the Civil Service
may absent himself from duty without the
leave of his official superiors.'

It is not for me to discuss Mr. Trosdale's
actions ; but I might retort that you yourself,
Mr. Dandison, told me there was no fixed
rule of office-hours, and that so long as the
work was done, a Surveyor might be a law to
himself.'

Those are my words quoted with a cunning
twist,' the Chief-Inspector said; *but since
you challenge me in that way, bring me your
books. I will see how your work stands.'

It was with rising courage that Selwyn
produced his books ; for almost from the
beginning of his sojourn with INIr. Trosdale
he had assumed the entire charge of the
correspondence in the office, and his books
were perfect models of what such things
should be, thanks to Mr. Kerry's Instructions
and to the help which he obtained at odd
times from Thistlethwaite. The Chief Inspector
went through them carefully, taking
note of everything, and asking searching
questions about almost every entry. But
Selwyn was on ground which he had carefully
studied, and on which he was a match even
for the veteran who cross-examined him.
Mr. Dandlson was unable to detect any faults
in the books ; and when he closed the last,
and admitted that they were all well kept,
Selwyn felt something of the exultation experienced
by Ouentin Durward after having
crossed swords with Dunois.

When he had finished, Mr. Dandlson rose

and looked through the window at the
clock.

I do not think there is anything more
which we can do to-day,' he said ; ' by tomorrow,
no doubt, Mr. Trosdale will be
here. Good-afternoon, Mr. Serle. I wish
to see the other Surveyors before they go.'

If Mr. Dandlson really imagined that there
was any danger of the departure of the other
Surveyors before they had seen him, he much
mistook the natures of those worthy gentlemen
 or rather, the habits which after years
of official life had become more natural than
nature. The news of the Chief Inspector's
arrival had been disseminated by Holt on his
way out with the telegram for Mr. Trosdale.
Every Surveyor, Assistant-Surveyor and clerk
In the building had read that message and
discussed it before it was despatched. Anxiety
was on every countenance ; books which had
lain untouched for weeks were produced and
hurriedly indexed ; official papers brushed
away into locked drawers ; porter bottles
carried off into Tom's room ; the clerk to the
Clerk to the Local Commissioners summoned,
in case he might be wanted.

Meanwhile, all down the corridors heads
were constantly peeping from the doors,
gazing intently in the direction of Mr. Tros-
dale's office as timidly as a number of
rabbits peering cautiously from their holes
at eventide, while at the least sound every man
darted back to give warning. Now and then
one bolder than the rest stole up to the door
round which interest centred, though no
sound of voices could possibly be heard
through its thick oak panels ; and returning,
drew on his imagination for hints and whispers,
which quickly spread to the adjacent
rooms in the shape of the wildest rumours.
Now it was said that Selwyn had been heard
to call the Chief Inspector a liar ; now that a
scuffle had taken place, and that Mr. Grandison
was calling for help.

As often happens, all this nervousness was
thrown away. When at last the great man
issued forth, it was only to pay a brief visit to
each of the three other Surveyors, and to
assure them with the blandest of smiles that
he would see them again on the following day.
Then he betook himself to his hotel.

'At last he has gone,' said Selwyn. ' You

may lock up, Holt ; I shall not be back to-nights


Won't you stay a while ?' asked the clerk ;
they'll all be here late to-night. We might
go through the assessments.'

I won't stay ten minutes,' replied Selwyn
angrily. ' I shall be ready for Mr. Dandison
tomorrow, if he has any inquiries to make.
And look here, Holt, next time anyone
comes and asks you to talk about other
people's affairs, just try not to do it.
You've caused more mischief to-day than
you will repair in a hurry.'

I'm sure,' said Holt, beginning to whimper,
I'm sure I wouldn't have said a word if I'd
known who it was. How could I tell he was
the Chief Inspector ? Trosdale '11 sack me
over this !'

If he does,' said Selwyn, as he went out,
it will be a very good day's work.'

In the passage, as if he had been meaning
to come in, stood Mr. Kerry, with a shade of
sadness upon his expressive countenance.
He shook his head gloomily when he saw
Selwyn.

Well,' he demanded, ' what did the black-hearted

thief want ? And who put him upto

coming r

I don't know. I believe that, like a
vulture, he smells his prey miles off.'

I'm not sure said Mr. Kerry, with a
mysterious nod, ' but what there's people In
these offices that watches what we're all
doing pretty sharp. If Dandlson had a
hint to come down now, it wouldn't be the
first time one has been given him.'

What do you mean ? Do you suppose
anybody '

Mr. Kerry jerked his thumb over his
shoulders in the direction of Mr. Cramsey's
door.

If I thought that,' said Selwyn, taking
a step in the same direction, ' Td go in
and smash his head.'

Phooh ! come back !' said his friend,
catching him by the arm. ' It's myself will
help you to do it some day. But you'll have
to grow a bit, Selwyn, my boy, before you
kick old Davey's shins. Besides, you're Ina
bit of a mess with Dandlson, and it won't
make things any better for Davey to complain
tomorrow that you've broken three of
his ribs.'

I believe you're right,' said Selwyn ; * but,
as I live, I'll be even with him before long.'

Don't shout like that, man !' said Mr.
Kerry, pulling his friend down the corridor.
Can't you keep cool ? A stone doesn't get
any lighter by lying snug in your pocket
for a bit. I've a thing or two to say to old
Davey myself; and you and I can make one
job of it.'

When they emerged into the street, Mr.
Kerry was about to turn in the direction of
Duke Street, but Selwyn disengaged himself.

That's not my way,' he said. * I can't
come with you to-night, Kerry ; I must go
home.'

Why must you ?'

I expect Mr. Trosdale will be back, and
I want to go to meet him.'

Tell me what Dandison said, then.'

I can't remember all he said.' Selwyn
answered. ' I was in a passion, and I said a
good deal myself which I dare say was very
foolish. Let me go now, Kerry; I'm tired.
I'll see you tomorrow.'

Mr. Kerry stood looking after his friend as
long as Selwyn remained in sight, and then,

remarking : ' There was a stranger on the
bars last night  I misdoubt me when I
saw him,' he went home, looking as sorrowful
as it was his nature to look.

Before returning to St. Paul's Square,
Selwyn went down to the Landing Stage,
where he took two or three turns up and
down. It was a fine evening, and the air,
though keen and cold, was bracing, and had
the scent of the sea in it. He would
probably have remained there longer, for his
head was aching, and the stage being almost
deserted, he found the place soothing to his
excited brain. But in the midst of his third
turn, he saw Mr. Dandlson in the distance,
and feeling at the moment a strong repugnance
towards meeting that gentleman, he
escaped up one of the bridges.

MR. KERRY INTERVENES.

[Selwyn had hardly reached the
office on the following morning
vvhen Mr. Dandison appeared,
carrying, as on the previous day, his small
black bag.

'At what time do you expect Mr. Tros-
dale ?' was his first inquiry.

I fear he will not be here at all to-day.
He. telegraphed to me last night and explained
that he was detained on most important
business.'

Show me that message, Mr. Serle.'

I cannot, Mr. Dandison,' Selwyn answered
; ' it related partially to private matters.
I have told you precisely what the
contents were, so far as they referred to Mr.
Trosdales return.'

Very well, sir. Now be so good as to
write down Mr. Trosdale's address in Glasgow
for me.'

Selwyn wrote out the address and handed
it to Mr. Dandison.

Do you wish to make any further inspection
of the office this morning .'' he asked.

Not at present. Later in the day, perhaps,
I shall see you again. Pray keep
yourself in readiness, lest I should want
you.'

With these words the Chief-Inspector went
out. Holt slipped after him, and came back
in a few minutes, saying :

He's been and sent off a telegram himself


To ]mr. Trosdale, I suppose,' said Selwyn.
' Well, that's no business of ours,
Holt. You had better get to work.'

The morning passed very quietly. Selwyn
bearing Mr. Dandison's words in mind, did
not go out to dinner, but sent Holt for some
bread-and-cheese, which he ate, wondering
what the next few days had in store for him.
He saw of course, that Mr. Dandison was
in no mood to pass lightly over any breach

VOL. II .2

of discipline, and though he had certainly
committed none himself, yet there were only
too many apparent in the office, for which it
seemed that he was to be made answerable.
If matters were driven to extremity with the
Surveyor, it could hardly be that he should
escape. The fall of Trosdale would be a
great one, and was likely enough to bringdown
his Assistant also.

From these unpleasant thoughts Selwyn
was roused soon after noon by the entrance
of Mr. Dandison. That gentleman wore a
very placid look ; but those who knew the
Chief Inspector dreaded him most when his
appearance was serene.

Well, Mr. Serle,' he said cheerfully, ' at
your luncheon? What, finished already ! I had
twice your appetite when I was a young man.
Now, I have a question to ask you. It
seems that we shall have to do without Mr.
Trosdale to-day.'

Then you have heard from him, sir T

Yes. It appears to me that Mr. Tros-
dale can hardly have been absent so long as
I was given to understand ; because only on
Saturday this important document reached

London, signed, you see, by him. How do
you explain that ?'

'It was signed,' said Selwyn, 'before Mr.
Trosdale left.'

But when completed ?'

On the day on which it was sent up.'

Then it was signed when it was still incomplete
? That is to say, that this, a most
important account, never received the Surveyor's
supervision ?'

It is quite correct,' Selwyn said.

That is not to the point. You must know
that the Surveyor's signature is regarded asa
guarantee that he has checked the accuracy
of the work.' He paused, as if he expected
Selwyn to say something, but receiving no
answer, he continued, with a shadow of
greater sternness in his voice : 'It is very
unsatisfactory, Mr. Serle  discreditable, in
fact  that you should have lent yourself
to such a proceeding. No, don't interrupt
me. Listen to what I am about to say.
I have telegraphed to Mr, Trosdale, telling
him that he is suspended by order of
the Board for behoof absent without leave
from his office. I do not think it probable that

Mr. Trosdale will return again to this district,
so I have requested Mr. Cramsey to take
charge of It. You will regard yourself as
being under his orders, and give him every
assistance. I have considered your own
position, and I do not see that any serious
steps need be taken at present. You are very
young, Mr. Serle ; and though I cannot conceal
from you that your official reputation is
much damaged by what has occurred, there
is no reason why, under another Surveyor,
you should not retrieve your character.'

I have no wish to dissociate myself from
Mr. Trosdale,' said Selwyn proudly. ' I
desire to share the responsibility for whatever
blame attaches to him.'

Pray, Mr. Serle, do not talk in that foolish
manner,' said the Chief Inspector impatiently,
or you will oblige me to reconsider what I
have said. I am willing to shut my eyes
more than I am quite justified in doing. Do
not force me to open them. I have explained
matters sufficiently now,' he added, moving
towards the door as he spoke. ' I hope we
shall meet next time under pleasant circumstances.'


Plausible scoundrel !' muttered Selwyn, as
the door closed behind Mr. Dandlson ; very
unfairly, for towards him, at all events, the
Chief Inspector was showing himself just and
moderate.

Mr. Dandlson had already taken leave of
the other Surveyors, and was about to depart
from the building, when he was waylaid by
Mr. Kerry. Ever since the Chief Inspector's
sudden arrival Mr. Kerry's state had been
one of the utmost consternation. Had he
himself been implicated in Mr. Trosdale's
misdeeds, he could not have shown himself
more nervous about the view taken of
them. He was quite unable to work ; he
was perpetually starting up as if he meant to
rush into Mr. Trosdale's office and interfere
on behalf of Selwyn ; then, recollecting himself,
he would sit down again with a mournful
groan. He returned no answer when spoken
to, and drove several applicants to the verge
of idiocy by looking at them with a vacant
stare, as if he had not heard their questions.
He gave snappish replies to his clerk's
anxious inquiries whether he were ill ; and
finally, when the man persisted, Mr. Kerry
swore roundly at him.

The cause of all this derangement was not
merely Mr. Kerry's active sympathy with
the misfortunes of his friend, though that
was great. But being, as has been indicated
before, very prone to superstition, he had persuaded
himself that all the prophecies of evil
which he had uttered to Selwyn had brought
about their own fulfilment, and that if he
could only have held his tongue Mr. Grandison's
visit might not have happened at all, or
might have taken place at a more opportune
time.

What ailed you, Daniel, to prophesy
about the poor lad ?' he said to himself, over
and over again. ' You used to be a decent
fellow, Dan, that wouldn't hurt a crow, let
alone a shrimp of a boy that couldn't protect
himself. Prophesying is like throwing
stones into the air : they're sure to hit somebody
when they come down. You'd best
give up the trade, and look out for a better
one.'

In this strain he had communed with
himself ever since leaving Selwyn on the previous
evening, and having gradually arrived
at such a state as to consider himself the

prime, if not the sole, cause of the mischief,
determined in consequence * to put in a word
for the lad come what would.

Accordingly, when Mr. Dandison was
walking quickly down the corridor, on his
way out of the building, Mr. Kerry contrived
to meet and accost him.

Before you go away, sir, I should like to
say a few words.'

Certainly,' replied the Chief-Inspector,
who never refused a request of this sort.
Come in here, Mr. Kerry ; I have not
much time, but I can spare you twenty
minutes.'

He led the way into the little room which
has before been mentioned as reserved for
the use of the Inspectors on their visits.
Mr. Kerry looked carefully this way and
that before entering the room : and having
assured himself that no one was in sight, he
cautiously closed the door.

Well,' said Mr. Dandison, seating himself
at a desk which stood in a corner by the
window, 'what is it, Mr. Kerry?'

I thought,' said the Irishman, in a timid
voice, very different from his usual reckless

manner, ' I thought you'd excuse me interfering,
but I wanted to speak about the lad
Serle/

Ah, yes ! What about him ?*

They say things weren't quite as they
should be in there,' continued Mr. Kerry,
indicating the office he meant with a jerk of
his head ; ' and we've got an idea that you
are not as well pleased as you might be.'

Mr. Dandison raised his eyebrows, as if
he wondered how such an idea could have
got abroad.

I'm sure I never said so, Mr. Kerry.
From whom did you hear that ?'

'Ah!' said the Irishman mysteriously;
there's ways and means of finding out
secrets without much talk. What I tell you
is generally believed in this building, anyway.'


The Chief Inspector glanced up carelessly.

Perhaps you have good reason for believing
that there were irregularities in Mr.
Trosdale's office T

It's not for me to say,' replied the cautious
Assistant. ' If a man shows me his face, Mr.
Dandison, I look at it ; but if he turns his

back I look at that too, without trying to
squint round so as to see what he's got in his
hands. I see what I'm meant to see, sir,
and not much else. It would be a mighty-good
thing if there was nobody hard by
trying to see more.'

You are very discreet, I have no doubt.
But you did not stop me, and request
this conversation, merely in order to inform
me that you could be blind at convenient
times?'

No,' said Mr. Kerry, ' I did not. I want
to tell you something about young Serle.'

Well, Mr. Kerry, pray go on. I am quite
ready to listen to you.'

It's this,' the Irishman said, hesitating a
little. ' If you're going away with the notion
that Serle's a careless worker, and not to be
trusted, you're wrong entirely, and I'd be
glad for you to know it. There isn't anyone
in these offices, or in the whole service, who'd
be worth more to you if he was rightly
managed.'

I have not told you that I am dissatisfied
with Mr. Serle, Mr. Kerry. Again I ask
you where you obtained your knowledge.'

The Assistant-Surveyor waved his hand
impatiently.

We'll let that pass,' he said. ' I know
pretty well how matters stand. What I want
to say is that Trosdale's doing the lad no
good. Now, I'm not saying anything against
Trosdale. I don't know anything but good
oi' him  barring his temper  and if that
isn't what it might be, he didn't make it
himself.'

I suppose not,' remarked IMr. Dandison,
seeing that Kerry stopped as if waiting for an
answer.

Well, then, he's a good enough fellow.
But he's spoiling Selwyn. He's got the lad
under his thumb, and makes him do what he
likes. You don't know Serle, perhaps ; but
he's just the fellow to be led by the nose by
any man who likes to take the trouble.'

I won't dispute your knowledge of your
friend's character. But I still don't see
exactly the point you are trying to make.'

It is this,' said Mr. Kerry, with an obvious
effort ; ' I think Serle will never do well till
he's separated from Trosdale.'

I may inform you that Mr. Trosdale has

been suspended from his duties by order of
the Board.'

I'm right sorry to hear it. But that won't
separate him and Serle, because they live
together

The Chief-Inspector looked at Mr. Kerry
to see if he had anything more to add.

Oh !' said he, after assuring himself the
other had said all he intended. ' So Serle
lives with Mr. Trosdale. How did that
come about ?'

I don't know,* answered Mr. Kerry ; ' I
wish I did, and I'd like well to see him in
some other place, for he's a fine young fellow,
and clever, too.'

The Chief Inspector paid no attention to
this repeated eulogy of Selwyn.

So,' he observed, as if to himself, ' they
live together. That explains everything. It's
all clear now.'

Then, turning to Mr. Kerry, he added :

*Well, Mr. Kerry, I suppose you wish me
to consider this as said in confidence. I think
you did rightly to speak to me, and you may
depend I shall know how to make a proper
use of what you have told me. By-the-bye,

how do you stand yourself for promotion
?'

I'm very near the top,' said Mr. Kerry
with a gratified smile. * There's only Webb
before me.'

Are you not aware Mr. Webb has got his
district ? He went to Aylesbury last week.'

Then I'm top,' observed Mr. Kerry.

I do not think you'll be left there long ;
but we shall see. Good-bye, good-bye. I've
left myself hardly any time.'

And with these words Mr. Dandison
departed.

Mr. Kerry was considerably uplifted by the
last remark of his chief, which he naturally interpreted
as a kind of promise that his prospects
would be borne in mind by the man
most capable of advancing them. He felt,
too, that he had dropped good seed into Mr.
Dandison's mind in another way, and done
Selwyn a real kindness ; though he was quite
aware that young gentleman might not so
regard his interference.

But why need he know anything about
it at all .' argued Mr. Kerry. * He's just like
a baby, poor boy, and he doesn't know what's

good for him. Lord ! it's lucky he's got a
friend with a power of discretion, and more
care for his interests than he's got himself.'

Self communing after this comfortable
fashion, Mr. Kerry reached the door of
Trosdale's office, and went in with the intention
of consoling Selwyn, and administering
to the wounds which Mr. Dandison had made
the healing balm of wisdom. Being in good
spirits, he naturally began by attacking the
pillar, which for some days past had enjoyed
a well-earned rest. He was not quite so successful
as usual, however, and failed to reach
his last pencil-mark.

'Blessed St. Patrick! I'm getting stiff,'
he ejaculated. 'It's a curse  no less  that
civil of a Chief-Inspector brought with him,
and he's left it fixed on us. Come along out
here, Selwyn, and hold me up while I get my
leg up over my name, or I'll be ashamed to
look at it.'

This appeal was very promptly answered,
but not by Selwyn. It was Mr. Cramsey
who thrust his head round the partition, and
observed :

I wish you'd go back to your office, I do,

Daniel Kerry  or, if you must come in, I'll
trouble you to do it without making a noise like
that. How am I to get through all the work
the Board has set me if I'm not left quiet ?'

The sight of Mr. Cramsey produced an
instant change upon his Assistant. He desisted
from his athletic attempts, and thrusting
his thumbs into the armholes of his
waistcoat he advanced upon his chief.

So ye're here already !' he observed acrimoniously.


And hiofh time too !' returned Mr. Cramsey.
' Ah ! it's a shocking thing when people
neglect the work they're paid to do ! Poor
Mr. Dandison  he was quite upset. I never
saw a man look so white and ill as he did
when he told me I must come here. So as
soon as he'd gone I just gathered up my
papers and came across.'

And where's Serle ?'

He's out ; he's out far too much. I've
got my eye on that young man, I tell you.
I'm not going to stand any of his nonsense.
He was barely civil to me just now.'

What did he say ?' inquired Mr. Kerry
curiously.

Never mind what he said, or what he
didn't say. I'm too busy to talk to you. Go
and get on with your own work.'

And It's Hkely you will be busy retorted
Mr. Kerry, not noticing this suggestion.
You'll have to get up early and go to bed
late, and many a day ye'll sit here with an
empty inside and a sore head before you've
made the assessments for two districts.'

Ah ! but the Board won't forget me, you
may be sure. It's all done for their sakes
and for Dandison's ; and you may take my
word they'll be grateful. It's a hard thing to
have to take up another man's work ; and I
tell you the work In this district's not been
done in my way, and I can't speak plainer
than that. There's a cupboard behind you
that's locked, but I mean to know what's in
it, if I have to break It open with the poker.'

I'd advise you to speak to Trosdale first,*
said Mr. Kerry.

What for ?' asked Mr. Cramsey contemptuously.
* Trosdale isn't anything here now,
any more than Tom the porter. I'm master
in this office, and high time too. It seems
to me there's not been half the correspondence

there ought to be, and it's my belief
it has been locked up there and never
attended to.'

You're a fool, then, for your pains,' said
Mr. Kerry rudely. sand you don't know
an honest man when you see one. Serle
would no more bottle up his work like that
than you'd play the spy on other people in
these offices, and report their doings to the
Chief Inspector.'

This shot went home, and Mr. Cramsey
turned livid with suppressed rage. As Mr.
Kerry said, in relating the scene afterwards
to Selwyn, * I touched him on the raw, mister.'
The Surveyor judged it prudent, however, not
to notice the remark, and only said :

I don't think much of that young man. I
never did. You may trust him if you like,
but then I'm responsible, and you're not.'

At that moment Selwyn entered the office.

I say, Serle,' cried Mr. Kerry, 'what's in
that cupboard ?'

Some things which belong to Mr. Tros-
dale answered Selwyn ; ' his private property.'


No official papers ?'

Certainly not. Mr. Cramsey has all the
papers that are In the office. I have already
told him so.'

Kerry glanced triumphantly at Mr. Cramsey,
but was met with a sneering laugh.

Seeing Is believing,' he said. ' I mean
to sweep this office clean. We must have
that cupboard opened at once.'

It will be very Inconvenient to clear it tonight,'
said Selwyn, ' but If you Insist on it I
suppose it must be done.'

You're mighty fond of talking answered
Mr. Cramsey, rather taken aback by this
ready compliance. ' It can wait till tomorrow.
Suppose wee do some work now,
and let Kerry go and do his.'

And with that Mr. Cramsey threw himself
back in his chair, and with a large coloured
silk handkerchief wiped away the drops of
perspiration which had collected on his head.

You're mighty polite all of a sudden,' said
Mr. Kerry. ' I'm not quite fit for such high
society ; so I'll bid you good-day, Mr. Cramsey.
I'll take care It's pretty well known in
these offices how well you've behaved, and
what nice things Dandlson said about you.'

VOL. II-i

CHAPTER IX.

MR. TROSDALE EXULTS.

ATE next evening Selwyn met 
at the Central Station.
The Assistant in Third Liverpool
was by no means in good spirits; but his chief
made up for all shortcomings of that sort.

Capital news !' he cried, as soon as he
caught sight of his young friend ; ' the best of
news !' and he allowed Selwyn to take his
bag, and slipped his hand within his arm.
Piddick is mightily pleased  never saw a
man so pleased  says I may reckon on a
large fortune, which, of course, I knew
before. He advises me not to sell outright
a royalty is the thing. I cannot be troubled
looking after such petty details, so you must
manage all that for me. I shall be able to
afford a roaring salary.'

What arrangement have you made with
Paddock ?' asked Selwyn, who, though disenchanted
with Third Liverpool, and dissatisfied
with the whole Inland Revenue, was not so
much uplifted by the glorious future Mr. Tros-
dale Indicated as might have been expected.

'With him, none yet. It was his father
who made the business, and though the old
man is virtually out of the firm, still the
son says he never takes any Important step
without consulting him. He is ill at the
moment, but whenever he is able to be about
again, Paddock will lay my affair before him.
Meanwhile he introduced me to the best
people in the neighbourhood of Glasgow ;
they were all delighted, and advised me to
see Hodson, who really is the king of the
trade ; so I shall go to London next month.
He's out of England at present  been wintering
g in the South of France it seems. That's
the way those wealthy fellows play with
business, while the men who really make
their money for them have to eat their hearts
out till it suits them to come back.'

Selwyn had hoped to hear of some profitable
settlement having been come to with

332

the great Scotch house, and his spirits were
considerably dashed when he found he was
expected to exult over the absent Hodson's
possible approval at some unnamed futuredate.

Do you think that Hodson Is likely to
entertain the Invention ?' he asked diffidently.

Likely ! why, man, don't I tell you everyone
without exception fell In love with the
furnace ? Harrison and Edwards said It
would double their profits, and J. K. Frazer
told me to name a lump sum for the patent,
and he would see If we couldn't come to terms.'

That is gratifying, certainly ; such firms
oucrht to know the value of the thine.'

Of course they ought, and they do.
What can anyone want more than such
recognition ? I would have struck a bargain
with Frazer ; but Piddick said If I really
wished to sell  which he by no means advised
Hudson, or even Phipps, would give me
ten times as much. Now this Is my first
chance of fortune, and I won't part with It
for a mess of pottage.'

By this time they had made their way out
of the station, and were passing round St.
George's Hall towards Dale Street.

A cold, raw wind was blowing, which
made itself felt through the thickest clothing,
and the Surveyor shivered as he wrapped his
travelling rug, which he had thrown over his
shoulders, closer round him.

And what about Dandison ?' he asked ;
what brought the meddling rascal down just
at this time ? I've often said he suborns the
clerks to send him secret information, and
here is a proof of it. Do you know what he
came for ?'

To see you, I suppose. He came direct
to our office.'

Then some one must have told him I was
away. There was no reason on earth for his
choosing this time.'

Whatever his reason might be answered
Selwyn, ' he was in a very nasty temper,
and I am sorry to say things haven't gone
well.'

Why ? how ?'

Did you not receive a telegram from him
yesterday ?'

No, what was it about ?'

To say that you were suspended.'

Suspended !' Mr, Trosdale stopped as

though he had been shot. ' Suspended !
pooh! stuff! nonsense! rubbish! Suspend
me !' he went on, beginning to walk very
rapidly, and talking the while very fast, ' after
having been thirty years a Surveyor ! The
Board wouldn't sanction such a thing. They
will never confirm Dandison's act

I am sure he will push it very hard,' said
Selwyn doubtfully.

Let him,' said the Surveyor. ' But what
a nasty trick to serve a man,' he continued,
finding Selwyn made no remark ; * isn't it,
now ? An old friend too. Why, I went fishing
with him once. Did I never tell you about
that ? It was when I was down in Hampshire
 Dandison never liked me afterwards,
because I filled my basket and he caught
nothing. You should have seen him slashing
away with his line at the banks, and
catching brambles and all sorts of things
except what he wanted. I said to him,
Dandison," I said, '' you're hurting the
weeds more than the fish'" and the Surveyor
laughed discordantly as he recalled the one
day in all the years when he had scored over
the Chief Inspector.

Selwyn made no comment ; in truth, he felt
too anxious for trivial speech.

'Suspended!' repeated the Surveyor; 'Lord,
vhat does it matter ? I declare I won't fight
it out with him. I'll take my pension and
cut the whole concern. Eh ? Don't you
think that would be the best thing to do ?'

I think I'd wait until we see how things
go with Hudson said Selwyn sensibly.

As he spoke they stopped before the house
in St. Paul's Square, and while pulling out
his latchkey the Surveyor remarked :

It is very strange that I cannot make you
understand my success with Hodson is a
practical certainty.'

Next moment they were in the hall, where
Madge met them.

Welcome home,' she said, kissing her
father ; ' how very long it seems since you
went away.' And then she gave her hand to
Selwyn, whom she had not seen during the
interval ; in truth, he had not desired to see
her, knowing how completely at sixes and
sevens affairs were.

Long !' repeated Mr. Trosdale, who was,
however, gratified by her remark ; ' no child,

it is not very long, though a great deal has
occurred since I left here' (indeed there
has,' thought Selwyn). ' How well you are
looking, Madge ; New Brighton agrees with
you, my girl,' and he patted her cheek complacently,
for already he saw her, in his
mind's eye, ' taking her proper position ' as
the heiress of that enormous fortune he was
to receive from Hodson or his equivalent.

After all,' said the Surveyor, some ten
minutes later, at supper, ' there is no place like
one's '' ain ingle neck," as the Scotch call it.
1 am glad I came home, Madge. Piddick
wanted me to spend a little time with him,
but I felt I could not stop away any longer.'
'And how did you get on?' asked Miss
Trosdale. ' Did you like the Glasgow
people ? Were they kind to you ?'

Kind !' repeated the Surveyor. 'If I'd
been their brother come home from foreign
parts with a fortune they could not have
been kinder. All day it was " Let me drive
you out this afternoon," and *come and stop
the night with us," and '' We have a few
friends for dinner, and I can't say how much
we should feel honoured if you would join

us." I had to promise to spend a fortnight
with Piddick in the summer at Arran. It is
impossible to tell you how eager and friendly
he was about the patent ; over and over again
he assured me it would not be long before I
stepped into a fine fortune.'

1 never saw you look so well and happy
before said Invade, stealing a glance at
Selwyn, who looked neither well nor happy.

Because you have always before seen
me under a cloud,' answered the Surveyor ;
when I am out of this hateful town I can
breathe. Away from taxes I feel a man
again. You have never known your father,
Madge, in the past ; but I hope you will
know him in the future. You would not
believe in me, but when you find everybody
at my feet you will know I was not the
poor self-deluded creature you imagined.
Ah ! there is nothing so beautifying, nothing
so convincing, as success.'

And God grant it may come to you
thought jNIadge ; and though she made no
audible answer, her eyes were full of such
compassion and tenderness as Selwyn had
never seen in them before.

Lately a great pity for her father had been
taking possession of Madge. Happier herself,
she found time to lament that anyone else
should be unhappy, and now the great pity
and love she had felt for her mother seemed
to pale when contrasted with the greater pity
she felt for a man who rejected love, and had
spent all the best years of his life in pursuing
a shadow. For if success should come to him
in the future, how could it compensate for the
misery and humiliation of the past ?

Anyone who had heard the Surveyor talk
that night might have been excused imagining
he was * fey,' to borrow an expression from
the land which made him so welcome. He
talked incessantly of what he had done in the
past, what he meant to do in the future ; and
Madge sat listening almost in silence, speaking
only when her father seemed to expect
an answer, and glancing furtively from him
to Selwyn, and from Selwyn back again to
her father, as if expecting to read written in
plain characters on their faces the thoughts
which were in their minds.

She did not need to seek far for the Surveyor's
thoughts. The exultant light with

which his eyes glittered from beneath their
shaggy brows was enough to tell her he was
dwelling on the future, chafing at the delay
likely to arise before he grasped his prize,
and yet examining and dwelling on it with all
the eager joy which a child has in thinking
of a pantomime. It was then I\Iadge
realized that in their attitude towards external
things she and her father were, and
must remain, as far asunder as the poles.
No lapse of time could bridge the gulf which
separated them, or enable her to look on the
future with the sanguine hope of which the
Surveyor seemed to have a bottomless spring
within his breast. Madge would willingly,
at least for the time being, have shared his
hope, and cast away her fears. ' For what t'
she asked herself, * what good can it do him
or me that I don't believe he will succeed ?
It will not make failure a whit less certain,
or pave the way to any prosperity in the
future for either of us. Why cannot I think
and feel with him, even if he be wrong, and
enjoy at least the pleasure of thinking he is
right ?'

It was useless, and Madge knew it as she

watched her father, and answered to the best
of her capacity a string of comments upon
the Glasgow manufactures  disparaging
mostly ; for when her father was busied with
the contemplation of Martin Trosdale's talents
he had rarely much toleration for those of
other people.

As for Selwyn, he listened to Mr. Tros-
dale's utterances with a sinking heart. His
interview with Mr. Dandlson was too recent
to permit him to set such hopes as the Surveyor
offered In the balance against the
trouble he felt confident was in store.

He had not lost faith In the furnace or its
inventor ; but he knew If he were In the
Surveyor's shoes he should prefer his salary
to fifty such birds In the bush.

Harshly as he considered Mr. Trosdale
had been treated, it was impossible for him
to help acknowledging the head of Third
Liverpool ought to hold no one save himself
responsible for his suspension. Work more
badly performed, accounts worse kept-an
office In which less discipline prevailed, it
would have been hard indeed to find In the
United Kingdom. It was not merely that

the Surveyor did almost nothing himself ;
but he actually disliked people about him who
entertained the disagreeable opinion that
something ought to be done. He detested
being asked about any official matter. He
regarded the men who paid taxes as a public
nuisance, and the Board that received those
taxes as a greater nuisance still. He entertained
the largest ideas on the subject of
salary, while his notions concerning earning
it were narrow as notions could be. To do
as little and get as much as possible was the
condition to which discontent and overweening
self-opinion had brought him, and
now that the Inevitable result, bound to come
sooner or later, had arrived, he refused to
recognise the gravity of his position, but
babbled on as a child might have done,
utterly blind to his danger. To Selwyn,
who, if he erred at all about the matter, erred
on the side of over-content and over-caution,
the Surveyor's action seemed that of a man
who does not trouble himself, though aware
the ship under his feet is sinking, because he
sees a sail far away on the horizon he believes
will eventually save him.

Through all Mr. Trosdale's joyful and
triumphant discourse, the words the Chief-inspector
had spoken rang like a discord.
That Mr. Dandison would make matters
most unpleasant for the truant Surveyor he
felt satisfied ; and the very vagueness of his
knowledge as to what lay in such an enemy's
power added a harassing uncertainty to his
reflections. Concerning his own future, also,
he felt by no means at ease. Mr. Kerry had
remarked that morning :

You'll have to sing small for a while, and
eat a good lump of humble-pie, my boy,
before you'll scrape right, and maybe you'll
think twice before you chaff a man you know
nothing about again, if it's taking his skin off
to wash he is, let alone his waistcoat. I
always said, if you mind, Davey would get
his knife in you, and you see it has all come
true. And that's not all ; if you had taken
my advice and not let Trosdale entrap you,
you might have been nearly a made man by
now. I told you from the first it was taxes
you ought to take to bed and board with you,
and instead of that, nothing would content
you but Trosdale and his publishing old

boiler Cramsey says he's been fooling away
the Queen's time on  though how Davey
knows that beats me entirely. Likely as
not now a mark is set against your name
up in London, and when you get your
promotion, if ever you do, you'll be sent to
the Land's End, or Flamborough Head, or
some other place at the back of beyond ' 
which assertion was by no means reassuring,
even making every allowance for the agreeable
way Mr. Cramsey's Assistant had of
putting things ; and not all the compliments
Mr. Trosdale repeated, not all the assurances
of Messrs. Piddick, Harrison, Edwards,
Frazer, and many others united, that the
furnace was the best and simplest furnace
ever invented, could wipe out the recollection
of Mr. Kerry's words, and Mr. Kerry's look
when he uttered them.

These were the thoughts which were jangling
through Selwyn's mind while he sat,
silent, listening to his chiefs monotonous talk ;
and so absorbed did he at length become in
his unpleasant musings, that he finally forgot
to try to look cheerful, and started like one
waked from sleep when Mr. Trosdale reverting

for a moment to common affairs, asked
suddenly :

And how are you getting on at the
office ?'

Oh ! pretty well,' answered Selwyn.

Nothing new, I suppose.'

Except what I told you.'

< Yes  yes, I know. How is the work ?*

Heavy, but we manage it somehow.'

Has Thistlethwalte been pretty steady ?'

No ; he has been drunk ever since you
went away.'

Confound the fellow ! I'll discharge him
tomorrow.'

He has been discharged.'

'By you? Did you  presume,' Mr.
Trosdaie was about to add, but Selwyn
prevented him.

No, I did not discharge him ; but he has
been discharged, for all that'

That is another piece of Master Grandison's
impertinence. I declare I have a good
mind to go down in the morning just as if
nothing had happened  take no notice of him,
eh ? It would be the most dignified course ;
besides, you know, I never received that

telegram. Yes, certainly I will walk to the
office with you in the morning

I don't think I should,' answered Selwyn,
who believed bloodshed would ensue if Second
and Third Liverpool clashed together. ' Mr.
Dandison has put a person in charge.'

You, I suppose,' suggested Mr. Trosdale
with a sneer.

No, he has not put me in.'

'Who then? Holt perhaps,' said the
Surveyor, in a tone which indicated he considered
there could only be one deeper depth
of incapacity than his Assistant's, which was
the junior clerk's.

Holt has been discharged.' '

Holt, too !' exclaimed Mr. Trosdale ;
heaven grant me patience ! The insolence
of the fellow !  a low upstart !'

It is a very good thing Holt has gone.
He did all the mischief, chattering fool !'
answered Selwyn, rejoicing to think his chiefs
mind was diverted from the burning question.

He always was a fool,' returned the
Surveyor. ' But there are worse faults than
folly. I do not mean to say Holt was ever
efficient. But Dandison had no right to

VOL. II. 34

interfere with my people. Who has the
damned scoundrel dared to set in authority
over my office ?'

Oh, that does not matter now,' answered
Selwyn, looking at Mr. Trosdale imploringly.

It does matter, sir ! Answer my question
directly. What are you hesitating for ?
Come, Serle, no more beating about the
bush. Are you my subordinate, or are you
not?'

Certainly I am,' replied the unhappy
young man, who knew he was not.

Then tell me who Dandison has left
in charge ; tell me at once !'

As you will have it,' returned Selwyn
desperately, * Cramsey !'

With an oath, the Surveyor brought his
closed fist down on the table with a bang
which made what Mr. Kerry called 'the
implements ' rattle, and caused Madge, who
was white from apprehension, to jump.

I could have sworn it ! The ruffian  the
imbecile  the coward ! Wait a little though,
Master Dandison, and I'll make sou laugh to
another tune. I'll appeal to the country. I
will have a question asked in Parliament. I

will hound him out of Somerset House.
Cramsey ! the sneaking, lying dog ! He has
been telling fine tales to Dandison, TU be
bound !'

Somebody must have told tales ; but I
don't exactly think It was Cramsey.'

Why, what has been said ? Let us have
the whole story at once. It's too good to
be doled out in instalments.' And the Surveyor
laughed bitterly.

I wish you would not press me now,' said
Selwyn, who never thought Mr. Trosdale
would talk before his daughter about the
row at the office. Hitherto he had studiously
endeavoured to keep taxes and St.
Paul's Square as far apart as the two poles.

I cannot imagine what it is you wish to
conceal from me,' retorted the Surveyor. ' I
had better know the whole matter at once,
and I insist upon knowing it.'

I have not much to tell,' answered Selwyn ;
but it appears, so far as I can gather, that
Holt knew you were engaged in some
business, and let the cat out of the bag.'

Oh ! he did  did he ? Now I wonder if
Dandison thinks I have sold myself body

342

and soul to the Board, and that I am bound
to account for every moment of my time out
of office hours to the magnates at Somerset
House ?'

I do not know ; Mr. Dandlson spoke as if
anything of the kind were contrary to rule.'

Anything of what kind ?'

Occupation  business !'

I suppose I shall next have to ask for
leave to eat my dinner !'

If Mr. Trosdale intended this remark as a
question, no one present even tried to
answer it.

And then the point arises,' went on Mr.
Trosdale after a pause, * how did Holt know
anything about my affairs ? He never
got the information out of his own brain.
Probably you assisted him to it. I do not
mean intentionally, of course,' he added in a
manner which conveyed the impression that
was precisely what he did mean.

I have never mentioned your affairs out
of this house,' said Selwyn deeply hurt.

Think again,' advised the Surveyor with
a scoff; 'not to your bosom friend, Mr.
Kerry Y

I have never mentioned your affairs out
of this house,' repeated the young man, ' but
I could give a shrewd guess who has.'

More enigmas. Really, the complications
of which our friend Dandison is the centre
seem endless. Well, who is the culprit, do
you shrewdly guess ?'

It may be a mere coincidence, of course,'
answered Selwyn, put on his mettle by Mr.
Trosdale's tone and Mr. Trosdale's words ;
but I saw Mr. Cramsey walking this afternoon
in Castle Street with Mr. Ashford.'

For about twenty seconds there was a
dead silence in the room ; then :

I don't believe it,' said the Surveyor.
Oh, father !' exclaimed Madge.

I do not,' repeated Mr. Trosdale. ' I
would as soon believe myself guilty of
treachery as ashford ; and it would be
treachery for him to consort with that
degraded porpoise. No, I do not believe it,
Mr. Serle  your eyes deceived you ; and if he,
by an extraordinary coincidence, were walking
through the same street at the same time as
your present chief, or even speaking to him,
as it is not impossible he was forced to do on

business, he never mentioned a word about
my affairs. I would stake my life on that.
Ashford is a man in a thousand  in ten
thousand  true as steel !'

Having delivered himself of this expression
of faith, the suspended Surveyor walked
out of the room and retired to rest, without
going through the ceremony of wishing anybody
good-night.

I am so sorry, I am so sorry !' said Madge,
when she heard the door bang ; and looking
at her, Selwyn saw that face which was
dearer to him than all the world softened
and beautified by the divine touch of a tender
trouble. * What can I say to you, but that I
am sorry ?'

I do not mind,'he answered bravely, as a
man with a broken arm might declare it did
not hurt ; ' your father is scarcely himself
to-night '

He is not, indeed,' she interposed, ' or he
never could have spoken so to you.'

And I told him what perhaps I ought not.
I don't know. At all events, what I did not
intend to tell him yet.'

I am glad you told him  thankful. But

what Is the matter at the office ? What has
gone wrong ?'

Not very much,' answered Selwyn ; * only
it unfortunately happened the Chief-Inspector
came down while Mr. Trosdale was away,
and we have all been havlnof a rather bad
time in consequence.'

But why is I\Ir. Cramsey put in authority ?
Has  has my father been dismissed ?'

'Dismissed! certainly not. The Inland
Revenue people are bad enough, but they
would not do a thing like that. They could
not, indeed, if they would. No, the way the
matter stands is this. As your father chose
to take a holiday without leave, he now has
to take a short holiday whether he chooses or
not. If he will only keep quiet, and not kick
against the pricks, everything will come right
in a week or two,' declared Selwyn, feigning a
confidence he was far from feeling. ' Do not
look so downcast. Miss Trosdale. When the
new furnace is bringing in ten thousand a
year, we can laugh at Dandison and all his
works.'

When the new furnace  when ! Madge
repeated. ' Oh ! my father  my poor, poor

father ! You forgive him, don't you ?' she
pleaded, laying her hand on Selwyn's coat-sleeve.
' You can make allowances for him ?
You feel for him ?'

Indeed, indeed I do,' answered the young
man. * I am cut to the heart for him.'

And you see he is sore and bitter about
this affront which has been put on him.
Though he talks so bitterly he '

Miss Trosdale, please do not say another
word. I understand how vexed he is. I
only wish I could take his trouble on myself.
Are you not sure I would do anything to spare
him?'

I am sure. I do not know how to thank
you. I *

She stopped suddenly. There were times
when she tried Selwyn almost beyond his
power of self-control, and at that moment a
passionate longing seized him to take her in his
arms, and say, ' I love you ! I love you ! I love
you ! and utter the first words he had ever
spoken of that language, the earlier tones of
which are trembling, tender, and sweetly
monotonous, like the notes a nightingale
repeats over and over with little breaks and

pauses between when It begins its song, ere
growing bolder it pours forth its soul in trembling
cadences, and rippling rills, and tremulous
shakes, and great gusts of triumphant
melody.

He conquered himself then, however, as he
had conquered himself before. She was so dear
to him he would not have touched even the
hem of her garment, if by so doing he might
cause offence. But though a man may guard
his actions and be careful of his words, his
looks will sometimes, like wayward children,
escape from his control, and tell secrets
they were forbidden to disclose.

It was so at that moment. As Madge raised
her lovely eyes to his face, she faltered and left
her sentence Incomplete ; her gaze drooped,
her hand slowly dropped from his arm ; the
knowledge which had come to him came
also to her, but with an addition of which he
was ignorant.

As he walked home In the moonlight he
only understood that he loved ; as her eyes
fell, weighed down with a happy shame,
Madge knew she loved and was beloved !

MR. HARRISON.

T was the morning of the sixth day
after that on which Mr. Dandison
left Liverpool  morning so sunny,
warm, and still, that as the Chief Inspector
strolled along the Embankment he felt inclined
to loiter for a little while, and almost
conceived the idea that he should like a
holiday. There recurred to him suddenly
the memory of just such another morning,
when he had walked over the downs between
Banstead and Epsom ; it must have been a
good many years ago, because Crosthwaite
was with him, and he had not even spoken
to the man for ten years. That was one only
of many walks which he was then fond of
taking, in which he was never at a loss for a

companion. The Chief Inspector wondered
with a momentary surprise where he should
look for a companion if he purposed a similar
walk that day.

But then he did not purpose it. It was
well enough for a man in his youth to walk
off his exuberant energies on the downs ; but
at the age Mr. Dandison had reached, it is
needful to husband one's resources, lest they
should prove unequal to the demands made
on them. He had no leisure for making new
friends, he did not want companions. And
yet how softly the sunshine fell on the river,
while four great barges laden with hay were
coming up the stream.

For the first time, perhaps, for many years,
Mr. Dandison hesitated, and something like
a wish that the old days were back again
crept into his heart. Such a warm palpitating
wish must have been somewhat startled at
the leathery habitation in which it found
itself ; certainly it did not abide there long,
for in a very few minutes the Chief Inspector
had regained mastery over himself, and in
fifteen at the outside he was seated at his
desk, where he worked steadily through the

mass of his correspondence until the tramp
of many feet announced it was ten o'clock,
and that the clerks employed in the great
building were hurrying through the courtyard
to their respective offices. Mr. Dandison
went to the window to watch them.

Idle dogs !' said he to himself ; ' how easy
it is to pick those out who lie in bed until the
last moment, leaving themselves no time to
dress properly. I should like to dismiss
every clerk in this office who comes to it
untidy in his person. If a man have no care
for his appearance, why should he have any
for his work ?'

There was no one present to answer this
question, so the Chief Inspector began to
pace up and down his room. It was a large
apartment, arranged with scrupulous neatness
; for Mr. Dandison was the most
methodical of men. A huge bookcase filled
the whole of one wall, stocked with a collection
of works on Revenue and Taxation.
Not those alone which referred to the Income
Tax ; for Mr. Dandison held that one branch
of a subject could not be properly mastered
without a careful study of others which were

cognate to it. Above the chimney-piece
hung a fine photograph of the Chairman of
the Board of Inland Revenue, a gentleman
in whose opinion Mr. Dandison always
expressed full confidence publicly, but whom
he was commonly supposed privately to hold
in the utmost contempt.

On this photograph Mr. Dandison now
fixed his eyes, pausing in the middle of the
carpet, as if some idea had suddenly occurred
to him.

I wish some god or devil would tell me
he reflected, ' why it is that a large department
of State is always thought likely to be
most efficiently governed by a man who has
never had a day's knowledge of its management.
It is marvellous what a fatality there
seems to be about appointments made from
outside to the higher posts in public offices.
Not one in three of the men appointed is
better chosen than if it had been done by
shaking together so many balls in a bag, and
taking out that which came uppermost. God
knows there was no lack of able officials in
this office when our present Chairman was
appointed ; but they were all passed over in

favour of a man who had had five years' experience
as a private secretary !'

It is not to be understood that these reflections
were uttered aloud. IMr. Dandison
was never guilty of the indiscretion of revealing
such thoughts even to his trusted friend,
if that person existed. It was, in fact, only
at rare moments he allowed himself to formulate
them at all, since he held that a man who
dwelt habitually on any chain of thought was
sure to reveal it in some way. But Mr.
Dandison's heart was wroth within him at
that moment ; and he had waxed indignant
with many of his colleagues, for whom
ordinarily he felt nothing but a tolerant contempt.
In fact, the Chief Inspector was
dissatisfied with his position. He thought
he detected In certain quarters a desire to
shelve him. Up to a certain point his rise
had been rapid ; so rapid that when he
attained to the proud position of Chief-inspector
he was content to rest In it for a
while, and to consolidate his work. But
since then ten rears had passed, and he was
still Chief Inspector.

The value of his services was admitted on

every side, but they met with no fresh recognition.
On the contrary, his many merits
had excited a feeling of hostility, which
he well knew was gaining ground, and
might one day prove too strong for him.
There were instances In his own experience
of men who had towered up quickly Into such
high position as to become the envy of their
colleagues ; but In the end they had suddenly
and quietly been submerged  drafted off Into
some other employment which at first appeared
more dignified, but which involved the sacrifice
of all real Influence  and forgotten as
surely as If the ground had opened beneath
their feet.

At more than one extinction of this sort
Mr. Dandlson had assisted. His hand had
pulled the wires so skilfully that the mechanism
was never revealed. No one knew better
than he how many Invisible strings were
dangling from the person of every man,
ready to the hand of any enemy bold and unscrupulous
enough to clutch them. No man,
least of all a Government clerk, is free from
secret foes, whose operations cannot be outmanoeuvred.
At any moment, the ground

which he thought was solid rock may prove
to be so honeycombed and undermined as to
afford only uncertain footing for the feet which
had hoped to tread it securely till another
step in the great staircase could be scaled.

Perhaps Mr. Dandison did not put the
chances to himself so plainly as this. For,
as the hangman never in his wildest dreams
fancies that his own neck may feel the noose,
so Mr. Dandison, who, like a stag hound, had
torn down many a gallant beast, never feared
that the fangs of other hounds might one day
be fastened in his own throat. Still, he
scented danger ; and though he was uncertain
from what quarter the attack would come,
was preparing himself to resist it.

His reflections were broken by the entrance
of a messenger.

The Secretary would like to see you, sir.'

Thank you, Tompkins '  Mr. Dandison
was always courteous to the messengers, who,
however, by some instinct, unanimously hated
him  and, following quickly upon Tompkins'
steps, the Chief-Inspector left his room.

He traversed several corridors, mounted a
staircase, and entered at last an apartment

which looked out over the river. A gentleman
who was writing at a table heaped with
papers looked up as he entered.

You are early, Dandison ?' said he.

No ; I have been here for an hour. I
like to look through my correspondence before
the interruptions begin.'

'Well, it's an excellent practice said the
Secretary. ' Are you busy ? Do you mind
waiting two or three minutes until I have
finished this letter ?'

Mr. Dandison answered that he did not
mind in the least, and waited patiently till his
colleague was at leisure.

Now then,' said the Secretary, throwing
down his pen, * what is it to-day ? Been away?
Caught some poor devil out ? Tell me his
name. Hooper of Gloucester }'

'Not Hooper,' said the Chief-Inspector, ashe
produced a note-book and turned over the
leaves ; ' though I don't think he can go on
long. My last inspection, as I told you,
revealed a sad state of things there.'

I know, I know !' answered the Secretary
hastily. ' If not Hooper, who is it ?'

Well, I had reason to think that all was not
VOL. II. 35

as It should be in Third LIverpool/rejoIned the
Chief Inspector, his voice even more cold and
passionless than usual. ' Several hints reached
me ; and I was led to believe it might be well
to run down and see for myself what was
going on.'

I wonder where the deuce you get your
hints. Well, you went down, and you have
not come back empty-handed ? Out with it.
Who is the culprit this time ?'

Trosdale.'

Hem. He's an old Surveyor, isn't he ?
What has he been doing ?'

*I have known for some time,' said Mr.
Dandison, * that he was neglecting his duties.
The work has been very irregularly performed,
and frequent claims for extra assistance
were made which I did not think necessary;
but which I passed until I had sufficient
evidence In my hands. I should not have
had enough yet, but for an accidental circumstance
which excited my suspicions, and when
I went down I found that Ivlr. Trosdale had
been absent from his office for a week.'

 On leave, I suppose ?' Interposed the
Secretary. 'Whom had he left In charge ?'

He had left his Assistant, young Serle, In
charge ; but Trosdale was not on leave. I
received no application from him.'

He should have applied,' said the Secretary.
 What reason did he give for not
doing so ?'

None at all. I was not able to see him.'

Ah, well ! You had better write to him ;
he may have a satisfactory explanation to
offer.'

I have not told you all yet. It seems that
for years past he has been carrying on some
private business, working at It in office hours.
It was that which took him away to Glasgow
as I learned at the office ; and, what Is more,
he has Inveigled young Serle Into it also.'

Carrying on a business ? That's bad.
What kind of business ?'

I was unable to satisfy myself on that point.
As he would not return when requested to
come back, It was necessary to temporarily
suspend him ; and so the matter stands.'

The Secretary rose and poked his fire,
then, throwing his coat-tails over his arm, he
turned towards his colleague and addressed
him as follows :

Do you know, I almost fancy we are
becoming: too strict in these matters. I value
your judgment on such points ; and, of course,
no one of us has anything approaching to
your experience. But, after all, this Is just a
question of how far It is expedient to go to
extremities with an old servant of the Board,
and a man who worked well for us in the
past. It does not do to be too severe. You
may depend on it these affairs cause great
dissatisfaction among the staff; and I am inclined
to think we have drawn the reins tight
enough lately.'

If Mr. Dandison felt any annoyance at this
speech he concealed it admirably.

I quite agree with you,' he said, ' that it Is
not well to watch too closely for irregularities.
I have a blind eye myself, and I am always Inclined
to overlook offences which do not seem
very likely to be repeated. I could give you a
dozen cases  a dozen, nay, a hundred  which
I have never laid before you at all, because I
thought there were extenuating circumstances ;
though I doubt whether I ought to have
taken the responsibility of concealing them.
But this is no slight offence. Remember, we

have always set our faces against permitting
any other occupation to be carried on by
Surveyors.'

Yes, yes ; I know,' interrupted the Secretary
; 'there was the case of Fennel'

Whom the Board dismissed for contributing
articles to a country paper,' said Mr.
Dandison. ' Yes, that was the most recent
case ; but there have been others ; and I
must say I think it very necessary to keep
strictly within the rule.'

No doubt It Is. But the case of Penned
was not quite analogous to this. Penned was
a young man, and had barely any claim on us;
whilst Trosdale is an old Surveyor within a few
years of his retirement'

That makes the case worse,' observed
Mr. Dandison. ' How can we maintain
discipline if the old and experienced men in
the service are to set an example of breaking
its most stringent rules T

Well !' said the Secretary, ' after all It is
not a question of taking any extreme steps at
once. We must proceed in the usual way, I
suppose. You had better write to him. Let
us see what he has to say.'

I will draw out a short statement of the
case,' said the Chief-Inspector, rising from
his chair as he spoke.

Are you going ? Got another errand of
mercy on hand, I suppose. Well, well,
Dandison, I always said you worked harder
than any other man I know ; but that you
make half your work for yourself.*

The system is in constant need of oiling,'
said the Chief Inspector as he went out.

'Vitriol is more In your way than oil, I
should have thought,' muttered the Secretary
when the door had closed behind his colleague.
He walked over to the window and stood
looking out upon the river till the door again
opened, and a messenger laid a mass of papers
on his desk, remarking :

From Mr. Harrison, sir.'

The Secretary turned sharply round. 'Ask
Mr. Harrison to come down,' he said.

Mr. Harrison was principal clerk in the
Secretary's office. His father and his grandfather
had both spent their lives in the Inland
Revenue, and from them he had imbibed the
official traditions of a more tolerant age than
this ; when Somerset House was a kind of

preserve, kept up to be shot over only by the
relatives of a favoured few, long before the
voice of the Civil Service Examiner was
heard in the land. Mr. Harrison accepted
the new order of things perforce, but his
heart was with the old ; and it was this, perhaps,
which commended him to the Secretary's
favour. Certain it is that, out of a number of
equally qualified persons in the Department,
Mr. Harrison had been several times selected
by the Secretary for special work ; and he
was commonly supposed to be very rapidly
rising in the office. In person, he was tall
and broad-chested, stooped slightly, wore a
long brown beard streaked with gray, gold
eye-glasses, dressed wells but plainly, and
passed everywhere for a well-bred, courteous
gentleman.

Harrison,' said the Secretary, ' don't you
know Trosdale ?'

Martin Trosdale . To be sure I do J
He and I were great friends once. We were
at school together down at Croydon ; and I
used to stay at his home very frequently in
the holidays. You remember his father, don't
you } What  did he die before you came

here ? A rare old fellow he was  six feet
two in his stockings ; he had the most scorching
way of putting a man down you ever
heard. I remember his fastening on a young
whelp from the Treasury, Lord John Upper-crust's
private secretary. He came into the
room with his hat on, and began speaking in
his hectoring way, when Trosdale rose and
stalked over to him. He towered up head
and shoulders above the young cub. For
an instant he stood looking down on him,
and then, ' What's this ?' he began. * Who's
this .- Can't you take your hat off yourself,
sir ? Let me be your valet then !'
And he lifted the fellow's hat off his head,
and Hung it on the floor. You never saw
such a change as came over my lord's secretary
; he went away singing very small
indeed.'

The Secretary listened to this account with
an amused smile.

I wish we had him here now,' he said.
But it's his son who is in question at present.
I'm afraid he's in a rather tight place.'

What's the matter?' inquired Mr. Harrison
anxiously.

Oh, Dandison and he have come across
each other. I wish Dandison would try to
work more smoothly with the Surveyors.
He's cursedly unpopular, I know and no
wonder. But the worst of it is that he makes
himself so hated that men hear of it outside,
and are shy of entering the service. I know
that for a fact.'

He's no great friend of mine, as you know,'
observed ]Mr. Harrison ; ' but it strikes me
that Trosdale may be more to blame here
than anyone else. He really is an admirable
fellow  the best and nicest of men, when you
know him. But he is full of angularities ; an
eccentric, obstinate creature, with his head
full of cranks, and the devil's own temper if
any one of them is interfered with. I have
not seen him for years ; but I hear all this
has grown on him ; and it's likely enough
that he has given Dandison some ground fora
row.'

Tush !' said the Secretary ; ' suppose he
is a trifle cross-grained ? I don't think much
of that. Dandison should know how to
manage these queer-tempered fellows. I
know I could, with half the experience he's

had. What do you think we had better do ?
Dandison seems determined to sting ; he is
quite in his nastiest humour

I can hardly say, until I know exactly
what has happened replied Mr. Harrison.

In a few words the Secretary repeated Mr.
Dandison's story, adding a few impatient
remarks of his own to the effect that these
things where very annoying, and cost him
more vexation than they were worth. When
he had done, Mr. Harrison laid one arm
on the mantelpiece and whistled gently to
himself.

I don't see my way out of it,' he said ;
from what I know of Trosdale I should say
the probability is that he has been neglecting
his ofhce in order to work at some newfangled
steam-engine, or superior mangle, or
perhaps a coffee-pot on a new principle. He
always had a fancy for such things. I don't
know, of course ; but I'm afraid there may be
something in It.'

Can't you run down and see ?' suggested
the Secretary ; ' I don't mean officially ; but
you're going on leave next week  can't you
take Liverpool on your way ?'

I'm going into Shropshire, certainly ; I
might run over to Liverpool.'

Do. See the man yourself, and just urge
him to put aside whatever he's about for a
while, and mind his work ; and we'll make a
strong effort to pull him through. Mind what
you're doing though ; don't say anything to
compromise me.'

I will not do that.'

And you mioht see that vounof Serle, also ;
SO as to gather whether he's all right. We're
so short of young men that we can't afford to
have one under a cloud. I shall depend on
you to put matters straight.'

So it happened that three days afterwards
Mr. Harrison presented himself before Selwyn.
who was laboriously explaining the principles
of the assessment of Inhabited House Duty
to a terribly deaf old gentleman. I'his
worthy taxpayer, having heard that the duty
was charged at a lower rate upon shops than
on dwelling-houses, had conceived the idea
of exposing his domestic plates and dishes in
his front window, and ooino- in himself at
intervals to buy them. He could by no
means be made to understand that his brilliant

design did not turn his house into a shop ;
and as his infirmities prevented him from
comprehending Selwyn's arguments, he went
away at last firmly satisfied that he had
carried his point ; in which delusion he remained
until the visit of the tax-collector.

I should like to see Vlx. Trosdale,' said
\x. Harrison, when the old gentleman had
gone. ' Will you tell him that a friend of
his is here ?'

He is on leave at present,' said Selwyn,
and his office in charge of another Surveyor.'
This speech reached the ears of Mr.
Cramsey, and excited his disapproval. Ever
since Nlr. Dandison's visit, old Davey had
remained on guard almost night and day,
revelling in the opportunity of finding out
defects in another man's work. When he
heard Selwyn's statement that Mr. Trosdale
was on leave, he thrust his head and half his
fat body round the partition suddenly, and
exclaimed pompously :

'What's that you're saying, Mr. Serle .
Why not tell the truth ? Mr. Trosdale's not
on leave  it is not likely he'll be back here,
sir, ever. I think he's gone for good.'

Is that Mr. Cramsey ?' said Mr. Harrison.
How do you do ? Can I speak with you fora
few minutes ?'

Davey glanced at the stranger very suspiciously,
wondering who this audacious
person might be, who claimed acquaintance
in such an offhand way.

I'm very busy now !' he said, blowing out
his lips ; ' If it isn't anything very Important,
I'd be glad to be let finish what I'm doing.'

\\. is Important, Mr. Cramsey. I see you
don't recognise me.'

A gleam of light broke out on Davey 's
face, and merged into a puckered sort of
smile, as he said, still doubtfully :

Why, It Isn't ? I do believe '

Tired of the man's stupidity, Mr. Harrison
told him his name, adding that he saw plainly
he was forgotten. * Oh, my dear sir !' exclaimed
Davey, springing to his feet, ' I'm
very glad to see you. What a long time it
is since we met. Can't you bring a chair,
Mr. Serle ? Sit down, Mr. Harrison. Ah !
we're in a sad upset here I Poor Trosdale !
I feared it wouldn't last! Many's the time I've
said to Kerry (that's my Assistant, sir, a very

respectable young man, though dull)  I've
said, *' Poor Trosdale, I'm afraid he's breaking
up." He didn't like me, you know, but
I always tried to be a friend to him.'

And Mr. Cramsey wagged his big head Ina
melancholy way, and heaved a deep sigh.

I know you always showed a remarkable
interest in Trosdale's affairs,' said Mr.
Harrison.

I did ! I did ! more almost than In my
own. After doing my booty, of course, sir ;
for we always try to do that in Liverpool Two.
Well, and how's everybody in the House ?
]mr. Dandison lost his cold ? He had a
shocking cough last time he was here.'

He's very well, I think. And now may
I trouble you to give me Trosdale's address,
for I want to call on him. This is quite a
private visit ; I am on leave, taking a little
holiday.'

He lives with Trosdale,' said Mr. Cramsey,
pointing over his shoulder at Selwyn. ' Mr.
Serle, just write down Mr. Trosdale's
address.'

Selwyn did so, and as he handed it to Mr.
Harrison that gentleman rose.

Are you goirxg ?' asked ]mr. Cramsey ina
disappointed tone. ' You're not in a hurry,
are you ?'

Well, yes, I have a good deal to do.'

Where are you staying ? I should so like
to have a talk with you. Suppose you comedown
to my place to-night. My sister '11 be
most pleased  she'll toss you up an omelette.
Do come ; if you can, that is.'

'You are very hospitable,' answered Mr.
Harrison ; ' I am sorry I am engaged this
evening ; and I may go back to Shrewsbury by
a late train.'

Ah, well ! good-bye, good-bye ! remember
me to Mr. Dandison. Just open the door,
Mr. Serle. Good-bye !'

AFTER YEARS.

S Mr. Harrison wended his way from
the Inland Revenue Offices towards
St. Paul's Square, the course of
his reflections ran much as follows :

I think I understand who has been the
traitor in poor Trosdale's camp. Was there
ever a man who bore villainy more plainly
written on his face than Cramsey ? I would
give five pounds to know for a fact that he
has been playing the spy. Better not hint
such a thing to that active-limbed young
Serle, though  I am vastly mistaken if he is
not a very passionate young man. Impetuous,
I should think just like Trosdale when
he was young. He's a nice looking lad, but
I must give him a hint not to be an ass, or

he'll ore himself into trouble too. So Serle
lives with Trosdale ! Helps him, I suppose,
in whatever folly he's engaged on ! Poor
Martin ; it was kind of him, though, to
take charge of the lad. It surprises me, too ;
he used to be so much averse to making new
acquaintances. Ha! can this be St. Paul's
Square   this seedy, tumbledown dirty place !
What can have induced Martin to live here ?
Cheap, I suppose. Poor fellow, poor fellow !'

So saying, he mounted the steps and
knocked. He was answered by the Surveyor
himself, who stood a moment in doubt, as if
he did not recognise his friend, then cried :

Why it's Harrison, I declare ! What
wind blew you here, old fellow ? Come income
in. You are the last man I should have
expected to see.'

That's natural enough, I'm afraid,' replied
Mr. Harrison, accepting the invitation to
enter ; * and the fault is mine. But we used
to be capital friends, Martin, and I don't
think we need like each other less because it
is so long since we met.'

Less !' echoed the Surveyor, ' not a bit 
more, I should say.  But how came you here 

VOL. II. 36

I always fancied you were so busy gaping for
promotion in the House that you dared not
go away lest the bit should fall into another
man's mouth

That was said rather savagely,' Mr. Harrison
replied, laughing. * No, you are wrong,
Trosdale ; I don't care about promotion very
greatly now. I used to care, as you know ;
and I minded disappointments a good deal
then. But I have grown wiser, and let the
motes go past me without catching at them.'

Come into this room,' said the Surveyor,
pushing open the door of the front-parlour.
My daughter is here. Madge, this is Mr.
Harrison, my old friend. I don't think you
have seen Madge since she was quite a child,
Harrison ?'

Miss Trosdale was much younger, certainly,
and, if I may say so, less charming than she
is now, when we last met.'

Madge came forward in some alarm on
hearing Mr. Harrison's name. She was, in
fact, in a fever of anxiety about her father.
She could not but perceive that some trouble
existed at the office, but neither he nor Selwyn
would give her a clear statement of what had

happened, or of what there was to fear. And as
in suspense the apprehension always outstrips
the danger, Madge already saw her father
reduced to beggary, and dependent on her
own scanty earnings for support. In this
state of nervous terror the slightest occurrence
gave ground for new fears ; and a sudden idea
shot into her mind that Mr. Harrison had
come as the bearer of ill tidings.

What is the matter with the girl T said her
father roughly ; ' are you ill, Madge, that you
stare at Mr. Harrison like that T

By some secret process, Mr. Harrison
divined, in part at least, the cause of Madge's
agitation ; which was the easier for him from
the fact that his own reflections about the
Surveyor's probable fate started from much
the same point as hers.

Do not be afraid of me, Miss Trosdale,'
he said, smiling ; * I am only an old comrade
of your father s  and admirer of yours, if you
will let me say so  come to see him out of
goodwill and friendliness.'

Madge quickly recovered herself on hearing
these kind words, and held out her hand,
saying :

362

Pray forgive me, Mr. Harrison. I am
not often so foolish ; but I had been sitting
by myself and thinking till I grew afraid of
my own shadow.'

I am quite certain you and folly are total
strangers,' said Mr. Harrison, detaining her
hand for an Instant In his, and looking into
her face. ' You have your mother's eyes,
Miss Trosdale. I was her friend long before
she was as old as you ; and, If years count for
anything, they surely give me a claim of
friendship on you too.'

I am quite ready to acknowledge It,'
answered Madge. * It Is delightful to find a
new friend, and that already an old one.'

Then I feel at home at once,' replied Mr.
Harrison, finding himself a chair, whUe Madge,
with a nod and smile, left her father and his
friend alone.

I envy you your daughter, Martin,' said
Mr. Harrison, crossing one leg over the other,
and lying back in his comfortable seat. ' She
is a charming girl, and she has the eyes of a
good woman.'

I don't know what you mean by that,'
rejoined the Surveyor ; ' but Madge is a very

good daughter to me. I could hardly have
pulled through the last few years without
her.'

He stopped at this, and with a wave of
his hand directed at the shabby furniture, the
faded curtains and the forlorn aspect of the
square outside the windows of the house, he
added :

You see, we are very poor.'

I see ; but why very poor, Martin ?'

Why ? You were always fond of conundrums,
Harrison ; but you might have remembered
that I could never guess them.'

My question Is not a conundrum ; but
never mind that. Just at present I want to
look at you. Turn your face this way,
Martin ; how many years is it since we have
seen each other ? How much we must have
changed, you and I ; though not in friendship
r

No, indeed,' replied the Surveyor, holding
out his hand, ' it is too old with us. We will
try to meet oftener in future. Do you remember
the old house on Stoke Lexington
Green ?'

I passed it the other day, and it looked so

desolate that I made up my mind I would
avoid Stoke Lexington in future.*

The Surveyor sat silent for two or three
minutes, then he asked :

'Where are you staying, and what has
brought you to Liverpool ?'

I am staying with my cousin at Shrewsbury,
and I ran over here to see you, partly
because I did not like to be so near at hand
without coming, but principally, too, because
it got wind in Somerset House, just as I was
coming away, that you were in some trouble
with Dandison.'

He's a damned scoundrel,' said the Surveyor,
wincing slightly, ' and I know he hates
me. But let him do his worst.'

His worst can't be very bad, you know,
unless you have put yourself in his power.
What I heard, however, made me fear he
had found out something which he can use
against you.'

Well, that's true,' the Surveyor answered ;
'somebody (I believe it was Cramsey) reported
to him that I had gone away without
asking leave, and of course down he came by
the very next train and frightened poor Mr.

Serle nearly to death with his bullying ways.
I can't make out, Harrison, why that man is
tolerated. He is insolent and overbearing ;
has no more sense of decency than a donkey
has of art ; he's as mean as he can be, and he
loves to do a dirty thing better than a clean
one. What can you say of a man who
suborns one Surveyor to spy on the actions of
another T

I don't love Dandison much more than
you do,' returned Mr. Harrison ; 'but allowing
all you say, you know you put yourself in the
wrong by going away without leave. Why
didn't you ask for it l'

'I declare, Harrison, you're as bad as
Dandison. Am I to be told that after forty
years' service I may not go away leaving a
competent Assistant in charge of my district
without begging for leave from a man ten
years my junior ? The thing's preposterous.*

But look here, you know, what you're saying
now strikes at the root of all discipline in the
service. There must be men in authority.'

What is that to me ?' answered the Surveyor,
and it seemed as if the sound of his
own voice were lashing him into anger.

*What is it to me whether discipline is
maintained or not ? Let Dandison see to
that. Let him begin with the young men
who have wrought but one hour, and leave
those who have borne the heat and burden of
the day to breathe under a less rigid restraint.
Why should I have any care for the service,
Harrison ? With me it has been all giving.
I gave it all my days, and my nights, too, for
years. You know how I worked when I
was at Nuneaton. So does Dandison. Everybody
remembers the state that district was
in when they sent me down there after young
Watkins' suicide. It cost me a year of the
very hardest work I ever did to set matters
straight. I left everything in order, and
doubled the assessments. And what was
my reward ?'

I remember that very well,' said Mr.
Harrison. ' I always thought you were
shabbily treated over that matter.'

You admit as much, but Dandison does
not. He told me one day last year that I
was fortunate in having had the chance of
showing what I could do, and that he could
not see why a man should expect exceptional

reward when he Is called on to perform exceptional
labour for a time.'

Mr. Harrison nodded.

I know. He told me something of the
same sort. I said that his notion seemed tome
absurd.'

What did he say to that ?'

'You know his way when he does not
wish to answer. He raised his eyes from his
work, said "Oh," and then dropped them
again, and said " Ah !" '

Mr. Harrison imitated the Chief Inspector's
manner of using these ejaculations so accurately
that Mr. Trosdale laughed in spite of
himself.

Come, that's right.' said Mr. Harrison.
It does me good to hear you laugh, Martin.
It sounds like old times.'

Yes, I can laugh now answered the Surveyor,
' because I have ceased to expect common
gratitude from my chiefs, and I have taken
my future in my own hands, and reckoned it
up. You know pretty well what a series of
disappointments I had, and how many times
I was refused fairly earned promotion, which
was given to other men, in all respects my

inferiors. But you don't know  and you
never can  how that disappointment ate into
my soul, till it soured me and made me a discontented
and wretched man. Then I turned
my mind to other things. I used my brains
and my talents ; and things have turned out
so well, that I tell you fairly I don't care a
straw what Dandison does.'

You speak as if you had had a fortune
left to you.'

I have not. But I have made one.'

The deuce you have !' said Mr. Harrison,
starting bolt upright in his surprise. ' Tell
me all about it.'

Then Mr. Trosdale related to his friend the
whole story of the invention of the furnace ;
from the day on which the first conception
struck him. It was on a Good Friday, three
years before. He had taken Madge into the
country because he thought her looking pale
and dispirited, as ' indeed, poor child, she
was.' They had gone to Hale, where, having
had tea in a cottage, and duly paid their
homage in the churchyard to the memory of
the ' Child of Hale,' they determined to walk
on further into the country, and take a train

back to town from some more distant station.
Dusk fell before they reached Ditto, and, as
they stood waiting on the platform for their
train, the night was profoundly dark, with a
sharp north-east wind whistling over the
marshes. The furnaces of the Ditto Ironworks
were all aglow, casting out rosy flames
from their tops, and flinging a broad band of
light across the desolate country which surrounded
them. In front of the furnaces black
figures of men appeared and disappeared, as
they came within the range of the furnace
lights or passed beyond them into the gloom.
It was during those few minutes, and in the
act of explaining to Madge the nature of the
furnaces, that the Surveyor conceived his grand
idea. It sprang quickly and easily into life,
but its progress towards adolescence was slow
and painful. If days stolen from his official
labours, if nights watched away till daybreak
found him standing haggard and weary over
his work, if disappointments bravely borne,
and depression combated, if ingenuity and
talent which at its brightest moments fell
hardly short of genius, if these could have
availed, then Mr. Trosdale had long ago been

able to set his furnace before him as a finished
achievement ; and to commence the other not
less arduous work of convincing the world of
its value. But, as he laboured to make his
friend understand, there had to be set against
all these things the caprice of the Goddess
Fortune, who would not be bribed by labour,
or conquered by talent, but needed gold, and
still more gold, spent before she consented to
smile her approval. Not until quite recently
had he, by the aid of Selwyn, been able to
lind money and secure his invention, which
would at once render him independent of
Dandison and the world.

As he listened to the Surveyor's story Mr.
Harrison felt, with a growing sadness, that it
was vain to contend with him. There ran a
fierceness of exultation through all his words
which was not likely to submit again to
discipline. It somehow happened, too, that,
in spite of his enthusiasm, the Surveyor's
narrative did not carry conviction to Mr.
Harrison's mind. It rather induced distrust ;
for the Chief-clerk thought that, following
close on every sentence, he could hear the
echoing footsteps of calamity.

Trosdale, my dear friend he said, bending
forward and laying his hand on the Surveyor's
knee, * you are at the parting of two ways 
be guided by me as to which you shall pursue.
You are thinking so much of this invention
that you cannot spare time to reflect
as to your choice.'

'Reflect?' interrupted the Surveyor. time
to reflect ! Why, what else have I been doing
all these years ?'

Mr. Harrison shook his head.

You are impatient and angry with Dandies
he said. * And in your vexation you are
going to take a step which you will regret.
Don't force him to extremities, Martin. You
know you were not right to go away without
leave ; but never mind that. Let me put the
matter straight for you. I will find a way of
quieting Dandison. Only stick to your office
for a little while ; at any rate, until you have
made your fortune out of the furnace.'

I will not, by God !' cried the Surveyor,
starting up, ' I won't truckle to Dandison in
that way. Whatever I may be, no man ever
called me a sycophant, Harrison ; and there
isn't a meaner sight on earth, or one more

hateful, than an old man cringing before a
younger one. I never cared for my official
prospects to that extent, even when I hoped
to end my life in a far higher position than
Dandison has toadied himself into ; and it is
not likely that I can begin to eat dirt now.
We have lost touch strangely, when you can
make such a suggestion to me.'

I always knew,' Mr. Harrison replied
good-humouredly, ' that you were a hotheaded
jackass, who would rather walk over
a precipice than look if you could not climb
down it. But I do not want you to eat dirt.
I do not ask you to say a word to Dandison.
As likely as not you will not see him for
months. I hear he's going to reorganize the
districts in the South of England, and that
will be a tough job. Only go back to your
office, Martin, and stay there. I have the
Secretary's ear, and will see that this affair
is forgotten.'

And about my furnace ?' asked the Surveyor
grimly.

Mr. Harrison choked down an oath.

Let it wait,' he answered ; ' make your
official position secure "first, and then you can

push the furnace without having poverty
always by your side to spoil your bargains.'

At this the Surveyor thrust both his hands
deep down into his trousers' pockets, drew
up his tall figure to its full height, and stood
looking down upon his friend for a few
seconds before he burst out :

Why have you come to talk to me in this
way, Harrison ? Do you take me for some
child or idiot incapable of managing its own
affairs ? In God's name, how have I got on
these many years past ? Am I over head and
ears in debt ? Am I destitute ? Have I
starved my daughter or neglected her ? or defrauded
anyone of his due ? If I have done
none of these things, but lived an honest and
decent life, no one has a right to Interfere
or dictate to me.'

I have no right,' said Mr. Harrison
deprecatingly, * unless old friendship gives
me one.'

What can you know of me ?' the Surveyor
went on, unheeding the interruption ; ' how
can you, a prosperous, contented man, lay
down rules for the guidance of one whose
whole existence has been blighted by poverty

and disappointment ? What do you know
of struggles, and the scars that they leave ?
If you choose to prescribe at all, let it be for
men who have had a surfeit of prosperity, not
for those who come out of the struggle for
bread maimed, and shrinking from the lightest
touch. By toils and labours such as you never
conceived of, I have touched success at last.
I have earned the right to decide my own
actions, and as I live I will exercise it.'

Mr. Harrison looked at the speaker mournfully.


Forgive me, Trosdale,' he said ; ' you will
believe that I meant well Y

It is just that which makes the trouble,'
the Surveyor answered, but in a softer tone.
Can't you understand how useless it is "
You keep on talking to me about Somerset
House, and Dandison, and the Secretary !
Don't you see that not one of them is of more
consequence to me now than the people passing
In the street, whom I rub elbows with and
probably shall never meet again ? I am like a
wheel that has changed its centre, and touches
other points now as it goes round. Let me
tell you once for all that I will not bow down

to Dandison. I will neither go back to my
office before my suspension Is removed, nor
will I give any undertaking for the future.
Let Dandison do his worst ; it will be a fitting
incident in his career to have hounded out
of the service the son of the man who was
the first to befriend him when he came into
it.'

'Well, well r said Mr. Harrison, 'well,
well, Martin, we won't quarrel over it, at any
rate. Shake hands, and do not let us argue
this evening, the first for so long that we have
been together.'

The Surveyor took the outstretched hand,
and laid both his own upon it.

'You are a good fellow,' he said, 'a kind,
true-hearted friend, as you always were.
Yes, let these matters lie at rest between us
now and for the future. You can't understand
my feelings about the whole accursed
business. See,' he added, going over to the
window, and throwing it wide, ' you used to
be fond of music, Harrison. Listen, it is my
daughter who is playing.'

He held up his hand, and there issued
from the church, of which the door stood
VOL. II. 37

open, a grand and solemn music. The square
was at its quietest, the traffic from Old Hall
Street made only a faint, humming noise,
which went on as a continual undercurrent
of monotonous sound, while the old chorale
which was pealing from the church stood out
boldly against it in its great simplicity. The
music became louder and more involved, yet
the chorale continued to ring forth steadily ;
and Mr. Harrison, who had been listening intently,
said :

I know that. It is Mendelssohn's Sixth
Sonata. Let us go over, Trosdale ; the
slow movement will be hardly audible here.'

They went out, and stood just within the
church, while Miss Trosdale played the
beautiful slow movement. When she had
finished it Mr. Harrison was about to speak,
but the Surveyor forestalled him.

Play something else, Madge,' he called.
Play ** St. Anne," ' entreated Mr. Harrison.

It was growing dim in the church as the
first notes of Bach's great fugue stole forth
from the organ loft. When the last notes
died away the shadows had fallen thickly from
the roof into the corners of the church. There

was a sound of shutting-up from the organ
loft, and a moment afterwards Madge appeared,
followed closely by Selwyn.

How well you play, Miss Trosdale,' said
Mr. Harrison ; * thank you very much

I am glad you were pleased,' the girl
replied ; * but I don't play those things well.
They are too great for me. It is a good
organ, isn't it ?'

She looked at him in speaking with an expression
which seemed to say that she desired
something more than an answer to her
remark  as if she had another question on
her lips which she dared not put. It struck
the visitor that there was in her eyes the
same look he had once seen in those of a
hare, when at a coursing match it had
doubled, and escaped the beaters, and
crouched at the feet of one of the bystanders,
beseeching him, mutely, for help. All Mr.
Harrison's instincts responded to the appeal ;
but the language which the Surveyor had
used in the last hour was still in his ears, and
he knew not what to say.

Never mind the organ now,' interposed
Mr. Trosdale ; * I want my tea ; it is much

372

past our usual time. Come along, Harrison ;
you have seen Mr. Serle, haven't you ?'

Yes ; at the office this afternoon,' answered
Mr. Harrison ; and, slipping his arm through
the Surveyor's, he returned to the house
followed by Selwyn, who had drawn Madge
a little back in order to say to her :

Have you any idea what he came here
for?'

Not the least.'

I don't trust him,' Selwyn said vehemently.
I never trust a man with those oily manners.
Do be careful what you say to him.'

I will ; but I think you are wrong. He
seems to me kind and good.'

There was no time for more, for the others
were waiting for them. Ann had prepared
the tea, and everything was ready. Over the
meal Mr. Trosdale appeared exuberantly
cheerful  talking almost boisterously over old
days with his friend, relating stories of men
dead for years, they had both known. Madge
sat very silent, looking from one to the other
with grave and steady eyes. Selwyn wondered
what she was thinking about.
- Soon after tea was over, Mr., Harrison rose

to go. Selwyn offered to show him the way
to his hotel, but it had begun to rain rather
heavily, and Mr. Harrison resolutely declined
all companionship.

No, no ; I will take no one out in such
weather,' he said ; ' stay at home and smoke
your pipe, Serle  if Miss Trosdale allows it,
that is to say.'

As he turned towards the door, Madge,
who stood a little apart from the others, laid
her hand upon his arm, and looked up full in
his face. He just touched her fingers, and
then, with a little gesture as if he had said * I
know, child ! I understand you,' passed out
into the night.

AT THE COMPTON.

Persons who envied him his
popularity, persons possessed of
uncompromising manners, who
stated they would rather remain unsought
for ever than be False, were fond of hinting
that Mr. Harrison was insincere.

There is no charge more easily brought
against a man, and since the implication it
contains proves so extremely complimentary
to those who are not popular, there is none
more eagerly accepted.

But with respect to Mr. Harrison (as well
as many other charming people), it was not
true. No one could have wished a stauncher
friend, and he liked his acquaintances all the
better, perhaps, because his circle was so

large it was impossible for him to see a great
deal of any of them.

It is the daily rub of intimacy which
wearies and tries the best of us. When we
have exhausted a man's good points, it is
natural we should begin to consider his bad,
if only for the sake of variety ; and the
wisest advice we can offer young folks going
out into the world is :

Never give anyone a chance of finding
out how tiresome you can be.'

One of the reasons adduced by the persons
referred to in proof of Mr. Harrison's insincerity,
was that he did not think it necessary
to be always searching after his friends. He
had pretty early in life recognised the fact that
an intimacy which requires constant attention
in the way of correspondence, or replenishing
with the fuel of incessant visiting, is more
plague than profit. Further, he was wise
enough to know we are always moving in a
circle which is continually being crossed by
other circles. Sooner or later those who have
met once are sure to meet again, and no man
was more glad to meet and greet an old
friend when their orbits touched than Mr.

Harrison. Years might have passed, bringing
riches to one, poverty to another, changes
to all ; but time and circumstance made no
difference to him. He was ready to condole
as to congratulate ; to say, * My poor fellow,
I am so sorry,' as to exclaim ' My dear fellow,
I am so glad.' His rejoicing held no dreg
of envy, his mourning no secret germ of
triumph. His sympathy, his Influence, his
purse, his time, were freely at the service of
any old acquaintance who needed one or all
of these forms of help, till the Inexorable
progress of events separated them once more.

Where other men moving in a narrower
circle helped few, he helped many. Where
they counted their tens, he counted thousands.
He was always doing good to somebody,
not because he went out of his way to
seek a great mission, but because few touched
him who did not benefit by the contact.

Harry who had lost caste, and with It hope
and many other good things, will never forget
the day when he met his old college friend,
whose words and face recalled better days.

Why, how Is this ?' he asked. ' Why did
you not come to me 1 This will never do ;

we must have a consultation  two heads are
better than one, you know ;' while Sir Richard,
who had won laurels and titles, the applause
of men and the admiration of women, since
that bright morning when they parted In
Southampton Harbour, and who was inclined
to be a trifle too much elated, and, truth to
tell, somewhat bumptious, went away after
an evening passed with his former friend,
sobered by the sight of Harrison's cheerful
content, and amazed at his ungrudging
delight In achievements the glories of which
he could only share through the power of his
utter unselfishness.

Mr. Harrison had not met or heard of Tros-
dale for years; perhaps never would have heard
of him again but for Mr. Dandison. Yet ashe
walked back from St. Paul's Square to the
hotel where he was stopping, his heart felt
sore and sad for old Jemmy Trosdale's foolish
son.

And Martin won't let me help him,' he
thought; *poor fellow, he was always masterful.
He would resent my aid ; but I don't like to
see anyone rushing to ruin without making
some effort to stop him. And there's his

girl, too, and young Serle  all, all bound to
sink with him. No, I must do something ;
the difficulty is to know what, though.'

The more he thought about the position,
the more this difficulty increased, and it was
not till he was sitting at breakfast the next
morning that he decided he would endeavour
to see Madge alone, and talk matters over
with her.

Madge was giving a lesson when he called,
but she left her pupil and came to him immediately.


I am here to trouble you again,' he began,
taking her hand kindly. ' If you can spare
me five minutes I want to ask you what we
had better do. Your father must not leave
the service  he must not, really.'

He has quite made up his mind, I am
sorry to say,' she answered.

But you will use your influence ?'

I have no influence, Mr. Harrison, nor
has anyone.'

She dropped out the last words despairingly.


Then the only thing we can do is to hope
the furnace may prove a great success.'

She did not make any reply ; she stood
looking at the fire with that expression which
had puzzled Selwyn so much when he first
knew her.

I wish you would tell me what you are
thinking of, my child said Mr. Harrison ;
but Madge only shook her head. She could
not talk freely about her father even to her
father's friend. Loyalty had taught her the
hardest test a woman can learn  to refrain
from speech. During the years they dwelt
together under one roof, yet apart in mind
and soul as though separated by oceans and
continents, she had uttered no impatient
or reproachful word concerning her father to
any stranger, and she was not going to speak
one now.

Mr. Harrison watched her for a moment
thoughtfully. He was not a man given to
wish impossibilities, but just then he did wish
he could spirit her away from all the evil he
felt to be in store.

Supposing your father's Invention should
not turn out all that we hope,' he hazarded
at last, * what will become of you ?'

I do not know,' she answered. ' We shall

have his pension, I suppose ; and I shall not
lose my pupils.'

And what about young Serle ?' said Mr.
Harrison.

He will stay at the office, of course. He
will not throw up his appointment she
answered confidently.

I think it extremely probable that he
will.'

Oh, Mr. Harrison ! what makes you
think so .- He would be mad to do such a
thing!'

He would ; but it is in his mind to do It,
for all that.'

She clasped her hands tight, and stood
with lips compressed and eyes bent on the
floor, silent, while Mr. Harrison looked at
her.

She was a very remarkable girl. He did
not know that he had ever before seen a girl
at once so handsome, so strong, and so
tender.

My dear,' he said at last, * the young
fellow must be saved.'

At all costs,' she answered ; * at any
cost! If he came to ruin through us  and

throwing up his appointment would mean
ruin, I suppose ?'

I should say so

'It would break my heart. If I had
spoken when he first came here  if I had
warned him  if I had never let him identify
our interests with his own  I might have
saved him ; but now it is too late  too late !'

Not if he be a reasonable being,' answered
Mr. Harrison cheerfully. * I mean a being
open to hear reason. Is he ?'

I believe so ; though he has never heard
it here.'

What is he ? who is he ? where does he
come from ? Has he no relations in this part
of the country ?'

He has no relations anywhere,' Madge
replied. ' He came here a stranger, and my
father '

She was going to say * took him in,' but
she stopped, feeling the words might bear
another and truer construction, than she intended.


Ah ! your poor father,' said Mr. Harrison
who knew what was in the girl's mind as
well as she did herself; ' he did not see how

it would end  he does not see it now ; but
tell me more about Serle. I want to help
him if I can. Now, who were his relations ?
I suppose he had some once upon a time.'

Madge told him. She began with the
curate, and ended with that curate's uncle.
A simple annal ; but one which touched Mr.
Harrison's fancy.

Comes of a good stock,' he said. * Serle
ought to be a man happy and content to do
his duty in that state of life to which it has
pleased God to call him,' he said in the
kindly mellow voice which had so often won
confidence and inspired love. * I do not
believe the boy is unsettled. I think he only
seems to be so because he is torn and distracted
by the sight of your father's troubles.
Bless you ! all he wants is to be left to do
his duty ; and we must make him see what
that duty really is. Now you have influence
there, have you not ?'

Very little, I am afraid,' returned the girl,
who knew Selwyn's influence over her was
far greater than hers over him.

Why, how is that '. He is in love with
you, is he not ?'

The question was so totally unexpected,
for a second Madge's self-possession was
quite upset. The blood rushed in such a
torrent to her head that she felt as if choking
cheeks and brow and throat were dyed
with the crimson tide, and though she managed
to say, with an effort at bright repartee
which her trembling lips and blushing face
belied, 'If so, he has never told me,' Mr.
Harrison understood perfectly young Serle
cared for Madge, and that Madge knew the
fact.

I am very glad to hear it,' answered the
Chief-clerk. * Many a man would not have
exercised such self-restraint and shown such
delicacy of feeling. I think better of him
for what you tell me. I think very well of
him indeed. Now I see my way a little
clearer, and I will try to put matters right as
far as Serle is concerned ; but you must help
me.'

Only tell me how, and I will do my
best.'

I am sure you will. Now listen, like a
good girl. I shall not return to Shrewsbury
till tomorrow. Do you think you can manage

for me to see Serle this evening at my
hotel without your father's knowledge ?'
My father will not be at home to-night.'

Why  where is he going ?'

He left for Sheffield by an early train
this morning.'

Good heaven ! has he taken leave of his
senses?' exclaimed Mr. Harrison, for once
surprised out of the urbanity which was his
distinguishing characteristic.

Will his going injure him more at
Somerset House ?' asked Madge.

Mr. Harrison did not answer ; he was not
thinking of Mr. Trosdale's ruined fortunes
in the Civil Service, or of Somerset House,
or anything except of Madge herself.

'Will it really injure him?' repeated the
girl anxiously.

 I do not know. I cannot tell. I hope
not,' said Mr Harrison hastily. ' It is rather
imprudent, I think, for him to go away again
just now ; but I dare say no great harm will
come of it. To return, however, to young
Serle. Can you arrange that he shall call on
me this evening? I find that a dear old
friend cf mine resides . near Bolton, and I

intend to look him up ; but Serle will find
me at the Compton any time after seven
o'clock. Good-bye ! do not make yourself
miserable : all will come right after a while.
Good-bye  good-bye ! God bless you !'

Good-bye, Mr. Harrison, and thank you
so much ; but you won't  you won't '

Won't what, you silly puss ?' asked Mr.
Harrison, who had his hand on the latch.
What is it, Madge ?' he added more seriously,
the while he paused, wondering at her evident
confusion. * Surely you need not be afraid
of saying anything to me.'

No  -I am not afraid, only  you won't
speak to Mr. Serle  about '

I won't speak to Air. Serle about  ? oh !
I understand you now, my dear child. I
really have a little discretion, and I think I
know what is due to your sex. Besides, if I
were to say a word that would place you in a
false position, my wife would give me such a
scolding  she would, indeed ; and I do not
like being scolded. To speak in very sober
earnest, I have daughters of my own, and
I should no more dream of wounding the
pride of another man's daughter than I

VOL. II. 38

should of blowing up Somerset House. I
am going to talk to Serle very seriously, but
not about you. I want to save him from
making a mess of his life  that is all.

You are so good murmured Madge.

I mean to tell him I consider him a very
absurd young man to quarrel with his bread-and-butter
for a mere crotchet. He won't
get such bread-and-butter again in a hurry, I
can assure him. Now you must not try to
beg him off, for I intend to give him a good
talking to, and I am known to be a most
dreadful person when I give my mind to
talking.'

You could never be dreadful,' said Madge,

Couldn't I ?  ah ! that's all you know.
It is well I am leaving Liverpool before you
find me out, and while you still can think
nicely of me and trust me. You will trust
me, won't you ?'

For answer she gave him her hand, and
raised her soft hazel eyes to his with a look
which haunted him.

Indeed you may trust me, dear brave
child,' he said, and so went, with kindly haste,
not wishing to prolong their conference.

All the way to Bolton he debated whether
or not he should drop any hint to young
Serle regarding the difficulty which was in
his mind.

Few men knew the world better than Mr.
Harrison ; no man could have felt more
indignant with another than he did with
Mr. Trosdale for neglecting his duty towards
that sweet creature Madge. Yet the result
of his mental discussion was that he would
refrain from comment or interference.

If the land they live in cannot exactly be
described as Arcadia, it is Bohemia, which
comes to pretty nearly the same thing  an
innocent Bohemia where Society's writ does
not run ; which is not governed by Mrs.
Grundy ; where what "people may say" is not
thought of, because there are no people to say
anything. Why should I intrude the laws and
notions of my wicked old world into such an
Eden? Why should I play the serpent's
part, and talk to these young innocents about
the tree of the knowledge of good and evil ?
I won't. Besides, I might as well preach
propriety to a pair shipwrecked on some
desert island. It would seem no doubt a

382

very shocking position to our dear old friend
Mrs. Grundy, who is not shipwrecked, but
visiting and receiving in Belgravia. Still,
there is no use in lamenting over the matter.
Lamentations will not get them back to the
mainland. When they are, which won't be till
the devil of invention is cast out of Trosdale,
nature, or chance, or some good-natured
friend, will no doubt open their eyes. ]Meanwhile,
it is just as well they should remain
shut, and I certainly shall not try to open
them.'

Which was as kind and wise a conclusion ashe

could have come to. The path Selwyn

and Madge were pursuing could not be

considered easy. To them it seemed bristling

with dangers and anxieties. But, as yet, no

scorpion had stung them. Not one of the

many venomous serpents, that breed and

multiply in the dusty highway most men

traverse perforce, had reared its head to bite.

They were pursuing a road of their own,

which was safe enough. The babes in the

wood were not more innocent of wrong ; and

he who walks ignorance without fear in the

darkness of night by the edge of some

precipice he would shudder to tread by day,
was never led through danger more safely.

I don't want to go and see him,' said
Selwyn when Madge gave him Mr. Harrison
message.  I don't know him, and I have had
almost as much of Somerset House in the
last few days as I can stand. I feel very
much inclined to have nothing more to do
with anyone connected with the place.'

Ah, don't talk like that !' implored Madge,
in her most persuasive tones ; ' if you knew
how anxious I am already, you would not
add to my troubles.'

I add to them ! Not for the whole world.
But I can't see how I shall lessen them by
going to the Compton Hotel to-night.'

Nor can I tell you ; but go, nevertheless.
Go to please me ; go because I promised
that you would ; go for any reason you like ;
only go.'

And Selwyn yielded and went.

On hearing Selwyn announced, Mr.
Harrison rose at once, and greeted him
cordially.

I am delighted to see you, Serle,' he
said in the tone of a man welcoming an old

friend ; * this is very good of you. I was
beginning to feel a trifle dull, tired of my
own company, and I feared you would not
come

So saying, Mr. Harrison conducted his
guest to the window in which he had been
sitting, and wheeled a second easy-chair
towards a table on which two p-lasses stood
beside a bottle of Burgundy.

Sit down there,' he continued. *You
will not be cold at that distance from the fire.
I find this window a very pleasant seat. It
is so delightfully idle to look down on the
people passing, though the streets are
emptying fast at this hour. There is not the
same excitement as in watching the throng
that rushes down Church Street in the daytime
; but yet the constant dropping past the
window, now of single persons, now of twos
and threes together, has a soothing effect on
the brain  generates a sort of pensiveness.
You have not that pleasure in St. Paul's
Square.'

I don't think it a pleasure which would
appeal strongly to me in any place,' answered
Selwyn ;  and after all, I do not like town life

Ah ! you are from the country, I hear  from
Somersetshire. I used to know that county
well, especially round Alilverton/

Selwyn was interested at once.

It must have been the fishing which took
you there,' he observed.

Right, it was the fishing. Don't you
smoke } Try these cigarettes.'

And with that Mr. Harrison plunged into
a conversation about Selwyn's native county.
He had not exaggerated when he said he
knew it well. Rod in hand, he had traversed
the banks of every stream and river in it, as
well as in the adjoining county of Devon ; and
he had numberless incidents to relate about
places with which Selwyn was familiar, involving
sometimes persons with whom he
was acquainted.

He knew Sea Court by name and sight,
and had once even met its owner, Selwyn's
kind friend, Mr. Adams, in a neighbouring
country house. The conversation was delightful
to Selwyn. It was the first time
since he obtained his appointment that he
had met a man who was acquainted with
his own county ; who listened to what he

had to say not only from courtesy, or
from interest in him, but out of apparent
delight in the subject itself As he spoke
of those familiar scenes, a thousand recollections
were thronging through his memory ;
faces which were half forgotten, tones of voice
he had thought never to hear again, returned
to him as vividly as ever. He fancied even
that the broad Somersetshire accent was
sounding in his ears, and his eyes more than
once drew dim at some recollection which
would not be suppressed.

Mr. Harrison saw that the lad was pleased
and softened, and gradually led him to talk
of his own people ; and so of his life up to
the time at which he competed in the Grade
I. examination for the Civil Service.

And how are you pleased now you have
obtained the appointment ?' he asked.

I am not pleased at all replied Selwyn
bluntly. ' I am dissatisfied.'

Indeed ! will you tell me on what ground?
You may do so quite frankly. Remember,
I am not the Chief Inspector, but only a
private friend, and this is quite a private
conversation.'

I am sure you will regard it as such. I
am disappointed first because the appointment
does not rank so well as I imagined.
My colleagues are not gentlemen for the most
part. I expected they would be.'

I cannot say you are altogether wrong.
It would have been better if those appointments
had never been filled by means of the
Grade I. competition. That is for gentlemen,
this is not. I urged this point very strongly
when the change was made ; but after all it
will matter less to you when you are yourself
a Surveyor in a country district.'

It will always matter greatly said Selwyn
decisively.

Even if you should be appointed to a
Somersetshire district, so that you might live
within reach of your old friends ?'

Ah, then ! but that would not last long.'

It would not; nor would it be for your
interest that it should. Feeling the want of
associates of your own class so strongly as
you do, your most earnest endeavour should
be to make your way as quickly as possible
to the head of your branch of the Service, so
as to be promoted to some permanent employment

in Somerset House. Believe me,
your position would there be precisely what
you chose to make it. Living on a sufficient
income, though not a large one, in London
you would have a defined position ; and it
would lie with you to enjoy practically what
society you might please. Meantime, do
your best to rise in your present service. I
am sure you can ; and I need not tell you
how it is to be done.'

You speak very encouragingly answered
Selwyn, ' but you do not know how long I
should have to wait before having any chance
of the promotion you speak of. It would be
as long again probably as Jacob served for
Rachel.'

I do not think so. There is a oreat dearth
of capable young men on the Surveyors*
list. Only master your work, and be careful
to keep on good terms as far as possible with
your chiefs, and you are certain to rise
rapidly.'

You have hit the sore now,' said Selwyn,
with a bitter laugh ; ' I am already on the
worst terms with Mr. Dandison.'

I know all about that,' replied Mr.

Harrison. * Strictly speaking, of course, you
were somewhat in fault ; but I do not think
your chances have suffered much as yet.
Stick to your work, keep out of any further
quarrels with your chiefs, and you will do excellently
well. I can judge your prospects
better than you ; and I tell you, from my
knowledge, that they are by no means to be
despised.'

Selwyn sat for some minutes without
speaking. It had grown quite dark while
the two men were talking, and Mr. Harrison
now rose and rang for lights. When they
were brought, and the fire had been revived
into a cheerful blaze, Selwyn said, standing
on the hearth rug :

Pray tell me, Mr. Harrison, whether you
think I have still any prospects in the
service ?'

What an extraordinary question !' answered
his host, setting down the bottle from
which he was filling Selwyn's glass rather
sharply ; * I am not sure that I rightly understand
you.'

I look at myself as under a cloud.
I gathered from what Mr. Dandison said,

and what I have heard since, that my
character was almost hopelessly damaged.'

Mr. Harrison muttered something in his
breath which Selwyn did not catch ; but which
seemed to bear uncomplimentary reference
to the Chief Inspector, before he answered :

My dear fellow, you are harassed and
annoyed just now, and you take these things
too seriously. In a little while you will see
matters in their true proportions. Meanwhile,
take my word that you have suffered
hardly any permanent damage ; and that you
have your future still entirely in your own
hands.'

He paused for a minute, and then, in the
winning manner which made every man his
friend, he said :

I want to see you succeed in life, Serle ;
I want to see you clear of all that is annoying
you now. Promise me you will do nothing
rash or foolish. Promise me that you will
work hard, and master your profession ; that
you will determine to rise ; that you will never
despond ; that you will try not to chafe at the
snubs you may have to endure ; and above
all, that you will keep your temper, and remember

your chiefs, as well as you, have
to endure what tries their tempers sorely.
Promise me all this, my dear fellow ; your
father, if he were alive and here, could not
help you more than by making you give your
word to be a good brave man.'

I do promise,' said Selwyn, quite conquered,
' and I thank you heartily for your
goodness to me

That's well, that's all right. And remember,
my lad, if you have to wait as long
for your promotion as you think, you may
have many consolations in that time. One's
wife, Serle, and one's own home, make a man
very happy.'

Not long afterwards Selwyn left the hotel,
in a very different frame of mind from that
in which he had entered it.

CHAPTER I.

WAS IT change:

Selwyn lay awake almost the
whole night, pondering over what
had passed. There was much
about the matter which he could not understand.
He did not comprehend why Mr.
Harrison had sent for him, why he should
feel or show the smallest interest in what
befell him. The evident desire to correct
the impression the Chief Inspector had left
was also very puzzling to Selwyn ; but,
whatever the motive might have been, his
VOL. III. 39

common sense told him the advice was good.
It was true he had been standing on a
precipice. He had almost made up his
mind to resign his post, which was fast
growing hateful to him, intending not to
cast in his lot with the Surveyor, as the
latter frequently urged, but to gather up
his scanty capital and set out for that New
World in which he believed prosperity,
if not happiness, lay waiting for any man
who sought it with strong arms and a stout
heart.

He had been in a dangerous way ; but
Prudence triumphed, thanks to the spur
which Mr. Harrison gave her ; and before
he went to his office on the following day
he resolved to abandon the idea of resignation
for the present. Mr. Cramsey found
him unwontedly docile, and remarked to
Mr. Gough, with a sage shake of the head,
he was breaking that young colt in.

Lord !' he said, ' they're all skittish when
they first come under Davey*s claws ; but he
tames 'em, sir.'

Kerry's tame enough, isn't he ?' said Mr.
Gough with a great laugh, * and it seems tome

Serle's one of the same sort. Take care
of those claws, Cramsey, else he'll cut yours
for you, and your comb too.'

Whereat i\Ir. Cramsey, much offended,
waddled away.

Selwyn had another matter, quite as
serious to him, to occupy his thoughts
during Mr. Trosdale's absence  Madge.
His love for her was no fancy of a moment,
but one which had steadily grown for so
long, that he was annoyed at his blindness
in not having acknowledged it many months
before. That she loved him he did not dare
to hope, neither was it a question he felt
could he ever dare to ask. Knowing how
ambitious were the views which Mr. Tros-
dale entertained for his daughter, as well as
for himself, when the profits of the furnace
should be harvested, Selwyn conceived he
had only one course open to him. It was
impossible the Surveyor should wish his
daughter to marry a man possessing only
a few pounds a year in addition to his official
pay ; it was equally impossible that he, with
such scanty means, could approach so great
an heiress as Madge might become. If she

392

cared for him at all  and sometimes he
almost fancied she did  his duty was only
so much the plainer. He must leave the
house ; he would ask Mr. Harrison to obtain
an exchange for him into some distant part
of the country.

This decision was not arrived at without
much sad thought. He felt sorely buffeted
by Fortune, poor lad ! first involved in
troubles which were not of his own making,
and now cast out from the quiet haven he
had found, to steer his own course on the
sea of life. He had no delusions regarding
the future ; he knew full well the utter loneliness
of the existence he was about to accept.
It was unlikely, to say the least, that other
friends, like the Trosdales, where waiting for
him in the strange district to which he
might be sent ; and even if they were, with
what heart could he seek out new acquaintances
whilst still yearning for the old ?

Kerry found him, on the second day of
Mr. Trosdale's absence, lost in thought, and
slapped him cheerfully on the back, laughing
boisterously when Selwyn started.

You're getting as yellow as a guinea ;

it's my belief you've the jaundice, Serle, and
you won't be well until you get out more.
Come and have some ozone now, on the
Landing Stage. Where's Davey T

Mr. Cramsey's at an appeal meeting,'
said Selwyn peevishly ; 'and I'm quite well,
thank you, Kerry. I'm too busy to come
out.'

Too cross, you mean,' retorted his friend,
and that's the truth ; for civil a much you've
done since you sat down with those returns.'

Put it as you like,' answered Selwyn,
'only I'm not coming out.'

Having uttered which ungracious reply,
he began to write, and Kerry went out with
some scornful observation about people who
didn't know when to work and when to play.

At another time Selwyn might have
thought it worth while to follow Kerry and
conciliate him ; but at this moment he felt
his troubles thickening around him too fast
to care whether he had annoyed his friend.
He did not succeed with his work that day,
and left his office rather earlier than usual,
intending to take a walk after having had
his tea. As he let himself into the house

in St. Paul's Square, however, he was met
by the servant, who told him Mr. Tros-
dale had returned quite unexpectedly about
an hour before.

'And Miss Madge has gone to get something
for his tea

Where is he ?' asked Selwyn.

In the drawing-room, sirs

Selwyn went upstairs, feeling that the
moment had arrived when he must say all he
had on his heart.

Oh, I'm glad you've come,' said Mr.
Trosdale. ' Here's a cursed check ! Phipps
won't look at the furnace unless Hodson approves
of it. He is in close relations, it seems,
with Hodson, and trusts his own opinion less
than his friend's. He says he never looks at
new inventions, they must all be dealt with
first in London.'

Did you see anyone else in Sheffield ?'

No one else worth seeing, that I am
aware of. Phipps is big enough to buy up
every other man in the trade there.'

Still,' ventured Selwyn, * a smaller man
might have been able to give you a good
price for your invention.'

Pshaw ! don't you understand that it's
useless to go to a small man with a thing of
such magnitude ? This furnace will make
more than one man's fortune, and it will
need a very large capital to push it. If Dick
or Tom patronize it, that is of no advantage
to me ; but six words from Hodson would set
the whole thing going.'

'Well, and what do you propose doing

now ?'

The Surveyor lifted his eyebrows and regarded
his young friend as if he thought he
had taken leave of his senses.

I sometimes wonder whether you quite
follow me when we talk together he said.
*You ask the most foolish questions.
What on earth do you expect me to do but
ofo to London ?'

I thought there might be a necessity for
your staying here just at present.'

A necessity ? Oh, I understand now.
You are thinking of my suspension. I have
decided to resign my appointment. Yes,'
he went on, with some triumph, as he saw
that Selwyn was astonished ; ' I have no
time now for wrangling with Dandison.

I can occupy myself more remunerative.
I shall write out my resignation to-night.
After all, I don't know that this could have
happened at a more convenient time. Gad !
it's the first elinor I've been grateful to
Dandlson for within my recollection. I
should have been sadly embarrassed if I
had been tied to the office now.'

At this point they were summoned to tea.
Madge was very quiet throughout the meal,
and received the news of her father's approaching
departure for London without any
other comment than an inquiry regarding the
number of shirts he would wish to take with
him. After satisfying his daughter's anxiety
on this point, the Surveyor himself relapsed
into silence ; and a more unsociable trio could
hardly have been found in Liverpool. When
j\Ir. Trosdale rose from table, Selwyn followed
him into his room, and began as soon
as they were alone.

 I have something to say to you  something
which you ought to know.'

What cursed thing has happened now ?'
asked his chief ; * have you got into some
mischief since I've been away 1'

It's an older story than that ; but it's
mischief enough for me,' replied Selwyn,
trying to speak lightly. ' I see no use in
mincing matters '

Don't mince them, for God's sake !' interrupted
Mr, Trosdale.

It is only this, then . . . You must try
not to be hard with me . I have learned
to like your daughter too much for my own
happiness.'

It was done, the great avowal was made,
and Selwyn watched with breathless anxiety
its effect on the Surveyor. He did not
explode into violent passion, he did not even
become sarcastic, and make unpleasant remarks
about the means which that man
would require who might aspire to woo
Madge ; instead of doing either of these
things, he only said, rather contemptuously,
and with an air of relief :

Is that all ? I was afraid something had
happened.'

The carelessness of the tone in which he
uttered these words was more than Selwyn
could stand.

Do you call that nothing ?' he asked

indignantly. * I wonder what you consider
of importance, If this Is trifling ?'

The Surveyor waved Diis hand Impatiently.


Important enough to you, no doubt he
said ; ' and at any other time I might be
interested In the affair. But really I am too
busy just at present. I don't see any objection.
That's what you wanted to know, I suppose.'

Do you mean that I have your permission
to speak to Miss Trosdale ?' asked Selwyn,
overjoyed at his unexpected success.

Oh Lord ! yes. I thought you had done
that. Go and speak to her by all means,
and tell me the result at some convenient
time, when I am not so much pressed with
my own affairs.'

I'm afraid you think me very inconsiderate.'


'All people are inconsiderate to me replied
the Surveyor ; after which remark he
closed the door behind Selwyn, and devoted
himself to writing his resignation.

Selwyn found Madge sitting in the .
She was sewing  re-making an
old dress, that In the weather which was now

Upon them was to serve out the third summer
of its existence. She had seated herself on
a sofa in the window, in order that the light
might fall upon her work, and was looking
really beautiful. It was not the beauty which
one might expect to see on a girl's face 
not the happy radiance that proceeds from
perfect health and a mind at ease. It was
a serene peace which illuminated Madge's
countenance, an expression which did not
erase the lines of care, but rather turned
each one of them into an added charm  an
outward sign of the strong spirit within,
which dominated troubles of every kind,
drawing blessing forth from them.

She looked up as Selwyn entered, and said,
as if surprised :

What, idle ! Does my father not want
you ?'

I have come to spend the evening with
you, if you will let me,' answered the young
man shyly. ' Do not send me away.'

Of course, I shall be delighted if you will
stay. But I don't quite understand why the
attractions of the great invention have failed
to keep you by its side.'

You talk as if the furnace were alive.'
I almost wish it were.'

What do you mean ? Why ?'

If it were a live human being that my
father had contracted such a fondness for, its
keep would certainly be less costly now, and
in the time to come '

Why do you stop ?'

Never mind the future,' said ]\Iadge, with
determination. * I do not like talking about
it.' She laid aside her work, and added,
Shall I play to you ?'

Not now. Talk to me instead. Or
rather, let me talk to you. I have been
thinking a great deal about the future, and,
in spite of what you say, I want to tell you
all my thoughts.'

He was quite calm now ; the sound of his
voice gave him courage.

I have been thinking that there is change
before us, and that this life, which has been
so pleasant, so very, very pleasant to me,
cannot last for ever. There will come a
time, perhaps before long, when the old
home will know neither you nor me anymore
; and strangers will go up and down

these stairs and live in these rooms, but we
shall not be here.'

He stopped, and Invade said :

Go on. That is not all you have to say.'

What I want to say is this. I have
begun to learn how strong the force of circumstances
is in our lives. I don't know
whether it is a blind destiny or the hand of
God which sometimes shapes out a new
course for us so suddenly ; but I do know-that
we cannot resist this invisible power
which drives us here and there, and that we
can only give way, and take what happiness
lies in our reach.'

Still I do not follow you,' said Invaded,
very gravely.

 I will tell you. There is change comines
us ; those circumstances which
neither you nor I are master of, are preparing
at this very moment a nev. life for us.
If I could remain as I am now always, 1
would do so ; but I cannot. Your father Is
going to London. I know not where his
business may take him. He will succeed,
and then he will leave Liverpool, taking you
with him ; but I shall remain behind.'

*A11 this may be true, but why pry into
the future ? Is not its evil enough for the
day?'

There was a pitiful appeal in the girl's
voice, but Selwyn did not heed it.

Listen to me,' he said. ' I was by the
river, watching the gulls, the other day ; and
there were two which flew up from the
water in company, and sailed side-beside
far above me in the air. But they were not
really together, and in a few minutes I saw
that they were further apart, and presently
each went its own way.'

Well ?'

If they had chosen, they might have
remained always together. They need not
have parted ever while the world lasted for
them. I love you too much to part with you
in this way. I cannot pass my life without
you ; and, when I see you about to drift
away, I know the time has come for me to
speak.'

Madge did not answer ; she sat with her
face hidden in her hands ; and Selwyn went
on :

You do not know how necessary you are

to me. If I have any strength of purpose, it
is you who have given it to me. If I am
able to see in their true proportions the
things which happen in my daily life, it is
you who have helped me to that insight. If
I am more earnest, more capable of taking a
man's place in the world, I say again, it is to
you, and only to you, that I am indebted.
You may not know it '  for she made a
gesture of dissent  ' but it is true. And oh !
my dear, over and above all that, I love you!
If you had done me as much harm as you
have done me good  yes, if you had done
ten times more, I should love you still. It is
no boy's fancy. You have changed me into
a man ; you have taught me a man's earnestness
and a man's love.'

He laid his hand on hers, and remained
silent for a moment.

Do not send me away, Madge,' he said,
speaking with a passionate throb in his voice,
or you will break my heart !'

The girl withdrew her hand from his, and
looked him in the face. Her eyes were weet
with tears, but she was quite composed.

You do not know what you are asking

she said steadily. * Oh ! do you not see that
we are a blighted family, and that what is
linked with us can never prosper? You
shall not spoil your life. Why did you not
go when I warned you so long ago ? Oh, it
was a miserable chance sent you here !*

I believe answered Selwyn, * that it was
through no accident I came here. What
induced the Chief Inspector to send me to
Liverpool '. Was it chance ? If so, was it
chance also that caused me to make my little
sketch in the office on that eventful day
when your father discovered me ? What a
series of chances followed after that! His
inviting me to come here, my illness, and the
understanding which you and I came to. No.
Madge ; these were no chances. And trust
me, my darling, it will be for good. For
even if you will not love me, I shall have
loved you, and known you, and I must always
be better and happier for that, though I shall
be unhappy too ; but you do love me a little,
don't you ?*

He drew closer to her, and again laid his
hand on hers, which this time she did not
withdraw.

 Have confidence in the future, my own,' he
said, almost doubting the reality of his
happiness. ' If you have not been prosperous
in the past, we will work together and be
prosperous in the future. I am young and
strong and hopeful, and, if I have your love,
shall be able to slay dragons. Lay aside
your fears. I will take the whole risk, if
there be any, only too gladly.'

You do  you take it all whispered
Madge ; ' it is all giving on your part !'

But that was her last protest ere her thankful
lover took her trembling to his heart.

VOL. III. 40

MR. TROSDALES VIEWS.

N an airy sort of way, which might
be taken as a jest or as sober
earnest, Mr. Kerry had, about ten
days after Mrs. Gibbs' party, hinted that it
might be only civil if he called in St. Paul's
Square and paid his respects to the finest
girl he ever saw out of Ireland  or in it, for
that matter.

To this tentative remark Selwyn, who was
in a very irritable mood, did not respond in at
all a good spirit. Disgusted with the snubbing
administered by Mr. Dandison, smarting
under the rule of Mr. Cramsey, anxious concerning
Mr. Trosdale, and troubled as to the
chances of his own love-affair, it was natural
that he should pooh-pooh Mr. Kerry's suggestion

with greater ill-humour than he had
ever previously evinced.

The memory of" that remarkable evening
and of the exhibition in which he had been
Involved were so hateful to him, that he
felt compelled to give his free-and-easy friend
a good snubbing. During the whole of their
acquaintance Selwyn had never been so nasty
nor j\Ir. Kerry so meek.

It was not in the least necessary, the
former authoritatively stated, for the latter to
call on Miss Trosdale ; on the contrary, if he
did so he would be taking a very great liberty
and much more to the same effect ; which
being met by Mr. Kerry with many ' Well,
wells,' ' Maybe you're right,' ' To be sure you
that has seen the height of fie company
ought to know what's the proper thing to do
better than a poor devil of a tax-man who
has never been asked to put his legs under
a decent table since he came to this God-forsaken
country,' the battle ended apparently
in Mr. Kerry's complete defeat and Selwyn's
somewhat remorseful victory.

After all, the man meant no harm he
reflected ; * but it is necessary to be a trifle

40  2

rough with such people now and then, even
for their own good.'

Mr. Serle felt so sure of this that he never
attempted to mollify his rather roughly stated
decision ; neither did he try to make up in
any way for his imperious negative ; therefore
it was all the more beautiful on Mr. Kerry's
part that he expressed no resentment, but
treated Selwyn in precisely the same manner
as he might have done had the question never
arisen.

He helped the ' snipe ' against his will ; he
gave the  young man ' advice for which the
young man was not in the least degree grateful
; he took his part against Mr. Cramsey ;
and finally he said one afternoon, shortly
before closing time, ' I'll walk a piece of the
way home with you, if you have no objection.'


Even if he had objected it would have been
difficult for Selwyn to say so ; but, as it
happened he was in better spirits than usual,
he assented with such readiness to the
arrangement that Mr. Kerry, looking at him
curiously from the corners of his eyes,
remarked :

I am glad 3'ou have got rid of that pain
which was troubling you.'

What pain ?' asked Selwyn.

In your temper  there is no worse place
going to have one ; you are more like the
young fellow I took to long ago than I have
seen you this many a day.'

I am happier  perhaps that is the reason.'

I won't ask you what the devil you have
got to make you happier, because if I did
you'd maybe answer, '* What business is that
of yours ?" and, as we're getting on so well,
I'd like to keep well.'

You will know, perhaps, some day

We'll know everything some day in the
next world,' returned Mr. Kerry. ' Even, as
Erskine said, the reason why boots are always
too tioht in this.'

You speak feelingly,' said Selwyn ; ' are
your boots too tight ? I see they are new.'

They are new, young man, but they are
not tight '

'And you are dressed a qitatres epistles 
are you going out to spend the evening ?'

Never mind where I am going  '' you
will know some day." '

Even then no suspicion crossed Selwyn's
mind concerning Mr. Kerry's destination  so,
talking much as usual, they at last arrived in
St. Paul's Square, where Mr. Serle stopped
and bade his friend good-evening.

I'll walk with you to the door said Mr.
Kerry.

Oh ! I won't take you so far out of your
way,' returned Selwyn, full of consideration.

It is all in my way,' answered Mr. Kerry,
and Selwyn could offer no objection, though
greatly wondering where Mr. Kerry was
going.

As they neared the Surveyor's door Madge
was crossing from St. Paul's. At sight of the
Irishman she hurried her pace a little, and
came forward smiling as Selwyn had never
seen her smile on him  and it was with much
ado he could keep from assaulting Mr. Kerry
when that individual said :

Here she comes, the darling of the world
look at her !'

Selwyn did look at her. He was a very
simple, straightforward, and affectionate
young fellow, and the ways of women were
utterly strange to him.

If Madge, the wise, the prudent, the enigmatical,
his promised wife, had adored Mr.
Cramsey's Assistant her greeting could not
have been more cordial.

Oh ! Mr. Kerry,' she said, ' I was afraid
you had forgotten me.'

I could never do that,' said Mr. Kerry,
most seriously in earnest.

At all events, your promise to come and
see me,' returned Madge with a roguish laugh.

I'll never forget anything my life long
that concerns you,' declared Mr. Kerry.

After that pretty speech I must give you
some tea,' said Madge, sweeping a little
curtsey, and then they all passed into the
dining-room, where Mr. Trosdale greeted the
Irishman in a genial and familiar manner, and
asked ' if the tax-offices were still in the same
old place,'

Indeed, and they are,' answered Mr.
Kerry ; ' and the same old people in them ;
but I am mistaken If there won't be some
changes after a bit  maybe Davey himself
will have to move his laundry.'

It was an accursed hole,' said Mr. Tros-
dale, referring to the tax-offices.

It Is good enough for me, perhaps
because I know no better,' remarked the
Irishman In a tone which made everyone
except Selwyn laugh. ' It seems strange,
though, to be there without you ; and I daresay
you feel It strange to be here without us.
Now don't you ?'

Should you care to know exactly how I
do feel ?' asked Mr. Trosdale.

I should ; though I am much afraid from
your manner your feeling Is not over-pleasant.'

I don't see how It should be,' answered
the ex-Surveyor. ' After the many years I
have spent In the office  years simply cut out
of my life  I feel like a prisoner too late
released, a captive Into whose flesh the chains
of his captivity have eaten, but who Is thankful
for his enfranchisement on any terms.'

Lord bless me !' exclaimed Mr. Kerry,
whose volubility was for the moment completely
swamped by this deluge of eloquence.

You, I dare say, know nothing of such a
feeling,' observed Mr. Trosdale, pleased with
the effect he had produced.

Heaven be praised, I don't !'

I should not have thought such content a

thing worth praising heaven for returned
Mr. Trosdale contemptuously ; ' but if you
are satisfied I may be.'

Oh, it's easy enough for a poor drudging
fellow like myself to be satisfied,' replied Mr.
Kerry with mock humility. ' I have no
chance of ever making anything except in
the service. You are altogether different.
You have had the luck to make a fortune ;
and I'm sure I wish you health to enjoy and
wisdom to spend it.'

You are very kind  but perhaps you will
be good enough to explain how you came to
imagine I had made a fortune.'

If there's any secret about the matter,'
said Mr. Kerry, answering the ex-Surveyor's
tone more than his words, ' I am sure I'm
sorry I spoke  but it's common talk ; old
Davey has been running about the office
open-mouthed.'

When Mr. Kerry said this Selwyn looked
straight at Mr. Trosdale, but Mr. Trosdale
would not look at him.

How Mr. Cramsey could know anything
about the matter I am unable to guess,'
replied the ex-Surveyor ; ' and his statement
is incorrect. I have not made my fortune.'

Well, you are in the way of making it,
anyhow.'

I trust so,' answered Mr. Trosdale stiffly.
To him it seemed a sort of desecration that
his approaching wealth should be so lightly
spoken of  as If It had come of itself without
the help of his own enormous labour and
vast knowledge.

Cramsey says there Is no doubt about the
matter. You've got a notion of a new sort of
hire-stove, haven't you ?'

Fire-stove !' repeated his host, in the tone
of a man who mentally added, * And this is
fame !' ' It is to be hoped the next time your
chief Interests himself in my affairs he will at
least take the trouble of being accurate.'

Sure you needn't care what he Is  those
that win may laugh  and Davey was nearer
crying than laughing when he told Gough
you were off to London to get your first instalment.
I hope you had a pleasant time
there. How were they getting on at Somerset
House ?'

I do not know, sir, and I do not care,'
retorted Mr. Trosdale. * I wish never to hear
of Somerset House nor taxes again.'

Faith, and there's many will agree with
you there,' said Mr. Kerry. ' I like taxes
myself  they are meat and drink to me ; and
why wouldn't they be, as they are my living ?
But to a man that can't meet them they're
battle, murder, and sudden death all in one.'

It was in this manner conversation proceeded
during tea. Mr. Trosdale was not an
easy man to talk to. His mental corns were
so numerous it was difficult to avoid treading
on some of them  for which reason it was
only when he had the field to himself things
ever went smoothly for many minutes at a time
and everyone felt relieved when, the meal
being finished, Madge suggested that they
would be more comfortable upstairs.

As they passed out Mr. Trosdale touched
Selwyn on the shoulder, and said, ' I want
you.'

Therefore Madge and Mr. Kerry proceeded
to the drawing-room alone.

Just for a few minutes her lover heard the
sound of the piano, as she played that mad
tarantula of Heller's, which, indeed, is the
chief of all dardanelles. Then he became too
much absorbed in Mr. Trosdale's communication

to hear Madge's music had stopped, and
that she only dreamily struck a chord at
intervals that grew longer and longer, till at
last her hands fell from the keys, and she sat
listening to Mr. Kerry's wanderings, which
enlightened her fully concerning all her father
had cast aside.

Poor girl ! poor girl ! She made no
comment, but as she sat with her head bent
and her heart aching, she could not but remember
that old fable about the dog who,
seeing the meat reflected in the water, dropped
the piece he held in order to seize the shadow.

His life, her life, her mother's life, had been
a long famine in consequence of his delusion ;
everything that makes existence valuable,
noble, happy, had been cast under the wheels
of a Juggernaut as cruel and relentless as any
that ever left a trail of dead and dying
creatures behind it.

She was too sad for tears, too hopeless for
speech. She did not feel angry, as she had
once done. Her heart was soft enough as she
looked upon the past as one might look upon
it from another world. Whatever the future
micrht hold of evil she and her father would

have to face together. She saw she could
not avert misfortune and save him. Her
only dread was that Selwyn might go down
with them if she let him link his fate with
hers ; and yet if she did not

Lord ! how sweet that love-dream had
been. If she never understood before, she
understood then.

And almost at the same moment Selwyn
was coming to a fuller comprehension of all
she must ever be to him.

I am going to be perfectly frank with you,
Serle,' began Mr. Trosdale, as soon as he
had closed the door behind Madge and Mr.
Kerry.

If Selwyn had known more of the world he
would have been aware that such a preface
means the very reverse of what it implies.

I shall treat you with entire confidence,'
said the ex-Surveyor, as if his first sentence
had not been sufficiently explicit ; * but I must
ask you to consider the communication I am
about to make as strictly between ourselves.'

I shall mention it to no one,' answered
Selwyn.

Not even to Madge, at present,' added
Mr. Trosdale.

If you do not wish me to tell her, I shall
certainly respect your wishes ; still '

I do not wish her to know, because then
other persons would know, and the consequences
prove disastrous.'

You may depend on my silence,' said the
young man unsuspiciously, ' till you give me
leave to speak.'

The fact is ' replied Mr. Trosdale 

and then he paused, as if he did not find the
end of his sentence quite easy. * The fact is,'
he repeated, finding no help came from
Selwyn, ' I find it necessary to go to
London.'

So soon again ? How long do you think
you shall be away T

I do not intend to return.'
At all ?'

Never at all, I hope. I trust I shall never
see Liverpool again. There is not a brick in
its houses, there is not a stone in its streets,
I do not detest. I have passed long years 
miserable years  in it, and I only wish I
could blot the recollection of them out of my
heart !'

He spoke with a passion which, though

from frequent repetition it did not touch
Selwyn as it had once done, still stirred his
heart, as such utterances always do stir the
young and generous  but, at the same time,
he was conscious of a heavy aching pain on
his own account. Mr. Trosdale's trouble lay
behind, his lay before. If her father left
Liverpool, Madge must leave too  while he,
Selwyn, would have to remain behind. Then
would come the first serious separation. He
could not face the full truth at first, but sat
like one stunned.

He would be here, she there  and only
those that love can tell the full bitterness of
the separation that lies between those words.

Yes,' went on Mr. Trosdale, finding he
did not speak ; ' I shall feel thankful to quit
Liverpool, though I should scarcely have
gone yet, had it not been forced upon me.'

'And when?' asked Selwyn. He could
not make his sentences any longer. He had
to moisten his dry lips before he could say
even so much.

As soon as I can make my arrangements.
I shall take Madge with me, ostensibly to
give her a little change, and after a short

time will explain I mean to reside permanently
in London. I want to avoid all
leave-takings  all gossiping and discussion of
my affairs.'

I suppose it is quite necessary for you to
go?' said the stricken lad wistfully. He had
known the blow must come some day, but
never thought it would come so soon  oh !
not nearly so soon !

Mr. Trosdale, who was smoking, knocked
the ash off his cigar the while he looked at
Selwyn with irritable astonishment.

What a question !' he exclaimed. ' Of
course it is necessary  nothing could be more
necessary. I cannot make out why it seems
utterly impossible to drive even a faint idea
of the enormous importance of this affair into
your head  you are almost as stupid as
Madge, though happily not quite so grossly
prejudiced. Other people can see the matter
in its true proportions. But I suppose I
ought not to complain ; it has been so from
the beginning, and will be so to the end. A
prophet is not without honour, save in his
own country and among his own people.'

Indeed you are mistaken, Mr. Trosdale,

if you think I do not appreciate you,' answered
unhappy Selwyn.

Whether went on Mr. Trosdale, with a
judicial air, ' it is worse to be born blind, or,
seeing, voluntarily to remain blind, I cannot
pretend to decide  the result is the same.
But you are still young, Serle, and in your
own interest I earnestly advise you to shake
off that narrow habit of mind a Government
office always engenders. Now just listen,
my good fellow, to a letter I received this
afternoon, and contrast the large view, the
great grip of mind, with your own petty groping
after paltry details.'

Having delivered himself of which little
commination service, he fumbled in his pocket,
muttering impatiently as he drew forth first
one envelope and then another, which did
not prove to be what he expected.

Tut  that's from Dandison, treacherous
hound ; Hope  Stewart  Blake  bills 
bills. Pshaw ! Ah ! here it is. Now
listen with all your ears, Serle. This is
from '

Mr. Trosdale, apparently thinking better
or worse of the matter, did not say who it
VOL. III. 41

was from, but spread out the letter on his
knee, and read :

'* It seems to me of the greatest importance
that you should arrange to reside in London
without any delay. I suggested this, you
know, when we parted, and I now urge it
more strongly. Hodson Is still away, but
there is much that can be done while waiting
for his return. I see more clearly than ever
that your furnace is going to be a big thing,
and I urge you not to let any supine delay
mar the prospect of a huge success. Success
of such magnitude I take to be very much a
matter of promptitude." '

x\t this point Mr. Trosdale paused and
raised his head, as if to assure himself that
Selwyn was attending. Satisfied on this
point, for Selwyn was listening with all his
ears, he read on, emphasising every word as
if he felt he had at last come to the important
part of his letter 

*' You know," this Is what my friend says,
'' you gave me a certain amount of authority
to act for you " (I did  that is quite true), " so
I have half engaged lodgings for you in Frith

Street, Soho, and if I hear, as I shall hope to
hear, that you are coming up at once, I will
complete the bargain. You won't do much
better. The landlady is clean and honest 
she comes from Thorpe-Constantine and I
know some of her people

At this point, which certainly was not the
end of that important epistle, Mr. Trosdale
stopped and placed it carefully in his pocket,
saying as he did so :

There is more in the letter, but nothing
material to this issue.'

Shall you take those lodgings ?' asked
Selwyn, who was trembling as if he had come
in out of the cold.

I have taken them,' returned Mr. Trosdale.
I telegraphed at once to my friend that I
would take them from the first of next month.'

Only a week ahead,' commented Selwyn.

Only a week ahead, thank God !' repeated
Mr. Trosdale, in a tone of repressed triumph.
I have told Madge she must for once take a
holiday, and she will be ready. ' And now to
come to what I want you to do  you will help
me, won't you ?'

412

So far as I can,' answered Selwyn, not
very enthusiastically.

You can help me greatly. Stay on here
till I find a way to get rid of this house.
Know nothing about me, except that I have
gone to London on business of importance,
and that the time of my return is uncertain.
I want to keep my mind clear to attend to the
furnace, and any confounded worry connected
with this place might upset me altogether.
You understand.'

Oh yes !' answered Selwyn, but he did not
in the least.

I think that is all I had to say,' remarked
Mr. Trosdale, with the air of a man who felt
a good evening's work was finished, adding
as a sort of afterthought : ' You have laid me
under another obligation, Serle  but I shall
be able to repay you all soon.'

It somehow happened that Mr. Harrison's
visit to Shropshire was prolonged by several
weeks beyond the limits he had assigned to it.
There was a pleasant party staying in the
house, including some old friends of his, all
of whom united with the host in searching
for every pretext which might defer his

departure. He himself was not unwilling to
linger. And It thus happened that he did
not return to town until the middle of the
month following that in which he had visited
St. Paul's Square.

As he crossed the square of Somerset
House on the morning after his arrival he
was stopped by the Secretary.

Ha ! Harrison, I didn't expect you for
some days yet. Tut, man, the rain in
London would have got on very well without
you for a while. I'm off myself to Inverness
on Friday, and don't mean to return a day
sooner than I can help.'

That's all very well for you said Mr.
Harrison, smiling. ' When I am Secretary
I shall extend my ideas of leave. Being as
I am, I think a month in a year quite
enough.'

Gad ! I never thought so, even when I
was an underling in the Treasury. So you
failed to bring Trosdale to reason ' How was

that r

Failed. I did, certainly ; but how comes
it you know that ? I have some hopes still.'

Then you are not aware he has resigned }'

Resigned ?' Mr. Harrison repeated the
word in a tone of such dismal surprise that
the Secretary burst into laughter.

There, I see you know nothing about it.'
he said. ' While you were in Shropshire the
whole thing has been settled here. Of course,
I should have done nothing without seeing
you ; but the man sent in his resignation, and
a very stiff letter with it, so worded there
really was only one course left open : we were
forced to accept. I managed to get his
pension through all right. I had some difficulty
about it, though, for I fancy the case
really was a questionable one.'

Poor Martin!' said Mr. Harrison. * I am
afraid he has acted rashly.'

The man's behaved like a damned ass !*
replied the Secretary ; * but I suppose he
knows his own business best. Dine with us
to-night, Harrison  we are quite alone 
and tell Lady Adela all you saw in Shropshire.'


But Mr. Harrison excused himself on the
plea of a prior engagement.

Later in the day he sought out Mr. Grandison.
That gentleman he found enjoying a

Steak and a pint of porter In the seclusion of
his own comfortably furnished room.

I'm glad to see you back, Mr. Harrison,'
observed the Chief-Inspector. ' Do you mind
my going on with my luncheon ? I understood
you had returned ; and I presumed you
would like to see the papers in the case of
your friend Trosdale ; but I have been too
much occupied to bring them up. You will
find them on the slab of my desk. No, not
those  the larger bundle.'

'Thanks,' said Mr. Harrison ; ' if I shall
not be in your way I will look at them here.'
Not in the least. You may find something
which needs explanation.'

As he read the papers Mr. Harrison could
not but admit that Trosdale had been wholly
in the stone. The letters addressed to him
were courteous, and, under the circumstances,
forbearing. His replies, on the other hand,
were characterized by a tone of irritation
which was certainly unfitting in a man addressing
his official superiors. It was a hopeless
case. Throughout the correspondence it was
plain that there could be only one result ;
and, critically as Mr. Harrison scanned it, he

found nothing which supped him with a
ground for quarrel with Mr. Dandison.

I feel very sorry about the matter,'
remarked the latter affably when his colleague
laid the correspondence down. Mt is always
painful to see a useful career terminated in
this way.'

Yes ; and I am afraid there are more
tangible reasons for regret in this case  for
there can hardly fail to be somewhat bitter
poverty.'

Are you quite sure of that, Mr. Harrison ?'
asked the Chief Inspector with a meaning
smile.

As sure as I can be of anything. May I
ask why you doubt it .'

I don't doubt anything you are positive
about. But, if you are not sure, I may tell
you that, in going up and down the country
with my eyes and ears open, I hear many
scraps of intelligence ; and I don't think I am
beyond the mark in stating that Trosdale has
considerable savings.'

There is some mistake, I fear. Tros-
dale is certainly a poor man.'

The Chief Inspector shrugged his shoulders.

That depends on the standard you set up
he answered. ' We are all poor men here ;
but yet, those of us who have lived prudently
own a few pounds, put away in the foot of a
stocking somewhere ; and I am far from
blaming Trosdale for having lived economically.
His daughter may thank him now for
any little privations she has had to endure.
A small house in an unfashionable
quarter, with a somewhat reduced household,
is not a high price to pay for ease now that
a crisis has come. I am tolerably certain of
the correctness of what I say, Harrison.
More than one person in Liverpool will tell
you the same.'

Though the idea was quite new to him,
it did not seem improbable to ]Mr. Harrison.
Trosdale could not be living up to his income
in St. Paul's Square ; the money must
have gone somewhere, and he had no
grounds whatever beyond his own suspicions
for saying it had been frittered away in unprofitable
experiments. It was by no means
unlikely the Surveyor had been laying
money by  that would account easily enough
for the hot-headed, independent temper in

which he had treated the matter of h

IS

suspension.

 I can't say you are wrong, Dandison,'
observed Mr. Harrison, rising from his seat.
I  hope, with all my heart, that you are
right.'

I am pretty sure of it.'

And with that the two men parted. Mr.
Harrison returning to his own room, where
he at once wrote to Madge, expressing his
regret at her father's resolution, and his
anxiety to know whether there was still anyway
in which he could serve her.

The answer, which arrived by return of
post, was very brief. It thanked him for
his kindness in a few words, which evidently
came from the heart of the writer, and assured
him that there was no way in which
he could aid her father, who did not in fact
stand in need of assistance of any sort.

It was not in Mr. Harrison's nature to
take offence on any save the strongest
grounds ; but he felt some annoyance. It
was not only that his old friend had taken
in the most hasty way what he conceived to
be a fatal step ; but he felt that he himself

had not been dealt with quite openly. Tros-
dale might as well have told him he had
money laid by ; the time had been when
nothing would have been kept secret by the
one friend from the other. And the solicitude
he had shown for Trosdale's interest
would have warranted the confidence. However,
he had not done so, and now there
seemed to be no alternative but to leave him
to his own way.

He wrote another note to Madge ere long,
begging her to communicate with him if she
was ever in any difficulty or trouble, and had
no competent adviser near at hand.

This letter Madge did not answer. It
reached her on the morning of the day on
which she left her home in Liverpool, for a
time only, as she imagined, but, as it proved,
for ever.

It would be hard to analyze the motives
which determined Mr. Trosdale to take his
daughter to London with him. He was not
wont to show any desire for her company ;
and she was as much surprised as Selwyn
at hearing that she was not to remain behind
with Mrs. Graham, as was usual during her

father's absences from home. Mr. Trosdale
had not, in fact, any clear grasp of his own
mind at this time. His faculties were concentrated
wholly on the furnace; any question
which bore, however remotely, on that topic,
he would consider rationally and temperately,
but beyond that point all was chaos. His
actions in other matters were determined by
impulse ; his opinions on other subjects were
in abeyance. If he had been asked what
he thought of his daughter's engagement, he
could have given no intelligible answer, save
a peevish expression of impatience at being
troubled. It was an evident annoyance to
him that Selwyn should have chosen this
particular time to allow his feelings to become
too much for him, and he said bluntly,
more than once, that he was disappointed at
finding his young friend so incapable of appreciating
the relative importance of events.

At first irritable speeches, such as these,
had absolutely no effect on Selwyn ; they
failed utterly to pierce the atmosphere of
perfect happiness in which he moved. It
was, with him, one of those rare periods
in life when all the common objects of existence

seem tinged with gold and rose, when
the past is flushed with the reflexion of present
happiness, and the future way stretches
out across a land which only smiles and
tempts the traveller onward. Every care
was thrust aside ; anxiety for the future he
had none. He was perfectly happy ; and if
he was conscious of a wish ungratified, it
was that the hours might not speed past so
quickly, but leave him more time to taste his
joy.

It was a sore breach in this elysium when
it was decided that Adore should eo to
London. Madge did not discuss the matter
with her father, or offer the least opposition,
but at once began to make her preparations.

You will get on very wells alone,|Serle,
I suppose ?' said Mr. Trosdale, on the evening
before his departure.

I suppose I shall,' answered Selwyn, who
felt that the iron had entered into his soul.

But an hour afterwards, finding Madge
alone in the drawing-room, he began pleading
to her so passionately not to forget]him,
that Madge was quite dismayed.

Listen, Selwyn,' she said. * I cannot tell

you exactly when I shall return. I don't
know why my father is going to London,
or how honos he means to stay. The future
is dark before me, and I try not to look into
it even so far as a week in advance. Be
patient, my dear boy, and trust me that I
shall wish for our meeting as much as you.
It may be very soon ; but if it is long, remember
that my place is with my father, and
that you do not really wish me to neglect
him.'

And very early next morning she was

gone.

MR. KERRY IS UPLIFTED.

Selwyn was left alone in the house
in St. Paul's Square, out of which
 had come such potent influence on
his life, when Mr. Trosdale and Madge had
departed, and an intermittent correspondence
was the only link that bound him to them.
He felt the loneliness of his position deeply,
the shadow of abandonment upon the old
home which could never be removed.

At any moment he was able to recall the
aspect of the now deserted rooms on a hundred
days and evenings in the past  could hear
Madge playing on the old familiar piano, and
see the Surveyor staring gloomily at the fire
with his hands clasped behind his head. But
it was always at some past remembrance

that these figures sprang into life before his
eyes ; never could he imagine them in the
same well-known attitudes in the time to
come.

]mr. Trosdale's letters, too, were rare and
meagre in the extreme ; he could not gather
from them what success his late chief was
meeting with ; and Madge's epistles, exhaustive
as they were, contained no information
on this point, about which it was obvious that
she knew nothing.

It was a dreary thing to go about the house,
contrasting its abandoned aspect with the
pleasant air of habitation it had worn 'informer
days. To do so weighed on Selwyn's
spirits to such an extent that he restricted
himself at last to two rooms on the ground-floor,
and hardly ever entered any of the
others.

Here then he lived for some time after
Mr. Trosdale's departure, working hard
and late at his office, and advancing with
rapid strides towards a mastery over his
work. His leisure hours were spent in preparing
for the qualifying examination which
every Assistant-Surveyor has to pass before

his appointment is ratified. He found that he
had still much to do before he could be in
such a state of preparation as to present himself
before his examiners without a qualm ;
and he had set his heart on passing a brilliant
examination, not only because he understood
that the result would determine his seniority,
but also because he saw in that an opportunity
of recovering some of the ground he had
so unfortunately lost with Mr. Dandison.

The time was short : he had already received
a warning that early in the autumn he
was to be called up for examination, after
which, if successful, he would receive the
parchment commission from the Treasury
which should ' constitute and appoint ' him
to be a Surveyor of Taxes, with full power
and authority to do and execute all such
matters and things as are by any Act of
Parliament appointed to be done and executed
by a Surveyor, and generally to act
as such Surveyor.'

This summons had arrived earlier in
Selwyn's case than was usual, the Board
of Inland Revenue being, as Mr. Kerry put
it, in the position of the man who had spread

VOL. III. 42

a feast and (through the Civil Service Commissioners)
invited guests, but yet found half
the seats vacant at his banquet. Selwyn had
expected that another six months at least
would be allowed to him for preparation.
He was, however, thanks to Mr. Kerry,
fairly well equipped, and under the tuition of
the Surveyor who had replaced Mr. Tros-
dale he was fast becoming qualified to take
sole charge of a district.

Mr. John McClosky, who now sat in Mr.
Trosdale's seat, was in almost every respect
the opposite of his predecessor. He came
from Glasgow, and was consequently a
member of a nation Mr. Trosdale, notwithstanding
the Scotch need for furnaces, despised
with his whole heart. Mr. McClosky
had a vast capacity for work, was most
precise in his dress, punctual in his attendance
at the office, chary of his words, never
swore nor showed impatience, and yet
managed speedily to get the work into order.

It was a matter of complete indifference to
a man of Mr. McClosky's energy whether he
had a clerk who was acquainted with the
work or not ; and he summarily dismissed

both the men Mr. Cramsey had introduced,
replacing one of them with a short, sallow
individual, who was of his own nationality,
and who, like his employer, wore a blue
ribbon in his buttonhole.

From this time a new order of things was
instituted in Third Liverpool. Confusion
and untidiness disappeared as if by magic
under Mr. McClosky's touch. The dusty
piles of paper, of which no one knew the
contents, that adorned the corners of the
office in Mr. Trosdale's time, were all neatly
docketed and stowed away in order. There
was no longer any noise or confusion in the
office ; each person had his appointed work,
and was expected to do it without discussion.
Least of all was there any profane swearing,
which was a thing greatly abhorred by the
new Surveyor ; and when a week or two
after his arrival Mr. Kerry entered jauntily,
his thumbs in the armholes of his waistcoat,
and burst at once into his usual salutation :
'Well, Mr. McClosky, hows the bloody
tax ?' the gentleman addressed laid down his
pen, and turning round in his chair so as to
face the delinquent, inquired sternly :

42  2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

Have you no fear of hell-fire in your hair,
Mr. Daniel Kerry ?'

Forsake !' ejaculated the astonished Mr.
Kerry. 'Why do ye ask me a question like
that for ?'

Let me tell you,' replied Mr. McClosky,
in a perfectly unimpassioned voice, 'that
there's sure Scripture warrant for believing
that they who go forth in the streets uttering
profane oaths, and thereby polluting their
tongues, which were meant to utter godly
words, will be scorched with the hottest
flames in the life to come.'

With which words Mr. McClosky resumed
his work, taking no further notice of Mr.
Kerry, who slunk away quite thunderstruck
at this reception of a remark to which he
attached no more meaning than to an inquiry
touching the state of the weather.

May I die if he didn't talk as if no one
knew anything about hell-fire except himself,'
grumbled the Irishman on the same evening
to Selwyn, as they sat in the parlour immediately
below Miss Dormer's sanctum. * Who's
he, to be so mighty particular ?'

Well, really, you know,' returned Selwyn,

" bloody " is not a word in common use even
in tax-offices

I don't care if it isn't. It's a good word,
it's short, and it means a lot. What more do
you want in a word ?  tell me that !'

Oh, it's short enough,' replied Selwyn,
and it's expressive, as you say. But still,
I'm not altogether surprised that Mi.
McClosky didn't like it.'

Those Scotch are so mealy-mouthed,'
mused Mr. Kerry. 'Why, a hot potato 'd
blister them. It comes of drinking that
poison they call Scotch whisky, as if there
could be more than one whisky, and that
Irish.'

Selwyn was accustomed to find that his
friend became somewhat intolerant when the
merits of Irish whisky were uppermost in
his mind, and he therefore brought the conversation
into a safer channel by inquiring :

Have you heard of any promotions lately?'

There isn't any more to hear of until I
hear of my own. They've given Barnstaple
to Webb, and I'm next on the list.'

Are you, indeed ' Then you may be promoted
any day.'

That's what Dandison said. Faith, I'll bea
rich man then, and able to do what I like.'

Within limits, I suppose. Your salary
will not be boundless. For instance, you
wouldn't be able to keep hunters on it.'

Who wants them ?' replied Mr. Kerry
loftily. ' But I'll get a tricycle, and you can
do everything with that that you can with a
hunter, bar jumping gates and hedges, which
isn't safe at any time. No, my boy, what I
mean is Fll be my own master, so that I
can shut up my office when I like, and go
courting.'

So, then, you're in love. You didn't tell
me that.'

'Who's in love .' demanded Mr. Kerry.
 It's just a way of speaking  everybody
understands it. If any one's in love, maybe
it's you yourself, though you are not much
like a lover.'

To which last statement Selwyn agreed ;
and then, fearing to be questioned further, he
took leave of his friend and went home,
pleading a headache.

This conversation is merely a sample of
many which took place about this time, when

the two friends spent an evening together.
Mr. Kerry was, In fact, not quite easy regarding
the part he had played during the inquisitorial
visit of the Chief-Inspector ; and he had
never ventured to tell Selwyn of his interview
with Mr. Dandison, rightly judging that his
friend would have strongly resented such an
attempt to force him out of the connection in
which he had chosen to Involve himself. Like
most people who have meddled in the lives of
others, Mr. Kerry began to find, when it was
too late, that he had assumed a vast responsibility,
and to wish he had allowed his
friend to steer his own course, even though
it took him on the rocks. As, however, this
was now Impossible, he was impelled to make
what amends he could by seeking Selwyn
more than usual, and by urging him constantly
to spend the evening in his rooms.
This Selwyn was very well inclined to do, for
apart from his liking for the Irishman, he was
well aware that he benefited largely by the
latter's shrewd views of official matters, and
his large experience of tax work.

In his preparations Selwyn also obtained
great assistance from Mr. McClosky, who was

an excellent tutor. He was pleased to approve
of his Assistant's conduct, and seeing
the young man punctual in the mornings, and
zealous in his work, sent off a glowing report
of him to Mr. Dandison, embellished with a
quotation from Burns, and devoted himself
as far as the extreme pressure of work would
allow him to storing Selwyn's mind with all
kinds of knotty points which had presented
themselves during the course of his long
practical career.

The mither may forget the child
That smiles sae blithely on her knee,'

he said one morning, at the end of a long and
learned discourse upon tithes. ' D'ye know
that song, ]mr. Serle ?'

I do not,' answered Selwyn, adding cautiously,
* do you think the sentiment is true T

True, man ! We've the Bible, to say
nothing of our own poet, for it. " The mither,"
that's " mother," you know  'may forget
the child," ' and Mr. McClosky swung his
forefinger slowly in the air to emphasize the
rhythm, ' '' that smiles sae blithely on her
knee." It's just what children do. '' But

I'll ne'er forget  thee, ne'er  ne'er  forget

thee, ne'er " "Tammie" Is it? Well,

well ! I declare I've forgotten how the verse
goes. But that'll show you what a lovely
poem it is, and ye'll not find another like it in
the wide world. And the application of it is
this, Mr. Serle. If ye once get the doctrine
of tithes into your head you'll never forget it.'

I hope not, indeed,' said Selwyn, ' for it
has been a tough job to learn it.'

Ye may say that. And ye may add this,
that not ten men in the service understand it ;
and that's why they get so befuddled when
they're set down in a country district with no
one to counsel them. Now you keep what I've
told you clear in your head, and ye'll see the
whole scheme of country assessments as plain
as noonday.'

As Mr. McClosky said this the office-door
opened and Mr. Kerry entered. Not with
his usual careless gait, however, but drawn
up to his full height, and with such an elated
expression on his countenance as one might
expect to see on that of a General who has
just witnessed the success of his own strategy.

Weel, weel ! what's the matter with the

man ?' exclaimed Mr. McClosky. ' Are ye
going to be married, Mr. Daniel Kerry ? oris
a great fortune left to you, that you come
in looking like that ?'

Don't be shouting at me,' said Mr. Kerry
loftily, ' or poking fun at me either. I've
come to tell you I'm promoted, and I'm a
Surveyor myself now.'

Selwyn sprang up and seized his friend's
hand.

My dear fellow, I congratulate you,' he
said. * When did you get the news ? Why
didn't you come in here earlier ?'

Hear him !' said the newly-appointed Surveyor
to Mr. McClosky ; * see how impatient
these young chaps are ! It's all fire and fury
with them, just as if there wasn't a minute to
lose.'

Mr. Kerry said this with an air of great
dignity,

Hoot, toots !' exclaimed Mr. McClosky,
ye know all young people are foolish. And
ye're no that old yourself, Mr. Kerry, though
it has pleased Providence to make you a Surveyor.'


It wasn't Providence, man,' objected Mr.

Kerry. ' It was Dandlson  long life to him !
to say nothing of my own merits,' added
the Surveyor modestly.

Where are they going to send you,
Kerry ?' Interposed Selwyn quickly. ' Are
you to have your district at once ?'

No ; I'm to be at Somerset House,' Mr.
Kerry replied, ' ready to give them advice
when they want it.'

Mr. McClosky smiled, a superior kind of
smile, as If he doubted mightily whether anyone
who knew his business would go to Mr.
Kerry for counsel.

As to that he observed, * you'd best bide
a bit, and make out where ye are, before
offering advice to anybody. There's no way
young men spoil their fortune so fast as trying
to force their opinions on men who might be
their grandfathers. Old men don't like it 
and they're right.'

Mr. Kerry sniffed.

By the time a man's old enough to be my
grandfather, he's too old for his work,' he
said. * I'd have all old men bundled out of
the offices, and set aside a wing of Somerset
House for them, and let Government provide

them each with a basin of gruel twice a day
and a red woollen comforter every winter.
And then, with the terrace to walk up and
down on, they'd soon catch cold and die, and
make way for their betters.'

You're a very foolish young man,' said
Mr. McClosky, regarding this in the light of
a serious suggestion. * What good would
water-gruel do them ? And Government has
something else to think about than knitting
comforters for old men. Ye might have
thought of that. But it isn't here as in
heartsome Scotland, where a man doesn't
speak unless he's got something to say.'

I suppose,' asked Selwyn, ' that you are
allowed a week or so to arrange all your
affairs in Liverpool ?'

Not me,' replied his friend vehemently ;

'those bloody scoundrels Well, well,

Mr. McClosky, saving your presence, it's justa
word. They've not given me more than
two days, and how I'll get ready at all, devil
a one of me knows. There's my drawers and
my desks here to be cleared out ; and they're
every one chock full of the Lord knows what,
that'll have to be sorted out. And there's all

my things to be packed, and lots of people
to say good-bye to. I'll have to go now and
begin. I'll see ye again to-night, Serle, you
villain.'

Stop a bit,' said Mr. McClosky. ' I'm a
good deal older than you are, my lad, and I'm
right glad you're promoted. But ye'll just
take my advice, and hold yourself in hand.
Ye're rash, and just a wee foolish. Now
don't toss your head like that, for there's no
sin like pride. We've got good brains, and a
heart that's in the right place ; and ye'll maybe
do well, though we'd have a better chance
if you wore the ribbon.'

Phooh !' said Mr. Kerry.

Well, if you won't it's a free country said
Mr. McClosky, ' and no man's bound to be
saved because a rope's thrown out to him.
I'll only say this now : just try and get your
head clear about tithes.'

Tithes !' ejaculated Mr. Kerry, touched
in his tenderest point. * What is there about
tithes that I don't know ?'

A good lot, I'm thinking,' answered Mr.
McClosky.

I'd be glad to know it then,' Mr. Kerry

rejoined. ' Perhaps ye'll tell me. I haven't
been learning for eight years to much purpose
if I don't know it now.'

Ah ! Ye'll find out ; have patience for a
little while. Ye'll get into your troubles soon
enough. Now be off and get your packing
done, and come in here again before you go,
just to shake hands.'

A proud young man,' he soliloquized as
the door closed behind Mr. Kerry ; * by pride
the angels fell, and I doubt it'll be too much
for poor Daniel Kerry.'

MR. KERRY S FAREWELL.

T was late on the same afternoon.
Selwyn had worked hard all day
at a task which was thoroughly
uncongenial to him ; and, in order that he
might finish it, and half expecting Mr. Kerry
to come in, he remained at his desk for nearly
an hour after his chief and the clerks had
gone. At length the last Item was checked,
and the balance taxable according to the
Income Tax Acts duly brought out ; the
various accounts were separately tied up and
endorsed with a statement of their contents ;
and then Selwyn got up from his chair, and,
throwing both arms wearily over his head,
wondered where Mr. Kerry could be, and

why he had not kept his promise of coming
in again that evening.

It was useless to stay there wondering, he
decided, for Mr. Kerry's usual time of departure
had long since passed, and it was now
nearly seven o'clock. He changed his coat,
therefore, and was just about to put on his
hat, when the door opened. He turned
round, thinking that Mr. Kerry must have
returned for him, but it was Tom the porter
who entered.

What, Tom !' cried Selwyn, * how is it
you're not off duty ? I thought you were
only in charge in the daytime ?'

'That's so, Mr. Serle ; but Tm a bit late
to-night. I wish you'd come upstairs, sir,
into the laboratory  Mr. Kerry's there ; and
he's rather queer.'

Queer ? What do you mean ?'

Listen !' said Tom ; ' you can hear him
singing.'

He held the door open, and certainly
Selwyn did hear a voice which, though
muffled by the distance, he recognised as that
of his friend, dolefully uplifted. He hastened
up the narrow winding stairs which led from

the corridor to the laboratory, followed closely
by Tom, who explained :

He do make such a noise, sir, when he's
excited, that I thought I'd better come for
you, for fear somebody else might hear him.'

On reaching the top of the stairs, Selwyn
could at first see nothing, the gloom of the
chamber, called by courtesy ' the laboratory,'
seemed so profound. A single jet of gas at
the farther side of the room revealed the
darkness rather than dispelled it, and though
there was also a lighted lantern, this had been
placed on the ground behind a huge cask, so
that it did not mend matters materially. The
ceiling was vaulted, and had a damp, almost
slimy appearance ; the walls were thickly
ornamented with cobwebs, and the floor was
strewn with fresh sawdust.

While Selwyn was taking in these details
his eyes had adapted themselves to the want
of light, and he was able to perceive the
lank form of his friend seated astride ona
cask. Mr. Kerry was apparently in the.
height of good spirits, for he was chanting
lustily, while on the ground beside him sat
his friend Tillotson of the Excise, in whose

VOL. III. 43

charge the laboratory had been left. Tillot-
son's face bore its gravest expression ashe
listened, with the greatest seriousness, to
Mr. Kerry's song, beating gently on the sawdust
with a pewter measure whenever any
sentiment was expressed which bore upon
love ; and, on the occasion of Mr. Kerry
reaching a climax in his lay, Tillotson
gathered himself together, and gave vent
to a prolonged * Hur-oo-oo-o !' which made
the vaulted ceiling ring. But such interruptions
were not well received by Mr.
Kerry, who, on each occasion, paused, and
cast a severe look downwards on the offender,
ere gravely resuming his lay.

See here, Tillotson/ said Mr. Kerry at
last, ' if you can't stop bellowing in that way
I'll have to put in a chorus, because there's a
lot more verses yet, and you knock them all out
of my head. Sure I've forgot already about
the good priest being left on the roof in his
shirt. Now, will you listen ? . . . . chorus,
*' Toory-oory-oory-oory, fol-de-liddle-oory."
You may sing that after every verse. Now,
leave me alone till I bid you open your
mouth.' And the sincerer chanted :

An' Judy said, *' You're very kind,

I'll take a little taste,
But not too much, nor yet too strong.
Here's luck !  but where's the prate ?"

Join in, man  chorus: '* Toory-oory-oory-
tory, fol-de-liddle-oory !" '

Tillotson's lungs found room for legitimate
exercise in the chorus, which struck him as so
beautiful, and so well adapted to the song,
that he went on singing ' Oory-oory, fol-diddle,'
long after Mr. Kerry had stopped and
was looking at him with an air of intense
astonishment.

Oory-oory ' sang Tillotson.

'Will you hold your tongue .' shouted Mr.
Kerry, enforcing his question with a sharp
rap with the pewter on his friend's head.
'You do it right enough, but you go on too
long. Now listen again what Dan said  the
thundering liar  when he knew all the time
the poor prate was saying his prayers on the
roof :

And Dan replied, " He's safe inside

His own presbeeteree."
I didn't see him go," she said.
'* I did," said Dan McPhee.

432

Chorus : " Toory-oory-oory-oory, ."
'

A glance from Mr. Kerry warned Tillotson
against allowing his enthusiasm to run away
with him a second time; and, rubbing his
head just where the new Surveyor's pewter
had fallen, he relapsed into silence, whilst
Mr. Kerry proceeded :

*' It's well he's not about," said Dan.
And that's the truth," said she,
There's whisky here enough for two 
But not enough for three." '

It somehow happened this rather selfish
sentiment struck an answering chord in
Tillotson's breast. He burst into the chorus
with an absolute howl of pleasure, and
screamed out  Toory-oory, fol-de-liddle,
toory-oory-oory !' with a vehemence that
nothing could check. He paid no attention
whatever to Mr. Kerry's remonstrances, and
only put up his hands to defend his head
from the assaults of the pewter measure.
Finally he sprang up from the floor, and,
tossing his arms into the air, began to execute
some wild kind of improvised hornpipe. Mr.

Kerry several times adjured him to sit down
and hear the rest of the song ; but to no
purpose : he continued to dance more and
more wildly, until, becoming giddy, he staggered
up against Tom and Selvvyn, who had
been standing in the shadow of the entrance.
He uttered a shrill scream of terror, not
being aware of their presence ; and Tom,
with an ejaculation of disgust, gave him a
rough push, which caused Mr. Tillotson to
measure his length on the floor. Mr. Kerry
was as superstitious as he was high, and when
he saw his friend's discomfiture, wrought by
no visible means (for Selwyn and Tom were
still standing in the shadow), he rose from
the cask trembling all over, and called out :

Holy St. Bridget bless and save us and
keep us from a bad end ! What's there '
Come out of that and show yourself, if
you're flesh and blood !'

What else should I be ?' asked Selwyn,
stepping forward ; ' have you lost your eyesight,
Kerry ? You'd have seen me long
ago, if you hadn't been so busy singing.'

May I never drink again if it isn't that
young snipe Selwyn, and Tom with him T

exclaimed the Irishman, obviously relieved.
He wiped his forehead of the sweat that had
gathered on it, and then said : * Sure, I knew
you all the time, only I thought I'd frighten
you a bit

There was somebody frightened, right
enough,' said Tom with a grin, and Selwyn
answered :

You're making a horrible noise up here,
Kerry. Suppose we go and have some tea
together. I haven't had mine yet.'

More shame for you, then,' retorted Mr.
Kerry, helping Tillotson up from the floor,
and shaking him ; * there, you're all right
now. By the powers, he looks dazed ! Sit
down, man, and you'll walk like a bishop by-and-by
;' with which remark he led the exciseman
to a rough bit of staging placed against
the wall, from which a cask had been removed,
and propped him up with the utmost
care. Then, as he stepped back with his
head on one side to observe the effect of his
work, he said scornfully, reverting to Selwyn's
proposal : * Tea is it that you'd have me
drink ' I'm not going to do anything of
the sort, then. I've tasted the blessed poteen

this day, that's Hke the golden dew from
heaven with the stars dissolved in it ; and
it isn't likely I'm going to put any cat-lap
down my throat after.'

With which remark he took up his pewter
measure once more, and beating it against the
cask on which he had been sitting, burst out :

There, me boy, hear that tinkle ; like a
armstrong with your fingers on it ! What's
that now ? Tell me what it is that sings ?'

And, indeed, the cask did give forth the
most musical note, quite as if some deep-toned
instrument were really hidden in it.

Whisky, I suppose,' said Selwyn.

Faugh !' replied the Irishman; 'it's the
sweet air blowing, and the bees humming
in the honeysuckle blossoms, and the cows
coming home to milk, and the stream, with
the trout in it, running under the alders,
all singing together, my boy, and a lot more
too, if you only knew it. Liquid gold, and
sparkling sunlight, and life and strength to
all creatures,' Mr. Kerry added, with a
vague recollection of some scriptural phrase.

He sat down again on the cask as he
finished speaking, and began singing in a half

whisper : * Toory-oory-oory, fol-de-liddle,
toory-oory.' The very sound of these magic
words produced an immediate effect on the
motionless figure of Tillotson, propped up
against the opposite wall. It stirred slightly,
and ' Toory-oory ' was heard to issue from
between its lips.

Whurroo !' shouted Mr. Kerry, at the
top of his voice ; ' the dead's come to life.'

I say, Kerry, don't make such a noise,'
entreated Selwyn ; ' some one will hear you.*

Mr. Cramsey's come back, gentlemen,'
observed Tom, who had disappeared for the
last few minutes, * and he's sitting working
with his door ajar.'

I don't care a twopenny damn for Mr.
Cramsey or anybody else,' said Mr. Kerry ;
and then, unconsciously quoting Marshal
MacMahon, he added : * I'm here, and I'm
going to stay.'

Having made which statement, he burst
out again into song :

" But Danny, darling," Judy said,
What's that upon the thatch ?"
It's cats, or rats, or bats," he said, .

Tm murdered if I've not forgotten the

last line ! But it doesn't matter, we'll take
it out in chorus. Now, Tillotson, you civil,
will you sing ? ** Toory-oory, toory-oory !" '

Mr. Kerry bounced up and down on his
cask, snapping his fingers above his head to
give animation to the chorus, till he had
wound himself up to the requisite pitch of
excitement. Then, seizing Tillotson round
the waist, he began to perform a kind of
waltz, shrieking his chorus at the utmost
power of his lungs. The noise reverberated
from the roof, and echoed and re-echoed
round the walls. Tom became infected with
the burden of the chorus, and began to hum
mournfully to himself :

Toory-oory  we shall hear more of this ;
fol-de-liddle  he's a regular demon when the
drink is in him ; toory-oory  may I never,
if Mr. Cramsey haven't got wind of him.'

At that moment the oily voice of Mr.
Cramsey was indeed heard calling from the
corridor below :

Is hell broke loose up there ? It'll be bad
for you if I have to come up to you.'

Do be quiet, Kerry,' said Selwyn.
You'll get into trouble

But Mr. Kerry paid not the smallest
attention. He continued his dance, and
shrieked, if possible, more loudly than before,
till Mr. Cramsey lost patience, and his heavy
step was heard on the stair. In an instant,
as if he had been merely waiting for that, Mr.
Kerry sprang to the gas-jet and turned it out.
At thes ane moment he dashed the lantern on
the floor, thus leaving the laboratory in total
darkness, and, pushing Tillotson before him,
and followed closely by Selwyn, he rushed
down the stairs with such force as to propel
Mr. Cramsey back into the corridor, and to
throw him sprawling on his back. Before he
could be identified by the astounded Surveyor
he had turned out the gas in the
corridor, and, with his two friends, made good
his escape into the street.

That's on account of old scores,' he
observed, pausing to take breath at the
bottom of Duke Street. ' Davey won't come
to work in the evening again for a while, I'm
thinking.'

He spoke quite soberly, and as if during
his life he had never drunk anything stronger
than water.

Good-night, Tillotson/ he said. * Serle,
you're coming to my rooms ?'

And he thrust his arm through Selwyn's,
and walked quietly up the street.

As they marched along Selwyn could not
but marvel at the sudden change which had
come over his companion. Whether the fresh
air was the cause of it, or whether it was that
Mr. Kerry's wild spirits had been only
assumed, he could not decide. But certainly
no one of the passers-by could have imagined
that the sedate, grave man, who walked with
a slight stoop, and listened to Selwyn's voice
with an air of kindly interest, was the same
with the whooping maniac who only ten
minutes before had trundled Mr. Cramsey
head over heels down the narrow laboratory
stairs. Mr. Kerry's spirits had, in fact, taken
a mournful turn.

It's long it will be before we walk up here
again together, Serle,' he observed. * I'll
think of Duke Street very often, and o
Liverpool.'

Perhaps you may be able to come back
some day,' suggested Selwyn.

And find everything changed ; all the old

houses pulled down and turned into shops, and
Miss Dormer maybe married to some civil of
a sea captain !'

You can easily prevent that, you know,'
answered Selwyn, ' if you choose.'

And the old offices let to the Post Office
as likely as not,' continued Mr. Kerry, wilfully
disregarding his friend's insinuation,
and all my old friends gone away or married,
or dead, and Tillotson hung, maybe  'tis
likely enough. No, Selwyn, don't you ever
go back anywhere ! It's no more like what it
used to be than getting into your father's
grave is like being with him when he was
alive.'

With which cheerful remark Mr. Kerry,
for almost the last time, put his latch-key into
the door of Miss Dormer's house.

On the threshold of Mr. Kerry's sitting-room
Miss Dormer met them. She was
dressed in a nice brown dress, with thick
folds of soft lace round her throat, and a silver
brooch that her brother, who was drowned
so many years ago (when she was quite a
child, Miss Dormer used to say), had once
brought her from Malta. The room was

unusually neat, and decorated with flowers.
The tea-table was adorned with a spotless
cloth of the finest damask  damask that Miss
Dormer only brought forth on the most
solemn occasions. A cold tongue, garnished
with salad, was flanked by a pair of fowls ;
and fancy bread of many shapes, with the
freshest and coolest butter possible, all bore
witness to the solicitude of Miss Dormer for
her departing lodger. Something more there
was in all this, Selwyn thought, than the
ordinary care of a landlady ; and if further evidence
was wanted it might have been found
by anyone who glanced at Miss Dormer's
eyes, red and swollen, in spite of her cheerful
looks. As she advanced to greet Selwyn she
closed the door of Mr. Kerry's bedroom, which
stood open, revealing a distinct prospect of
trunks already packed.

I can't bear to look at them,' she said, as
if in order to explain her action.

How very late you are,' she went on. * I
sat sewing in the window there, just where I
could look all down the street, thinking every
minute you'd be coming. Every time I heard
a footfall I looked up, making sure it must be

you. I grew quite nervous at last ; I began
to think something must have happened.'

Anxiety has done you good, Miss
Dormer,' said Selwyn ; * I never saw you
look so well.'

Miss Dormer did indeed, despite her red
eyes, look comparatively young, and almost
pretty, as she stood in the window questioning
Selwyn, and the last rays of sunlight
tinged her hair with flame, and flashed
brightly from her glittering brooch. Even
Mr. Kerry glanced at her with evident approval.
Miss Dormer laughed at Selwyn's
compliment, and simpered a little.

But what has kept you .f' she asked.

Business,' said Mr. Kerry oracularly ; but
Selwyn answered :

Kerry has been playing football with a
Surveyor.'

Mr. Cramsey !' gasped Miss Dormer,
divining the truth. Then, clasping her
hands together, she cried, ' He hasn't killed
him ! Tell me, he hasn't hurt him !'

No, no. Miss Dormer, don't be alarmed,'
Selwyn answered. * I don't think the man's
hurt ; I only wish he were.'

For shame !' interposed Miss Dormer,
obviously relieved.

Then Selwyn went on to tell her how he
had found Mr. Kerry in the laboratory,
relating the scene with much humour, while
from time to time Mr. Kerry, who sat regarding
his friend with a grim smile, broke
in with a correction, or an ejaculation, intended
to elucidate the story.

As she listened Miss Dormer glanced once
or twice at Mr. Kerry, as if some doubt
crossed her mind, regarding which she
needed to satisfy herself; but on each of
these occasions she nodded reassuringly to
herself. She frowned, however, when she
heard how Mr. Cramsey had been cast downstairs,
and she said to her lodger :

You shouldn't be so violent, Mr. Kerry.
You forget how strong you are. I'm afraid
he'll have you up at the police court for
this.'

 Phooh !' replied Mr. Kerry, snapping his
fingers. ' How's he to know who it was "
There wasn't as much light as a man could
see to pick his teeth by.'

After which simile they sat down to tea ;

and as the meal proceeded, and the twilight
faded into dusk, and the dusk deepened into
darkness, so that the lamp in the street
shining in through the window threw a red
gleam across the white tablecloth and the
cups and saucers, Miss Dormer became very-melancholy.
She felt, in fact, as a condemned
convict does when the day of his
punishment is turning into night. She would
fain have retarded the flight of the minutes,
and hung a leaden weight on each. But they
continued to fleet away, how fast ! Surely
never time went so quickly.

I'll miss him sadly, Mr. Serle/ said she.
I'll not know what the house is like without
Mr. Kerry in it.'

Of course you'll take another lodger,' said
Mr. Kerry.

Of course I shall do no such thing,' she retorted,
a little vehemently. * I don't need to
take any at all, and that you know.'

There was a moment's pause, and from
the sound of her voice (though it was too
dark to see her face) Selwyn knew that she
turned towards him.

'When Mr. Kerry is gone,' she said, ' I'll

keep the whole house to myself. It'll be
very quiet, of course, and dull too. But it'll
be better than having anybody else ; and
very likely some rackety man who'd want
to have his friends here all night and sit
screaming his songs when he ought to be in
bed and asleep.'

Mr. Kerry was rather impressed by this
devotion to his memory.

Sure I'll write to you now and again,' he
said, ' and tell you all I'm doing.'

Miss Dormer shook her head and sighed.

Young men are so forgetful,' she said.

'And I'll come and see you, if you allow
me,' said Selwyn.

'Will you, Mr. Serle ? Will you really
come ? Now that would be kind. I should
be so much pleased.'

Selwyn won't be here long himself,' interposed
Mr. Kerry, who did not quite relish
the prospect of Miss Dormer enjoying long
evenings tete-astute with a disengaged young
man.

Why, where's he going ?'

Oh, he'll be after getting transferred.'

Miss Dormer looked at Selwyn.

VOL. III. 44

It's one of Kerry's mad fancies,' Selwyn
said. * I have no intention at all of applying
to be transferred added Selwyn a little
sadly.

It's that trooping daughter of Tros-
dale's makes him say that,' ungallantly reflected
Mr. Kerry, who did. not know the
London trip was to last indefinitely. ' Lord,
if I hadn't spoken to Dandison, the lad would
have been thicker than ever with Trosdale
after I'm gone and there's no one to hold
him back.'

The recollection of the wisdom he had
shown in action brought a smile to Mr.
Kerry's face, which was perceived by Selwyn,
since Miss Dormer at that instant had lighted
the gas.

'Well, I'm glad to hear it,' observed Miss
Dormer ; * for to my mind young men are
far too fond of wandering nowadays. They
don't seem to know what the advantages of
a quiet home are.'

They would if they had once lived with
you, Miss Dormer,' replied Selwyn. ' What
are you laughing at, Kerry ?'

But Mr. Kerry stoutly maintained that he

was not laughing, although the last traces of
his satisfied smile were still lingering round
the corners of his mouth when Selwyn
spoke.

They rose from table as the clock on the
stairs struck ten.

I ought to go,' said Selwyn. ' Shall I
see you off in the morning, Kerry ?'

You might,' assented that gentleman, ' if
you happen to be anywhere about Lime
Street station at nine o'clock.'

I'll arrange so that my affairs take me
there. Good-night, Miss Dormer ; it's not
good-bye, you know, with me.'

But no cheerful words could assuage Miss
Dormer's grief. She sighed audibly, and
nearly shed tears as she took Selwyn's hand.

Mr. Kerry accompanied his friend to the
door, and on returning to the sitting-room, he
found Miss Dormer with her head on the
table shedding floods of tears.



TRANSFERRED.

HEN Mr. Kerry had taken his
seat In the London train, and
perceived that he had finally
broken his connection with Liverpool, he was
a proud and happy man. He felt no sort
of regret at leaving that town. Although,
during the six years which had sped by since
he arrived in Liverpool, friendless and almost
penniless, he had made many acquaintances
among people who were congenial to him,
his heart did not give one backward look as
the train hasted through the green fields,
unless it were towards Selwyn or Miss Dormer.
For Selwyn, Indeed, the Irishman entertained
a sincere friendship, while Miss Dormer
had ministered so assiduously to his

physical comforts, and had been such an
appreciative, submissive companion whenever
he was alone, as to arouse in his heart a
certain warmth of feeling for her.

These sentiments, however, were much too
weak to interfere with the forward course of
Mr. Kerry's thoughts. He felt like one who
is freed from some long bondage. At a very
early stage of his apprenticeship as Assistant-surveyor
he had conceived strong and clear
ideas on the subject of his work, and had set
himself vigorously about introducing them
into his office. In this task he was continually
thwarted by Mr. Cramsey, who threw an
obstinate, unreasoning opposition in the way
of all change, however clearly his Assistant
might prove to him that it would be for the
better. Kerry was not in those days the
best tempered of men, and resented his chief's
conduct so violently that for a long time there
Alas almost open war In the office. Kerry,
however, had enough intelligence to see that
the Surveyor was too strong for him ; and he
no sooner became thoroughly persuaded of
this than he gave way with the best grace he
could command. He did not by any means

abandon his designs, and, in fact, managed
to introduce most of them, by Imperceptible
degrees, in the course of years, but he
chafed continuously under the restraint to
which he was subjected, and longed for the
day when he should be master of his own
office, with no one to gainsay the methods by
which he chose to do his work.

That time had now arrived  or he fancied
it had ; and his exultation in this thought
was so great as to overmaster all other feelings.
The opportunity had come to show
his powers ; he would make it plain how far
a man might go who possessed a clear head
and an energetic will. ' Who knows,' reflected
he, ' but in ten years I maybe Chief-Inspector
myself?' It was in this vein that he reasoned
with himself all the way up to town, losing
sight, like many a wiser man, of the realities
of his position in the excitement of a sudden
and long-hoped-for promotion.

Before he reached London he had persuaded
himself that the imperative wording
of the letter from the Board which summoned
him to town was inspired by some urgent
necessity  some important duty must have

turned up, he argued, which they wanted a
trustworthy man to undertake. ' And, bead,
Danny !' he said, addressing himself in the
affectionate tone which he reserved for
occasions of perfect self-satisfaction, ' you'll
have to pull yourself together now, my boy,
and not disappoint them.'

Full of this idea, he entered the Chief-inspector's
room with the proud step and
confident air of a man who believes he is
about to receive some signal mark of distinction.
He found it occupied, not, as he had
expected, by Mr. Dandison, but by the
Superintending Inspector, Mr. Tenterden, a
well-preserved middle-aged gentleman, whose
ruddy features, pointed moustaches, and eyeglass
practice were the envy of many younger
civil servants.

Ah, good-day, Mr. Kerry,' said this
gentleman, when the messenger announced
the name of the newly-appointed Surveyor ;
we hardly expected you so soon. Pray sit
down. I shall be at liberty in a few minutes.'

It was Mr. Tenterden's way to affect indifference
to everything around him, especially
to persons. He acted on some theory of his

own that all strangers were apt to take liberties,
and must, therefore, be carefully kept at
a distance. Few men liked Mr. Tenterden
until they had worked with him for some
years. They complained that they never got
within arm's length of him ; they often detected
him scrutinizing them through his eyeglass
with what appeared to be supercilious
contempt, the expression of a man who has
much ado to refrain from bursting into a
shout of laughter, so absurd does he deem
something in his neighbour's manner or
appearance. Those, however, who were not
abashed by this behaviour, and especially
those who repaid his insolence in kind, woke
up some day to the fact that mr. Tenterden
was to them a genial, kind-hearted friend,
always ready to do a service, just and
temperate towards his subordinates, firm and
Independent towards his chiefs. It was a
thousand pities that it took so long to find
this out.

The Superintending-Inspector did not complete
his letter without raising his eyes more
than once to regard Mr. Kerry with his
peculiarly stony stare. The new Surveyor

winced under this cold gaze : it was a thing
to which he was unaccustomed. Bluster or
insults he knew how to meet; but this sort of
reception quite disconcerted him.

Well .'' said a\Ir. Tenterden inquiringly,
when at last he had finished his letter. And,
as he uttered this exasperating monosyllable,
he turned half round in his chair, crossed his
legs, and fixed his eye-glass.

'May I die!' thought ]mr. Kerry, Mf he
isn't looking at me as though I hadn't any
business here.'

Well .' repeated Mr. Tenterden; and
finding that he received no answer, he added,
and what do you think of doing with yourself
now, ]mr. Kerry ?'

Just whatever there is to do,' replied the
gentleman addressed.

There isn't much,' his chief rejoined
doubtfully ; ' a few books to index. Do you
like indexing, Mr. Kerry? If your handwriting
is neat you might take a turn at that.'

Mr. Kerry sat absolutely aghast at this
suggestion, so fatal to his hopes of important
service. That he, after having mastered the
whole round of his duties, learning the Income

Tax Acts off by heart, and having at his fingers'
ends every dodge and device necessary for
dealing with the most crafty of fraudulent
taxpayers  that he, recently appointed Surveyor,
should be put to work at indexing, was
a crushing blow. There was also the inquiry
whether his writing was brood : that writing
which he was wont to exhibit proudly as
being ' more legible than print !' These
insults, heaped on him by a cool, nonchalant
gentleman, who sat regarding him with a
disdainful half smile, almost annihilated the
unfortunate Irishman.

'We always had that done by the junior
clerk in Liverpool,' he gasped at length.

Ah, indeed !' said Mr. Tenterden carelessly.
' Well, after all, there is a writer here
generally, and I don't know why you should
do his work.'

There ensued a little pause.

I really don't know what to suggest,' resumed
Mr. Tenterden. ' Suppose you take
a little walk, Mr. Kerry. Or you might have
a holiday for a few days ; run down and see
your friends, you know. Eh, what do you
think ?'

If there isn't anything for me to do here,'
said Mr. Kerry in a tone of doleful disappointment.


Not a mortal thing,' Mr. Tenterden
assured him. ' The Secretary's away, too,
and so is Mr. Dandison. You can sit here,
if you like, you know, and see whatever is
going on.'

I'd like that best,' said Mr. Kerry.

Very well. Then you may as well lookin
tomorrow about ten o'clock ; and we'll see
what we can find to do. Are you going
now? \Ni\ ait revoir J

And before he had thoroughly realized that
he was not in the least wanted at Somerset
House, Mr. Kerry found himself in the Strand,
with the rest of the afternoon on his hands.
He did not know what to do with it. He
had been recommended by Miss Dormer to
stay at a boarding-house in the neighbourhood
of Mecklenburg Square, and had
dropped his luggage there on the way to
Somerset House. The dinner-hour was
seven, so that he had still nearly four hours
on his hands. He walked down to Waterloo
Bridge, and stood gazing idly at the river for

some time, till he was accosted by a ragged
and dirty individual who wanted to borrow a
shilling from him.

Me wife and children's down with the
fever,' he exclaimed ; but Mr. Kerry was not
quite so inexperienced in the ways of cities as
to be deceived by the first impudent rascal
he met.

I'll give you a penny,' he said ; * that'll buy
you bread and it won't buy drink. If it wasn't
that you talk like an Irishman I'd not give
you that.'

The beggar took the coin, and broke out
into voluble cursing as Kerry walked away,
more depressed than ever.

He spent the remainder of the day in
wandering aimlessly about the streets ; and
went to bed early, tasting to the full that
peculiar wretchedness which is the doom of
the busy man turned idle.

Next morning things were no better. He
reached the office punctually at the time
named by Mr. Tenterden ; but that gentleman
had not yet arrived, nor did he make
his appearance for nearly an hour. The
interval was spent by Mr. Kerry in gazing

out of window and in talking to the writer,
who volunteered the information that work was
slack just now ;' to which Mr. Kerry replied
by inquiring whether it was ever tight  a
question which the writer did not seem able
to answer satisfactorily, for he shrugged his
shoulders, and asked if Mr. Kerry knew
anything about horses. As the latter was
pleased to appear indifferent on the subject,
conversation flagged ; and it was a relief to
both when Mr. Tenterden entered.

Hallo !' he said, in a tone of surprise, ' I
thought you had gone on leave.'

'The last I heard was that I had best
come here,' replied the Irishman sulkily ;
'but it's my belief I might as well have
stopped away.'

Mr. Tenterden fixed his eyeglass and turned
his inscrutable o:aze on the new addition to
his staff.

'Well, we'll see what we can find for you
to do,' he said.

He rummaged among his papers, and
shortly brought forth the draft of a complicated
return for the Treasury.

This is completed, I believe,' he said.

handing the sheets to his subordinate ;  but
you might look through the workings, and
see if you notice anything wrong.'

Kerry seized it with avidity. It was not
long before he pronounced it accurate, and
drew his chiefs attention to the fact that it
had already been checked twice, by gentlemen
whose initials were attached in guarantee
of accuracy.

Ah, so it has !' was the rejoinder. ' But it's
impossible to be too careful with these things.'

Then, looking steadily at Mr. Kerry, the
Superintending-Inspector said, as if stating
something which must be new to his auditor :
They're rather important, don't you know.'

This task was succeeded by another, and
that by a third ; but there were such long
intervals between them that Kerry grew very
impatient, and sorely weary. The day
passed very slowly, and when, at its close, he
rose up and took his hat, he felt more utterly
jaded than at the end of the hardest day's
work he had ever done in Second Liverpool.

More than a week passed in this way, and
though Kerry became gradually habituated to
spend a large part of every day in idleness.

he was by no means content. J\Ir. Tenterden
had promised that he should be sent to take
charge of the first district in which there was
a temporary vacancy, but at the end of a
month no such opening had occurred.

He received occasional letters from Selwyn,
from one of which he learned that the qualifying
examination to which his friend was to
have submitted had been put off. Mr. Serle
was rather vexed at this, for, as he said, ' it
gave the other fellows time to pull up with
him.'

Selwyn's next communication announced
that Mr. Trosdale, having learned that Kerry
was in London, desired him to zo to see
them if ever he had an evening to spare.
Mr. Kerry had a great many evenings on his
hands, and had he known that Mr. Trosdale
was in London, it is probable that he would
have called on him without an invitation.
That very evening, after dinner, he inquired
his way to Frith Street, and, after having
lost himself several times among the windings
of Soho, he at last reached the dwelling
in which Mr. Trosdale had housed himself
and his daughter.

He found the ex-Surveyor in the most
jovial of moods. He was delighted to see
Kerry. When did he leave Liverpool .
Why had he not come to see them before
He ought to have come to dinner, or at least
to tea ; but Madge should order tea again,
since Kerry had dined late. And while it
was being prepared they would take a turn
round Soho Square, which was quiet enough
at that hour, and enjoy a cigar. Did not
Kerry like London ? Pshaw, a young man
of his age ought to be able to find a thousand
amusements in town ! Even he himself,
though his sinews were relaxing, and his
strength was not what it had been, found a
glorious fulness about London, the satisfaction
of many instincts which had smouldered
in a provincial town. To be sure it was the
dead season, but in a few weeks London
would wake up again. Meantime, Kerry
must come to Frith Street as often as he
found time hanging heavily on his hands.
Madge would be disengaged every evening,
and he, unless by some accident, was never
far away. Would Kerry come '

Of course Kerry would, and very gladly ;

though he was sorely puzzled to understand
this outbreak of geniality on the part of the
ex-Surveyor. He expressed his thanks, and
followed his host into the house, still wondering
what it could mean. Madge was presiding
over the tea-tray, and at once plied him
with questions about Liverpool, being obviously
much disappointed at finding he had
left that town very shortly after her own
departure. However, if Mr. Kerry could
tell her little about Liverpool and Selwyn, he
had much to say about his own proceedings
since his arrival in London ; and he described
his occupations in Somerset House, as well
as the personality of Mr. Tenterden, with a
drollery which made both his hearers laugh
heartily. Then he diverged into stories of
his early life in Ireland, which he told with
much native humour, and a frank simplicity
which delighted Madge.

The visit was certainly a successful one.
Mr. Kerry parted with his host on the best
of terms, and received a hearty invitation to
repeat his visit.

Madge felt, in truth, exceedingly dull.
The life they led was very well for her father,

VOL. III. 45

as he enjoyed the excitement of interviews
with persons of many kinds, who could, if
they pleased, assist him in the matter of the
furnace. He was generally out the whole
day, and, until his return, Madoe's time, was
at her own disposal. For a few weeks she
enjoyed visiting the different places of
interest, and passed many pleasant hours in
the National Gallery. The afternoon service
in the Abbey was a great pleasure to her.
The thought that every conceivable kind of
trouble must, within the centuries, have been
lightened within those walls, made it seem
easier for her there to lay down a part of her
own burden. And the relief was sorely needed,
for she began to surmise that her father had
no intention of returning to Liverpool, and
though she strove to think bravely of the
future, she saw no security in it.

From these melancholy thoughts the visits
of Mr. Kerry proved an agreeable diversion.
The Irishman was always talkative : and
amusing ; he had become more quiet, too,
since the change in his position, more subdued,
and less confident of his own superiority.
Madge thought him decidedly a

pleasant companion, in spite of his uncultured
manners, and she was herself surprised at
perceiving with what pleasure she at last
looked forward to his visits, and how insipid
the days seemed on which he did not come.

She was on the point of writing to Selwyn
to tell him how much the Irishman was
brightening her life, when she received a letter
from Liverpool, written in great haste, to
announce that Instructions had arrived from
London for Mr. Serle to proceed to Reading
to v/ork under the Surveyor in that town.
The letter was full of eagerness and pleasure
at the prospect of being within such distance
of his friends as to make It possible for them
to meet occasionally. He begged for instructions
In whose charge he should leave
the house ; and Mr. Trosdale, on being consulted
on this point, at once made up his
mind to terminate his tenancy, and to sell
such of the furniture as he could not deposit
In the narrow space of their lodgings. He
paid no attention to Madge's suggestion that
the furniture might be stored until they could
form some definite plan for the future, but
wrote that day to a house-agent. In whose

452

hands he placed all the arrangements. He
was good enough to express satisfaction at
the prospect of having Selwyn once more
within reach, and added that ' it would be a
convenience, because the young fellow doesn't
know how to explain himself in a letter.'
This was a charge to which Selwyn could
not retort, because Mr. Trosdale had very
seldom, during all the weeks of their separation,
vouchsafed to write to him ; and then
only a few lines at a time, full of grumbling at
the inconvenience af letters.

Mr. Kerry's satisfaction was not equal to
that of the Trosdales when he heard of Selwyn's
removal. He was quite ignorant of
the existence of any engagement between
Madge and Selwyn, for the ex-Surveyor had
either forgotten such an unimportant matter,
or for some reason of his own had decided
not to allude to it. Kerry thought himself
quite at liberty to make what efforts he could
to engage Madge's affections ; and as he could
not fail to perceive that she enjoyed his visits,
he was beginning to feel very sanguine about
the result. His hopes were, however, nipped
by an untimely frost ; for, on the next morning,

when he reached Somerset House, he
found Mr. Tenterden reading a telegram,
which that gentleman immediately placed in
his hands. It ran as follows :

From

Mrs. Sooner,

Carlisle.

'To
The Chief Inspector of Taxes,
Somerset House, London.

Mr. Toomer seized with gastric fever.
likely to be 111 some weeks.'

Now, then, Mr. Kerry,' said the Chief-inspector,
'take a hansom back to your
lodgings ; pick up your bag, and be off by
the first train you can catch. You must be
in Carlisle to-night !'

Kerry had only time to write a short note
to Mr. Trosdale announcing his departure,
and, long before it reached Frith Street, he
was In the train speeding northwards.

What Selwyn thought of Reading is not
material to the purposes of this story, for, on
the second morning after his arrival in that
town, he received an intimation that the
Board had seen fit to transfer him again to a
fresh district, and, to his surprise and delight,

he found he was to be sent to the Metropolis.
Of Stratford, the district selected, Selwyn
had hardly heard before ; and he did not
greatly concern himself as to its precise situation.
It sufficed for him to know that it must
be within easy reach of Frith Street. He
never doubted that he should be able to live
with the Trosdales as before ; and it was a
keen disappointment, therefore, to learn, on
reporting himself at Somerset House two
days later, that he would be expected to
reside in his district.

How else can you know it properly ?'
asked Mr. Tenterden, who had taken up Mr.
Dandison's duties for the time ; ' it is imperative,
Mr. Serle, that you should live at Stratford.
You might come as far west as Bow,
perhaps, but certainly no further.'

With his spirits considerably dashed, Selwyn
plodded eastwards, and put himself,
according to instructions, on the top of a
tram which started from Aldgate, and which,
after a ride of three-quarters of an hour
through streets which were not attractive,
deposited him in the Broadway, Stratford,
feeling perfectly indifferent about the reception
he might meet with.

He found the Inland Revenue Office without
difficulty. It was in the possession of a
tall, thin young lad, with a red face and close-cropped
fiery hair, who answered Selwyn's
inquiry for Mr. Carthew by assuring him, ina
rich brogue, that the Surveyor had gone
home, and added, on his own account, the
information that he generally did so about
three o'clock.

And it's now nigh upon four,* he continued
; * so, if you want to see him, you'll
have to wait till tomorrow.'

Does he live far from here ?'

What would I be telling you that for ?'
asked the clerk suspiciously. 'Is it a writ
you're going to serve on him ?'

Selwyn laughed outright.

Do I look like a process-server ?' he asked.
No, it's only a letter I wish to deliver
personally.'

Give it me,' said the clerk, stretching out
his hand. ' Well, tell me what's in it, then,
and ril be able to advise you.'

I don't want any advice, thank you
replied Selwyn ; ' I only wish for Mr. Car-the's
address. My letter is from Somerset
House, and I must deliver it myself.'

The answer which the red-headed clerk
was about to make was interrupted by a loud
shouting in the street.

It's himself again, or I'm a lost sinner!'
exclaimed the lad delightedly, and running
to the window, he threw it up.

Selwyn followed him with some curiosity to
learn who ' himself might be, and why his movements
should cause such interest in the Tax
Office. He saw an elderly man of slight figure
slouching along the pavement, followed by a
crowd of children and a few grown women,
who were pressing round him, apparently
urging him to do something which he steadily
declined to attempt. Their importunities,
however, became at last so pressing that he
turned so as to face his tormentors, and, with
a muscular sweep of his arm, which struck
two or three children backwards, cleared an
open space around him, and addressed the
crowd in an angry tone :

Aren't ye ashamed, ye dirty, ignorant
blackguards, that haven't any more manners
than if you'd never seen a gentleman ! Can't
you let me be, ye gutter-raking, misbegotten
little devils ? Do you think I've no other

business than to pleasure you ? Be off, now,
or I'll have a poleeshman on the backs of
everyone of ye.'

This exhortation produced nothing more
than a shout of laughter and derision.

Pipe up !' cried the boys ; * tip us a song.
We won't go away unless you do.'

Won't ye, ye unreasonable little Imps,
won't ye go away ? We'll see about that.
I'll teach you to disgrace a gentleman under
the windows of his own office !'

He made a dart at the urchin nearest him,
but the lad was too quick, and dodged out of
his reach, and after one or two other efforts
to scatter the throng, finding it impossible,
he resloned himself to the Inevitable.

Be quiet, then,' he said, holding up his
hand ; ' I'll sing you a song, since you must
have it. It's about a relation of mine. His
sister was Molly Burke, of Fermanagh, and
she married my grandmother's uncle. Bead,
it's a sweet ballad !'

Who is this remarkable individual ?' asked
Selwyn.

It's me uncle,' said the clerk proudly.
He's the best ballad-singer on this side of

the Channel ; and on the other there's only
Tim Rooney, of Comber, can touch him.'

Meantime the gentleman in the street had
begun, in a not unmusical voice, the following
ballad :

The Najicy Bell she went to h  11

In seventeen forty-four;
Brave Captain Burke commanded her,
And twice a hundred more.

Says Burke, says he, " I never see

The Frenchman that could fight ;
We'll have them all, both great and small,
Before another night."

So up he slips between the ships,
And blazes right and left, '

Now then, move on  move on, please !'
said a rough voice, as a burly policeman came
scattering the crowd of enthralled listeners
right and left. ' Move on, please ; we can't
have you stopping up the way. Move on,
come now !'

In a trice the urchins had disappeared, and
the ballad-singer was left confronting the
constable.

I wish,' remarked the former, ' I had you
on the banks of the Liffey ; Td teach you to
interfere with a gentleman's amusement.'

And he walked off; while the officer,
having no retort ready, proceeded on his
beat.

Here he comes said the proud nephew,
as footsteps were heard ascending the stairs.

What is he coming up here for ?' asked
the astonished Selwyn.

Because it's his office, to be sure !' and, in
another moment, the ballad-singer was in the
room.

Here's a gentleman with a letter for Mr.
Carthew,' explained the red-headed clerk ;
and, faith ! it must be mighty important,
because he won't let me see the inside of it.'

Mr. Murphy drew himself to the extreme
height which his stature permitted, and eyed
Selwyn from head to foot with a supercilious
gaze.

Were you a witness, sor, of that disgraceful
scene ?' he inquired.

That's a hard name to give it,' said Selwyn.
' I heard part of a ballad sung in a very
taking style.'

It was disgraceful, sir ; it is abominable, I
say, that a gentleman can't be fond of the
ancient practice of ballad singing, and indulge

himself just occasionally in the Broadway hereon
Saturday nights in an old hat and coat,
without being recognised whenever he goes
out, and followed by a pack of unmannerly
devil's brats like them you saw. It's my one
pleasure, sort ; it's the only relic of happier
days, when I was respected and looked up to
in me native country, when I'd have cracked
the skull of any man who dared to hint I
should some day hire myself out to scribble at
the bidding of an English Surveyor of
Taxes.'

It would be difficult to convey an idea of
the scorn which Mr. Murphy threw into the
last words of this speech. His eyes flashed,
and he terminated with an emphatic gesture
which seemed to show that already, in imagination,
he beheld the Saxon Surveyor
prostrate before him, and refrained only out
of generosity from dancing on his body.

So you are a clerk in this district .' said
Selwyn.

I am very much at your service,' rejoined
the clerk, with a low bow ; * and if you want
Mr. Carthew I shall be happy to act as his
substitute.'

But this obliging offer Selvvyn declined,
and, having obtained the Surveyor's address,
he bade good-day to the clerks, and set out to
deliver his letter personally, greatly exercised
in his mind at finding precisely the same
order of clerks he had known in Liverpool
wasting their sweetness in the great Metropolis.

My mind misgives me, Terence,' said
Murphy, when he had gone. ' 'Tis a proud,
hard-fisted fellow. Why wouldn't he show
me the letter ? Sorrow light on him, is it
me that he shows his slight to ?  me, Phil
Murphy ! Bead, I was too civil to him !'

What do you think his letter is about .'
'Tis that makes me onaisy. me boy. 'Tis
that way they send down Assistant-surveyors
; and I misdoubt he's one.'

If so, they'll be getting rid of us,' suggested
Terence.

They'll maybe want one to go,' replied his
uncle ; ' but I'll not see ye wronged, Terence.
Ye' re me own sister's son, and it was never
said of Phil Murphy that he forgot his flesh
and blood. So now shut up shop, and we'll
go over to the Sceptre ; for it's a glee night,
and we may as well be early.'

Mr. Carthew lodged in a little house in the
Bow Road, set back somewhat further from the
highway than those adjoining it, and having
consequently a longer garden in the front. As
Selwyn opened the gate, on which * Linden
Villa ' was painted in letters which had once
been white, a tall figure rose from a stooping
posture beside a bed of carnations which
were in full flower, and stood erect looking
at Selwyn as he advanced up the path.

Do you want me ?' asked Mr. Carthew, in
answer to Selwyn's inquiring look. * What
can I do for you ? Will you not walk in if
you wish to speak to me ? Here it is too
noisy to talk.'

Selwyn followed Mr. Carthew into a small
room opening from the hall, which was fitted
up as a kind of study, and handed to him
Mr. Tenterden's letter. As he read it,
Selwyn had time to notice that his new chief
stooped almost as much as if he was slightly
deformed. His forehead was high, but the
lines of his face were loose, and bore witness
to a certain weakness of character which Selwyn
had already detected, or so he thought,
from the manner of Mr. Carthew's speech.

This is quite a surprise to me,' said the
Surveyor of the Stratford district. * I had
no intimation from the Board that I was to
expect you, Mr. Serle.'

Indeed ; that is rather surprising.'

Yes ; very unusual. I don't know what
to make of it. Do you think there is any
mistake ?'

That would seem to me more extraordinary
still. Is it possible that the letter
to you can have been overlooked ?'

Quite possible, I'm afraid. My clerk,
Murphy '

He broke off suddenly, with a vexed
expression in his face.

The gentleman with a turn for ballad-singing
?' observed Selwyn.

How did you know that l! Have you
been to the office ?'

It was there I obtained your address,
and heard the gentleman's recital,' Selwyn
returned.

I wish I could get rid of that fellow.
The Inspector will see him some day. Tell
me what he was doing.'

Thus appealed to, Selwyn described the

absurd scene he had witnessed. He was
many times interrupted by expressions of
annoyance from the Surveyor ; and when he
related how Murphy had actually favoured
the crowd of his admirers with a ballad
beneath the very windows of the Tax-Office,
Mr. Carthew's vexation reached its climax.

I declare he said, ' this is intolerable !
I must do something with the fellow. I
can't stand his ways any longer. I shall tell
him tomorrow that he must go.'

Selwyn made no remark ; if he had broken
silence, it would have been to state his
opinion that this step might well have been
taken long before. Some thought of this
kind was probably passing through Mr.
Carthew's mind, but he checked himself as he
was about to speak again, and stood silent
for some minutes, drumming incessantly on
the mantelpiece with his finger.

If you will excuse me,' Selwyn said at
last, ' I think I must leave you, for I have
not yet found lodgings.'

My landlady has two rooms to let. Why
should you not take them } I can recommend
her : she is clean and civil, and, If you

will allow me to say so, I think it would be
pleasant for me to have some companionship
out of office hours. I have not many friends,
Mr. Serle ; one has not many, you know,
when one passes middle life.'

You are very kind,' said Selwyn ; and
indeed he felt that the Surveyor's suggestion
was considerately made.

He said as much, and Mr. Carthew seemed
pleased, and rang for his landlady.

The bargain was soon struck : the rooms
were clean and comfortable, and the landlady
not more grasping than others of her calling.
Selwyn was disposed to think that he had
fallen into good hands, and having declined
a pressing invitation to stay and dine with
his new chief, he set out for Frith Street,
his heart beating with the pleasurable anticipation
of taking his friends by surprise.

A surprise it was ; but beyond all doubt a
joyful one.

The Surveyor laid aside his paper, and condescended
to be genial. He produced a
bottle of champagne, and drank the health
of the Assistant-Surveyor newly appointed
to Stratford, and confusion to the curmudgeon

VOL. III. 46

of an Inspector who insisted on his living
that God-forsaken district.

It wasn't so when I entered the service,'
he lamented plaintively ; ' there were none of
these silly restrictions then. We all worked
cordially together ; and if a Surveyor wanted
a day's shooting, or had to go to the other
end of the country on business, he just dropped
a line to his Inspector unofficially, and the
thing was winked at. Why, I remember
Phillips, of Barnstaple, applying for three
months' leave on the ground that his constitution
"wanted tone." And by George, sir,
he got it !'

Then he made Selwyn tell him in detail all
he had been doing since they parted ; and
Madge sat opposite to them listening with
such tender interest, and interposing from
time to time so sweetly, that Selwyn felt his
happiness was ' too great almost to last.' It
could not last long, indeed ; for Frith Street,
Soho, and Stratford lie far apart ; and best
part of the evening was over before he reached
the Trosdales' lodgings. He rose unwillingly
when the clock struck ten, and went out into
the sweet night air with many thoughts and

fancies in his brain wholly new and strange to
their habitation, which furnished him with
matter for happy musing long after he had
reached his lodging, and in fact after he should
have been asleep.

He was aroused the next morning by an
intimation that Mr. Carthew was waiting
breakfast for him. It was already nine
o'clock, and he dressed hastily, and descended
with a feeling of shame at having overslept
himself The Surveyor was sitting beside
the window, opening and reading his official
correspondence.

Good-morning, Mr. Serle,' he said. * I
was sorry to disturb you. You see, I have
been up to the office already, and found the
letter announcing your arrival. It came
yesterday, I suppose, and I don't know why
it wasn't given to me. However, let us have
breakfast now.'

I am sorry to be so late,' said Selwyn ;
and sorry also that you waited breakfast forme.'


I did not expect you would appear very
early replied his chief. * As for me, I am
generally up at six. But that is the kind of

462

habit which creeps upon one only when one
begins to reaHze how Httle time there Is In life
for anything but unpleasant duties.'

Then he handed over to Selwyn half a
dozen letters.

If you can read as you eat,' he said, ' you
may as well look through these. You will
get an Idea from them of the position of our
work.'

It seems to be in a fairly forward state,'
Selwyn said, after reading the letters carefully.
' I wish you would tell me more about
your clerks before we go to the office ; I should
like to know whether they are to be trusted.'

The young man, Adair, is a nonentity.
He works steadily enough under his uncle's
eye ; but if Murphy won't work himself, as
often happens, not a strike can anyone get
out of the nephew. Then as for Murphy 
well, you saw him. He's not very intelligent,
but he knows the work from beginning to end,
and does it when he feels inclined. He's as
vain as a peacock, not too truthful, and impatient
of the slightest word of reproof. That's
his official character. Out of the office he
loves nothing so much as singing ballads ; he

belongs to every glee club east of Aldgate,
and, as you know, he is not content with airing
his cracked voice at tavern concerts, but goes
out sometimes into the very streets.'

Not an attractive picture,' said Selwyn ;
is he the best clerk you can find ?'

Oh, I beg your pardon. I find Murphy
most attractive. Just compare him with the
average Surveyor's clerk, the dull, plodding
booby that haunts, I dare say, half the Tax-offices
you knows, or the dissipated blackguard
who is sodden from morning till night with
beer. Murphy is never drunk in the daytime ;
and when you come to know him better you'll
be inexpressibly grateful to him for the drollery
of his sayings. He gives quite a picturesqueness
to our routine life.'

You seem to feel the monotony keenly.'

I do,' the Surveyor replied with emphasis ;
and again Selwyn could not but be struck by
the mental likeness between Mr. Carthew and
Mr. Trosdale, as he had been amazed to find
Thistlethwaite's double in Murphy.  With
me it is always pulling against the collar.
And then there is such frightful waste of time.
If I might close my office doors I could finish

my work in about five hours a day. But from
morning till night I am annoyed with visitors.
Six out of seven want nothing, the seventh
doesn't know what he wants ; and so among
them they cut off a fearfully large amount of
my precious leisure.'

Then, seeing Selwyn glance towards the
book-shelves, he added :

Yes, those are my friends, whose voices I
hear calling me to return all the day long.
But if you have finished, let us go up to the
office.'

Meanwhile Mr. Phil Murphy and his
nephew had already arrived there.

Tol-droll, tara-diddle-rum,' sang Murphy

n his high-pitched voice ; ' this'll be a day of

battles, Terence, I'm thinking. Hold your

head up, and show your spirit in the face of

the foe.'

Me head aches,' said the red-headed boy
mournfully ; ' sure I told you Moslem's
whisky was too stronger

Devil a twist it's given me,' said his uncle
jauntily. ' Go and hold your head under the
tap ; 'twill be as steady as a rock by the time
Carthew comes.' And as the voune nan

departed on this errand, Murphy burst into
full song :

 " Oh, Mary darling', 'twas your eye
That beamed on me so sweetly ;
Those lips so red, that winning smile,
That broke my heart completely."

That's a sweet song, Phil Murphy ; my
own father's cousin made it when he lived in
Ennlskillen, and nearly died because a silly
slip that was there wouldn't have him ; more
by reason '

He stopped short and drew himself up to
his full height here, for he perceived that
Mr. Carthew and Selwyn had just entered
the office.

Good-morning, Mr. Murphy,' said the
Surveyor ; ' this is Mr. Serle, who is to bethe
Assistant in the district.'

Murphy executed the stiffest of bows.

I saw the gentleman yesterday,' he
observed.

Oh, then there's no introduction needed.'
And the Surveyor passed on with Selwyn
into the inner room.

Immediately afterwards the outer door

opened to admit Terence Adair, and with
him the most dismal boo-iodine that could
be imagined.

Be easy, my boy  be easy, I tell you !'
cried his uncle ; but Terence persisted in
howling and blubbering, not suspecting that
his chief had arrived.

What on earth is all this about ?' asked
Mr. Carthew, coming to the door of his
room ; and once again Selwyn was forcibly
reminded of his experiences in Third Liverpool.


It's me head !' sobbed Terence ; and ' It's
his head, sort,' said Murphy. ' He was
reading Acts of Parliament all night with a
towel dripping on the book ; and ye see how
it's ended,' he added reproachfully.

Do be reasonable, murphy,' remonstrated
the Surveyor. ' I didn't ask him to
sit up all night, or even to read any Acts at
all. If he'd do his work in the daytime I
should be quite content. But If there's
anything the matter with his head, for
Heaven's sake send him home ! We can't
have that noise here.'

Run round to Moslem, Terence darling,'



said his uncle, when the Surveyor had gone,
and make him give you a cup of strong
coffee. Strong, mind you ! and just walk
about a bit, and don't come back again.'

And having packed off his precious
nephew, Murphy set about examining a
bundle of Revenue tax returns, humming ashe
did so 

A hundred ships, a thousand men,

A thousand rifles laid in store.
The old brave spirit back again,

And Ireland is our own once more.'

FRESH HOPES.

Think said Mr. Carthew, some
half hour later, standing before
the chimney-piece in the outer
office, 'that you had better sit out here, 'Mr.
Selwyn. Then you can see the people who
call ; and if you could settle everyone of the
cases, I should be infinitely obliged to you.'

xnd where's the lad Terence to sit ?'
inquired Murphy, with a look of defiance
which was in Itself a oaoe of battle.

I do not know replied the Surveyor,
weakly declining the challenge. ' I haven't
settled that. Wait till he comes tomorrow.'

Lest anything further should be said, Mr.
Carthew at once went back to his inner

office, requesting that he might not be disturbed,
as he was anxious to complete an
additional assessment that day.

Selwyn took possession of the chair assigned
to him, and of the correspondence
which his chief had handed over. He
ventured on one or two remarks to Murphy,
elicited by the nature of his work, but met
with such curt and abrupt replies that he relapsed
into silence.

As he pursued his occupation, however, he
was aware that the clerk was darting furious
glances at him, contorting his face when he
thought Selwyn did not see him, and doing
his best to concentrate into a look the scorn
and contempt he felt for all interlopers, and
for Selwyn in particular. He appeared to be
doing his best to lash himself into a state of
fury : now he tapped on the table nervously
with his pencil ; now he gasped as if he were
about to burst forth into a torrent of abuse ;
and more than once he got up and walked
across the office without any apparent cause.
At last he sprang from his seat and went into
Mr. Carthew's room, where Selwyn heard his
voice raised in angry controversy for perhaps

a quarter of an hour. At the end of that time
he came back looking flushed and indignant,
and having carefully shut the door of communication
between the two rooms, he began
in a rich and oily brogue :

In Ireland, sort, we've oft different
notions from what ye have in this country.'

Indeed,' said Selwyn, laying down his
pen. * Pray explain yourself more fully.'

I'm your humble servant, sort,' rejoined
the Irishman, making use of the phrase with
which he habitually expressed acquiescence
with a tinge of contempt in it. 'In me own
country, we're more sensitive ; and we've
got keener ideas of honour than ye have
here. We don't submit tamely to an insult,
sort ; we resent it, and if it's necessary we
wipe it out, sort.'

Really, Mr. Murphy,' answered Selwyn,
I do not in the least understand you. I
may say, however, I have no wish to interfere
with your avenging any insult you may
have received in the way you think proper.'

Faith,' said Murphy gleefully, ' I begin
to think you're a gentleman of honour after
all. I'll tell you how it stands, sort. You've

put an affront on me, and on me nephew
Terence, by intruding yourself in this district,
and still more by not going out of it when
you found you were doing injury to my
prospects, and my nephew's prospects.'

Well, Mr. Murphy,' rejoined Selwyn,
hardly able to avoid smiling at the fantastic
dignity of the tall, spare figure before him,
I am sorry for that. But I don't see how
it can be helped.'

Ye don't ! There's only one way q{
settling differences between two men of
honour.'

Do you mean to say,' asked Selwyn, ' that
you are inviting me to have a shot at you ?'"'

Just that,' answered the Irishman ; and
so saying, he quickly opened the drawer of
his desk and brought out a mahogany case.
See there,' he said proudly, ' there's the
pistols me own uncle shot Sir Tim Rooney
with on a bit of a field behind Limerick.
Crosshandles they are, and a pair of lovely
tools.'

He balanced them affectionately in either
hand, then looked closely at the stock of one
of them.

T. R., 1817,' he read with some difficulty.
That's Sir Tim. Many's the time I've
heard my uncle tell about that day ; more by
reason that he was a bit coldhearted, for he
wasn't sure his hand was steady. We'll have
to do without friends, I'm afraid, and that's
not right. But maybe you could find two
safe men who wouldn't mind meddling' in a
little affair of this kind ? Well, if not, it's a
pity ; but we'll do without them

Then he sprang up and laid down his
pistols.

I was forgetting,' he said. ' It's so lone
since I've had an affair of the kind. I must
put the affront on you.' And without more
to do he struck Selvvyn a stinging blow on
the face with his open hand ; whereupon the
latter, though he had been far from expecting
any such development of the conversation,
skilfully knocked Mr. Murphy down.

The Irishman fell backwards over a chair,
striking his head heavily against the fender.
His fall upset several weighty assessments,
and the crash immediately brought out the
Surveyor.

Good heavens !' exclaimed Mr. Carthew,

seeing his senior clerk lying motionless, with
a thin stream of blood trickling across his
collar from the gash made by the corner of
the fender, ' what on earth has happened ?
Is he drunk, iNIr. Serle ?'

I don't think so.' replied Selwyn, stooping
over his fallen adversary. * Kindly give me
the giraffe, Mr. Carthew. He'll be all
right presently.'

He bathed Murphy's temples with cold
water, and in a very few minutes that gentleman
opened his eyes and turned them reproachfully
on Selwyn.

'You shouldn't have struck so hard,' he
said, rather faintly ; and with that he sat up,
and then rose to his feet, and stood supporting
himself by the mantelpiece, looking very
pale and ghastly.

I believe the man's seriously hurt,' said
the Surveyor, in some alarm. ' Did you do
this, Mr. Serle ? What could have been your
object ?'

It's all right, sort,' said Murphy. ' I put
the affront on him. It's just a matter between
ourselves ; only he might have proportioned
his blow.'

I won't undertake to do anything of the
kind, Mr. Murphy,' replied Selwyn, still
somewhat heated ; ' that's another point, I
suppose, In which the English practice diverges
from yours ?'

Faith, I believe It Is !' rejoined Murphy,
putting his hand to his head.

I wish one of you would tell me what
this Is all about,' said the Surveyor Irritably.
You seem to consider I'm the last person
who ought to ask any questions, no matter
what disturbance may be made In my office.'

I do not think that, Mr. Carthew,* said
Selwyn ; ' but I really consider this little accident
is not worth inquiring into. I should be
obliged if you would let it pass. It is not
likely to be repeated.'

I'm sure I hope not. Well, if you won't
tell me, I'll go back to my work. But do
keep the office quiet, Mr. Serle ; it's by the
merest good luck some one of the public has
not come in in the midst of this.'

Then, going up to Murphy, he surveyed
him from head to foot.

Had not you better go home }' he asked.
You look very groggy.'

'I think I will said Murphy. ' I'm not
so young as I was by a good bit. Time was
when I'd have been none the worse for a
trifling accident Hke this. I fell from top
to bottom of the stairs of my uncle's house in
Mountjoy Square, the night he entertained
the Chief Baron, and we all went out into the
streets with sticks after dinner, and laid about
us. But I'm not the good man I was. Good-day
to ye, Mr. Serle/ And turning back, as
his hand was on the lock, he whispered,
' Ye'll hear from me this afternoon, or maybe
tomorrow morning.'

It was only as he watched him leaving
the room that Selwyn observed he moved
very feebly, and had a certain appearance of
age about him which was not noticeable whilst
he was speaking and acting under excitement.
Selwyn felt great compunction for having
struck a man so much older than himself; and
sat down again to his work with an uneasy feeling
that he had begun badly in his new district.

The rest of the day passed quietly. Neither
of the clerks returned, and it so happened that
during the whole afternoon the public abstained
from visiting the office. Great pro-vol.
III. 47

dress was therefore made by both the Surveyor
and his Assistant ; and when, about
half-past four, Mr. Carthew emerged from his
sanctum, and suggested that they should close
the office, he appeared highly content with
himself.

1 don't know when I've had such a quiet
time,' he said with a yawn. ' Do you think
we could get on without any clerks at all,
Vlx, Serle ?'

Do you suppose It's likely to come to that 1
The office would be much quieter, certainly.'

I don't know what it will come to, I'm
sure. There was Murphy telling me this
morning that if I turned away that useless
nephew of his he'd go too.'

I should not have thought family affection
was so strongly developed in Murphy.'

Ah ! you don't know him yet. It isn't
so much family affection, as affection for
his family, if you understand my distinction.
I mean that I don't think Murphy has the
least regard for his nephew personally ,' but
he thinks a slight put on any member of his
family recoils more or less on himself, and
resents it accordingly.'

He is a strange fellow.'

He's a very useful one,' rejoined the
Surveyor, yawning again. ' I hope he won t
go ; but if he will, he must. As for Adair, I
shall be heartily glad to see the last of him.'

As soon as the office was closed, Selwyn
made his way to Frith Street, where he was
received with the same kindness as on the
previous day. They had waited tea for him,
and when it was over Mr. Trosdale carried
off Selwyn Into an upper room which was
consecrated to the mysteries of the furnace.
There, upon a low bench, stood three models,
which made a goodly show ; but with the exception
of two rickety chairs there was no
other furniture in the room.

We have not made much progress,' the
ex-Surveyor began, as soon as he had closed
the door behind his young friend.

I am sorry to hear that,' replied Selwyn ;
what has happened ?'

Why nothing, that's the whole difficulty.
Everybody speaks favourably of the furnace 
they all like that well enough ; but somehow
nobody takes it up. Hodson had just paid
a large sum, so he said, for an improvement,

472

and did not feel Inclined to dip further into
his pocket. The pettifogging fellow ! I told
him having wasted a few thousands on a
worthless idea was no reason for sending me
away.'

Then there was Clutterbuck/ said
Selwyn ; * did you call on him ?'

I called on everybody. Clutterbuck's
partner would not hear of dealing with me,
wanted to economize, didn't want to make
larger profits, liked a safe business  didn't
like brains, In fact, and cared for nothing but
stupidity. Heaven grant me patience ! I
sometimes go very near to losing it.'
And Johnston, what of him ?'

At first he seemed the most reasonable of
them all, quite disposed to do business. But
somehow he cooled off, and wouldn't even
olive me a reason for declining.'

How terribly disappointing !' exclaimed
Selwyn.

Isn't It ? Here are three months of
precious time gone without gaining one step.
I 'm not disheartened, though ; I always knew
there would be this sort of thing at first.'

Selwyn could not help reflecting that if

this were true Mr. Trosdale had been especially
careful not to disclose his anxieties.
But he kept silence, and the Surveyor
went on :

You don't know much of the histories of
great inventions ; but I can tell you that my
experience has been that of everybody who
has succeeded eventually. I should have
been low-spirited and anxious now If I had
not met with these rebuffs.'

I'm glad to find you still so confident,'
said Selwyn ; ' after all, a good heart Is half
the battle.'

Of course, you see, I know the value of
the furnace ; nothing could make me doubt
that. So I have the less cause for depression.
Now here are a lot of letters from persons I
am going to call on next week. You might
as well look through them.'

Selwyn took the packet of letters, and
whilst he read ]mr. Trosdale busied himself
with his models, touching them affectionately,
and gazing at them from every
side with childlike admiration and pleasure.
He was in the act of scrutinizing anxiously
a scratch which one model had sustained

since he last noticed It, when Selwyn
uttered an exclamation of surprise.

What's the matter ?' asked Mr. Trosdale ;

what have you found ?'

Oddly enough, a letter from a man of
whom I know something.'

Who is It ?' And Mr. Trosdale came up
and peered over his young friend's shoulder.

Not Anderson ? Surely you can't know him ?'

No, Moray. I used to know him very
well said Selwyn. ' He Is the nephew of
that Mr. Adams, of Sea Court, of whom you
have heard me speak.'

I remember all about him.' said the older
man hastily ; ' but why In the name of fortune
did you not say you knew this man ' Surely
you must have been aware that he could be
most useful to me !'

I had quite forgotten for the time that he
was In this way of business. And, besides, I
didn't feel sure '

He hesitated slightly, but Mr. Trosdale
was too eager to be forbearance.

Sure of what ? Do speak out, and if
there's any difficulty In getting at him, let me
know it.'

OD

There is none that I am aware of,' Selwyn
answered. ' Mr. Adams was not pleased
with something I did a short time ago. But
most likely his nephew has not heard of that,
and if he has, I don't think It would make
much difference. I will go there with you
if you like. I see he proposes an appointment.'


I will write to-night,' said Mr. Trosdale,
and make an appointment for tomorrow
afternoon.'

Say Monday, for I ought to get leave from
Mr. Carthew.'

Why you Vvlll remain where you have to
ask for a day out like a servant baffles me.
However, let It be Monday. I will go and
write the letter now.'

Whilst Mr. Trosdale was thus engaged,
Selwyn went dov/n and talked to Madge.
He had good news to tell her, for he had
heard that morning two Assistant-Surveyors,
senior to himself, had received their promotion,
thus bringing him perceptibly nearer
to his own advancement. Madge received
his news with the most sympathetic kindness,
and asked so many questions about his prospects,

and encouraged him so much, that he
longed to ask her whether, when he was promoted
and In receipt of an income of ;200
a year, she would not let him marry her. He
did not venture, however, to put this question
when it came to the point"; and, after all, the
time was only short, for the Surveyor came
down at the end of a very few minutes, and
under his eyes there was no opportunity for
further dallying. 

PARTED.

N the following morning, when
Selwyn came down to breakfast,
he found that Mr. Carthew had
left a note for him, asking him not to wait,
as he had gone out early, and would probably
breakfast with a friend in the neighbourhood.
Selwyn, therefore, ordered up his eggs and
toast, and was leisurely discussing them when
Mr. Carthew entered hastily.

Oh, I'm glad to find you still here,' he
said. ' I wanted to see you before we goto
the office.'

What has happened ? You seem vexed.'
'Not at all now : rather pleased, in fact,

for

I have made an arrangement which will

satisfy everybody concerned, or I think so.
It is about that absurd fellow, Murphy.'

What about him ?' said Selwyn, his
curiosity excited to a high pitch. * I ought
to tell you, perhaps, more fully what happened
yesterday.'

Oh, I know ! I'm not blind ; I saw there
was something serious the matter. I did not
wish to press my inquiries at the office, since
you evidently desired to say nothing more
about the quarrel ; but I went to Murphy's
lodgings last night, and, do you know, he
was actually composing a cartel of defiance
to be sent to you. A friend of his was helping
him, and an extraordinary document it
was, I can assure you.'

Then you saw it ?'

I did. It was very lengthy, and what
with the cramped handwriting, the frequent
erasures, and the uttering from their candle,
which more than once obscured a whole line,
it was not an easy letter to read. I gathered,
however, that Mr. Murphy recommended his
friend as one 'well versed in the settlement
of such disputes, which, having sprung from
the interchange of blows, demand the effluence

of blood." There was a good deal more
which I can't recall. The gist of the matter
was that Murphy was thirsting for your gore,
and meant to cut " Ses., 1880," beside the
initials which his uncle had scrawled on the
stock of his pistol.'

The man must be insane said Selwyn contemptuously.
' He was ass enough to strike
me, and I naturally knocked him down. There
the matter ended, as far as I am concerned.'

But he took a very different view of it.
I sat down and talked to him as reasonably
as I could  or rather to his friend, for ?murphy
declined to discuss the affair with me ; and at
last we agreed that the quarrel had originated
in a misunderstanding  a decision which
Murphy accepted very sullenly. I said I did
not think you required any apology, and that
the matter might quietly drop.'

Apology ! Good heavens, no !'

Well, I thought not. But now I've something
else to say. Murphy declares he won't
return to my office ; and his half-witted
nephew I don't want. So I've paid them
both a week's wages, and they'll not be
back anv more.'

I am really vexed Selwyn said, * to have
caused you all this annoyance, and the loss of
your two clerks.'

Nonsense! It was not your fault. And
I don't honestly think they are much loss.
However, we must put our backs into the
work, and I shall hand over all the callers to
you.'

This threat the Surveyor carefully put into
execution, arid for some time he remained
shut up in his own room the whole day,
leaving Selwyn to wrestle with the taxpayers.
The experience which he had gained in
Liverpool made this comparatively easy to
him, and on the whole he enjoyed the work.

On the day appointed with Mr. Trosdale
he accompanied him to the offices of
Anderson, Moray, and Co. He had received
a very friendly note from ]mr. ]\Ioray, referring
to former days in which they had met
at Sea Court, and especially to one fine June
morning, on which he and Selwyn had gone
out whiffing for mackerel together ; expressing
the greatest interest in any scheme which
he had contrived, and concluding with a reproachful
hint that Selwyn should not have

been in London for any length of time without
looking him up. The note was so friendly,
and the writer's kind intention so manifest,
that Trosdale, to whom Selwyn showed it,
was greatly exalted, and soared at once into
the most ethereal regions of anticipation. It
was marvellous how great a change was
worked in the ex-Surveyor by an event to
which a sane man would have attached very
small importance. He had been for several
days gradually sinking into the depth of dejection,
only roused by Selwyn's visits, which in
some vague way Inspired him with fresh confidence,
but quickly relapsing into his former
state when his young coadjutor had gone.
He refused all comfort, he declined to allow
Madge to speak to him on the subject of
what he was beginning to call his ' wrongs ;*
he, who was naturally courteous to his
servants, even cursed the poor little lodging-house
drudge in language which, as she said
with flaming cheeks, ' no flesh could bear.*
In short, disappointment was having the
worst possible effect on Mr. Trosdale, and
his better nature seemed completely hidden.
It was a little thiner, this letter from Mr.

Moray, to work such an improvement in the
spirits of a man to whom it was not addressed.
The goodwill, such as its practical value might
be, was exhibited towards Selwyn, and
Selwyn only. But it was characteristic of
Mr. Trosdale that the bond which united his
interests with those of his former Assistant
was in his mind capable of being tightened
or relaxed just as circumstances should
dictate. It was ' we ' or ' I ' as might be
advisable at the moment ; and when the
chances of success seemed brightest, ' I ' was
most frequently in Mr. Trosdale's mouth.
It was ' I ' who was to grant Selwyn a liberal
salary in consideration of his abandoning his
official career in order to devote himself
solely to his patron's interests ; it was ' we '
who, as such roseate visions paled and became
obscured with clouds, were to go together to
Mr. iNIoray, and by the exercise of every art
of seduction persuade him to purchase the
furnace.

As soon as this was decided, Mr. Trosdale
cast off his anxiety and dejection like a cloak.
He became gay and even jocular, rallied
Madge en the paleness of her cheeks, and

promised to take her to Richmond on the
following afternoon. He plied Selwyn hard
with questions about Mr. Moray, making him
repeat his answers over and over again, and
expressing the most unqualified approval of
everything he said. Selwyn feared he was
building too confidence on success, and told
him so.

I am half afraid you will be disappointed
In Mr. Moray,' he said ; ' he has always been
very kind to me ; but then, you see, I have
never approached him on his business side.'

He would not be very ready to talk of
business to an inexperienced lad, I can well
understand,' rejoined the ex-Surveyor loftily ;
but that does not prove I need anticipate
disappointment.'

No, no,' answered Selwyn, good-tempered
enough; ' but I meant more than that;
I have just a doubt in my own mind whether he
is quite as pleasant in business as in private
life. I fancy he may be harder; he Is certainly
very prompt In forming a judgment.'

Promptness is the very quality I love,'
Mr. Trosdale answered ; ' if he Is only prompt
we shall get on.'

Selwyn shook his head doubtfully, and the
conversation dropped.

Mr. Moray had specially requested that
they would bring with them only plans of the
furnace ; adding that he remembered what
skill Selwyn had in drawing mechanical
details, and was confident his young friend
could represent with his pencil all that it
was requisite In this preliminary visit to
show. Afterwards they could examine the
model, if the first interview should render it
advisable to do so. Mr. Trosdale wished a
good deal over this ; but was consoled when
Madge pointed out that the model had already
suffered from being carried about from place
to place, and that it would be better for Mr.
Moray to come and see it in Frith Street.

It's likely enough he'll want to come at
once,' observed the sanguine inventor, as he
set out, *so hold yourself in readiness, child.'

Madge, standing at the window, watched
the two figures disappear round the corner
into Soho Square with a curious feeling of
dread. For a little while she could not define
the sensation even to herself: but the idea
was constantly recurring to her mind that at

some time, some long past time, a girl young
as she herself was had stood at the same
window watching for calamity. She threw
her whole strength into the effort to shake
off this impression : it was too strong for her.
She told herself that in the years which had
gone by since the house was built, many
generations had dwelt in it, and that tidings
both good and ill must have been many times
borne thither. It was no strange matter, she
thought, if some young maiden, whose heartstrings
were wrung with anxiety and fear,
had watched from the window at which she
stood : there was nothing in such a circumstance
to alarm her; it was but that in domestic
history events repeated themselves. How
many joyful events might have happened in
the same spacious room!  the happy meetings
of long parted friends ; jovial dinner-parties ;
dances ; entertainments of all kinds, from
which sadness was banished, and lights and
music chased away anxiety. What confidences
the old walls must have heard !
How many secrets could they not have told !
Even the half-whispered promise which bound
two lives together might have been uttered
VOL. III. 48

more than once in the old room since the
time when the builders left it, and its painted
ceiling looked fresh and bright in the sunshine
of those days, ere London smoke and fogs
had tarnished its colours.

It was useless, however, for Madge to
endeavour to distract her thoughts by following
out such reflections as these. Her mind
was in truth sorely overstrained. Want of
proper food and of mental peace were telling
on her vigorous constitution ; and she could
now no more restrain her morbid imaginations
than she could procure success for her
father's invention. However bravely she
strove to turn her thoughts, the idea of the
girl so like herself, standing watching at the
window, still recurred to her ; till at last,
feeling something like a nervous terror, she
went downstairs, and brought up her landlady's
youngest child, a chubby, rosy-faced
boy of four, who had struck up a great friendship
with her during her stay in Frith Street.

The child demanded a fairy-tale, and
Madge told him the story of the girl who lay
sick in the winter time, crying for strawberries
; and of her kind-hearted playmate

who set off alone through the snow in search
of them, and of the wonderful adventures by
which she found them, and brought them
home to her sick friend. After that she told
the boy one story after another, till at last he
fell asleep with his curly head on her arm.

Madge did not move for fear of waking
him ; but she noticed that evening was
coming on, and that her father and Selwyn
must have been away some hours. What
could be detaining them '. Was it a good
sign or a bad one that they were absent so
very long ?

At last there was a footfall on the stairs, a
slow despondent step ; but though Madge
listened intently, she could not detect the
sound of a second person following the
first.

Why was one returning without the other .'
She had barely time to ask herself this question,
when the door opened, and the Surveyor
entered with the dejected appearance
of a man who has encountered absolute and
unexpected failure.

He cast his hat, together with the papers
which he carried, on the floor, sat down

482

beside the table, and, with a heavy groan,
burled his face in his hands.

For an instant Madge looked at him in
absolute terror ; then she laid down the child
on the sofa, and, putting her arms round her
father's neck, exclaimed :

My darling, tell me what has happened ?'

At the same moment the little boy,,
thoroughly roused from sleep, began to
whimper peevishly.

Take that brat away,' said the Surveyor,
in a hoarse voice ; ' his whining maddens
me!'

Madge took the child down to his mother,
and then, returning to her father's side,,
repeated her question. He answered only
by an inarticulate moan and a convulsive
movement of the shoulders, while Madge, in
an agony of alarm, took his cold hands in
hers, and adjured him with every term of
endearment to tell her the cause for this
abandonment of grief.

At last Mr. Trosdale raised his head, and
showed his daughter a face so haggard and
worn as to be scarcely recognisable for that
of the self-confident man who had parted

from her a few hours before with a boastings
remark on his lips.

Mt is all over, child,' he said. * I am
ruined !'

Do not be so much cast down, father,'
entreated Madge, scarcely knowing what she
was saying ; * all will come right after a
little. If Mr. Moray does not care to take
up the furnace there are plenty of other people
in London, possessed, I dare say, of more influence,
who will. You must try to have a
good night's sleep and forget this vexation,
whatever it is, and in a day or two doubtless
you will hear of some one else likely to help
you. We need not fear the future in any
case. We got on very well before, and we
shall no doubt do very well again.'

Though the poor girl spoke so hopefully,
her heart sank as she did so, and it cost her
an enormous effort to prevent her voice
breaking. She knew only too well that the
future was very dark, and that even if her
father's confidence in himself was renewed
the day of reckoning would surely come.
Sooner or later he must open his eyes to
the fact that he had bartered a good, secure

position and a certain Income for a shadow
without substance. Might he not, now as
well as later, unclasp his hand, and taste at
once the bitterness of seeing that it held only
withered leaves ?

Mr. Trosdale, It seemed, had not heard
his daughter's words ; for he sat staring
vacantly before him, as if his mind were
withdrawn altogether from what was passing
around. Madge was about to speak
again, when he brushed his hand across
his forehead as if thrusting away some
welorht which was coralline him, and bent
down to pick up the plans which he
had thrown on the floor. He glanced at
each of them in turn with a grim face, and
then, placing the sheets together, he tore
them suddenly across and flung them from
him.

Father !' cried Madge In dismay ; ' Selwyn's
plans !'

Yes, Selwyn's plans,' answered her father
savagely. ' Curse them every one !'

As he said this he trod them underfoot
with a gesture of concentrated passion, and
then turned on his daughter :

Why don't you ask me where Selvvyn is ?'
he said. * Aren't you anxious about him ?
Don't you wonder why I have come back
alone ? Oh, I won't keep you in suspense.
I have no doubt he has gone to dine with
his dear friend, Mr. Moray. Aren't you
glad ?'

If he is likely to enjoy himself, I am
glad, of course replied Madge, terribly
alarmed, and quite unable to follow the
drift of her father's mind ; ' but I don't
understand you.'

I'll go bail he will enjoy himself,' went on
Mr. Trosdale savagely. ' Why should he
not ? Moray will give him a good dinner,
and probably drive him home in the evening.
There will be no long dusty walk for
him ; neither will there be the aching heart,
beside which the greatest weariness of body
seems ease.'

As the ex-Surveyor uttered the last words
his voice sank very low, and there was in his
attitude an absolute dejection that cut Madge
to the heart.

Will you not have something to eat,
father ?' she said, laying her hand again on his

shoulder. * You are fagged to death. Lean
back in your easy-chair, and I will make the
tea. We will not talk any more till you are
rested.'

'No tea,' answered Mr. Trosdale, leavings
the other suggestion unnoticed ; ' give me a
glass of water  I am parched.'

He drank the water when his daughter
fetched it, and then allowed her to place him
in a great chair beside the window, which
was raised sufficiently to admit the cool evening
air. The street had become quiet, and
the lamps were already lit. The gleam from
one of them shone through the panes, and
was sufficient to make everything in the room
dimly visible. The haggard features of the
man sitting by the window with closed eyes
and mouth half open seemed in the faint
light yet more pinched and wrung than they
really where ; his hair appeared whiter, and it
might really be that in this sleep of excessive
weariness some signs of age were revealed
which the play of expression in his face usually
hid. If this were not so, Madge must have
looked on her father that night with sharpened
eyes, for a sudden pang seized her as she

observed how old he looked  how much
older than his years.

It was too dark for any occupation, and
Madge could only sit gazing at her father 
thinking, thinking, afraid to move, lest she
should rouse him. He lay quite still for a
long time, perhaps an hour, and then awoke
and sat upright, grasping the arms of the
chair with his hands.

Why are you sitting in the dark ?' he
asked fretfully.

I thought you were asleep,' answered
Madge, and she lighted the gas and drew
the blinds down.

Completely roused, Mr. Trosdale rose and
began to walk about the room. He paused
at last opposite his daughter, and said :

It is necessary that you should know
what has happened to-day.'

Don't tell me, father, if it pains you. I
can guess that Mr. Moray would not help
you.'

If that were all I should thank God withall
my heart. What has occurred is worse,
far worse, than any mere temporary disappointment.
I would spare you if I could,

but you must know, for It concerns you as
much as it does me. When we got to
Moray's office he was out  at lunch, his clerk
thought  though we had called by appointment.
That was insolent and a bad beginnings.
However, we waited half an hour as
patiently as we could. At last our gentleman
came in, looking cool and airy, and apologising
in a careless off-hand way for having kept us
waiting. That made my blood boil, and I
said something which let him know that I
resented his impertinence. He scarcely
noticed my remark, but began to talk to
Selwyn about Somersetshire. After the pair
had ignored my very existence for ten minutes
or so, I began to feel it was almost time forme
to understand in what licht I was regarded
there, and whether any business was
to be done or not. So I suggested, as coolly
as I could, that it might be well to come to
the point of our visit. When I spoke,
Moray turned round, and said : " Yes,
to be sure ; let me look at those plans,
please." I wanted to explain them, but he
seemed to think he knew everything, and
took them away to a table beside the window,

and turned them over for five minutes, when
he said, '' I am very sorry to tell you, Mr.
Trosdale, that this scheme of yours will never
work'"

Oh ! how could he tell ?' ejaculated
Madge.

Of course,' her father answered wrathfully,
'he could not tell. I said, '' Let me observe
that you have hardly studied my idea
sufficiently to make it possible for you to
judge of that." To which he had the audacity
to reply that no prolonged examination was
necessary, for that he vas already acquainted
not only with my idea, but with the obstacles
to Its success. '' Obstacles !" I cried ; " why,
it has succeeded. Come and see my model."
"On a small scale," he said, 'eon a small
scale, Mr. Trosdale. You have not tried it
on a large one." " I have not built a furnace
as large as Snowdon, If that is what you mean,"
I replied, " but I have satisfied myself that it
quill work ; and you may take my word for
it." He shook his head In a superior kind of
way, and said, " I am afraid I must believe
my own experience, Mr.Trosdale,in preference
to your theory." I saw that it was useless to

go on in that way, so I changed my tack, and
asked him to mention a few of the obstacles
that he saw to the success of my plan. At
first he hesitated in a way which seemed tome
very odd ; and, when I pressed him hard,
he said, quite frankly, that he knew how to
overcome some of them, and would prefer to
say nothing more on the subject. That
showed me at once how the land lay: the man
had seized my notion, and meant to make
use of it in his own way. So I told him I
saw through his game, and that it was a
dangerous one to play. I warned him that I
would leave no stone unturned to protect my
rights, and that he should not pirate my
invention without being placarded through the
City as a dishonourable scoundrel. He made
no answer whatever, but sat looking at me
very strangely with a half-smile. Then
Selwyn must needs interfere, taking his
friend's part against me. I could not stand
that, and I got up and called to Selwyn
to come away. Well, will you believe that
he refused to come '. said he would follow mein
a little while ; and Moray at once asked
him to dine with him. " I fear, after what

has passed, it would be an empty compliment
to ask you to join us," he said to me. I
replied that it certainly would be. I was just
leaving when Moray called after me, " I mayas
well say, Mr. Trosdale, I have already
taken out a patent somewhat similar to yours,
and that I have been busily engaged for sometime
in overcoming the difficulties I spoke of
just now." I did not answer him  I could not,
for I knew my brain-child had been again
stolen.'

My poor father, my dear father !' murmured
Madge, her eyes filled with tears.

Don't, for God's sake, begin pitying me !
The thing is bad enough without that. This
is how I stand. My scheme is in the hands of
another man, who has capital and connection.
How he got it I don't know. If he was not
lying when he said he had already taken out
a patent, of course some one must have
disclosed my plan to him ; and the only
person who could have done so is Serle.'

Father ! You cannot think he would have
done such a thing !'

But I do ; and that's what breaks my heart.
I trusted him so.'

And you may trust him still !' exclaimed
Madge.

How came Moray, then, to know all about
this affair ? Isn't he Serle's friend ? Why
does Serle separate himself from me, and
stay with Moray ? Can't you see it is because
he thinks the Scotchman can work out
the plan better than I, and he is quite indifferent
what becomes of me as long as he
prospers himself?'

There's some terrible mistake here,' said
Madge, in an agony. ' Selwyn is no more
capable of such an act of treachery than I
am.'

You may believe what you like about the
matter,' said her father ; * the evidence of my
senses is good enough for me. I never expected
you to side with me ; you have never
been able to pretend even that you had any
faith in your father. But I have done with
Serle.'

The words were hardly out of his mouth
when Selwyn entered the room ; and on seeing
him, Mr. Trosdale repeated :

I have done with Serle for ever !'

May I ask what you mean by saying you

have done with me, sir ?' asked the young
man. * I have never given you any cause to
cast me off.'

If I had known you were Hastening, not
for the first time, I should have put my
meaning into plainer language,' answered
Mr. Trosdale, his face growing white with
passion.

I was not listening. I came direct upstairs
; and it was only as I entered the room
that I heard your last remark. Do not be
unjust to mee, Mr. Trosdale. We have been
friends too long to quarrel about this deplorable
coincidence.'

There is no coincidence. You betrayed
my secret to that false, insolent Scotchman !'

I did not.'

You did  I do not believe your word. The
man who would betray me would lie in order
to conceal his shame. If you did not tell my
secret, explain who did. How did Moray
come to know it .' Was it revealed to him
in a dream ?'

Selwyn flushed scarlet at this speech ; but
he bit his lip, and answered quite calmly:

He tells me that the notion occurred to

him long ago ; and that an almost similar
idea has been in the minds of many other
people for a considerable time. He has himself
been trying to perfect it for two years
past, but has, as yet, only partially succeeded

He lies !' interrupted Mr. Trosdale furiously.


I am sure he speaks the literal truth,*
rejoined Selwyn.

He lies, I tell you !' shouted the ex-surveyor.
' He is a false hound ; and you
are in league with him. The plan is mine,
and mine only. Heaven will curse these
scoundrels who are trying to rob me of it !'

He stopped suddenly, for he perceived
that Madge had seized Selwyn by the arm,
and was motioning to him to leave the room.

Let him stay !' he cried ; ' he shall not go
till I have done with him.'

And the infuriated man set his back against
the door, and said :

Come, now, Serle, pluck up courage, and
confess the dirty thing you have done.'

I have nothing to confess,' answered
Selwyn.

Will you dare to deny that Moray kept

you behind in order to talk over my business
?'

I might evade that question if I chose
Selwyn answered ; ' but I admit Mr. Moray
did talk over your affair with me.'

Hear him ! That's frank at last ! Weare
getting on now. And by what right did
you discuss my business with a stranger, and
a man whom you knew to be my rival T

I had no authority from you to do so ;
but I do not think it was necessary, seeing
that we have been intimate for so long, and
that the discussion was carried on in the
friendliest tone towards you.'

Heaven grant me patience ! And what
was decided at this precious interview, in
which you did me the honour to represent
me without my leave, and to talk freely about
my private concerns ?'

I don't admit your right to use that tone
towards me said Selwyn, losing temper at
last. * You should remember, Mr. Trosdale,
that there are limits to patience. I will tell
you, however, what passed. Mr. Moray explained
to me at length what the course of his
own investigations had been ; and he pointed

VOL. III. 49

out to me the fault in your plan, and how it
might possibly be overcome.'

Tell me now.'

I am not at liberty to do so at present

A precious partner and assistant you are !
Why don't you admit at once that you told
him all my notions, as I confided them to
you ?'

You misjudge me,' Selwyn answered, with
an obvious effort at self-control. ' The conclusion
of the matter was that he made a
proposal to me, which I think a generous
one. It was that you should call on him
again at the end of a week, laying aside in
the meantime all idea of any design on his
part to swindle you. It might then be possible
to discuss the matter temperately, and
to see whether you and he could not work
together, with a view to conquer the faults in
both patents, and arrange, if you succeed,
for some share, ultimately, in the profits.'

Is it possible that you have the insolence
to convey such a proposal to me ?' asked Mr.
Trosdale, with a look of bewilderment. ' You
must be insane 1'

Do not reject Mr. Moray's offer without

very careful thought,' Implored Selwyn.
Whatever you may think of me, don't throw
away this chance. I give you my word that
he is much nearer success than yourself

Hear how he pleads for his accomplice 1'
laughed the Surveyor, pointing his finger at
his young friend. ' Just let this end, Serle.
You may tell Moray, from me, that I saw today
he was a liar and a thief. \Ahat you tell
me now convinces me that he is a sharp-witted
and plausible one. You have proved
yourself his equal in every way. I will have
no more to do with either of you  and I
hope I may never see you again. It was an
evil day for me when you came to Liverpool.
I gave you all I had to give. I admitted you
to my home. I intrusted you with my plans.
I confided in you in every way  and nobly
you have repaid me. Well, this will be a
lesson to me throughout life. Leave my
house now for ever, and take with you the
consolation of having succeeded in bringing
about the absolute ruin of one who trusted
you. I congratulate you on the skill with
which you have effected your object.'

she opened the door ; then, seeing that

492

Madge was stretching out her hands, with an
imploring gesture, towards Selwyn, he said,
not without a touch of feeling :

I am going upstairs for ten minutes.
Do not give me the pain of finding you here
when I return.'

Before the ten minutes expired Selwyn had
left the house in Frith Street, and Madge was
kneeling beside the bed in her own room,
sobbing as if her heart would break.

mm.

CHAPTER VIII.

OH ! MY LOST LOVE.'

HERE are times in the lives of all of
us on which we never care to look
back  times of agonized sorrow,
of deep humiliation, of horrible disappointment,
of loss, of temptation, of loneliness, of
struggle, of sin, of unavailing repentance, of
anguish too full of remorse for tears. There
is scarce a single person that has arrived at
middle manhood who can truthfully say there
is not one leaf, at all events, in the book of his
existence he would fain forget.

To Selwyn Serle the months which followed
after his parting interview with Mr. Trosdale
will always seem like a bad nightmare. Till
the end of his life he will never be able to recall

the sequence of hopeless days and weary nights
he then spent without a shudder  never, so
lonQ as for him ofrass sorrows and water flows
will he be able to speak, even to his nearest
and dearest, of what he went through while
his torn heart was recovering from wounds
such only as can be inflicted by those we have
loved and trusted.

He had loved and trusted Mr. Trosdale.
His own dimly-remembered father could have
occupied no higher place in his esteem and
affection. Of the best he had in him he had
given to his friend. What, indeed, had he
not given cheerfully, thankfully, joyfully !

The spring-time of youth, which to a man
comes not twice  the hope, the energy, the
faith, the help unselfishly offered and gladly
received  all these things he laid before jNIr.
Trosdale as things of naught, asking for nothing
in exchange.

As for the money lost so utterly, Selwyn
took no account of it consciously. Had it
been double, treble the amount he never
would have grudged parting with it ; but
still, insensibly even to himself, his poor
hundreds went to swell the sum-total of an

account In which to him there had been no
profit.

For the one possession he might have
saved from the wreck was relentlessly swept
from him. Even Madge had passed out of
his life, and the sweetness of the days of
poverty and trial they faced so happily together
was turned Into bitterness.

Death, poor lad, he thought he could have
borne better. Around the memory of his
dead there hung no chaplet of rue. All
connected with them was calm as their quiet
resting-place, but he could associate nothing
calm or restful with his parting from Madge.

He knew her well. She had said she
believed in him utterly  God bless her for
that belief!  nevertheless

We will say good-bye now, my darling,
for ever ;' and she kissed him, weeping sore,
but still had strength to make him go.

She did not believe  had never believed 
in her father. ' But he Is my father, Selwyn,
so my first duty Is to him ; for whom has he
In all the wide world beside me ?'

He had no one. He never could have
anyone so near, so faithful, who would

bear with him, be true to him, patient, helpful,
long-sufferings, kind.

Should the day ever come that he finds
out how cruelly he has wronged me, you will
send for me at once, will you not ?'

Yes  should the day ever come ; but that
day will never come. Put us out of your life ;
and try to make the good thing of it you
might, if we had never met

If they had never met ! There were times
when, in his deep despondency. Selwyn
wished they never had. Spite of crosses
and losses, he was happy in the old days that
seemed so far away ; happy before Mr. Tros-
dale ' took to him,' and hopeful too. But,
oh ! he had been happier since. And, as he
recalled his walks with Madge to Cleveland
Square ; the evenings they loitered under the
windows of St. George's Hall ; the services
they both attended in St. Paul's Church ah,
there was one service he once thought would
be held in that church for them alone !  the
never-to-be-fororotten little excursions down
the river; the funny parties they had made
so merry over  he felt as if his heart must
break to think everything that once seemed

fresh, and fair, and beautiful was dead as last
year's flowers, and had left no fruit except
what was sour as wild grapes, and bitter as
aloes.

Oh, my love  my own lost love !' that
was the refrain his weary soul kept for ever
chanting.

Not even when his spirit waxed hottest
within him had he a hard thought towards
her.

He never believed she would cease to care
for him, and learn to care for anyone else.
The idea that another might win and wear
her did not enter his mind. He pictured her
through the years still ministering to and
bearing with her father, who, wrapped up in
himself and his owen foolish, selfish concerns,
would not even understand, much less be
grateful, for the sacrifice she made.

When his reflections reached this point
Selwyn felt possessed with a sort of fury.
These moods generally came upon him after
office hours, and he would seize his hat and
rush out and walk for miles, in a vain
striving to lay the devil which mastered him.

That such a life as Made's should be

utterly wasted, as he considered the matter,
drove him almost frantic.

Anybody,' he said in his wrath, ' who saw
his meals were well cooked and his clothes
mended, would serve her father's turn as well
as Madge  why should she be sacrificed ? It
does not signify about me ; if I knew she
was happy I should not mind being miserable '
myself.' And yet all the time, poor lad, he
was minding being miserable, very much
indeed  mentally asking why such a burden
had been put upon him  why, out of the
whole world, he had been the person
selected as a scape-goat to bear the whole
weight of Mr. Trosdale's follies and crimes.

For a man who does everything he ought
not, and nothing that he ought, is as much a
criminal as any felon living In Newgate ;'
which was putting the case strongly, yet
perhaps not too strongly.

When Selwyn went to London, which was
often, he always managed  no matter in
which direction his business lay  to pass
through Frith Street, not once, but many
times ; but never did a sight of his lady-love
gladden his eyes. There was the house, but

her face never appeared at the window.
Going, or coming, or sauntering up and
down, he never met her, never caught even a
glimpse of her in the distance.

Fate evidently had a spite against him.
Other people quite by accident ran up
against those they desired to see ; but he,
though he sought her sedulously, was never
so happy as in the morning, or at noon, or
evening, to meet her even for a moment.

How was it that no chance threw him
across her path, that he always failed to time
his quick or loitering footsteps to the happy
minute when they might keep glad tune with
hers ?

She had not used to be such a stay-at-home.
In St. PauFs Square any beggar
might have seen her a dozen times a day ;
and now he who only craved for a smile, a
look, for even a sight of her shadow as she
passed, had always to return to his desolate
lodgings empty and faint, sick at heart, and
lonely beyond description.

One day, nine months after their bitter
parting, when, after fruitlessly pacing up and
down the street, he was about to turn away

in despair, he saw a servant going on some
errand. It was not the same servant he had
known, but in a lodging-house there is not
much use in taking account of changes in
servants. She came out of the door he had
so often entered ; that was enough for him,
and he followed and came up with her before
she reached Soho Square.

How is Miss Trosdale ?' he asked.

The girl looked at him sharply. She
was but a poor little drab of all-work,
wearing a new hat much too small for her,
old boots  which originally belonged to some
far bigger person  as much too large, and
an amazing Piccadilly fringe ; but she was a
past-mistress in that style of brilliant repartee
which shines in such sentences as :

It's manners not to speak till you're asked,
ain't it ? Perhaps you're not aware who you
are addressing of.'

Keep your distance, please. Nobody
wants you to lessen it.'

Perhaps you mistake me for your Sal ; but
she never gets out, except on Sunday evenings,
after all the family is gone to bed.'

One of twenty such phrases trembled on

the poor little hussy's lips (we must all have
our own consolations, and there must be a consolation
in dialogue of this description, or else
it would not obtain to the extent it does), but
as she looked at Selwyn they all died away.

Here was no toff, no lardy-dardy swell, no
blackguard in her own class of life, no
scoundrel such as infests even at high noon 
at high noon, indeed, more than at high
night  our London streets ; nobody in answer
to whose signal it was necessary to run up the
daunting flag of female virtue, which frequently
serves its owner the scurvy trick of
hauling itself down at the first suggestion of
siege. Only an ' ordinary ' young man who
meant no harm, and who thought she was
somebody else, instead of Catherine Jane
Herder, who combined in her own bewitching-person
the various characters of cook, housemaid,
chambermaid, parlour maid, shoeblack
and drudge to Mrs. Lovell.

I knows no Miss Trosdale,' she answered,
with more urbanity of manner than her words
might suggest.

But you came out of Mrs. Lovell's,
surely '

Mrs. Lovell ain't Miss Trosdale, is she ?'

No ; I mean the young lady who lodges
with her.'

There ain't no young lady lodging along
of her  neither has there been in my time.'

And how long has your time been ?'

Going on for three months. See here 
do you want to know very much about the
young lady ?'

Certainly. Why do you ask ?'

Because I shan't be more nor five minutes
away ; and if you'd wait till I come back, I
could ask where is she gone.'

Thank you greatly ; but I can ask myself.'


Oh I I have no wish to put myself forward.
Sorry I spoke ; but my intention was
good.'

I am sure it was,' said Selwyn ; ' but I
have spoken to Mrs. Lovell often. She
knows who I am, and will tell me where Miss
Trosdale is to be found. I feel obliged to
you all the same, however.' And he slid
half-a-crown into the girl's hand, which did
not close on it.

On the contrary, she held it out on her

palm, and Selwyn could not help noticing
how black and grimed that palm was. Her
dirt struck him with a sense of pity. It was,
indeed, almost pathetic.

What's this for T she asked.

To buy whatever you like with explained
Selwyn. ' I have given you some trouble.'

I wouldn't mind taking a good deal more
at the same price.' returned the girl, in a spirit
of light and playful satire. ' Well, If you are
sure you won't let me ask for you '

Quite sure,' put in Selwyn.

I had best be going on my errand,' which
she immediately did, while Selwyn retraced
his steps to the well-remembered house.

Yes, it was true,' Mrs. Lovell told him ;
Mr. and Miss Trosdale had left more than
six months ; and sorry enough she was to
lose such good lodgers.'

Did she know where they had gone ?
Well, Miss Trosdale did say  yes, and wrote
it down, too ; because she showed the address
to that stout gentleman, who copied it into
his pocket-book. Had she the direction still i
She thought so ; but there's so many things
to attend to. However, if Mr. Serle would

Step inside, she would look. He had been
away, she supposed. Perhaps he would like
to wait in the rooms while she made search
for the piece of paper  she knew what it
was like  she could remember it the minute
her eyes lit on it  and, dear  dear ! had he
been for all this weary time where he could
neither see nor hear from that dear young
lady ? It must have seemed a terrible while
to him ! And if he knew of any friends who
wanted comfortable apartments, she hoped he
would bear hers in mind. She would not mind
making a reduction to parties recommended
by him. It did seem home-like and natural to
see him standing just where he had stood so
often. He would excuse her leaving him while
she found the address 1 And so she went
away at last, and left Selwyn free to look
round the dingy room where he had known
such happiness, out of which he had gone
feeling more utterly wretched than at anytime
during the whole of his life;

It all returned to him with a rush, as a great
wave of memory came sweeping over his
soul, and when the waters ebbed he saw
-stranded all he had hoped  all he had lost.

It was but a year and nine months since
that wet day in August when he strode, strong
heart and high of courage, under his dripping
umbrella, sad and sorrowful when he
thought of the good, peaceful, happy past, but
confident that the future held for him much
he should still prize and enjoy.

As in a dream, he saw that young fellow plodding
cheerily along through the rain, and felt
a pang of regret to think he could never so
plod cheerily again. Not two years ago he
had first seen Mr. Dandison, and obtained his
credentials in the form of that letter to Mr.
Trosdale !

It was a short time in which to have made
such a shipwreck of his life. He had gone to
Liverpool determined to do his duty ; determined
to be brave, honest, proud of a name
which had never yet been linked with disgrace,
careful as to his associates, mindful of
all the tender home lessons, the kindness of
old friends, the wisdom of his elders  and he
had kept his good resolution to the best of
his ability. Nevertheless, reviewing the past
in Mrs. Lovell's front parlour, he despairingly
considered the result could scarcely have

VOL. III. 50

proved worse had he spent the time since
that inclement Monday in folly and riot.

When the columns of his experience came
to be added up. what was the sum-total ?
Loss ! He had loved and lost, been faithful
and deemed false, been the truest of friends
and considered the worst of traitors.

And, on the other side, what advantage
had he gained ? The memory of a girl which
would sadden his life. Ah ! that was not all
sadness. To think of Made was to think of
some one far beyond personal selfishness as
the heaven is high above the earth. If they
never met again  if never for ever he heard
her voice nor touched her hand, nor looked in
those eyes which had once so perplexed him,
he knew he ouorht. after having known her,
to walk through the world nobler, stronger,
because of the nobility and the strength
in her.

What if there had come a coldness betwixt
himself and the kind friends at Sea Court ;
what if all old things had passed away, and
no new experiences which were pleasant
seemed ever likely to arise ; what if he had
grown less hopeful, less cheerful, more lonely.

more heart-weary ?  still  still he had known
Madge. In that very room had he not constantly
seen some evidence of her courage and
devotion. Ah, yes ! he was wrong to complain.
There is a goal even here below more
to be desired than ease and pleasure, and she
had shown him the straight path to it.

He thought of her as she knelt that evening
all alone in St. Paul's Church, to outward
seeming a quiet, prayerful figure ; now, as he
understood, a girl solitary beyond expression,
wrestling with her sorrow, seeking for
strength, striving through darkness to see
light.

My love ! shall I be weaker than you
were then ?' And the poor fellow's eyes were
dim, as the past, with its glamour of beauty,
displaced for a moment the hard reality of his
bitter present. He was pacing the Liverpool
streets again by her side  walking in
the moonlight back from Mrs. Gibbs' wonderful
party  standing in St. Paul's Square,
feeling his first pang of jealousy, when Mrs.
Lovell's voice recalled him to London and
Soho.

I have kept you a long while, ]mr. Serle,

50-2

but  better late than never. Here it Is:
Doughty Street, Mecklenburg Square, near
the Foundling. You'll give my duty to Miss
Trosdale, won't you, sir ? and say, whenever
she is passing, I should be proud to see her.
She was looking a bit peaky before they left
me. The old gentleman was often peevish,
and she did not go out enough. Young people
are best in homes of their own  leastways
that is my opinion. But, law ! where is the
lot or station without a cross in it somewhere ?
I am sure I have had mine. And if ever you
should hear of any newly-married couple
wanting apartments, I would do my best to
make them comfortable ; and as to terms, we
shouldn't quarrel over a shilling or two '

The contrast between the home he had
pictured and Mrs. Lo veil's rooms was absurd
enough, yet Selwyn could not smile as
it occurred to him. His heart felt full as it
could hold, and he stretched out his hand to
the landlady without a word.

I wouldn't let my spirits down, sir, if you
can help it, Mr. Serle,' she said. * You'll
excuse me, sir, but I always suspected something
had come between you. Love wouldn't

be love, though, if its course ran quite smooth ;
and it won't be long, I hope, before I see
you and Miss Trosdale walking in here
husband and wife, and happy as the day is
long.'

I am glad she said that,' Selwyn muttered
to himself, as he sped away straight to
Doughty Street ; ' though she ought not to
have said it, I am glad she did; And then his
pace slackened. After all, why w-as he rushing
off in such hot haste to the north-east 
what did he mean to do when he reached
Mr. Trosdale's lodgings ? He could not call 
he could not ask to see Madge in defiance of
her fathers prohibition. Why was his soul
rejoicing within him  what piece of good
fortune had come since he sauntered up and
down before a house where his dearest one
was not ? He did not know. Something in
his life had changed within the last hour ; the
weary, stupid calm of despair had lasted long
enough. A quickening of his pulse, a more
rapid throbbing of his heart, told him some
change was imminent.

When would it come, and how ? what
form would it assume ? He might not

hasten its advent, but he could at least take
one step to meet it by asking at the door in
Doughty Street, to which he had been
directed, how Mr. and Miss Trosdale were.

NO CLUE.

R. TROSDALE, sir? no, he Is not

here now. He went, I suppose,

i:- ten weeks ago. No, sir, I don't

know where he is gone ; but I will ask Miss

Lewis.'

As it turned out, Miss Lewis did not know
either. Mr. Trosdale had been aiHng somewhat,
and she rather thought he and his
daughter had prone to the seaside. She
never heard Miss Trosdale say where they
where going ; they had left no address to which
any letters could be forwarded  in fact, only
one letter for them had come to Doughty
Street since the morning they left. Miss
Lewis said she was very sorry she could give

so little information. Mr. Trosdale was not
in bad health when he left ; he only seemed
a little out of sorts. The east winds had
tried him very much, as, indeed, they had
Miss Lewis herself, who wished very much
she could get away for a change. Miss
Trosdale was quite well, only anxious about
her papa, as was natural ; ndtfthat there was
anything to be anxious about, but when
daughters Vv'ere attached to their parents, of
course they always thought that if but a
finger ached the doctor ought to be sent
for. Yes, a doctor had been sent for. Dr.
Higgins in Brunswick Square, a very nice
gentleman, who had attended many of Miss
Lewis' lodgers  in fact, had attended Miss
Lewis' aunt in her last illness. She did not
think it likely, however, that Dr. Higgins
would know where Mr. Trosdale had gone,
but it could do no harm to ask him. There
was no need to thank her, Miss Lewis declared.
She always felt glad to oblige ; all
she wished was she had been able to tell
more.

If that change Selwyn had been certain
was impending were approaching, it seemed

vain to speculate on its course. What could
be the reason, he marvelled, for so many removals
? Did Mr. Trosdale desire to take
his daughter utterly beyond his (Selwyn's)
reach '. It might be so, but, on the other
hand, why did he pursue such a line of conduct
till his commands were infringed ? The
lovers had not transgressed by word or sign.
Why then should J\Ir. Trosdale choose to
vanish so utterly that not even a footprint
remained by which to trace him ?

Pshaw ! the doctor would know all about
it. He had ordered his patient most probably
to some seaside resort.

No,' said that gentleman when the question
was put to him, ' I have not an idea
where Mr. Trosdale is gone, or why he left
Doughty Street. I attended him, yes. He
was a little low and nervous, but in such
cases beef-tea and tonics work wonders. He
soon got well ; wonderfully soon, for he is nota
young man, you must remember. If he
has really gone to the seaside I should say
it is not for his health, more likely for amusement
; time seemed to hang very heavily on
his hands. He had no interests, so far as I

could judge. He seemed lost in London,
quite out of his element ; and speaking of
that reminds me. Do you not think it is
probable they have returned to Liverpool ?
Miss Trosdale said to me more than once
she was heartily sorry they had ever left it.'

To Liverpool !' repeated Selwyn, amazed.
I hardly imagine Mr. Trosdale would like to
go back to Liverpool. It is a place he always
declared he hated.'

Nevertheless, you may depend it is there
you will find him. He was very tired of
London.'

Selwyn pondered over this statement till
he grew half inclined to believe the doctor
right. It was not impossible that, after his
disappointment, Mr. Trosdale might have
become disgusted with London, and desirous
of leaving it. Madge had never taken kindly
to the move. She was lonely in London ;
she disliked lodgings ; she could not have
matters so comfortable for her father as she
wished. Yes, though the idea seemed preposterous
at the first blush, the more Selwyn
thought over the matter, the more convinced
he became that the Surveyor, having failed

to find a fortune, in London, had returned to
Liverpool to live on his pension.

He would write to Liverpool and inquire.
No; on second thoughts, he would not write
to anyone  he would go ; and the following
Saturday afternoon, therefore, found him wert
route for Lancashire.

It was with a strange and miserable sensation
he paced the familiar streets next day.
After we have been separated for some time
from even the dearest friend, we find, on
meeting once again, that he is a little strange
to us. A change has passed over him as well
as over us ; but of the one we are conscious.
of the other unconscious. He is not exactly
the friend we remember. The tone of his
voice, the look in his eyes, the smile flitting
around his mouth, his manner, mien, carriage,
are not quite what we imagined ; and in precise
proportion generally to the desire with
which we desired to see him, is the vague
disappointment that he is not exactly the
man from whom we parted.

It is much the same with a town which we
have learned to like ; we revisit and grow
gradually to hate it. Not even had his first

sight of Liverpool, in a pouring, pelting rain,
exercised so depressing an influence upon
Selwyn as its aspect on a bright Sunday
morning in May, with the sun flaring
down on the pavement, dust blowing round
every corner in a playful and childlike
manner, the bells clanging out their imperative
summons to obedient worshippers streaming
along, each bound to the conventicle he
specially favoured.

Selwyn went to St. Paul's. If he had any
hope that he might there catch a glimpse of
Madge, it was disappointed. A man sat at
the organ, and among the sparse congregation
there was no one who in the least
resembled her. After service, the sextoness,
who had greeted him on his entrance with a
surprised and carefully modulated smile, slid
round to the door by which he was leaving, and
ventured humbly to hope that Miss Trosdale
was well and enjoying her health in London.

In London ! So the sextoness evidently
had not seen her in Liverpool ; but perhaps
Mr. Trosdale had taken a house in the
suburbs, at too great a distance for his
daughter to attend the dreary stranded

church situate in a drearier and more
stranded square.

Thank you,' said Selwyn, as one in a
dream ; ' she was quite well when I saw her
last ;' and he glanced back at the Communion
rails, before which, in fancy, he had
so often stood with Madge, hearing the
words spoken that meant they should never
separate again till death parted them. And
now they were parted, and not by death.

You are not looking quite yourself, sir,'
said the woman, a little curious. ' London
does not suit you so well as Liverpool.'

I am not in London, but four miles from
It,' he answered.

Ah ! it's all the same,' rejoined the woman.
None of that south part is healthy  breeds
fevers and agues and such like.'

Selwyn shivered as he turned away. He
knew the woman's talk was all nonsense about
fevers and agues, but he could not tell where
his darling might be, or whether she was
suffering physically. While he was foolishly
taking it for granted she still remained in
Soho, what might not have been happening
elsewhere ? Whv had he allowed himself to

be parted from her ? Why did he not insist,
at least, on an occasional letter ? The midday
sun was streaming straight down on the
graveyard as he left St. Paul's, touching the
old tombstones with shafts of brightness, and
even rendering some of the inscriptions
legible to the passer-by ; but the sunshine
could not warm Selwyn's chilled heart. He
felt as if an icy hand were clutching it. He
could know no rest or happiness till he found
]\ladee and satisfied himself she was well.

When he came to the old house where he
had known such fulness of happiness he
paused for a moment  it was tenanted. A
residence of that description in the heart
of the town, and close to the river, was not
likely to remain vacant for long, and Selwyn
knew this ; nevertheless, it was with an
unreasonable pang of regret he saw short
blinds at the windows, the outer door set
wide, and inner swing-doors for the convenience
of people who were constantly
entering and leaving.

It did not need a mingled odour of cabbage-water,
roast-beef, boiled dumplings, onions,,
and a broad brass plate bearing the one word

Bradford,' to assure him it was a boardinghouse.
He could have better borne to see
it empty, falling to decay ; the fresh paint,
the spruce white curtains, the hearth-stoned
steps, the flower-pots red-ochre till they
made the eye ache, poured the last drop in
his cup. An old age of poverty and neglect
would have seemed trying enough, but the
rakish assumption of youth, the smug look of
those red pots filled with musk and creeping
jenny, the whited-sepulchre appearance given
by those short blinds ornamented with brass
rods, made him heart-sick. A little girl in a
wonderful pink frock and a little boy dressed
in a sailor's suit were running in and out of
the hall and pursuing each other along the
pavement.

Selwyn would have liked to knock their
heads together and change their yells of
delight into howls of pain ; though he had
but just come out of church, he was in a very
unchristian humour.

No child likes to see another child in
possession of its toys ; and. after all, what
are houses and land but toys to children of
a larger growth ?

I hope I shall never enter this place
again thought Selwyn ungratefully ; and so
he left St. Paul's Square, and figuratively
shook its dust off his shoes.

He meant to call during the course of that
afternoon on everyone with whom Madge had
been intimate ; no great round of visits, but
still sufficient to make him decide on not
wasting time in partaking of afternoon or
high tea anywhere.

It was still too early by a couple of hours
for him to start on his quest. Hungry as
people, for some inscrutable reason, always
are on Sunday, they would one and all at that
precise time be ravenously devouring dinner.

He must possess his soul in patience a
little longer still ; and as he felt he could not
touch food if he ordered it, he decided to
take a stroll through all the old haunts he
had traversed so often with Madge.

Where was now the glamour that had hung
over them ?  garish and pretentious, or else
mean and sordid, they all appeared to his
travelled eyes.

He could see nothing imposing about
St. George's Hall, quaint in Cleveland

Square, old-fashioned in Duke Street, and
stately in that then queer corner of Liverpool
now being utterly modernized and ruined
by nineteenth-century warehouses  Wolsten-
holm Square. The eye makes its own
beauty, the heart its own happiness.
Selwyn's eye on that Sunday was not open
to the influence of beauty, or his heart to
any thrill of happiness.

It is exactly what I first thought it  a
hateful place,' he considered ; but if oMadge
had only come in sight, Liverpool would have
been the most charming place in all the world.

Instead of Madge, he saw walking along
Bold Street the man he would at any other
time have gone a mile out of his way to
avoid meeting.

As matters were, he went straight on, and
so came face to face with Mr. Ash ford.

What  really you!' exclaimed that gentleman,
as he shook hands. ' I thought to
myself when I first caught sight of you,
'' That's very like Serle  I wonder where
he is ;" but I never imagined it was you.
I did not expect you would be coming to
Liverpool.'

VOL. III. 51

I did not expect to be coming myself a
few days ago,' answered Serle. ' My journey
is quite an unexpected one.'

Well, expected or the reverse, I am very
glad to see you. How did you leave the
gay Metropolis ?'

The gay Metropolis seemed much as
usual when I last was there,' said Selwyn.

Why don't you say, '' in its usual," ' asked
Mr. Ashford with forced playfulness ; 'that is
a good Scotch expression.'

As I am not Scotch, English has to be
good enough for me,' retorted Selwyn somewhat
snappishly.

English has to be good enough for a
great many people,' returned Mr. Ashford.
And how are your friends the Trosdales,
Mr. Serle ?'

They were in *' their usual," ' with a bitter
smile, * when I saw them last ; but that is
nine months since  nearly ten, indeed. You
can give me much later news, no doubt ?'

What, have you never seen them since
you and the old man had that row ?'
Never.'
Where are you stopping ' The Compton !

Then we are nearer my diggings  come in
and have a glass of wine.'

Mentally reserving to himself the right to
refuse that glass of wine, Selwyn assented to
the suggestion. He thought he was now in
the straight way to hear news, and he knew
at last from whom Mr. Trosdale had learned
to talk about ' diggings.' Very strange, indeed,
that such a man as Mr. Ashford should
have acquired so great an influence over one
who certainly had come of decent people, and
was once accustomed to the manners and
usages of good society.

In the friendly shelter of a room Selwyn
had often puzzled himself over this problem ;
but now in the full light of a summers day,
in a wide street filled with well-dressed
people, who wore their best manners as well
as their best clothes, the problem became
distracting.

How long do you stop here ?' asked Mr.
Ashford, as they mounted the stairs to his
rooms.

Quite uncertain,' answered Selwyn, who
did not mean to tell Mr. Ashford everything.


512

'Ah, I understand ; you are down on official
business !'

Selwyn said neither yea nor nay. Air.
Ashford could think what he pleased. He
was not bound to enlighten him.

By this time they where in a cheerful
drawing-room, forming one of a suite of
four apartments  bathroom, bedroom, diningroom,
and the room in which Selwyn
found himself.

'You are pleasantly lodged,' he remarked,
by way of saying something.

Yes  the worst of it is, I am not often
here to be pleasantly lodged.'

I suppose you like travelling about, however
; there must be a good deal of variety in
such a life.'

Well, no, there is not. I know the look
of every hedge and ditch, every ploughed
field and meadow, every river and canal,
every town and village my business takes
me through, better than I know the Commandments.
I am sick of it all. Sick of
the firms I travel for  more sick of the
firms I travel to. I am sick also of these
lodgings you called pleasant just now, though

the rooms are not bad, and the people who
own them are far above the usual lodging-house
set. Fact is, when a man comes to
my time of life he wants a home, not apartments
; a place where he can take root  planta
rose-tree and gather its roses, sow cucum-
ber-seed and eat cucumbers of his own
growing.'

I should have thought anyone could do
that,' said Selwyn diffidently. His old
country experiences impelled him to answer,
Any man can do that ;' but recent associations
induced him to modify the sentence.

No, sir, you are wrong,' replied Mr.
Ashford. ' I could not do it alone. Men
can do nothing of that sort by themselves.
We are helpless without the woman. As
you are doubtless aware, I am sceptical concerning
the Bible ; but if anything could
induce me to go in hot and strong for that
publication, it would be the absolute truth,
confirmed by my own experience, which I
find on every page about women. By ourselves
we men are able to do nothing worth
anything. Let the better sex (so-called) make
what they can out of that confession.'

And Mr. Ashford took the cigar from
between his Hps, stretched out his legs, and
filled himself another glass of wine.

Selwyn looked across the table, opened
his mouth to ask a question ; then, thinking
better of the matter, closed it.

Mr. Ashford finished his wine at one gulp.

I know what you were going to say,'
he remarked  ' " Then why don't you marry?"
Those are the words which trembled on your
lips this instant, now ain't they ?'

Something very like them,' argued Selwyn,
not in the least abashed.

Now I feel pleased with that,' said Mr.
Ashford oratorically, as if addressing a large
and sympathetic audience. * When you know
me better  as you will one day, I hope,' he
added, descending from his platform and
speaking to Selwyn as a single human being,
and not as one in the crowd  ' you will find
nothing succeed with me like frankness.'

Then, if you do not mind telling me, why
do you not marry ?' asked Selwyn, with a
frankness which seemed to indicate that he
desired to succeed very well indeed with Mr.
Ashford.

I do not mind telling you in the least,
because just now we are in the same predicament.
The lady would not have ?nie  the
father would not have yotc. Make what you
will out of that.'

Do you mean ' began Selwyn.

Although he had known from the beginning
whither Mr. Ashford's talk was tending,
the fact that he had indicated Madge fairly
staggered him.

Yes, I do. I mean your old flame, Miss
Trosdale. Nicely we have both been humbugged
 both, I say  though it is harder on
me than on you.'

Selwyn did not answer. It seemed to him
answer was impossible as comparison.

Of course you don't agree with me, but,
whatever you may think, it is harder,' went
on Mr. Ashford argumentatively. ' At your
age it is '* lightly come, lightly go." To
five-and-twenty everything seems possible ;
to forty nothing seems possible, save certainty.
Now I felt certain  nay, humanly speaking,
as you in your cant would phrase it, I was
certain of Miss Trosdale, and yet you see
where I am.'

She refused you ?'

Selwyn's throat was parched, and his Hps
were dry, as he spoke ; yet he managed to get
out the three words of assertion and inquiry.

She refused me just as her father did you.
If she had not, the father would. If the
father had not shown you the door, she
would '

Sir r

'Oh! sit down again. Heroics and indignation
are worse than out of place between
men who have been so badly treated. Weare,
for the nonce, in the same boat, and we
may as well row together for a little while,
though, as Douglas Ferrol said, not with the
same sculls.'

If you intend an impertinence, Mr. Ashford,
I am absolutely indifferent  you cannot
touch me.'

No  since she rejected vie. If she had
not '

'She mist have refused you!' retorted
Selwyn, stung to the quick. ' There is no
"if" in the matter. It is an absolute impossibility
Miss Trosdale could ever have
accepted you !'

Ah ! you are alluding to the difference in
age ; but you have no experience. If you
knew more of the world you would pooh-pooh
that as a mere nothing. I am nineteen years
older than Madge Trosdale.' Selwyn clenched
his hand. ' When a girl is fifteen and a man
thirty-four, of course such a disparity seems
enormous ; but each year after that things
get more equal.'

Perhaps so,' scoffed Selwyn.

Of course so.' answered ]mr. Ashford. ' At
eighteen a woman is in her prime. Each day
she lives single after that she deteriorates.
You smile incredulously, Mr. Serle ; but you
are so very young  even for your age you
are so very young.'

Young or not retorted Mr. Serle, ' I am
glad to remember it is not nineteen years that
place a barrier between Miss Trosdale and
myself.'

Is there so much to be thankful for ?'
retorted Mr. Ashford. ' Remember I am not
asserting anything. I am merely asking a
question. Except theoretically, is it very
charming to be young, to have always to betaking
back-seats in the world's synagogues.

to have no influence, no position, no money ?
In the case of a young duke or a young millionnaire,
I can understand the advantage of
being one-and-twenty ; but in our rank, where
is the benefit ?'

You must have forgotten your own feelings
at one-and-twenty, or you would scarcely
ask such a question,' replied Selwyn.

Pardon me, it is precisely because I do
remember what my life then was, that I put
the inquiry. Up in the morning by five ; out
to work at six, cold and tired ; often wet, and
always hungry ; too weary when the day's
labour ended to enjoy the hour's leisure which
came in the evening ; poor as a church mouse.
No, thank you ! Let those praise youth who
have money and leisure to enjoy it. To the
most of people, what is early life but a
constant desire for something you can never
get  Take your own case. Like all Government
clerks, you are under-worked and overpaid,
yet you don't know what it is to call
your soul your own. You dare not say it is
your own for fear of offending a self-sufficient
old fool like Trosdale, or an overbearing
brute like Cramsey. And Trosdale and
Cramsey are in exactly the same boiling :

*' For great fleas have little fleas
Upon their backs to bite 'em ;
And little fleas have lesser fleas,
And so ad injiiiitiim'

The sense of which is, throughout the service,
whether you are high or low, there is somebody
to take a nip out of you.'

I am very well content with the service.'

I don't doubt you in the least,' said Mr.
Ashford, with a sneer.  " Your mind to you
a kingdom is." '

I could scarcely go so far as that,' answered
Selwyn, who had discovered the way to vex
Mr. Ashford was to keep his own temper,
By-the-bye, where is Mr. Trosdale living
now ?' he added, taking a sudden resolution
to put this question.

I cannot tell you.'

Does " cannot" stand for " will not ''? '

No. My severance from your old chief,
though more recent than your own, is quite
as complete.'

Yet I thought you and he were great
friends ?'

Well  eyes  once. When I could be of use
to that clever individual, there was no one

so dear a friend to Mr. Trosdale as your
humble servant. The moment, however, he
found no more money was to be got out of
me, he showed himself in his true colours.
Fact is, he would ruin his father and dishonour
his mother, if those excellent people
were still alive, for the sake of that misshapen
offspring of his brain, the furnace.'

But you always where urging him to proceed
with it.'

So I was, till I found he knew no more of
science, or smelting, or furnace, or any other
useful thing, than the babe unborn. His invention
is all rot ! It is the old business 
what is new about it is not true, and what is
true isn't new ; in other words, anything in
the whole matter which has any merit is not
his own, and what is his own might as well bethe
plan of anyone else, because it is useless.
Do you see ?'

Not exactly ; but I suppose you mean the
furnace is doomed to failure.'

It was doomed to failure from the first ;
but I, of course, could not tell that. How
was I to know the man, who professed to be
able to box the whole compass of science,

was really a silly pretender, duped by his own
inordinate vanity, and willing to beggar friend
and foe able to advance money to prolong
the life of his accursed abortion even for a
week ?'

You speak very strongly '

Not half so strongly as I feel. It is no
fault of his that I am not a ruined man. Old
idiot ! He would sit for hours  for weeks 
purring, while anybody stroked his vanity ;
but the moment a friend tried to tell him some
plain truths he would show his claws, and fly
at the venturesome individual tooth and nail.
Once upon a time he desired nothing better
than that I should marry Missis. When
he knew I did not intend to marry his patent
too, he joined with her and against me. I
see the whole matter now  father and
daughter were always in league ; there is no
truth in either of them.'

I cannot listen to such a remark.'

I beg your pardon. I forgot you are not
yet disillusioned. It seems strange, too ; for
Miss Trosdale told me she was thankful you
had cut yourself adrift from them.'

You must have misunderstood her,' said

Selwyn. ' It was not I who cut myself adrift,
but Mr. Trosdale who sent me adrift.'

Yes  over that Moray affair ? If it had
not been that, it would soon have been something
else. He had long been getting tired
of you. Bless you, I wasn't in the least surprised
when I heard the crash had come ! I
was only astonished to find you took his dismissal
so quietly.'

How was it possible for me to take it
otherwise ?'

Well  unless you really did blab his
secrets  perhaps you did, though ; it seems
you attempted no explanation.'

It is not easy to explain when one's letters
are returned unopened.'

Why did you not insist on seeing him .'

I could not force myself into a man's
house against his will.'

'There is something in that. Couldn't
Moray have cleared you ?'

'If Mr. Trosdale wouldn't believe me, he
would not believe Mr. Moray.'

So long as the fit is on him he would not
believe anybody. But I don't know that it
much signifies. It is a good thing for you
to have done with him. He is not a man to

advance your interests In the service. He
has done you a lot of harm as it is.'

I do not think that at all, Mr. Ashford.'
But I know it,' was the uncompromising
reply. ' Look here, you haven't been frank
with m, still I'll be frank with you. Business
never brought you to Liverpool. You came
to find out Trosdale's address, which I can't
tell you, for I have had no communication
with him since I got my dismissal. But there
is a man out at East Greenwich who has had
a great deal to do with your friend lately.
Together they have been trying to discover
why the deuce the furnace won't work. Very
likely he can tell you where Trosdale is
living. INIatheson, Engineer, East Greenwich.
Now, don't thank me. I am doing
you anything but a kindness ; only, a " wilful
man must have his way "  and a foolish one
too, for that matter. Moray has abandoned
his scheme as impracticable. If you can induce
Trosdale to abandon his, you will do a capital
day's work ; but I think he will carry the
furnace into the next world with him. Must
you go ?  farewell, then, till our next merry
meeting.' And, with a laugh vrhich puzzled

Selwyn, INTr. Ashford bade him once more
good-bye.

On the following evening, Stratford's
Assistant-Surveyor, as soon as he had closed
his office, repaired to East Greenwich and
sought out Mr. Matson, whom he found ina
little office that reeked of oil and metal.

Do I know Mr. Trosdale ?' said that
gentleman, in answer to his visitor's modest
inquiry. ' Well, I did know him once ; and
I wish to God I never had known him !
What's his address ? That's more than I can
tell you. We did not part on the best of
terms ; and it's not likely he'd leave it with
me. I declare to my Maker I might as well
have taken the National Debt on me as that
damned thing of his he called a furnace ! The
money I lost over it ! But, there, I needn't
bother you. Like a fool, I went in for a
profit, and I didn't get one. That is the whole
story  and enough for me. The next time I
burn my fingers with a patent, call me what
you like.'

Which was all Selwyn got by his visit to
East Greenwich by way of Lancashire. Perhaps
Mr. Ashford had a shrewd idea he would
not get much more.

FOUND.

T happened while Selwyn was in
Liverpool that an aunt of Mr. Car-the's
died, and left him a legacy.
Though nothing large, it was sufficient, in conjunction
with his pension, to keep him intolerable
comfort, and he at once made up
his mind to resign. This determination was
hardly a surprise to his Assistant, for he did
not think his chief qualified by nature for a
post in which well-developed combative
powers were essential to success. He was
too well-disposed to disbelieve any piteous
tale brought to him by a whining knave ;
and in face of a blustering impostor he could

VOL. III.

command only a certain mild dignity that
was absolutely of no avail.

Selvvyn fancied that the letter from the
Board, which acknowledged and accepted the
resignation, was not very regretful ; nor did
the Superintending Inspector when he came
down to take over the district show more
than a decent amount of sorrow at the departure
of an old Surveyor. In fact, when }dr.
Carthew had shaken hands and left the office
for the last time, carrying with him all his
office possessions in a shabby black portmanteau,
Mr. Tenterden, who was a stranger
to Selwyn, remarked :

I don't mind telling you, Mr. Serle, it's
not half a bad thing that Carthew has gone.
His work, you know  it wasn't  well, it
really was not  quite up to the mark !
Don't you know what I mean ? Oh ! he
was an awfully good fellow ; the kindest man
in the world, I dare say ; but a shocking old

woman

I think you are rather hard on him,' said
Selwyn. ' I liked him.'

Of course you did. Dare say I should
too, if I'd been under him, and could have

made up my mind to do his work as well as
my own.'

Selwyn smiled. It was impossible to deny
that he had done this.

'Well, now to business, Mr. Serle. It is
not convenient to appoint another Surveyor
to this district immediately ; and as I am
aware that you have had the labour, though
not the responsibility of it, for the last few
months, I propose to leave it in your charge
for the present.'

Selwyn could only say that he was obliged
for the confidence Mr. Tenterden reposed in
him.

Yes, of course,' replied that gentleman,
twisting his moustache, and regarding
Selwyn stonily through his eyeglass ; * great
opportunity for you, don't you know ? Very
sure you'll make a good use of it, however.
Glad to have the chance of doing you a
service. I always thought Dandison wrong
in not pushing the young men forward.'

What would be Mr. Dandison's wrath,
Selwyn reflected, if in the midst of his
labours in the southern districts he were told
that his loctim tenets had selected to be

52

pushed forward ' the one young man in" the
service whom he looked upon as disgraced ?
Selwyn trusted devoutly that no little bird
would fly down to Dorsetshire with the
news ; but at the worst it was consoling to
find that his character was not lost with all
the chiefs of his department.

After renewed expressions of confidence,
Mr. Tenterden took his leave, having in his
own estimation done a notable piece of business.
In the first place, he had encouraged a
young man, and spurred him on to greater
exertions. In the second, he had provided
for the work of the Stratford district being
done by an Assistant-Surveyor and two clerks,
without any additional assistance. In return
for the loss of Mr. Carthew. That is to say,
he had relieved the department, for the time
at least, of the payment of about 400 a
year, the amount of Mr. Carthew's salary.
Lastly, he had seized the opportunity of turning
what Mr. Dandison intended to be to
Selwyn's disadvantage very much to that
young man's profit ; and this was, perhaps,
the most pleasing consideration of the three
to Mr. Tenterden.

While this worthy servant of the Board
did what the French call ' his possible ' to
apply in all other districts the encouraging
and economical policy which he had conceived,
Selwyn was toiling almost day and
night to fulfil punctually the trust reposed in
him. His burden was no light one. The
clerks who had replaced Mr. Murphy and his
hopeful nephew were ignorant of the very rudiments
of their work, and had to be trained
even into neatness .of handwriting and
orderly arrangement of figures. Fortunately
they were both quiet, steady lads, whilst one
of them showed a real capacity for his duties,
and a disposition to master them. He
speedily became very useful to Selwyn, who
encouraged him with all his power, and gave
up a portion of his scanty leisure to assisting
him to master the Acts of Parliament relating
to Income Tax.

Nothing, however, could very greatly lessen
the amount of work which the Assistant had todo
himself, and of which the severest part
consisted, as usual, in interviewing irate taxpayers.
These gentlemen, after their kind,
showed the most irritating want of reasonableness.

They had grumbled heartily at
Mr. Carthew ; they were at first absolutely
contemptuous of his successor. Sometimes
they adopted a sarcastic manner, affecting
incredulity when told by Selwyn that he
was the Surveyor, and Insisting In language
of unnecessary plainness that he was imposing
on them ; sometimes they protested
against the conceit of * a raw, featherless
fledgling ' In presuming to know more about
taxes than they, who had paid them before he
was born ; sometimes they absolutely refused
to accept his decisions, and wrote furious
letters to Somerset House, denouncing him
and all his works.

Mr. Tenterden, however, rendered Selwyn
a loyal support ; and after a few weeks had
passed, many of the Inhabitants of the district
began to acknowledge they met with invariable
courtesy in the tax-office, even under
strong provocation ; and that If Selwyn's
hand were firmer than his predecessor's, he
was also scrupulously just and even forbear-mor.



It will readily be understood that during
this period of hard work Selwyn had no opportunity

of continuing his search for the
Trosdales ; nor, indeed, if he had been
totally unoccupied would he have known in
what direction to look. Never, until those
dreary weeks, had he understood the ease
with which a person may disappear in
London ; and while living without appearance
of mystery, baffle almost every effort
at discovery. Mad ere and her father seemed
to have left no more trace of their movements
than a single boat leaves on the ocean after
it has passed.

It was useless to look further. Selwyn
knew it, and the knowledge added to the
bitterness of his regret and self-reproach. It
was a miserable time. In everything he
thought of or did, the Trosdales entered
like two spectres, and were for ever by his
side. In his office, where he was hardly
more in command than in the old days in
Liverpool, he found himself listening for
Trosdale's entrance ; when he went home
to his dreary lodgings, and sat alone, trying
to occupy his mind and to turn it from the
bitter thoughts which would present themselves
at every moment, the voice of Madge

Trosdale sounded through the room, and he
often started round in his chair, expecting
fully to see her at his side.

In the end, Selwyn's robust health failed.
He slept badly, and began to loathe his
meals. He found his head often confused
in the daytime, and was once or twice obliged
to give up work early in the day, and go out
into the fresh air. Mr. Tenterden observed
this one day when Selwyn had gone up to
Somerset House to consult him about a
difficult case.

You're overdoing it, Serle,' he said.
Don't break down just now, there's a good
fellow ! It would be very inconvenient to
replace you.'

I don't think I shall break down,' Selwyn
said ; * but I have a good deal of anxiety at
present, and I think if I could take a couple of
days' holiday that I should be set up again.'

Don't see why 3-ou shouldn't manage that,'
said his chief. ' Why not run down to
Brighton for a day or so  or Hastings ?
I've a little cottage at Hastings. You might
go there from Saturday till Tuesday, or something
of that sort.'

Selwyn thanked his chief, but declined the
offer ; he preferred to go to some place on
the river  he thought Mario w ; and it was
arranged that he should come up again
towards the end of the week, and if no
troublesome business intervened, be granted
leave from the following Saturday.

The leave was granted without difficulty ;
and when Saturday arrived, the Assistant-surveyor
left his office rather early, with the
intention of calling at Somerset House on
his way to Waterloo.

When he reached Fleet Street, Selwyn,
who had eaten no breakfast, began to feel
faint for want of food, and, looking at his
watch, found that he had time to break
his fast before going further. He turned,
therefore, into Wine Office Court, that
ancient alley in which the ' Old Cheshire
Cheese ' still shows a bold front to the
street-improver, and cheerily defies him and
all his sinful doings. The Assistant had frequented
this quaint old tavern during many
of his brief visits to London ; so that its
sanded floors, and the almost rustic simplicity
of its interior, inspired him with a home-like

feeling which always impelled him to return.
As he entered the narrow alley in which
the ancient 'Cheese' is situated, he brushed
past a man who was going towards the street,
and who, turning as if to apologize for the
awkwardness of his movements, presented to
him the well-known features of Mr. Kerry.

Far from appearing pleased to see his
friend, the Irishman made a comical face,
which he no doubt intended to express contempt,
and walked up Fleet Street at the
top of his speed. Selwyn, though surprised
at this reception, was not to be baffled so
easily, and in two or three minutes he had
caught Kerry by the arm.

Kerry, is it you really ? I thought you
were still in the North. When did you come
back ? Why didn't you let me know you
were in town ? Didn't you get my letter ?'

Oh yes ! I got it, and put it at the back
of the fire,' was the uncourteous reply.

After you had read it, I hope,' said Selwyn.
But what does this mean, Kerry ? You
don't seem glad to see me. Have I vexed
you in any way ?'

You have,' replied his friend abruptly.

I'm mighty angry with you. At least, I'm
mistaken in you, and I think we'd both better
go our own ways.'

What on earth do you mean ? What
cause can you have for anger with me ? We
were on the best of terms when we parted
last year.'

Ah ! but there's a lot of things happened
since then.'

There have Indeed ; but I don't know
of any which accounts for your conduct.'

Mr. Kerry only grunted, and turned round
as if to pursue his way.

Come,' said Selwyn, ' there is some
mistake here, Kerry.'

Devil a mistake!' ejaculated the Irishman.

Well, some misunderstanding. Call it
what you like ; but though we have seen
nothing of each other for so long, I can't
afford to lose a good friend without knowing
why, and after all the pleasant hours we passed
together you won't refuse to tell me that.'

I wish you wouldn't be pulling me that
way  in the street, too,' said Mr. Kerry
peevishly. ' Let go hold of my arm. You
know what's the matter as well as I do.'

 I don't indeed

Then I'll tell you. It's ingratitude's the
matter, and that's worse than blood-taking,
any day. So now, I'll say good-morning,
Mr. Serle ; and God send you may mend
your ways !'

Not so fast,' said Selwyn, speaking very
seriously ; ' you owe me an explanation now,
and you shall give it me. Come across the
street, it is quiet in Serjeant's Inn, and tell
me what mischievous stones about me you
have been listening to. Nay, you must
come.'

Mr. Kerry resisted a little, but finally
gave way to Selwyn's importunity, and followed
him beneath the gateway of Serjeant's
Inn.

Now,' said Selwyn, when they had entered
the quiet enclosure, ' here we can talk in
peace, and you must kindly tell me in what
way I have given you cause to complain of
ingratitude.'

Not me,' replied Mr. Kerry ; ' but where's
Trosdale . Tell me that !'

Trosdale ! I'd give anything to know;
what have you heard about Trosdale '. Don't

torture me, Kerry ; do you really know 
about him ?'

More than you'd like me to, or I'm mistaken.'


For Heaven's sake speak out ! I lost
the Trosdales months' ago. I've searched
London up and down for them ; not a street
in all the Soho and West Central District
that I haven't wandered through for hours
trying to discover them. They've not returned
to Liverpool, they've not been heard
of at Somerset House; and I'm nearly heartbroken
at not being able to find them.'

There was an evident passion in Selwyn's
words, and yet more in the gesture
with which he accompanied them, that impressed
Mr. Kerry with their truth. His
harsh features relaxed a little, and he said ina
more friendly tone :

Then you haven't heard Trosdale's ill ?'

111, no ! He was well when I saw him
last. Seriously ill .'

Pretty well !' said Mr. Kerry, nodding ;
just about as bad as living on air makes a
man.'

And Madge Miss Trosdale ?'

She's not the better for starving a Httle ;
but she's not much the worse either.'

Kerry, Kerry ! are you trying to madden
me ?' cried Selwyn. * What do you mean by
starving ? Why should they starve ? There
could be no need for that ?'

Need or not, they nearly did it ; and yoa
may think what you like about their doing it
from choice.'

I don't understand you,' said Selwyn
angrily. ' I think you are playing some
infernal trick with me. Let me tell you, I
won't stand jesting on this subject.'

Faith, it's very far I am from jesting
said the Irishman ; ' and so would you be,
Serle, my boy, if you'd been with Trosdale
this while past, and listened to him lying on
his back chanting, chanting all the time some
silly nonsense or other, and him only just
pulled back into the world again, like a
drowning man, by his hair.'

Then, seeing that Selwyn was very
strongly moved, the Irishman laid his hand
on his quondam friend's shoulder.

Maybe Tve been hasty with you, and
if I have, I'm not the worse for saying so.

But you shouldn't be sharp with a fellow
who's had overmuch to torment him. Sure
I wonder sometimes is this Dan Kerry that
used to be, or some other poor civil with
no more heart in him than a sheep going to
the butcher !'

I don't know what you're alluding to in
the least,' said Selwyn ; 'but have I had
nothing to torture me ? You talk as if you
supposed I had neglected the Trosdales, as if
I had lost sight of them from choice while I
was bent on amusing myself some other way.'

And if I might make so bold, Mr. Serle,'
asked Kerry curiously, ' how did you lose
them ?'

What is that to you ? You take too
much on yourself, Kerry, when you question
me in such a tone.'

Sorrow a one of me knows any d d

thing about it all,' answered the Irishman.
And with that he set his back against the-railings,
and pursed up his lips to whistle ; but
no sound came, so low-spirited was he.

Now, will you give me Trosdale's address
? That Is the only thing you can do to
oblige or help me.'

And if I didn't want to do either the one
or the other said Kerry drily ; * how then
my boy ?'

Then I shall follow you, and find out for
myself where you go.'

You'd find that harder than you think.
But I'm not going to bother you, Serle. I'm
going up there now, and I'll take you with
me, if you've time.'

I was going up to Somerset House to
see Tenterden.'

Then you'll not see him, because I saw him
crossing Waterloo Bridge in a mighty hurry
half an hour ago, all dressed up in white
flannels, as if he was bound for the river.'

Selwyn hesitated a moment, then said :

Well, give me the address, and I will go
now.'

I didn't say I'd do that,' answered Kerry,
with a curious constraint; 'we'll go together.'

Very well, be it so,' agreed Selwyn ; and
the two men turned and went out into Fleet
Street together.

If you haven't had any lunch you'd better
be having some,' suggested Mr. Kerry, ' because
devil a bit you'll get at Trosdale's.'

Selwyn shook his head. His appetite had
entirely gone, and the idea of food was hateful
to him.

Then we'll walk up,' said Kerry ; and he
turned, crossing Fleet Street northward.
Selwyn walked beside him in silence, and for
some time each man remained absorbed in
his own thoughts.

Kerry led the way through a labyrinth of
streets winding in and out, out and in, till
they reached the upper part of Gray's Inn
Lane. Then he turned up a narrow alley
which was unknown to Selwyn, and emerged
into a mean court which lay broiling under
the midday sun.

This cannot be very far from Doughty
Street,' said Selwyn, breaking silence at last.

It's not,' replied his friend short ; and he
stopped in front of a little huckster's shop, of
which the house-door stood ajar.

Good God ! this is not the place !' exclaimed
his companion. ' They cannot possibly
live here.'

Ah, anybody comes down like a lump of
lead when all the money's spent. It's hard
to know where the bottom is. And now, my

VOL. HI. 53

good young fellow, listen to me,' he went on.
You'll just have to shut up your feelings
when you get inside, and go about as if you'd
been here early this morning, and only gone
to get a whiff of ozone, which is what you
won't get inside this house. Trosdale's been
mighty ill, and he has no strength to make a
song about yet.'

So saying, he led the way to the second
story, where he tapped at the door of the
front room. A voice from within bade them
enter, and they did so, Kerry first.

It was a poor and miserably furnished
apartment, to which some efforts had been
made to give a semblance of comfort by
means of articles in strange contrast with
their surroundings. A reading-desk stood
beside the bed, so arranged that it could be
stretched across it at any angle ; and near the
window was placed a luxurious easy-chair, in
the depths of which, swathed in blankets, lay
a gaunt and haggard figure Selwyn could
scarcely recognise as that of the ex-Surveyor.
An elderly woman in a plain black nurse's
dress was in the room, but Selwyn looked in
vain for Madge.

Trosdale stirred as they entered, and turned
his eyes languidly towards the door.

I'm glad to see you back, Kerry,' he said
feebly, and then closed his eyes again.
Selvvyn did not speak ; had he known the
state of weakness to which his former chief
was reduced, he would not have risked the
excitement of an interview. Making a sign
to Kerry, he was about to escape quietly,
when Trosdale re-opened his eyes, and said
with a wan smile : 'Is it you, Selwyn ? You
are very good to come. I have wanted you.
I have been ill, you know.' Then he added,
tr)ang to raise himself, 'But I am better now.'

I see you have been very ill, my dear kind
friend,' said Selwyn, his voice trembling a
little ; ' I should have been here long ago if
I had known where to come.'

He put his arm around the old man, and
raised him up into the position he was trying
to attain. Then Trosdale asked :

How did you find out ?'

I met Kerry, and he told me.'

The ex-Surveyor nodded.

Kerry has been very good,' he said  ' the
best of friends.'

532

Now, Serle, will you not make him talk ?'
interposed Kerry ; 'Mrs. Webber, you interfere,
and send this foolish lad away.'

Indeed, I think it would be better for the
gentleman to go now,* said the nurse. ' It is
the first time Mr. Trosdale has been up, and
he's not very strong yet.'

Selwyn rose to go, but Trosdale held him
by the hand.

You'll come back ; you won't stay away so
long again,' he said :

I'll come back every day,' said Selwyn ;
and with that promise the invalid appeared
content, for he released his hold on the young
man, and watched him as he left the room
with a smile such as had rarely visited his
face in the old querulous, anxious days in
Liverpool.

Selwyn left the room with a sick feeling at
his heart, and an undefined dread of some
further shock to come. He had not seen
Madge ; how was it she was not in her
father's room ? How had she borne the
privations which told so fearfully on the
strong man ?

He paused irresolutely on the landing,

determined not to leave the house without
knowing all, but uncertain where he might
wait until Kerry, or Madge herself, should
come. The door of the back-room stood
partly open, and, seeing that It was empty,
he went In, and stood looking out of the
window at the prospect beneath. His heart
sickened as he gazed upon grimy backyards
in which the affectation of a few stunted
flowers only rendered their squalor more
perceptible ; on chimney-pots, broken and
hanging, as If they threatened death to
some passer-by at any moment when the
wind might rise ; houses extending as far
as he could see without break, obscuring the
sky, obstructing any current of air which was
not exhausted and robbed of its health-giving
properties long before It passed from the
green fields and breezy hillsides over such a
waste of houses and densely packed humanity
as parted them from Battle Bridge.

What they must have suffered !' he said
aloud. ' How much they must have suffered
!'

And then he fell Into a musing fit, in
which his thoughts wandered back to Liverpool

and the times when he had first known
the Trosdales  not so long ago, though the
events of a Lifetime seemed crowded into
that narrow space ; and when he let his mind
recall the house in St. Paul's Square, with
its comfortable furniture, quaint and homely,
and then turned his eyes on the misery of
the room in which he stood, the choking in
his throat rose again, and he turned away
from the window, and began to pace the
room with rapid steps.

Suddenly his heart gave a great leap, for
he heard a step on the stair  a step he
would have known among a thousand others.
In a moment he was out on the landing, and
had grasped once more the hand of the only
girl he had ever loved. In the same instant
the door of the front-room opened, and
Kerry came out.

He stood still for a moment, and then
advanced towards them, saying :

I was looking for the both of you ; you're
beforehand with me. Come in, Miss Tros-
dale ; don't be standing there, and you so
weak and ill.'

I am not ill now,' said i\Iadge, with a

weary smile, as she led the way Into the
back-room.

For all that you may as well sit down
observed the Irishman dryly, and there was
a tone In his voice which Selwyn had never
heard in it before. He placed Madge in a
rickety chair, and leaving Selwyn to take the
only other seat the room contained, he withdrew
to the window, where he stood looking
out, as Selwyn had stood a few minutes
before.

Selwyn drew his chair towards Miss Tros-
dale, and laid his hand on hers.

You look very pale,' he said.  Your eyes
are hollow. Madge, you have been ill, and
your father near death. How could you have
the heart to hide yourselves from me ?'

She withdrew her hand and held It up at
him with a pleading expression, from which
he comprehended that for some reason she
asked him to treat her as If they had never
been more than mere friends.
' We have not been so destitute of help as
you think,' she said ;  we have had several
friends as good as even you could wish.
Mr. Kerry has been a host in himself.'

You let him help you when you would
not wTlte to me ! What had I done that you
should punish me so hardly.'

Madge hesitated, and flushed scarlet ; then
answered timidly :

We  we thought you must have left
London.'

That's an unworthy excuse,' said Selwyn
hotly. ' I had not left Stratford ; and If I
had, a letter addressed to Somerset House
would have found me at any time.'

Madge was silent, and Kerry remained
looking out of the window. Selwyn went on,
but less excitedly :

You have been very cruel to me, Madge.'
She made a deprecatory little movement
of the hand.

Yes, you have. I parted with you In
Frith Street, through no fault of my own. I
had done no wrong ; It was a pure misunderstanding
on your father's part, as you well
knew. I thought he would come to think
differently of the matter ; I hoped from day
to day to hear from you. Then I found that
you had gone, leaving no word for me. Ah,
how I searched for you ! I think you would

have pitied me if you had seen me wandering
through the streets till they grew empty and
deserted, in the faint hope that I might see
you even in the distance. I went down to
Liverpool, but you had not been heard of;
and it was only in the last few weeks that I
gave up the search, and tried to accustom
myself to the knowledge that you had cast
me off And now I find you again, ill and in
poverty ; and it is Kerry who has been with
you throughout  Kerry whose privilege it
has been to help and to console you. Madge,
I had the right to expect better usage from
you.'

Kerry turned round quickly.

It was a mere chance, Serle, that I found
out the address.'

It was a chance which never favoured me,'
replied Selwyn gloomily.

Madge was sitting with her hand pressed
to her forehead, so that her face was half concealed.
She rose now, and the two men
could see that she was weeping.

My father will want me,' she said ; ' I
have been away a long time.' And then,
holding out her hand to Selwyn, she said :

THE GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.

You should not be hard on me. You have
not any cause  not much cause.'

And with these words, spoken in a trembling
voice, she left the room. They heard
her go into her father's chamber and close
the door.

MR. KERRY EXPLAINS.

R. KERRY had resumed his former
position, but he now turned round
and picked up his hat, saying :

I suppose it's no use staying here any
longer.'

I suppose not,' rejoined Selwyn ; and
they went down the stairs, and out into the
stuffy court and the narrow street beyond.
There Selwyn broke ground.

This is just a little unsatisfactory. Don't
you think so, Kerry ?'

What's unsatisfactory ?'

How dense you are ! I want to understand
rather more clearly what my own
position is, and what yours is too.'

The Irishman did not reply at first, but
walked on for some distance with his hands
in his trouser-pockets.

Look here, Serle,' he said at last, ' how
many's the time I've told you you're little
better than a fool ? and sorrow 'fall me if I
don't think to-day you're an ill-tempered
fool. Maybe you think you're hardly dealt
by?'

*I do,' interrupted Selwyn, 'and that by
more people than one.'

Don't be interrupting me. You've been
better treated than you've any right to expect
; and if you'd only look round, you're as
fortunate a fellow as there is in London, and
you deserve it less. Now, don't speak !
We're going now to my rooms in Guilford
Street  a decent place, but too dear for me, if
I wasn't obliged to keep up appearances.
We'll get a bite of food there, and after we've
had that  not before, mind  I'll you all I
know about the Trosdales. That's a fair
offer ; you can take it or leave it.'

I will come,' said Selwyn. ' I believe you
mean me well.'

You're mighty polite all of a sudden,'

laughed his friend, half bitterly. ' But I
do mean you well, my boy, in spite of what
you may think. Will we walk or get a
cab r

I would rather walk,' answered Selwyn ;
but just as you like.'

'We'll walk,' decided the Irishman; 'it's
better and it's cheaper.'

Little more was said until they reached
Mr. Kerry's apartments. Notwithstanding
his swagger on the subject of keeping up
appearances, the two rooms which he rented
on the second-floor were but shabbily furnished,
and ill corresponded to the dignity
which their tenant assumed from time to
time when he remembered his rise in the
world. A slatternly servant-maid answered
his ring, and, having received his orders with
a nod and a curious glance at the stranger,
disappeared into the lower regions. Selwyn
went over to the window and looked out.

It's a good neighbourhood, this,' remarked
Kerry, in the tone of a man stating an
undoubted fact ; ' there's lots of rich people
about here. I see them in their cares ' (he
always spoke this word as if it consisted

of two syllables only), ' each one finer than
the last.'

I don't dislike the street,' replied Selwyn ;
it's healthy, I believe, and well within reach
of everything. But I certainly preferred
Miss Dormer's rooms in Liverpool.'

That's because you've no taste for highlife.
Some people haven't any, and can't get
it. Not but what Miss Dormer was a very
good sort of woman. 1 had a letter from her
yesterday.'

And how is she ?'

She's all right, and she says she's coming
up to London. I don't know what for, and
I wrote and said she'd better stay where
she is.'

Wasn't that a little unsympathetic .''

Mr. Kerry rose, and wound up the clock
savagely, muttering beneath his breath that
he'd no patience with people who couldn't
stay in their own homes.

It was not long before dinner appeared.
The meal was despatched in utter silence,
and when it was cleared away Mr. Kerry
drew an easy chair to the table, and pointed
to a second one in which Selwyn might sit.

Then, having filled his pipe, he crossed his
legs and said :

It's like old times, Serle, you and me
being together this way. But it's different,
because we're not the same ourselves 
neither you nor me.'

I have not changed,' said Selwyn, ' though
I've passed through as much trouble in the
last twelve months as might have made me
old.'

Trouble !' repeated Mr. Kerry scoffingly ;
as if nobody else ever had any ! That's the
way with all you English ; you're so much
wrapped up in yourselves that you never
think other people may be in trouble too. I
don't care about that, though ; when a man
has just been hard hit over the head he
doesn't think of calling out about a pin-prick.'


Selwyn gazed at his companion wonderingly.
He failed altogether to comprehend
his meaning.

Don't be looking at me like that,' said
Kerry ; * sit down and listen to me. I'm
going to tell you all I know about the
Trosdales.'

He was silent for a few minutes, as if
collecting and arranging his ideas ; then he
began :

You know very well that when I got my
promotion and came up to Somerset House
I used to go to Trosdale's place in Frith
Street. You gave me the address.'

He looked towards Selwyn for confirmation
of this, and the latter nodded.

I think Trosdale was right glad to have
me there. He used to talk about sport, and
the fish he caught in his good days in the
country, before he began to fiddle away his
brains into pap over pots and pans. And
Miss Trosdale, bless her! was as glad as the
angels in heaven to see someone she knew
coming in and out to 'liven her loneliness. I
always saw she brightened up when I came
in ; and well she might, for it wasn't fit for a
dog or a tame rabbit, the life she led.'

Can't you make the story shorter, Kerry ?'
asked Selwyn, wincing perceptibly at these
details.

But Mr. Kerry deigned no reply.

Two or three days before you came to
town,' he went on, * Tenterden sent for me.

Dandlson was away  just started on his
journey round the southern districts  and it's
hard he's wishing now that he hadn't gone !'

'Why?

Mr. Kerry took his pipe out of his mouth
and sat bolt upright.

You don't mean to say you haven't heard ?'

Heard what ? I've heard nothing.'

They've shelved him, my boy !' Kerry
shouted triumphantly ; ' laid him by in
lavender on the top shelf, high up.'

Shelved Dandison ! How ? What have
they made him ?'

A Special Commissioner ; and it's little
now he'll trouble either you or me in future,
unless he has to make a special assessment
on one of us ; and we'll have to get a good
deal more money before that happens. But
don't be interrupting me. Tenterden sent forme,
as I said, and bid me go to Carlisle at once,
for Toomer was ill. Well, I went, and stopped
till Toomer got better. Then he had leave
to go away, and he got bad again ; and, to cut
a long story short, he got better and worse,
better and worse, till he died. Tenterden was
in the North at the time, and came to Carlisle

VOL. III. 54

and asked would I stop on. I told him I didn't
care for the place  that I liked London better
but he said there was no vacancy near
London, and that if I stayed he would remember
it to me. He over-persuaded me,
and I stayed. Well, I had enough work to
make an old man of me, and enough bother
to lay me under the daisy quilt, and very little
thanks for it all ; but I got a London district
at last, praise be, just three months ago ; and
you may be sure the first thing I did was to
try and find the Trosdales.'

And how did you find them .'

I'll tell you if you give me time,* answered
Mr. Kerry. * Before going further, I should
say that, though I hadn't much leisure for correspondence,
I had written to them.'

Them ?' muttered Selwyn.

Ay  them  both of them ; put that in
your pipe and smoke it  pretty regularly ;
and I'd have written to you, too, if you'd
thought it worth your while to let a man that
always had liked and stood up for you know
how you were getting on. I took my pen
over and over again for the purpose, but then
I said to myself, *' No, Daniel, don't be

cheapening yourself; never push forward
where you're not wanted." '

Upon my soul, Kerry '

Never mind that now  you didn't write
but the once, and then you said you'd write
again and tell me how you were getting on,
and you didn't, and that is enough ; and, besides,
it is not about you I want to talk at all 
it's the Trosdales. As I was saying, I wrote
to Miss Trosdale, and though she answered
me, I took it into my head she didn't care to
correspond ; so I dropped that, and contented
myself with sending a letter and a present of
one sort and another now and again to the
old man. Sometimes he answered and sometimes
he let it alone. Once I asked about
you, and he said he knew nothing about you
that he never saw you, and never wanted
to see you again ; that he bitterly regretted he
ever had seen you, and only hoped neither in
this world nor the next he'd have the misfortune
to set eyes on you more. That was
pretty stiff; and as I couldn't make head or
tail of what he meant, I thought I'd write
and ask the daughter what the dickens you'd
been up to.'

54-2

And what did she say ?'

She said there had been a misunderstanding
between her father and you ; that she
knew you were not in fault, but that she
would rather say nothing more about the
matter.

'' So best." I thought to myself; for on
my conscience I always felt Trosdale would
do you more harm than good, and I just laid
the whole thing on one side, meaning to fish
and find out all about it when I came to
London. The next time I wrote to Tros-
dale It was with a bag of game ; but the
letter came back to me with *' Gone away 
left no address" on k, and what became of
the game I don't know.'

Well Y asked the younger man.

Well ! did anybody ever hear the like of
you with your wells ! It is true enough that
many a one says " Well, well," when it never
was worse with him.'

I only want to know '

What all the rest of the world wants to
know  things that are not over-easy to telL
I needn't say, I suppose, I tried to find the
Trosdales, but with no result. Then I asked

Tenterden to get me the address where his
pension was sent to.'

I never thought of that remarked Selwyn.
' How stupid of me !'

It wouldn't have been much good if you
had,' observed Mr. Kerry, not without a
certain triumph, * for he had commuted it.'

What ?'

He had commuted it. He had done just
the thing anybody might have been sure he
would do. Now you can guess why it is
they are living, or rather starving, over a
chandler's shop, and haven't got enough to
keep soul and body together.'

Selwyn rose and paced the room. ' My
God !' he said, ' why did I not know this ?'

It is no use asking your Maker such a
foolish question,' retorted Mr. Kerry. 'Sure,
I can answer it. You did not know because
you had not sense enough to find out, that is
v/hy. Now, if you had been writing to meas
you ought to have been '

'I was in such trouble. I could not tell
you the trouble I was in.'

Look here, my lad, you'll never do a
day's good if you let trouble get the v/hip

hand of you, and make you forget people
that don't forget you. It is sitting down
and thinking about themselves that brings
all the trouble of this world tumbling on
men's heads. Consider Trosdale  did he,
ever since you knew him, think of anybody
but himself ?  and see where all his thinking
has landed him. I always thought he was
changing you. When you first went to
Liverpool it's not five or ten minutes you'd
have grudged to write to a friend, no matter
how sick or how sorry you were.'

' I am afraid I have been greatly to
blame,' said Selwyn humbly.

I know you have been greatly to blame,*
returned Mr. Kerry, ' but I won't be hard on
you. From the night I took the shine out
of you at Mrs. Gibbs' your visage changed
towards me, and it changed worse after I
met Miss Trosdale in the street just by
chance and she said she'd be glad if I'd
come and see her. You were a bit jealous,
my boy.*

I was,' agreed the young man, * and I am.
Haven't I cause to be, when I see the terms
you are on with the girl I hoped to marry ?'

If you hoped to marry her, why were
you so deucedly sly about the matter ? Do
you expect a man to know out of his own
head what is passing in yours ? Girls don't
care for lovers that seem ashamed of them.'

Kerry, how do things stand between you
and Miss Trosdale ?' asked Selwyn, passing
over, as immaterial, these strictures on his
own conduct.

I'll tell you if you let me alone  but I won't
If you keep interrupting me. It's not good
manners, and it's not good sense; and want of
sense Is want of manners. When I heard that
about the pension I was stumped. He might
have gone to Jerusalem or America, you see.
But I had still a notion he had not left
London, and I was considering how I'd ferret
him out, when one day, as I was taking a
short cut up to Pancreas Station, who should
I see on the other side of the road but Tros-
dale, looking like a ghost. '' Hallo !" says I,
what's happened to him  is he come out to
buy a winding-sheet . for it's that he'll soon
want." But before I could get up to him he
was gone, and for the life of me I couldn't
find out where.'

Why do you stop ?' said Selwyn impatiently.


Do be quiet,' entreated his host. ' I can't
rattle out words as fast as you  thank the
Lord. Well, I worried myself all that day
and the next about Trosdale, thinking maybe
it wasn't him after all, but only a spectre, and
puzzling over what it could mean, whether it
was myself that was going to meet with a
disaster, till at long and at last one morning,
when I was talking to old Cobbles, the tax-collector,
I says :

" Maybe you don't know anybody called
Trosdale in your parish ?" just at a venture.

" Trosdale ?" says he. *' You mean Trowbridge
!"

" I don't," says I, *' and if I had I'd have
said it."

" Trosdale ?" says he again, and a kind
of light came into his bloated, sinful old face.
*' Did he live in Liverpool ever ?" he asked.

'you're right now," says L

** Why, I've got a certificate of removal
against him in my pocket." And with that
he pulls out a certificate for thirty-three and
nine pence, Inhabited House Duty for the old

place in St. Paul's Square. *' Devil a rap I
can get out of him," says he.

" Not likely," says I ; ' I'm his banker."
So I paid him the thirty-three and ninepence
and took the receipt up that day.'

That was kind  that was very good of
you,' exclaimed Selwyn eagerly. ' But
you will '

Well .' Speak out, man.'

Selwyn hesitated.

No, I won't,' he said. ' Go on with your
story.'

Kerry regarded his friend with a curious
look of inquiry, and something like a frown
on his forehead ; then he proceeded :

I went up at once ; but when I saw what like
the place was, I was nearly turning me round
and going back. " It's not likely they're
here," says I to myself. 'why, the stair is
as dirty as if the dust-carts had only just
come down it." You never saw such a place,
Serle, in all your days  it's been cleaned up
since then. When I got up to the landing
I felt as sick as a dog, and very near heartbroken
to think what Trosdale had brought
his daughter to vvith his d d folly.

Well, Miss Trosdale came and opened the
door in answer to my knock. I'm glad you
didn't see her then, because she looked as if
she wasn't long for this world. She's a lot
better now, and yet I dare say you didn't think
much of her appearance. Will you sit quiet,
and not be worrying me by rampaging about
that way ?'

To sit quiet was the one thing which
Selwyn found it impossible to do. Kerry,
whether consciously or not, was torturing
him by his fulness of detail. He got up,
and walked first to the fireplace, then to the
window, then threw himself again into his
seat, but moved restlessly from side to side as
if undergoing irritation which was stronger
than his nerves were capable of enduring.

There were just three chairs in the room,'
continued Kerry, * and a little table, with
her Bible on it, and a bed in the corner
where you saw it, and Trosdale lying on his
back ; but he no sooner saw me than he
jumped up, and was for trying to get out of
bed, so I went at him and held him down ;
but he was like three men for a while until
the fit passed off him. " I'm thankful you've

come, Mr. Kerry," says the daughter,
when he began to be quiet ; *' he's too strong
for me, and I don't know what to do." And
indeed she didn't, poor girl ; for she was crying
as she talked, and " Where's Serle ?'*
says I ; but I'd much better have held my
tongue, for Trosdale was up again like a
shot. *' Show him me !" he shouted. " Show

me the d d villain !" And then I had the

devil's own trouble with him.'

I can't stand any more of this, Kerry
Selwyn said, rising up with his hand to his
forehead. ' I'm not well  everything seems
spinning round. I must get out into the air.'

Lord save us, are you ill too ?' cried the
Irishman. ' I believe you are, my boy; why
didn't you stop me ? God forgive me for
thinking you were only cross. There, now,
you've got your hat on ; lean on me, and
mind that turn in the stairs. Stand steady,
man, it isn't waltzing we're after.'

In the fresh night air Selwyn very quickly
revived. Kerry took him down through
Clement's Inn and Essex Street to the
Embankment ; and there they stood for
some time leaning over the parapet without

speaking. Selwyn took his hat off, and the
cool breezes from the lower reaches of the
river playing round his temples refreshed
and strengthened him. Then he told his
former friend that his health had been giving
way, and that he had intended that afternoon
to go out of town for some much-needed rest.
Kerry did not say much ; but it was felt by
both that in some way the mutual distrust
was giving way, and the old confidence
gaining ground.

I think I shall walk home,' said Selwyn,
raising himself from the stone balustrade after
a period of silence.

Walk home ! Walk to Bow !'

Well, and why not ? It's not more than
three miles and a half from here, and I feel
the exercise will do me good.'

I'll come a piece of the way with you,' said
his friend ; and after a faint protest Selwyn
accepted the offer, for which, in truth, he was
grateful. They fell into a quick walk, and as
they passed Queen Victoria Street towards
Aldgate, Kerry told how he had stayed with
the Trosdales almost continually for a week
after he had found them, sitting up at night

and tending the sick man, until he had found a
capable nurse to whom he could hand over his
charge. And as he listened to the clumsy,
awkward sentences in which Kerr)' related
the efforts he had made to provide everything
which he thought necessary for Trosdale's
comfort, or conducive to his recovery, his
friend could not but feel that he had never
half appreciated the man.

There was a certain restraint and embarrassment
in Mr. Kerry's manner, however,
which Selwyn could not wholly account for.
He puzzled himself continually about it as
they walked together ; it was as if Kerry
were trying to conceal something from him,
as if he wished to lead away the young
man's thoughts from some particular phase
of the subject they were discussing.

I do not know how to thank you, Kerry,
for all you've done. And I want to tell you
that I'm sorry I spoke to you as I did. I
am not quite myself ; you must try to make
excuses for me.'

It's very likely said Kerry, after a short
interval of silence, * that we've both been
blind. I know I've been a d d ass, but

I see It all now. I believe I did all along ;
but I wouldn't say so to myself.'

Selwyn wondered what he meant by this ;
but his head was still too confused to comprehend.


So that's settled, I suppose,' Kerry went
on, * and we're good friends again .''

The best of friends,' Selwyn answered.
At that moment a clock somewhere in the

neighbourhood struck eleven.

I'm going to leave you now,' said Kerry.
We've a lot still to talk about, but you'll bethe
better of a quiet walk ; and, besides, I
said I'd look in rather late to-night and hear
how the doctor found Trosdale. But before
we part there's one thing I want to tell you.'

I can guess it,' answered Selwyn. * I
have expected it all along. You are engaged
to Miss Trosdale. Well, I can't blame either
of you.'

You're too clever by half,' said Mr. Kerry
banteringly; 'and you'd have no cause to blame
cither of us if we were engaged, which weare
not  through no fault of mine, though. I
asked her to marry me. I'll walk on a step
with you, and tell you how it came about.

It's easy enough for a man to hide from his
friends, or a girl from her lover, but it's hard
to find a place a creditor won't forage out.
When Trosdale left Liverpool he had some
debts, and you may be sure he didn't pay
them off while he was dry-nursing that
accursed furnace in London. More than
that, he got into debt here, and as the
people became troublesome, he just shifted
his quarters to get rid of them  only he
didn't get rid of them ; and at last they
followed him even to the hole where he is
now. One day as I was going in I heard a
fellow bully raging Miss Trosdale at the
length of his tongue. She was telling him
she'd pay when her father got his pension ;
and one thing led on to another till he got
just a bit too impudent, and 1 pushed open
the door, and asked would he go downstairs
peaceably or would he wait till I put him
down. So then we went at it for a minute
or two, and I swore if he didn't clear out I
would give him in charge. Miss Trosdale
was frightened. she had never seen any
row of the sort before, and when I got shut
of him she sat trembling, and said 

** Aren't people dreadful, Mr. Kerry ?"
'they're devils," I made answer, and
then she fell to laughing, and couldn't stop
herself; but I was glad to see her doing even
that same, for sure laughing is better than
crying any day

Go on,' entreated Selwyn.

Well, when she came a lite to, she began
talking about the pension, and wondering
why it did not come.

" Can you imagine why they do not send
it ?" she asked.

" I am afraid I can," I answered, and so
then I told her straight out what her father
had done, for there was no good in letting her
make promises she never could fulfil.

" Taken a lump sum," she repeated after
me.

" And spent it at least, that is my
opinion," I said.

**'Then we have nothing," she cried.

" I am afraid that's about it."

Poor thing ! she seemed like one out of
her mind. What were they to do ?  their
money gone, their furniture gone, their house
gone, their connection gone. " I have a few

pupils here," she said, '* or at least I had some
till I was taken ill, that I taught at sixpence
and a shilling an hour." Just think of it, and
she but a slip of a girl !' Mr. Kerry did not
speak for a minute, then he began again :

After that she went on to wonder how
she would ever pay me all I'd lent them, and
I could not stop her, for she was thinking out
loud, poor thing ; and I let her say her say
for a while before I told her she had no cause
to trouble herself about the money. ''If it
were fifty times as much, and I had it, your
father would be welcome to every penny ;
but there is one thing I wish you could
do "

'''What is it?" she asked; 'only tell
me.

" It's only to marry me, and put an end
to all your bothers," I said. '* I've enough to
keep you in comfort, and I'll be better every
year, and I'll be a loving husband to you and
a good son to your father ; and, for the rest,
I've been fond of you ever since my eyes first
rested on you, and I never did care for any
girl before, except in the way of diversion.
Don't answer me now, but think it over ; and

VOL. III. 55

if you feel you can put up with a fellow that
worships the ground you walk on, we'll make
a match of it whenever you like." '

And she ?'  Selwyn could not say anymore.
It cost him an effort even to say
that.

She let me down as easy as she could.
She liked me, she said, she never thought
to meet with such a friend, she would never
forget me, and all the rest  oh ! you know.'

'How should I know ?' asked Selwyn.

At any rate, you might know the upshot
of it all was she couldn't marry me.

" Then there is some other fellow ?" I
said.

" Yes ; but he could never be anything to
her." Then it all came upon me with a flash.

" Is it Serle ?" I asked ; and with that
she confessed it, and that she and you had
been engaged.

'' Why isn't he here then T  I was very
plain, you see.

" He does not know where we are."

*' Then it is his business to know where
you are," I answered.'

So it was  so it was,' commented Selwyn.

'' And if he did know, my father has forbidden
him the house."

" Faith ! and if I was engaged to you, I'd
like to see the father who could keep me from
you. Now I know who it is, I am not in
the least daunted ; but I won't trouble you
for the present, or speak again at all till I see
some sign." You couldn't find fault with me
for saying that.'

And have you ever seen any sign ?'

'You'd best ask me no more. If you do,
ril not answer you.'

And, without any more ceremonious leave-taking,
Mr. Kerry turned on his heel, hailed
a passing omnibus, and made his way as fast
as the tired horses could take him to Gray's
Inn Lane.

o:)-

WHAT CAN THE MATTER BE ?*

ATU RALLY, though he thought
he should not be able to close his
eyes, Selwyn slept soundly till
nine o'clock the next morning. It was the
sleep of utter mental and physical exhaustion.
Nevertheless, he awoke from it refreshed,
and with a feeling of peace to which he had
long been a stranger. At last, Madge was
found. Miserable as her position was, uncertain
as Selwyn felt about the future,
however things might be between them 
she was found ! The long suspense was
ended, the heart-wearying search over. For
good or for ill, they had met once again,
and, whether her heart remained unchanged

or her affection had grown colder, he should
now know the best or the worst.

How quickly the events that change the
whole course of our lives occur ! Since the
previous morning Selwyn felt as if he had
passed through a whole existence. As he
dressed he wondered if he were the same
man, and when he looked in the glass, it
almost surprised him to see that no outward
change had passed over his appearance to
render him unrecognisable.

I will not see Kerry again till I have had
an explanation with Madge,' he decided ;
but I must not disturb my poor girl too
early. I will not go there very early  not
till after church. I dare say she will go to
church.'

Ah ! he did not yet understand, spite of all
Mr. Kerry had said, the whole of their
poverty. Poor Madge ! poor proud Madge !
who managed to hide many things even from
the inquiring eyes of her Irish admirer.

Perhaps it was some sort of idea that
at the same time they would be engaged
in the same service, and so be near in spirit
though apart in body, which determined

Selvvyn, restless as he was, to go to
church.

Through all his unhappiness the same
fancy had possessed him, and even on that
mornings he found a value sort of comfort in
turning, on his way west, into St. Swithin's,
Cannon Street, where the clergyman told
them much about those cares and trials all
have to endure, and of which one at least
of the congregation thought he had been
assigned more than his full share. Then
when the service was over he bent his steps
towards Mr. Trosdale's latest home, his heart
fainting a little as he did so.

Madge passed a miserable night. The
meeting of which she had thought and
dreamt, for which she had hoped and feared,
was over, and Selwyn had left her bitterly
dissatisfied. Was that dissatisfaction deserved
? This question she repeated to
herself through every hour of the endless
night, and when morning came it still remained
unanswered.

Had she been unkind to him, to the true
friend who brought her all the happiness she
had known for many a day, and who asked only

to share her troubles with her ; to the boy-lover
who, in his devotion, would have taken
all the burdens of her life gladly on his own
shoulders, and never complained, however the
weight of them might have galled ? Not
willingly, she answered ; for even for him
she could not leave her father desolate. She
must be bound by his wrath ; she could not
follow him, and yet step across the breach
which he had made with Selwyn.

But, even in spite of her father's injunctions,
might she not have written ? Why
had she not ? To this question the answer
was less plain. It was not her parent's command,
at least not wholly, which restrained
her, for in this she held him to be irrational.
It was by pride, rather, and shame that she
was withheld  pride which made it as impossible
for her as for her father to ask an alms ;
shame which whispered hourly in her ear
that it would be wicked to burden Selwyn's
young life with the future of two persons on
whom the sun of prosperity had never yet
shone. Better for him, the warning voice
whispered, a thousand times better, that he
had never come to Liverpool, never entered

St. Paul's Square. Who had told him that
oftener than Madge Trosdale, or meant It
more sincerely  Then why try to patch up
the links which had been so painfully broken?
Why recall him when the wounds in his heart
must be beginning to heal, perhaps had
healed ?

Painfully inadequate to justify her silence
these arguments appeared to Madge in the
retrospect. Yet she believed she had done
rightly, and she knew that she had done
unselfishly ; for there was no hour since
that in which Selwyn closed the door of
Frith Street for the last time behind him
when her heart had not leaped up with a
sudden joy at the sound of a distant footstep
coming nearer, to sink again with a mixture
of sadness and relief when she found the step
was not his.

If she had known with what heart-sick
weariness Selwyn was searching for her, her
resolution might have given way. Such a
proof of tenderness on his part would have
conquered her pride ; but the vastness of
London separated her from him as effectually
as a continent, and of his loving search she

knew nothing. On the other hand, the
slender stock of money which was still in
her father's hands disappeared with frightful
rapidity ; all the employment she could obtain
was very scanty ; and as her own health
began to suffer from privation she was notable
to work so much or so well.

All these things strengthened her resolution,
and there was nothing to shake it.
Now, however, everything was changed.
She had taken help from Kerry, she had
broken down her pride, but all to no purpose.

And so she tormented herself, going over
point by point what had passed, and seeing
many things which she ought to have seen,
and more than one way in which she
might have controlled circumstances instead
of yielding to them. She rose very early, in
order to relieve the nurse, and sat by her
father through all the morning, listening to
the bells ringing for service, and wondering
if she should ever see the old church in St.
Paul's Square again. How dusty it was
always in the organ loft ! There was one
key which had lost its ivory long before she
ever touched the instrument. Had anyone replaced

it, she wondered ; did anyone play on
the organ who loved it as much as she ?

At one o'clock the nurse relieved her, and
Madge went into the back-room, and for very
weariness, resting her tired head on the table,
fell asleep. Her slumbers were very troubled,
dream images being strangely mixed with
real appearances, so that when she was
suddenly awakened she hardly knew whose
arms were round her, whose voice was calling
her name.

Madge, my only love  don't be frightened.
It is I, your own Selwyn. My poor darling,
forgive me for startling you, but you looked
so worn and lonely I could not help taking
you to my heart, which has been empty 
empty for want of you. Oh ! my love,
let nothing and no one come between us anymore
for ever. Your father was glad to seeme
yesterday ; he was like his old self again,
though so weak and ill. Say you are glad
too, dearest ; I have been so miserable.'

She sat back in her chair, and, pushing her
hair out of her eyes that still were dazed and
heavy with sleep, looked at Selwyn as if
trying to remember something ; then, as full

recollection came back, she unclasped his
encircling arms, pushed his face, which was
brushing hers, gendy away, and gazed steadily
at him as she asked :

Why have you come here ?'
Because I cannot live without you.'
You lived without me for nearly a sear,
and it was best so.'

It was not best so, and I did not live
without you of my own will' he returned.
 When a man loves as I do, every moment
of separation seems an age. My love, why
will you be so cruel to me? If I spoke
sharply yesterday it was only because I felt
hurt to see another where I, and I alone,
ouorht to have stood ; but I never could be
really angry with you, dear. Kiss me, darling \
Let me feel your sweet lips on mine, and
know you are as fond of me as you were on
that evil night when so much misery fell
upon us.'

He stopped, but she made no sign ;
instead, with one thin hand, she still kept
him from coming closer to her. ' I cannot
speak yet,' she said ; ' wait a little.'

Something in her manner, something in

her face, filled him with a terrible apprehension.


'What is it, my Madge ?' he asked.
Whatever it is, let me know at once 
anything is better than suspense. Have
you ceased to care for me  is it that ?'

She shook her head.

Have you found anyone you care for
more ?'

For answer she smiled  but it was a wan,
sad smile.

Madge, you will drive me mad,' he said.
Tel! me what it is that has come between
us at once  I have a right to know  I insist
on knowing. We are not children, that we
should play at puzzles ; I for one don't like
them. Remember, our whole future is hanging
in the balance now, the happiness of our
lives is at stake. If you love me, say so ; if
I have offended you, say so ; if you have
bound yourself to any other person, say so.
I don't mean to vex you, my poor, tried
darling, but do strive and realize what this
silence means to me.'

She looked up at him, her lovely eyes full
of tender sorrow.

I did not think I should ever see yoa
again,' she said with a pitiful appeal.

Are you grieved to see me ?'

For your sake, yes '

Never mind about my sake,' he returned.
I must decide about my own future. I am
the best judge of what will be happiest forme.
Don't let us go over all that old ground
again, which we traversed so often before
we knew how much we should come to be
to each other. For your sake, are you
grieved to see me . That Is the only Important
question now ; are you ? Oh, my
love ! my dear love ' and casting himself
on the round, he seized her hand and

o

laid his cheek upon it.

She did not withdraw her hand, but she
turned her head away to hide the tears that
were blinding her.

If I have vexed you, forgive me he
went on ; 'If I seemed somewhat hard
yesterday, think what it must have been to
know you had needed me, and yet would not
write one word which would have brought
me to you instantly. Oh, Madge ! it is you
who were hard to me ; don't add to the

wrong. Not a day, not an hour, not a
minute, since we parted, but you have been
in my thoughts. Man was never more faithful
to woman then I to you. Won't you
speak to me ? Won't you tell me what has
come between us, my love . How am I to
unloosen your tongue } How can you hear
me plead and remain dumb .''
I want ' she began.

Yes, dear '

I want you to do something for me.'
I will do anything for you, providing it
be not to leave you.'

It is to leave me for a while. I want you
to go away now, and send Mr. Kerry here.'

And when may I come back T

I cannot say ; I do not know.'

There was a minute's silence ; probably
that was the hardest minute Selwyn had
ever fought through.

He had risen to his feet, and stood looking
down at the girl with grave concern,
the while a tumult of feelings warred within
him.

I will do your bidding,' he said at last,
and without another word went.

As he passed through the door she cried
in a half-whisper, ' Selwyn,' but if he heard
her he took no notice.

There was but one clear task before him,
and he was going to perform it.

Looking neither to right nor left, noticing
none of the people he met, scarcely conscious
of the streets he passed through, the young
fellow walked at the top of his speed to Mr.
Kerry's lodgings, where he found that gentleman
lying full length on a sofa reading
The Three Musketeers.'

As Selwyn entered, the Surveyor lazily
turned his head and exclaimed :

Serle, by all the powers ! Where do you
think you have come from ?'

I have come straight from the Tros-
dales.'

You have  have you ? Well, and how's
the old man ?'

I don't know ; I did not ask ; I forgot.'
How's the daughter, then ?'

I did not ask that either. She wants to
see you.'

What does she want with me ?'
She did not say.'

This beats Manager. Must I go now ?'
You can please yourself, I suppose.'

And what are you going to do ?'
Stay here till you come back.'

Oh ! that's the way of it, is it ?'

Yes, that is precisely the way of it.'
You are a bit put out in your temper,
aren't you ?'

I am a great deal put out.'

Well, you're a '

Selwyn could not exactly catch what he
was supposed to be, as Mr. Kerry, rising
from his recumbent position, mumbled his
opinion of him while moving about the room
in quest of various articles of attire he had,
for greater ease, cast aside while pursuing
his studies.

The Surveyor's toilet was not a lengthy
affair. After adjusting his collar, tying his
cravat, and slipping on his coat, he looked at
himself in the glass ; and saying, ' I think
I'll do now,' took his hat and moved towards
the door.

There he paused for a moment irresolute ;
but then, with a friendly caution to Selwyn, not
to be ' getting into any mischief,' departed.

A LITTLE ACCIDENT.

ikTR. KERRY found Madge In the
f -tV/H ' small room where Selwyn had left
r=sic5s? her.

You sent for me ?' he said, without any
formal preamble.

Yes. Thank you for coming so soon.'

That's nothing,' said Mr. Kerry. ' I would
do more than that for you any time. How's
your father ?'

He is better, I think. He had a fairly
good night.'

Has the doctor seen him to-day ?'

Yes. He says he is stronger on the
whole.*

None the worse for seeing Serle ?'

VOL. HI. 56

'No.'

There ensued a pause, which was broken
by the Surveyor, who asked :
Now, what is it ?'

Will you not sit down ?'

No, thank you ; I'd rather stand.'
And Mr. Kerry again took up his position
by the window which commanded so fine a
prospect of back-yards.

Aladge got up, and crossed over to the
window also. It was but a few steps, yet she
walked as though setting out on some long
journey. When she was within a pace or
two of the visitor she stopped, and looked at
Mr. Kerry, who in his turn regarded her
with a singular expression on his shrewd,
plain face.

I want to tell you something,' she began.
Do you think I don't know it .'

I do not think you do.'

Then let us hear it,' he remarked.

Yesterday morning  yesterday morning
' said Madge ; and then she stopped.

Will I help you ?' he asked.

No ; I do not want any help. I should
like to tell you myself, in my own way.'

Just as you like,' said the Surveyor ; while
his look of curious comprehension never
changed.

You remember what you asked me lon
ago?'

I do, well  to marry me, you mean ?'

And when I said no, you told me you
would not ask me again, unless '

Until I saw some sign you had thought
better of the matter,' finished Air. Kerry.

Have you ever seen such a sign T

I can't say I have ; though once or
twice '

Yes ; that is what I mean  that is what I
want to tell you. Oh, Mr. Kerry ! we cannot
always go on taking, and give nothing back ;
and yesterday morning I had made up my
mind if you asked me again I would say yes.'

The deuce you had !'

Yes ; I felt it would be only right.'

And now you feel it would be only wrong }'
Your kindness, your goodness, have not

changed since yesterday morning ; and if you

still wish  if I lead you to think ' she

stopped and then added, ' that is what I
wanted to say.'

56-2

Now, look here,' answered Mr. Kerry.
let one word serve between us. If you had
said all this forty-eight hours ago, I can't tell
what I might have done ; but I know what I
am ioing to do now. I wouldn't marry you
if you were as rich as the Queen of Sheba ; I
wouldn't marry you if you were Victoria by
the grace of God herself, whose servant I am.
What, you poor white, innocent lamb ! do you
suppose I thought to buy you, body and soul,
with a few pounds of grapes and pints of
turtle ? that while I was sitting by listening
to your father's wanderings, I was planning
how I could best put a knife to the throat of
his daughter's happiness ? I may be a very
poor sort of fellows ; but I am not so poor as
to marry a girl who has not as much love forme
as would cover a fourpenny-bit. If that
is what you have been breaking your heart
about, make your mind quite easy. You owe
me nothing  nothing at all  and if you did,
I would not let you pay me this way.'

You are so good ! oh, you are so good !
I don't know what co say to you,' and Madge
laid her hand on the Irishman's shoulder with
a thankful Gesture which to an outsider would
have seemed infinitely touching.

It appeared to affect Mr. Kerry differently,
however ; for he removed her hand and held
it in his own, while his face became drawn
with a strained look of pain.

Say nothing,' he answered. ' There's
nothing to say.'

Indeed there is nothing I can say,' she
returned softly ; and she laid her other hand
on his arm, and she raised her eyes, which
were full of gratitude, to his.

Just for a moment he kept silence, then,
taking both hands in his and holding them as
if in a vice, he said, in a voice that sounded
harsh by reason of the constraint he was
putting on himself:

I'd have you remember one thing  a
man's a man, and a woman's a woman ; and
you can't change a man into a woman, work
it how you will. If the Almighty had meant
him to be one. He would have made him a
woman, do you see. No, you don't  well,
I'll tell you. When one woman's pleased
with another, she kisses her, and there is no
harm done ; but how would you like me to
take you in my arms and kiss you ? I have
had much striving to help it, yet I would not

do such a thing for all the wide world. You
are going to marry Serle, and you shan't feel
any shame or sorrow about me when you look
back If I can keep one or the other from you.
I am going to be a father to you, and I'll not
let you do anything you ought not. Those
soft pretty ways are just destruction  you
mean little by them, but they mean a great
deal to us, so no more. And I'll send that
Othello of a Serle to you, and God bless, and
good-bye; but I'll be in again tomorrow to
see how your other father is, and you can
just forget anything I ever said to you that
you had rather not remember, and that it is
as well should not be remembered '  having
finished which speech, Mr. Kerry released
the girl's hand, took his hat, and ran down
the stairs as lightly as he could.

It's you she wants now,' was the only
remark he made to Selwyn. whom he found
impatiently awaiting his return. ' Such going
and conduct ! I am falrlv sick of it. Don't
be bringing any more messages to me, I tell
you, for the devil another step I'll stir to-day
no, not if the Secretary himself sent forme.
It Is about time you took your turn '

and the Surveyor threw himself on the sofa,
and resumed his study of M. Dumas' great
work.

Somehow his reading did not quiet him so
much as might have been expected  the love
passages contained no balm to soothe his own
pain ; and he was about to close the book and
go out for a stroll, when Selwyn reappeared
radiant.

Kerry, my dear Kerry!' he began.

What's wrong now ?' asked Mr. Kerry.

There is nothing wronQ-,' answered
Selwyn. * I'm the happiest fellow alive, and
it is you who have made me so. How can I
ever be grateful enough to you ?'

Bad luck to you, Serle ! You're the
greatest plague ever I came across  why
can't you go on with your courting, and let
me alone ? Sure this is the only day I have
to myself in the week. I am bothered enough
with taxes while I am at work, without being
bothered with you and your girl when I am
at play. Just take yourself off, please, and
let me alone. I've other things to think of
than marrying and giving in marriage, and
so will you before you're much older.'

I am sorry I disturbed you answered
Selwyn, a good deal abashed ; * but I could
not stay away. Shake hands with me before
I go  do, there's a good fellow !'

I'll shake hands with you : but you're justa
heartbreak,' returned Mr. Kerry. ind
having gone through the desired ceremony
with the worst possible grace, he turned round
on his side and became again absorbed in his
book, leaving Selwyn remorsefully to consider
that he might well have deferred speaking
either of his raptures or his gratitude to the
disappointed swain.

As the evening waxed late, however, Mr.
Kerry, who by that time had smoked several
pipes and imbibed the contents of three stiff
tumblers, began to take a more philosophical
view of the situation. He always inclined to
think those grapes sour which hung beyond
his reach, and though he would have married
Madge in spite of all obstacles, if she would
only have married him, there was no denying
that, even to her, there were objections.

Maybe it's just as well,' he said to
himself, mixing what Mr. M'Closky would
have called an ' eke.' ' There was many a

hindrance when I come to think of them.
First I misdoubt she'd never have gone to
mass with me, though, to be sure, I don't go
often ; and I'm afraid it wouldn't have been
just right for me to go with her to the Protestant
church. 1 can't see ho\v we should
have settled it, and I'm glad there is no need
to addle my head about the matter now. Then
old Trosdale's a civil if ever there was one,
and what I'd have done with him dodging up
and down the country after me, needing to
be fed, and clothed, and lodged, and nursed,
most likely keeping me out of my warm bed
when he was ill, and knocking up some

d d contrivance he'd have been wanting

to waste money on when he was well, the
Lord alone knows. Dan Kerry, there's a
Providence watches over you, and keeps you
out of harm, even when you don't want to
be kept out, but would rather be in the thick
of it. That is good whisky ; maybe the
wife wouldn't have liked you to drink more
than a sup of punch out of a wine-glass.
Phooh ! Cheer up, old boy, you're in favour
with the saints.'

As the liquor in his tumbler diminished,

however, this delightful reflection did not
seem to give him quite the comfort it
mi ht have been expected to afford. A
scowl settled down on his face, and he
kicked his heels viciously against the
floor, to the great annoyance of a nervous
gentleman who occupied the drawing-rooms.

I wonder which one of the saints it was
served me this dirty trick he muttered. * If I
knew, deuce a candle, or a picture-card, or any
mortal thing else would he get out of me this
month of Sundays. But there ! what's the
good ? I'll go to bed !'

Having arrived at which determination he
finished his xoz t a draught, turned off the
gas carefully, and groped his way out of the
room. When he reached the door he recollected
that he had left his purse on the chime
and went back for it. As he
did so he tripped over a footstool which
stood quite convenient for a man-trap,' and,
pitching heavily forward, inflicted such injuries
on himself that the doctor, v/ho was
summoned in hot haste, looked very grave
after ending his examination, and said :

This is likely to be a long business, Mr.

Kerry, Have you any mother or sister la
London who could come to nurse you ?'

I have nobody In London,' answered the
Surveyor faintly; 'but there Is 'one" In Liverpool
would come fast enough If she was
asked.'

I will ask her then,' replied the doctor;
and he at once sat down and wrote a note to
Miss Dormer, telling her exactly what had
happened, and begging her to come to town
without delay. The result of which appeal
was, that when the temporary nurse, sent Into
attend to the patient, was fairly at her wits'
end, and Mr. Kerry In the highest state of
fever and irritability, the telegraph boy brought
this soothing message :

From

Miss Dormer,
oA, Duke Street,
Liverpool.

To

Daniel Kerry, Esq.,
1909, Guilford Street,

London, W.C.

So shocked and grieved ; coming by next
train.'

When's that ?' grumbled Mr. Kerry'.
Sure, she might have said the time.' But
he grew quieter afterwards, and actually fell
asleep.

Miss Dormer's heart was very lull of love
and pity for Mr. Kerry ; but, though she lost
no time in obeying the doctor's summons, she
felt it due to her position as a gentlewoman
not to allow sentiment to gain such an
ascendancy as to induce her to appear before
her quondam lodger's delighted eyes in any
except the finest war-paint her wardrobe
could furnish.

Men are so apt to cast those sort of things
up at one afterwards,' she considered, as the
train whizzed past Harrow. ' They forget
the moving circumstance, and only remember
a lady's appearance ;' for which reason,
ere soinof to Guilford Street, she drove to
an hotel near King's Cross, where her 
papa had been in the habit of
resorting, and there, figuratively, put herself
in dry dock for repairs.

When she again presented herself before
the gaze of the public, she was indeed something
worth looking at. She might have
been one of that remarkable sisterhood who,
in former days, were twice a year to be seen
journeying to the Bank of England for their
six months' annuity. Such a band of old

ladies, dressed in such clothes, will never
again be beheld in the London streets. It
was a pity Government did away with that
show.

 A bonny brice is soon buskin,' says the
Scotch proverb ; but Miss Dormer was
neither a bride nor very bonny, and though
her toilet occupied a considerable time, the
result was by no means commensurate with
the labour bestowed.

What do you come here dressed like that
for ?' asked Mr. Kerry, when, the first greetings
over, he devoted himself to the contemplation
of his nurse's person. ' The gown
you've on was your grandmother's, wasn't it ?
A beautiful silk  is that what you say  
would stand alone ? I don't care. Take it off,
and put on something reasonable, which won't
make a noise or cause you to look like a
great-grandmother yourself Where's that
pretty brown thing you wore the night I got
my promotion ? Sure, that is far and away
better than those old clothes of people long
dead and gone.'

But Miss Dormer, whose sense of decorum
was very great, refused, for the first evening

at least, to appear In any light and skittish
attire.

I am very glad to be able to come
she explained  ' thankful to know I shall
be of any use ; but I feel I cannot be too
careful.'

Careful about what ?' asked l\Ir. Kerry.
Then, before she could answer, he added diplomatically,
' Hand me some of that lemonade,
will you, like a good soul ; my tongue is just
cleaving to the roof of my mouth. Thank you.
I feel better already for the sight of you.
There are no friends like old friends, after all.'

I suppose you have made a great many
new ones since you left Liverpool T hazarded
Miss Dormer, a little wistfully.

Scores on scores,' was the answer. ' Sure,
I told you so when I ran down at Christmas.
A man can't go here and there about the
world and keep himself the same as a hermit.
And now I think 1*11 rest myself for awhile ;
I feel tired.'

Mr. Kerry was indeed so tired, that when
the doctor came in the evening he said he
must be kept very quiet, and not allowed
to see anyone or to excite himself in anyway

; and somehow the idea crept through
the house that the Surveyor was In a very
bad state, which was the news that met
Selwyn when, on the Tuesday evening, he
looked in before proceeding to the Trosdales'.
He had relinquished the week's leave granted
to him, which was quite as well, since, when
he went to the office, he found a pile of
troublesome work lying there, at which the
gentleman sent down to take temporary
charge was sitting looking in utter dismay.

I'll see to all that,' said Selwyn cheerfully.
In good truth happiness made him strong
enough even to kill dragons, and accordingly
he went in among the tax difficulties, and,
laying ruthlessly about him to right and left,
he soon found himself with a pile of slain
around.

But he could not spare time to go up
west till Tuesday evening, when, as a sort of
salve to his conscience, which could not feel
quite easy about his friend, he took the Irishman's
lodelnofs in a round-about route to the
Trosdales'.

So you have not heard, sir,' said the
servant who answered the door, and who was

the same he had seen on the previous Saturday.
(How far, far back in the remote past
that Saturday seemed !) * Poor Mr. Kerry !
He has fractured his arm and broken two of
his ribs, and got a great cut on his head ; and
he's out of his mind, and the lady and the nurse
were up with him the whole of the night, and
the doctor says he's bad as bad can be ;' and,
though full, of course, of sympathy, the girl
looked immensely pleased to see the effect
of her evil tidings on Mr. Kerry's friend.
It only needed one more touch to render
that effect complete, and quite unconsciously
the damsel gave it :

And the poor lady she has been a-crying
so.'

This is dreadful !' exclaimed Selwyn.

The doctor told her not to take on ; only
he said Mr. Kerry must keep himself quiet.'

Yes, of course,' thought Selwyn bitterly ;
but would he ever keep himself quiet where
Madge was ? And what right had she, a
girl, to be there at all  she, Selwyn's
affianced wife  she, the woman Kerry had
wished to marry ? He could hardly contain
himself ; he could not even feign grief for

Mr. Kerry's accident. The demon of
jealousy was strong within him at that
moment  it had never really been laid since
the Irishman acted as guide to his lady's
bower. It was all very well to talk, but
though, of course, it was like Madge to wish
to help Kerry in his need, would she have
come so instantly and actually taken up her
quarters in his lodgings had there been no
warmer feeling than mere kindly interest 
And even if she did care for him, it was
unfitting, it was maidenly  all the more
maidenly the more she cared  and it was
in that way unlike her, though she never
thought much of conventionalities. She was
old enough to know better ; it was indecent ;
it was horrible. His instinct had not at first
misled him. There was something he failed
to understand between her and Kerry. And
then, how could she dream of leaving her
father still in his extremity of weakness ?
Clearly Mr. Serle had not yet reached that
perfect state of love which casteth out fear !

I don't understand it at all,' he said at
length, staring moodily at the servant.

No more don't anybody exactly,' replied
VOL. III. 57

that handmaiden, quite misunderstanding his
remark ; * though the lady she does say she
thinks he must have mixed his punch too
strong  it was a habit of his, she says, which
she warned him about many and many's the
time.'

What ! !' exclaimed Selwyn in a whole
series of interjections.

'And, indeed, I know myself he had been
drinking a good lot,' went on the girl
because the decanter and jug were both
empty.'

How did the lady know he had met with
an accident .'' asked the young man.

Mr. Kerry gave the doctor her address,
and he wrote to her, and she came as fast as
ever she could.'

Here was revealed a pretty state of things I
Selwyn could not doubt that what the servant
said was true. Yet how could it ever have
come to be true ? After making all allowance
for those flowers of rhetoric which adorn and
beautify the arid paths of domestic service,
how did it happen Madge had spoken to
this girl at all on the subject of Mr. Kerry's
fondness for the best Irish '.

It seemed incredible to the young man that
his reserved, discreet love could have so
deteriorated. Association with Mr. Kerry
had produced disastrous results indeed ! He
Selwyn, would not allow such a state of
things to continue longer  not for an hour
not for five minutes.

'Ask the lady to speak to me he said.
Stay ; here is my card  take it up and beg
her to come down at once.'

Just step in here,' said the servant, opening
the diningroom door, 'and I'll tell her.'

Selwyn was only kept waiting a few
minutes, yet he had contrived to work himself
into a fever of indignation when the door
opened and a familiar voice exclaimed :

'Oh! Mr. Serle, and is it indeed you. - What
a dreadful thing this is!  poor dear Mr.
Kerry  the very best of men !' and Miss
Dormer applied her handkerchief to her eyes
and wept copiously.

Never in his life before had Selwyn experienced
such a revulsion of feeling. He
was so thankful, so rejoiced, he had much ado
to refrain from embracing Miss Dormer, and
his greeting was cordial in the extreme.

572

I am so glad to see you !' he exclaimed.
So relieved to know Kerry has such a friend
with him. Tell me all about what is the
matter. I hope he is not much hurt.'

But he is,' sobbed Miss Dormer. ' He
has broken his arm, and cut his head open
and bruised himself terribly.'

And the servant tells me his ribs are
injured  two of them broken, I think she
said.'

The story-telling little hussy !' cried Miss
Dormer indignantly; 'things are bad enough,
but they are not so bad as all that comes to.
It is his head which is troubling us most 
and he is so excited.'

How did the accident happen ?' asked
Selwyn.

That is what we can't make out. He
told the doctor at first that a footstool tripped
him up. Poor fellow, do you remember how
he used always to kick mine into a corner
and say naughty words about them ? But
now he says something  only I don't mind
him much, for he is light-headed very often
about having been speaking ill of the
saints, and how he's properly punished for

it ; and he has promised  I am sure I could
not repeat half of what he has promised to
his patron, if he'll only mend his arm
fast, and let him get out of his bed and go
down to the office. It is cruel to hear the
way the dear fellow takes on, Mr. Serle  it
is indeed.'

Is there nothing I can do ?' asked Selwyn.
' Can't I sit up with him to-night ?'

Oh, Mr. Serle ! will you  will you really,
for a few hours ?'

Of course I will, and only be too glad ;
among us we can surely pull him right in a
very short time. I have to pay a visit in the
neighbourhood ; but I will be back again
directly, and then you must let me help
you in every way you are able to think of,
because ' but there he paused.

Because what ?' asked Miss Dormer.

We must not allow you to get old before
your time,' audaciously finished the young
man, with a roguish smile ; ' if we did Kerry
would never forgive us, nor himself, for that
matter.'

Get off with you,' exclaimed Miss Dormer,
highly pleased.

HILE he was lying on what he
called the ' broad of his back,'
Mr. Kerry found ample leisure
for considering how ' the snipe's courtship '
might best be brought to a satisfactory conclusion,
and at last, after ' he had thought and
better thought' matters over, he opened his
mind to Selwyn, and showed him the treasures
contained therein.

Thanks to good nursing and a sound constitution
 which he had never injured by
imbibing more than he could help ' of that
poison called Scotch whisky ' (' You'd better
.mind what you are about with Irish,' advised
the doctor, to whom he made this
remark)  Mr. Kerry's recovery was rapid

once he passed the turning-point,' a point,
however, it may be observed, which gave
great anxiety to his friends.

I'm making a mend of it now the Surveyor
said to Selwyn one Saturday afternoon,
when he called and found his friend propped
up in an easy-chair, listening most placidly to
Miss Dormer, who was, for his benefit, continuing
aloud the history of ' The Three
Musketeers.'

She's a beautiful reader said Mr. Kerry
when Miss Dormer had, according to custom,
modestly retired and left the gentlemen alone.
You should just hear her go at those French
names

Isn't it rather an awkward book to read
aloud .' suggested Selwyn, who had a tolerably
distinct recollection of some embarrassing
passages in the Musketeers' experiences.

Not at all  what would make it awkward ?
Sure, if she comes to anything she doesn't
like she skips it, turns over a page or two,
and goes on again.'

That spoils the story, though, does it not ?'
Devil a spoil ! You shall hear her when
she comes back.'

Thank you, Kerry. I would much rather
not,' answered Selwyn ungratefully.

Well, well, have it as you like ; but you
never came across a better reader  that I
know.'

You will never be able to do without her,
Kerry.'

You don't know what I can do without
answered the Surveyor drily; 'but I have
nothing to say against Miss Dormer. She's
as good a soul as you'd meet with in the
length of a summer's day, and if she's
not so young as she was once, it's not
her fault.'

I think it is rather an advantage,' returned
Selwyn. * If she had been in her
teens, she could not have come here to
nurse you.'

There is something in that,' agreed Mr.
Kerry reflectively. He was thinking, however,
though Miss Dormer was not in her
teens, she seemed to imagine she had taken
a risky step when she complied with his
request ; but he uttered no word of this, only
said : * I'm well pleased you've come here
early, because I want to talk to you about

your young woman. Give me all your ears,
and don't be angering me.'

I won't if I can help doing so.'

First and foremost, then, you have not
taken other lodgings for them yet t'

No, I promised you I would not till you
told me : though why you thought it best they
should stay where they are I cannot imagine.'

Well, one reason was that no lodging-housekeeper
would have taken in a man as
bad as Trosdale was, and another, that I
wish you to get married before you make any
shift.'

Married !' repeated Selwyn in amazement.


Just that ! If you do not get married now
maybe you never will. Once Trosdale's
about nobody can tell what notion he may
take  and you should put it beyond his power
to separate you again. I would have you to
say no word to anybody. There's a church
in the parish where the Trosdales are living
that one in Regent Square  and you could
walk out some morning two, and walk back
ONE, without a bit of trouble. Then you can
choose your time to tell the old man. Miss

Dormer, if you like, will go with you, and you
would need no one else  beside the clergyman
and the clerk.'

But do you think ' and Selwyn

paused.

Do I think what ?'

Do you believe I should be justified in
marrying so soon .''

- * I believe you would not be justified in
putting your marriage off a day longer than
you can help. You've heaps to keep a wife
on as you are, and once I'm about I'll see
you are put in your right position. You'd
have been a Surveyor long ago, but that Dandison
put a cross against your name. We'll
soon have it off though, if you only do as
I bid you.'

I will if Madge agrees.'

Madge must agree. The old man ought
to go out of town for a while, and you ought
to be married before he goes. I have planned
it all, and, if you do what I tell you, mice ina
cheese won't be better and happier than
you and your girl  though she doesn't deserve
any luck at all, by reason of her not
taking a good offer when it was made to her

' She did not show good taste there,
Kerry;

She showed the worst of taste, and the
worst of sense  but that's neither here nor
there. I made up my mind the night I nearly
ended my days over that cursed stool I was
far better without her  or at any rate without
her father  and you can no more separate the
pair than you could the Siamese twins. A
fine handful you'll have with him ! Still, if
you're pleased I'm sure I may be.'

I am pleased,* said selwyn very decidedly.

Then go and be more pleased. Tell her
to be ready, and then walk round and find out
from the clerk how soon you can be married.'

I only hope she may consent.'

How many times am I to tell you she must
consent ? See here, if she's contrary, bring
her to me; I've a word to say which will
bring her to reason.'

Can't you say it to me ? I never
am able to persuade her to go out of the
house.'

Humph !' remarked Mr. Kerry, and he
sat silent for a little. ' I wonder whether I
could write }' he said after that pause.

I shouldn't try. You are still weak, you
know,' urged Selwyn.

Ton my soul, I believe you are still
jealous !' mocked Mr. Kerry. ' See, there's
pen and ink and paper ; write what I want
said for yourself and I'll sign it. You needn't
be making any beginning now  any "dears,"
or the rest of it.'

What am I to say ?' asked Selwyn, biting
the end of his pen.

You may say, " The last time we had any
talk." Have you got that down .'

Yes. Go on.'

'* You seemed to think you owed me
something." '

What did she think she owed you i' asked
Selwyn.

Only a trifle she was In my debt, or
thought she was. ''If you are still of the
same mind, marry Serle at once, and so wipe
out all scores." That's all. Hand it over till
I sign  no need to say *' Yours truly ;" she
knows I am "hers truly  Daniel Kerry"  and
tell her from me, will you, that fathers always
provide their daughters' wedding-dresses, and
I'll send her one. I am her father now.

Maybe you didn't know that? Well, I am.
Ask her, and you'll find she'll not deny it.'
 i! k -r? 'k

Mr. Kerry created quite a sensation when
he went down to Somerset House with his
left arm in a sling, and asked to see Mr.
Tenterden.

Hallo !' exclaimed that gentleman, when
the Surveyor walked in, ' what's all this that
has been the matter with you ? I had no
idea you were so ill. You look like a
ghost.'

I'm not one though,' answered Mr. Kerry.
When I am, it is not back here I'll becoming,
I hope.'

You might come to a worse place. Well,
what do you want  leave of absence to go
out of town T

'You are wrong,' answered Mr. Kerry;
 it is nothing about myself I've come for at
all. I only want a talk with you concerning
an Assistant fellow that has been very badly
treated  young Serle.'

How has he been badly treated ', If it's
Serle at Stratford you mean, I have done all
I could for him.'

I want you to think whether you can't do
more still. He has had the worst of bad
luck since he entered the service. First of
all, Dandison sent him to Liverpool, where
there wasn't one but myself to teach him a
thing

He could not have had a better instructor
said Mr. Tenterden politely.

That is as it may be,' replied Mr. Kerry,
declining the compliment ; * at any rate, he
couldn't have had a worse chief than Tros-
dale. In a manner of speaking, the poor
lad fell among thieves, and, though he was
honest and industrious as the day, Dandison
took a spite against him, and kept him back
from his examination, and played the deuce
with his chances.'

If what you say is correct, Mr. Kerry,
the matter shall be put right.'

*What I say is correct, and the matter
can't be put right, because he has lost a year
clean ; but he'll not moan about that if you
only rub the black mark off him. And you
ought, for he's a decent fellow, and married
to as good a girl as you'd find in the three
kingdoms.'

Married  that boy married !' exclaimed
Mr. Tenterden, firmly fixing his glass in his
eye, and regarding Mr. Kerry through it.

He's not a boy  he's five-and-twenty past,
and I saw him married myself ; for the first
time the doctor said I might go out I gave
the bride away myself. She has a father
of her own  old Trosdale  but he's no
more good to her than he is to himself.'

Do you mean to say Serle is married to
Trosdale's daughter  to the daughter of the
old idiot who commuted his pension and
threw the money into a blast furnace }'

The very same. He threw every penny
into it a man called Ashford left him. It was
Ashford got the bulk  said Trosdale owed
him the money.'

Cramsey knew a person called Ashford.*

Did he though ? Then I see daylight. I
have always blessed M'Closky for persuading
Dandison to send Cramsey and his laundry
away from Liverpool.'

It was not Dandison  it was I,' said Mn
.Tenterden with a modest pride. ' I went
down one day and caught him at the washtub
 in the very act.'

That's just what Serle did the first daye
came to Liverpool  when his misfortunes
began.'

1 ought not to say so, I suppose, but I must
tell you in confidence I suspect his misfortunes
are nearly ended. We will send up for
Mr. Harrison, and you must tell him the
whole story at more length than you have
told it to me. Only the other day he was
talking about the Trosdales, and wishing he
could find them. He thought he might
manage to get Trosdale some light post
here.'

Don't let him do that said Mr. Kerry ina
tone of earnest entreaty  * for the love of
heaven don't let him do that! The only
chance for Trosdale and his daughter is for
Serle  wherever he is  to have his father-in-law
in the office with him, as head clerk
you know. He'd do well enough then 
could talk to the public, and tell anybody that
liked to listen all about his furnace. I have
thought it over till my head has ached, and I
can see no other plan. I would take him for
clerk myself, but he'd never call me " Mr.

Kerry ;" and I could not find it in my heart
to bid a man like him say " Sort." '

It was too much. ]mr. Tenterden burst into
a peal of laughter, in the midst of which
Mr. Harrison entered the room.

What's all this T he asked. ' Tenterden,
I cannot remember to have ever before seen
you so strangely moved.'

'You must ask Yvx. Kerry,' answered the
other.

Mr. Kerry has not a notion what's the
matter with you.' said that gentleman, fairly
mystified ; ' and if I had I wouldn't say
another word, for I am tired out and must
get home, or I'll be laid up again.'

Yes, you must take care of yourself,'
observed Mr. Tenterden. ' I am heartily
sorry to see you looking so ill.'

'And you can tell Mr. Harrison what I say.
It's about Trosdale I've been talking,' he
added in explanation. ' But I won't talk more
now, for my head is getting bad again, and
besides I don't think there is any need. I
couldn't leave the future of Serle and his
wife in better hands, I am very sure.'

Indeed you could not,' said Mr. Tenter-den
earnestly ; adding with conviction, as he
closed the door after his visitor, ' There goes
the kindest creature I ever met  and the
strangest.'

