CHAPTER I.

MR. ROBERT m'cULLAGH.

Just out of Basingliall-street, at the end of an unnamed
court, there stands a house which must have
been old even at the commencement of the present
century. So far the march of improvement has
passed it by. There remains probably some fag-end
of a lease, or a difficulty regarding adjoining property;
for otherwise there can be little doubt it would have
been swept off the face of the earth long ago, and
the * valuable site' it now occupies covered with new
offices, chambers, or warehouses ; there are plenty
of all to be let close at hand, as there are, indeed,
in every street and alley in the heart of London.
But the modern builder is as insatiable as the grave !
He never sees an ancient edifice without longing to
destroy it. Churches and churchyards, abbeys,

VOL. I. B

7.

palaces, castles, cottages, give him his own way, and
he would swallow them all. He is the nineteenth-century
Dragon of Wanted, and it may be that even
at this present moment of writing he has looked
upon the old house hard by Basinghall-street, and
marked it for his own.

A very old house, and one which, though it has
been used this many a day for business purposes,
still, with its wide staircase, its heavy balusters, its
handrail about a foot square, its fine hall and noble
rooms, appeals mutely against the purposes to which
it has been turned, and reminds the visitor of a time
when guests trooped up the easy steps, and a dignified
hospitality rendered it an honoured abode in the eyes
of citizens living in the many localities once considered
choice, before railways were invented and all
the world went gadding.

In the year of grace 1854 it had, however, for
more than a quarter of a century been occupied by a
wholesale dealer in Scotch confectionery  marmalades,
biscuits, and other edibles of a like tempting
and toothsome description.

Nearly all the ground-floor and basement was
devoted to the requirements of business ; the rest of
the house was used for a dwelling. There Mr.
Robert McCullagh  'plain old Eab,' as he sometimes

called himself  had made and saved a considerable
amount of money; he had established for
himself a reputation ; he had seen four sons grow to
manhood, and started three of them out in the
world ; he had lost his wife ; and he had lived
with great contentment on a very small sum per
annum.

To turn from Basinghall-street into the court,
which led to the old house, was like plunging from
light to darkness  a sudden chill seemed to freeze
the marrow, even on a warm summer's day, when
the main thoroughfare was left and the passage
entered. Not a gleam of sunshine ever irradiated
the first portion of the way ; but after a short
distance, the court, turning sharply to the left,
suddenly widened and revealed an opening like a
tiny square, where four old houses stood side by
side, forgotten apparently by the external, busy,
bustling world.

As much to yourself as if you were on the top
of Ben Nevis,' said Mr. McCullagh, in eulogy of his
residence. ' There may be grander places in London,
I do not dispute that ; but more comfortable ? no,
not within or without the bills of mortality.'

If contentment can insure happiness, Mr.
McCullagh might be accounted a happy man. He

was contented with his house, his business, his
native land, London, the city of his adoption, and
last, but not least, himself. In the course of his
whole life he might have made a mistake or two, he
was not 'just sure;' but we are all liable to make
mistakes, and he had fallen into fewer errors than
his fellows. He did not desire a better trade, or a
better house, or anything he had not got or could not
get ; it provoked him to hear people say they wanted
this, that, and the other, instead of being satisfied
with their lot, and plodding along quietly and contentedly.


The silent sow,' remarked Mr. McCullagh, reverting
to the ingenious simile of earlier days, * sups
the most brose ; and when ye hear a man grumbling
for what Providence has not seen fit to give him,
ye can aye tell pretty nearly what the end of that
man will be.'

It was towards this palace of content, this retired
abode, so suited for a contemplative life, that one
dreary November day a gentleman walked briskly,
and with a certain eager brightness in his face which
might have told any passer-by his thoughts were of
the pleasantness.

And yet, nevertheless, there came every now and
then over the brightness a certain anxious expression

which obscured the joy, as a passing cloud sometimes
dims the sunshine.

He had good news to tell ; but not perfectly unalloyed.
He could not exactly pre-determine how
what he wanted to say might be received. Mr.
McCullagh, having been the architect of his own
fortune, was sometimes given to look disparagingly
on the edifices erected, and in course of erection, by
others.

The great hall-door stood hospitably open, and
the gentleman walked straight into an office partitioned
off and divided into a number of separate
boxes for desks and clerks.

Going up to one of these, and putting his head
over the railing, he asked an old man who was busily
employed in book-keeping,

Is my father in, Mr. Roy ?'

Mr. Eoy was at the moment engaged in ruling
two red lines at the bottom of a money column, and
did not take the slightest notice of either the
question or the questioner till he had finished what
he was about; then, wiping his pen on a piece of rag
which hung suspended by a bit of cord from the
handle of one of the drawers, he answered slowly,

Ay, Mr. Robert, you'll find him up above.'

Is he at dinner ?' inquired Mr. Robert.

Well, he did speak of taking a bite,' was the
cautious concession.

With an impatient gesture the younger man
turned from the desk, and walked out of the silent
office, throwing an irritable glance around as he went.
Everything in it was Scotch, deeply, darkly, beautifully
Scotch, from the cheek-bones of the errand-boy
whom he encountered on the threshold of the
counting-house, to Mr. Koy, who might, judging
from his accent, have only arrived from the Land o'
Cakes on the previous evening.

He went slowly up the wide easy steps of the oak
staircase, the gloom of the November afternoon
seeming to follow and deepen around him the higher
he ascended, and came to a heavy door, likewise of
oak, at which he knocked gently.

Come in !' cried a sharp clear voice; and thus
bidden, the young man entered.

As he opened the door, a girl who had been
playing ' Di tante palpitate' with labouring earnestness
upon a decrepit piano, several of the notes in
which were dumb, rose from a music-stool as rickety
as the instrument; and at the same moment a
homely-looking person, who acted as housekeeper in
Mr. McCullagh's establishment, exclaimed in a tone
of some surprise,

'Why, it's Robert!'

So it is, I declare !' said Mr. McCullagli.
'You're just in time for a bit of dinner; it will beset
on in a minute.'

I have dined, thank you,' answered the person
called Robert, advancing towards the hearth, and
trying to make head against the gloom, which the
mere spark of fire burning in the grate seemed to
deepen rather than decrease, 'an hour and more ago.'

'0, come, that won't do,' returned his father;
luncheon, or a snack, not dinner, ye know.'

All the dinner I ever have, at any rate,' said the
young man, looking with eyes which could not
conceal their discontent at the meagre appointments
of Mr. McCullagh's table, on which a wench, with
her sleeves tucked up, was placing a piece of roast
beef that had been, as the housekeeper explained,
dotted up,' some smoking potatoes, and a dish of
greens.

Will I light a candle ?' asked the housekeeper ;
and having received a gracious assent from Mr.
McCullagh, the simple preparations were complete.

Draw your chair, Robert ; you'll take a glass of
ale, at any rate ?' suggested his father.

I'll take a glass of ale, thank you,' assented
Robert, drawing his chair as invited, but employing

himself somewhat irreverently the while a blessing-was
being requested, scrutinising the knives and
forks he could remember from the time he was a
child.

No new-fangled things were ever to be found in
that house. The handles of the knives were green,
and the blades worn down to half their original length ;
the forks, likewise green-handled, were steel-pronged ;
the plate German silver; the dishes commonest
delf ; the solitary candlestick brass ; the table-linen
coarse; the service of the roughest.

Well, Effie, and how does the music get on ?'
asked the young man, addressing the young girl, who
sat opposite to him.

'Middling,' she answered; she was Scotch too.

'Her teacher says she is getting on well,' said

Mr. McCullagh, wrestling with the joint, which had

got somewhat dried in the process of re-roasting.

'I am thinking', Janet,' he went on, addressing

his housekeeper, 'Mary has let the meat burn a

wee.'

She has so,' agreed Miss Nicol, ' but it is not

easy to prevent that. It might have been better to

hash the beef, but I thought you were tired of

hash.'

'Tired! me tired!' echoed Mr. McCullagh;

what are ye thinking about, Janet ? I do not
turn up my nose at good food. I can mind the time
when I found it hard enough to get any.'

If this remark was intended as a reflection on his
son  which is open to doubt, since the worthy
merchant had a general as well as particular manner
of delivering such utterances  it did not produce any
apparent effect. The younger Robert had heard too
many statements of the kind in former times to
attach much weight to them now. He stared into
the dim distance whilst the dialogue proceeded,
looking as much an anachronism amongst his own
relations  both Miss Nicol and Effie were some faraway
connections of the McCuUaghs  as Mr. McCul-
laugh and his household belongings did amongst the
decaying splendours of that ancient mansion.

The architect of his own fortune was a small
mean-looking man, with straight sandy hair, a
shrewd shrewish nose, eyes so light as to be almost
colourless, a face perfectly clean save for freckles, a
wide mouth, a long upper lip, and a forehead moderately
high. His son, on the contrary, had dark
hair which curled a little naturally, dark eager eyes
shaded by lashes so long as to give at times an
almost womanish expression to his face ; his upper
lip was short, his mouth almost weak, his whiskers

large ; be looked about a bead taller than his father,
and was about half as broad again. He carried himself
well, spoke well, bad mixed in the world, and
adopted its usages and modes of expression ; yet the
elder McCullagb bad more sense in bis little finger
than the younger in bis whole body, and the old man,
so called, not because he was actually old, but merely
to distinguish him from the juniors of bis family, as
heartily despised bis first-born for bis paucity of
brains as bis son despised him for bis want of
polish.

There ensued a short silence. Mr. McCullagb
helped himself plentifully to vegetables ere pushing
the dishes over to bis female belongings, and devoted
himself to bis frugal dinner as though it had been
an aldermanic feast. Miss Nicol and her niece ate
the driest and most burnt portions of the meat, and
made no attempts at conversation. Robert was a
complete wet blanket in that bouse : just as effectually
as the family damped bis spirits did he depress
theirs. Between himself and his father there yawned
a gulf almost as long and as wide as the whole term
of his natural existence ; and though peace had for
years prevailed so far as angry word or hot controversy,
it seemed, to say the least of the matter, unlikely
that the chasm would ever be bridged over now.

The silence was broken by Mr. McCullagh taking
up the beer-jug and peering curiously at its contents
; after that scrutiny he set it down again, and
said,

Maybe, Robert, ye would take a dash of whisky
instead of the ale. This seems to be almost the last
of the barrel.'

Thank you,' answered his son.  I should
prefer the whisky.'

I think myself ale is apt to lie cold on the
stomach,' remarked Mr. McCullagh, pushing the
despised beverage over to Miss Nicol, who accepted
the beer as she had taken the chips of roast beef.
'Else, get out the bottle like a good girl, will ye?'
he added, presenting her with the key of the gargle
which he always kept safe and sound in his
own pocket, trusting the custody of it, save for a
minute, as on the present occasion, neither to man,
woman, nor child.

Take more, take more,' he cried, as his son
poured a very small modicum into his tumbler, and
prepared to fill up the glass with water. ' What's
the good of spoiling prime liquor in that way ?'

Nothing loth, perhaps, the younger man availed
himself of this invitation ; possibly he was not sorry
to fortify his own spirits with Dutch courage. His

father watched him, and said, ' That's right ;' for
there chanced to be one point on which Mr. McCul-
laugh could be not merely liberal, but generous, and
that was ' Usquebaugh.'

He grudged a penny wherewith to buy matches,
but he opened gallon jars of whisky in a manner as
genial as remarkable.

And no better ' whiskey,' as he called it, ever
came south. How he got it, from whom, and whence,
were secrets Mr. McCullagh trusted not to man born
of woman. He knew the weakness inherent in man's
nature from that origin, and was quite of opinion
that ' three people might keep a matter quiet if two
were away.'

You are dining earlier, are you not, father ?'
asked his son, who certainly had not intended to
make a fourth at the social board.

It's sooner than my usual,' answered Mr.
McCullagh. ' I keep to five o'clock now, as I took
to five o'clock when I first started in business on my
own account, as the best hour at which a man engaged
in trade can dine in London. The banks
close at four ; all the letters should be ready for
posting ; it's just the most suitable time in every
way that can be found ; but it so happens to-day I
want to go to Lowborn to see Kenneth.'

Is he in town ?' asked Mr. Robert McCuUagh
junior, without any special elation of voice or manner,
though Kenneth was his brother.

Ay, he's in town,' answered Mr. McCullagh,

with his father-in-law that's to be.'

What ! is Kenneth going to be married ?' said
Robert, surprised.

Have ye no heard of it ?' exclaimed Miss Nicol,
with a visible increase of animation. * Why, we
knew three days ago.'

He hasn't written to me for three weeks,' was
the reply.

It wasn't settled then,' explained Mr. McCul-
laugh, ' but it is now.'

Who is she ?' inquired his son, with a faint
show of interest.

The daughter of his master  no less,' said Mr.
McCullagh, repressed glee visible in every feature.

Kenneth, as ye know, was aye canny, but, my faith,
he has done weel for himself now. She is not only,
as I am given to understand, a weel-favoured young
woman, but she does not come to him with an empty
hand. How much fortune do ye suppose her father
is going to settle on her when they come together ?
Just give a guess, Robert;' the first portion of which
Christian name, it may be remarked, the Scotch

merchant pronounced as if it were an exclusively
French production.

The junior Robert, affecting an interest in the
matter he did not feel, said it was impossible for him
to guess : would his father, he suggested, give some
clue ?

What would ye say to five hundred pounds '?*
asked Mr. McCullagh, * putting himself forward,' ashe
expressed it, ' for a help of cheese,' and, * breaking
a bittock' off the oat-cake, both of which luxuries
Mai-y now placed upon the table, in addition to a
pat of butter, printed, possibly by some one possessed
of a fine sense of irony, with the image of a cow.
'What would ye say to five hundred?' and Mr.
McCullagh, relishing with an exceeding delight the
exquisite humour of this question, winked across at
Miss Xicol as he propounded it for the second time.

Robert junior saw the wink, and knew there was
something behind ; nevertheless he answered boldly,

Why, I should say five hundred was a very good
dot for a fellow in Kenneth's position.'

And if I went up a figure or two higher  suppose
to seven fifty ?'

That Kenneth may count himself very lucky,'
said the elder son ; * I am sure I wish him joy.'

And so ye may, my lad,' cried Mr. McCullagh,

measuring himself out a certain allowance of whisky,
which was his regular custom, though he sometimes,
often indeed, supplemented that certain allowance
with ' an eke.' ' So ye may. Kenneth is to have
three thousand pounds down with her, that is settled
upon his good wife, ye understand.'

An that's not all ye have to tell, Mister McCul-
laugh,' here broke in Miss Nicol jubilant, the while
Robert was engaged in following Charles Lamb's
example, and damning the unknown woman at a
venture,  ' that's not all ; there's more to the back
of it.'

*Do you mean more money ?' asked Robert, looking
in amazement from one to the other.

Money's worth, money's worth,' said Mr. McCuI-
laugh complacently ; ' there's, as I have said, three
thousand to be tied up on the wife, and Kenneth is
to be taken into partnership.'

Robert sat for a moment literally dumfounded.
If any one save his father had told him such a tale
he would have said it was not true, and even as
matters stood he could scarcely credit the evidence
of his own ears. If it were so, how would his father
receive the news he had a couple of hours before considered
so good ? There must be some hitch  the
thing was not possible.

But I always thought his master was in a large
way of business,' he ventured after that moment's
pause.

So he is ; he has a fine trade.'

Then if that be the case, what is Kenneth to
put in ?'

Just himself : no more, no less.'

No money ?'

Deil a halfpenny. Ye see, the way of it's this,'
and Mr. McCullagh, pushing his chair a little way
from the table, waxed confidential : ' old Johnston's
not so young as he was, say, fifty year ago, and he
begins to feel that. He has no son to take his place,
and the business is getting a trifle too much for him.
There is only the one daughter, and she has a fancy
for Kenneth. The old man sees what Kenneth has
in him, and considers she might go a good deal
further and fare a good deal worse. So, to cut a
long story short, they talked and they better talked
the matter over ; and the upshot of it all is, Kenneth
is to marry the daughter and take the management of
the Liverpool business, while the father and mother
go to Glasgow ; they're Scotch, as ye're aware.'

'I could have sworn it!' thought Robert
viciously, but he only said aloud he had not been
aware of the fact.

'That's strange,' commented Mr. McCullagh ;
but to be sure, you and Kenneth never did stable
your horses well together. However, to return to
what I was saying, Mister and Mistress Johnston
go to Glasgow to spend the evening of their days
among their own people (he has a branch house at
Glasgow now), and the young wife and Kenneth
will bide at Liverpool. It is a great chance for a
beginner like him. Here's health and prosperity to
them both, anyway ;' and Mr. McCullagh drained
his tumbler in indication of his sincerity.

Here's health and prosperity to them both,' repeated
Miss Nicol, sipping a little ale.

Health and prosperity,' murmured Effie, almost
in a whisper, to her glass of water.

*I am sure I wish them every happiness,' said
Robert, following his father's example ; but feeling
at the same time he wished them nothing of the
kind, and that the tidings he had just heard were
gall and wormwood to him.

When will ye be coming to tell us something of
the same sort, Robert ?' asked Miss Nicol, with as
much sly jauntiness as she could possibly induce
her manner to assume.

0, there's time enough,' Mr. McCullagh answered
for him benignantly.

VOL. I. c

I came here to-day to tell you something, sir,'
said Robert, seizing this opportunity of speaking ere
his courage oozed away altogether. * I thought it
pretty good news, but of course jours altogether
dwarfs mine.'

What is it like ?' inquired Mr. McCullagh, drawing
cautiously back into his shell as he asked the
question, and dropping the almost convivial tone he
had adopted. ' Are ye going to be married too,
Robert ?'

No, sir, I am not  at least, not at present.'

When is it to be ?' asked his parent.

I am sure I do not know,' answered the young
man. ' I must first find the lady.'

Then what was it ye came here to tell
me?'

When you have quite finished your dinner I
wish you would give me five minutes alone.'

There is nothing to prevent your speaking out
now,' answered Mr. McCullagh severely. ' We have
no secrets among us in this house.'

Still, sir  ' began Robert.

Well, well, if it must be so,' interrupted his
father impatiently ; and seizing the candle, and,
without a word of apology, leaving Miss Nicol and
her niece in a darkness scarcely relieved by a gleam

of firelight, lie led the way down the wide staircase
to a room on the ground-floor, muttering ashe
did so the encouraging words, ' Pack o' nonsense
!'

MR. m'cullagh's antecedents.

Accident had a larger share in compassing Mr.
McCullagh's worldly prosperity than that gentleman
would have cared to acknowledge.

By this it is not meant that he might not have
succeeded, no matter in what manner of craft he had
essayed to brave the business seas. He was scarcely
the man to sink in any waters ; but it is open to
question whether in other lines of life he would have
done so well as chanced to be the case amongst jam-pots
and casks of ' sweeties.'

He did not enter on the commercial voyage with
any definite idea  or any idea, in fact, at all  of
trading in Scotch goods. When he started for
London he had no settled plan whatever, except to
find a certain uncle Robert, who had done well for
himself amongst the Southerners, and no convictions
save that Greenock was too small him, and that it
was better to begin the business struggle unencumbered
by the proximity of needy relations.

His father, the son of a right honest weaver at
Paisley, who had brought up a large family on the
slenderest of means, was a shopkeeper in a very
small way at Greenock. Few things of a humble
sort but were sold in that general shop  marbles
and meal, candles and comfits, pork and pickles,
salt herrings and stationery, butter and biscuits,
threads and tea, to say nothing of salt, sugar,
needles, pins, tape, gingerbread, flour, treacle, and
all the hundred items the poor require daily, and
most of which they can buy in pennyworth.

Early and late both father and mother worked,
but all they could make barely served to keep the
wolf from the door. They had to give credit or
lose their customers, and sometimes the customers
were dishonest, sometimes unfortunate ; therefore,
what with bad debts and the keep of many children,
the Greenock dealer found himself unable to get
much before the world.

In the family annals frequent mention was made
of a certain uncle Robert, who, being a ' asperity
chief,' had done 'right weel,' and sent his father and
mother down now and again pound notes and
presents of tea, flannel, coats, and suchlike.

He had walked every step of the way to the
English metropolis. He ' took the notion' one fine

day of trying his luck, and, starting with about nine-pence
in his pocket, literally * worked' his journey
to London. No job had been too hot or too heavy
for this resolute boy; his adventures, so said his
friends, with more truth than is generally to be
found in the statements of friends, would have filled
a book. Steadily he tramped on, refusing all offers
of employment by the road, save such as supplied
his daily need, till he reached London footsore, penniless,
friendless.

Ere long, however, he got his chance  that
chance which, 'tis said, comes once to every man 
and improved it. ' And now,' observed his relations,
'he is quite a gentleman, has a big house and servants
of his own, and is married to a minister's
daughter.'

It may have been that these descriptions of
wealth and distinction won in the vague English
land fired the imagination of the younger Robert ;
or that, to use the idea common enough amongst
the lower Irish, he * strained after his namesake.'
Anyhow, whatever the cause, the result was quite
certain : Robert, the son of David, the son of Andrew,
after carefully considering the result of all his
parents' so early rising and so late taking rest, came
to the conclusion he would follow his uncle Robert's

example, and make London the richer and Scotland
the poorer by one leal man.

He did not, however, leave the paternal home in
like case, and with as little preparation.

He announced his intention, and was made somewhat
a hero of in consequence. He wrote to his
uncle when he might expect the felicity of seeing his
kinsman. The whole family prepared presents
wherewith to propitiate the Joseph who had gone
down into Egypt. One remembered how fond Eab
had been of this, and another how much ' Robert'
had thought of that. By some means a good-sized
hamper was filled, and the younger Robert instructed
how to produce these productions of fair Scotia by
degrees, so as to allow no single delicacy to pass
unnoticed  shortbread, mutton hams, hung beef,
Finnan ladies,' some excellent marmalade, splendid
currant jelly, cheese made from goats' milk, and
various other specialties which all the McCullagh
connection had contributed, to say nothing of some
prime whisky  got one night on board the Belfast
steamer at Greenock, and was carried away from the
banks of the Clyde for ever. Arran and Ails faded
from view, and Mr. Robert McCullagh, dreadfully
seasick, disappeared likewise, and was seen no more
till a wan semblance of himself appeared as the

Scotch steamer made lier way past Carrickfergus
Castle.

The young fellow, who was known and trusted in
his native town, carried commissions with him to
Belfast, Dublin, and London that more than recouped
all he had to spend on the roundabout sea-voyage
; and, so far, the advantage was with him
over his more adventurous relative.

On the other hand, he missed many an experience
his namesake found useful in his after life, and
arrived in London as ignorant and as prejudiced as
when he walked across the gangway from the quay
to the steamer's deck at Greenock.

If, in the course of events, it had so occurred
that his uncle could have given the raw young
Scotchman a start in life, his career had never been
chronicled in these pages.

He would have commenced his London experiences
under totally different auspices : been found a
desk, if not in his uncle's office, at least in the office
of some acquaintance, where he would have thought
himself lucky if he gained an advance of ten pounds
a year, and succeeded at thirty to the post and salary
of manager, or gained such a connection as would
enable him, with the help of what he might have

saved and a fair amount of credit, to start on his
own account.

This is most probably what would have occurred
had he found the person he expected ready to greet
his arrival in London. It is what happens to most
steady young men who come to the City to make
their fortune. They fall into a certain groove and
continue in it. The element of chance enters very
little into their subsequent success or failure ; men
travel through life when a beaten road is pointed out
for them to take ; they explore life when thrown on
their own resources in a strange place, without a
single soul to say, ' This is your way.'

Young McCullagh, when he arrived in London,
found himself in a very unknown region indeed, and
placed in a very difficult position ; he had calculated
upon his uncle's assistance, and behold his uncle
was dead. He had been buried four days before
Robert, arrayed in his best suit of clothes, the cut
of which could not be considered fashionable, walked
into the office in Tenets-hill and asked to see him.

I am afraid ye can't do that,' answered a middle-aged
man, in accents which struck home to Robert's
heart as broadly delightfully Scotch, ' for he's did.'
Robert staggered back.

Did !' he repeated next instant incredulously ;
ye're joking.'

'Deed I am not ; what for would I joke ? It is
not much of a joke to him, I'm a-thinking.'

From which remark it need not be inferred the
speaker felt any fear concerning his late principal's
position in the next world. All he meant was that
Mr. McCuUagh's standing in this had been so good,
it seemed a pity he was compelled to relinquish it.

Didn't ye know ?' went on the clerk, looking
with grave curiosity at Robert, who was, indeed,
thrown quite off his balance by the sudden check he
thus met. * Didn't ye know ?'

'Know! If I had known I wouldn't be here!'
retorted this latest importation from the Land o'
Cakes. * Know ! how should I know ? The last
letter we had from him he was well and like being
well.'

You were accent with him, then ?' this tentatively.


Accent *? no. I never set eyes on him in all
my life ; but he was my uncle.'

Ye don't mean that !'  the expression of incredulity
was natural if not complimentary.

I do, and that's why I came to London. 0,
why couldn't he have died before or after '?'

The young fellow's distress was very genuine.
It was the most genuine of all distress, indeed  that
which appertains to self.

Did ye think he'd give ye a berth ?' asked the
clerk.

Ay, or find me one.'

And what will ye do now ?'

I don't know ; go hang myself, maybe.'

I wouldn't do that yet,' advised the other. ' I'd
go first, I think, and see Mistress McCullagh.'

What like is she ?'

I never saw her to my knowledge; but no doubt
she could help ye.'

Who is keeping on this business ?' asked the
young man, instead of instantly profiting by his
friend's advice. ' Had he a partner ?'

Xo, nobody but his own self. Mr. Frickell,
who was his chief clerk, is managing the business.
He will keep things going till the sons get up a bit ;
but I wouldn't see him, if I was you ; he'd only have
to ask the mistress, and you may as well ask her
direct. It wouldn't be so easy for her to refuse you
as another.'

It was poor advice ; but as it seemed the best
he was likely to obtain, Robert McCullagh made his

way straight to Doughty-street, where his uncle,
when living, had resided.

How different the aspect of the streets from that
they had borne an hour previously ! Then, they
seemed paved with gold ; now, the young man felt
he had never trodden drearier frontier thoroughfares.

Arrived in Doughty-street, he found much difficulty
: first, in making the servant understand what
he wanted ; and second, in inducing her to convey
his message up-stairs ; but at length he succeeded sofar
in his endeavours as to find himself in a good-sized
apartment situate on the ground-floor, awaiting
his aunt's appearance.

After keeping him waiting for about ten minutes,
she appeared : a, to him, awful presence  a ' fashionable
madam,' he said afterwards, ' with her cap-strings
flying and her dress rustling, and her head
well up in the air ; and so full of conceit she scarce
seemed to like to think her feet touched the carpet.'

You wished to see me,' she said, in what he
mentally called her mincing English tongue ; ' you
sent your name in. I think, as  as Mr. Robert
McCullagh.'

That is right,' he answered. 'I am sore grieved
to hear of your husband's death. He was my uncle,
ye'll understand.'

The lady touched her eyes with a very fine pocket-handkerchief
; then running her fingers dreamily
round the stitched border she remarked, * He always
led me to understand he had some very poor relations.'


As to that  ' began the young fellow hotly ;
then he stopped, feeling discretion might, in this
case, be the better part of valour. ' Your husband
was poor himself when he came to London,' he went
on, after a moment's pause, * and he never forgot
those he left poor behind him. If he had lived, I
am very sure he would have given me a helping
hand to make my way too ; and so I venture to ask
if ye will be so good as to write a word to your
manager and bid him find me something to do, no
matter how small, I don't care what it is, till I can
turn myself round a bit. I'll carry out parcels or
sweep the office.'

She crossed her soft white hands one over the
other, and surveyed them complacently ere she answered,


That would not do at all.'

Then what will do ?' he asked, all in a hurry.
I'll not stand nice, whatever you bid me turn to.
I'll try my hardest to pleasure ye.'

You see,' she said, not answering his question

direct, but still caressing those fair false hands, ' I
have my children to consider.'

The Lord forbid I should prevent your doing
that !' he exclaimed, with fervour.

And I am afraid it would be a sad drawback to
them hereafter if people knew their father had such
sadly necessitous relations.' 

There was that in her tone which aroused all
Robert's resentment.

We're willing to work for what we eat, ma'am,'
he said a little hotly.

Yes, but don't you see  ' she began, and then
paused and hesitated. ' I am afraid,' she continued
sweetly, ' I can scarcely explain what I mean without
hurting your feelings.'

Don't mind my feelings a hair,' said Robert
energetically.

Your goodness makes it all the harder for me
to say that I really am afraid I cannot do much to
help you. I could not possibly have you at the
office ; you see you stand now where my husband
began, and his children where he left off. They are
in the rank he raised himself to, and you are in the
rank he rose from.'

And do ye think, mem, I couldn't raise myself

too?' in a gradual crescendo, delivered in forcible
Scotch.

'I hope and trust you will,' was the reply; 'but
I would rather it was not near us. I am afraid I
must seem somewhat unkind ; but as for giving jon
a situation in the office where my sons will one day
be principals, it's a thing not to be thought of. My
poor husband was always anxious for his children to
rise in the world (he thought a great deal of the
world, Mr. Robert ; though a truly religious man he
attached great weight to its opinions and prejudices),
and I really could not, now he is no longer here,
run counter to what I know were his cherished convictions;'
and Mrs. McCullagh, having with Spartan
firmness given expression to this resolve, put her
handkerchief to her eyes and wept a little.

Robert looked at her with a feeling of impotent
aversion he was at no pains to conceal.

'I'm very certain, mem,' he said, 'that your
poor husband, as ye call him, would never have
wished ye to put a slight on one of the stock he
sprang from; but, however, that is all past and gone.
There's no use talking about last year's snow, or
about help from a man who is lying in his grave ;
so here's wishing ye good-morning, mem ;' and the
speaker made a step towards the door.

She Lad not hoped to get rid of him so easily.
She had dreaded remonstrances and importunities,
reproaches and all the disagreeable items which makeup,
as a rule, the adjuncts of a regular scene. She
ought accordingly to have felt relieved and thankful;
and yet there was something in the young man's
face and manner which caused her to fear his silence
more than another's wrath.

'I am sure,' she began, rising, but making no
gesture of farewell, ' I sympathise with you most
truly. I can understand how bitterly disappointed
you must feel. You will admit yourself hereafter, I
think, it was a wild-goose chase coming to London ;
but that does not make your position any less hard
now. You will want money to return home. Most
likely you depended upon receiving some pecuniary
assistance from your uncle ; you must allow me to
help you. As you may imagine, I have been put to
heavy expenses of late ; but so far as ten pounds go,
I can manage. Will ten pounds be enough ?' she
added, looking with a certain fascination at the inscrutable
smile his lips wore.

 Thank ye,' he said ; ' ten pounds will be more
than enough.'

*You are quite welcome to that,' she answered,

relieved ; and drawing out her purse she laid down
ten golden guineas on the table-cover.

Robert watched her in silence, looking sometimes
at the money, as she placed one piece beside another,
then at her handsome face, again considering
her white hands and taper fingers.

You are sure that will be sufficient ?' she said
questioningly.

Sure and certain,' he replied, stretching out his
hand, which was hard and brown, and showed evidence
of the work it had already done, and pushing
the gold across to where she stood. ' Take back
your money, mem, and much good may it do ye. I
am not a beggar, and I am not going back to my
own country; and maybe some day ye'll meet me
where ye would rather not, and remember ye refused
me what I asked when ye may wish to forget it.'

Having delivered himself of which astounding
sentence, Robert walked out of the room, opened
the hall-door for himself, and found himself in the
street.

The whole world of London was before him, yet
he decided to retrace his steps to St. Tenets-hill.

Well, did ye see her ?' asked his countryman.

0, ay, I saw her right enough,' he answered.

And what is she going to do for ye ?' inquired

VOL. I. D

the other, who certainly expected Mr. McCullagh's
nephew had come back to take possession of a stool
in the office which chanced at that moment to be
vacant.

Nothing,' was the explicit answer.

Nothing !' repeated the listener.

Just that,' agreed Robert.

'Why, what reason did she give? didn't she
believe ye were his nephew ?'

No fear of that ; she believed it true enough,
but she wants none of his kith or kin coming after
her.'

No ?' this interrogatively, and without committing
the speaker to any opinion with respect to Mrs.
McCullagh's wishes.

She's a wonderful woman,' went on the young
man. * She has crape on her dress a yard deep, but
I misdoubt me if she has a bit of grief in her heart.
She made believe to cry once or twice, but she was
not able to wring out a tear.'

She's left sole executrix,' said the other mysteriously.


I am not surprised. I deemed as much,' was
the answer.

And what do ye think ye'll do now ?' asked the
clerk.

I don't know  I can't tell. Man ! it takes
more nor an hour or two to get over a shock of this
sort.'

That's true. Ye'll maybe be considering about
going back again.'

Do ye mean home to Scotland ? No, I'm just
as well here ;' wherein Mr. McCullagh conveyed, perhaps
unintentionally, the reason why so few Scotch
youths ever do retrace their steps northward.

I won't say ye're wrong,' remarked the other.

No, I'm right ; there's work of a certainty to be
found in a big town like this.'

Kj, but the trouble's to find it.'

She wanted me to go back. She counted down
ten golden guineas for the purpose.'

'Did she, now!'

'And I told her to keep her money, that I
wanted none of it.'

Man, wasn't that foolish ?' exclaimed the clerk.

Well, I'll admit it maybe wasn't over-wise,'
conceded Robert, ' but she angered me. I felt just
beside myself with rage.'

It's aye best to keep cool,' said the other ; ' see
now, if we'd kept cool ye might have been ten
guineas the richer, and I dare believe ye're not overburdened
with money.'

I could do with more,' answered Robert
dryly.

Well, I am afraid I can't stand talking to ye any
longer,' remarked his countryman. ' Mr. Frickell
oughtn't like it. But if ye think I can help ye
with advice, or speaking a word, I shall be going out
to my dinner in about half an hour, and ye might
wait for me at the tavern round the corner in
Thames-street.'

Thank you, I'll do that,' said the future merchant
; ' and maybe ye could put me in the way of
finding a decent lodging.'

No doubt I might,' was the answer ; and so
they parted.

When they met again, which they did duly and
truly at the expiration of half an hour, Mr. Anderson
 such being the name of the late Mr. McCul-
laugh's clerk  told the young man he could recommend
him to a very decent house, where, if the
lodgings did not chance to be vacant, he would certainly
be directed to some that were.

Over a glass of toddy, compounded in haste and
swallowed with precipitation, the pair cemented -a
friendship which it is only right to say remained
unimpaired through years ; and Mr. Anderson said
he would just turn the matter over in his mind, and

consider whether he could not send his master's
nephew to some one likely to give * him employ.'

Ye say ye don't mind what ye do,' he remarked.

*Not a bit, except stand idle,' was the ready
answer.

Weel, weel, just content yourself for a day or
two, and I'll see what can be done. Only mind,
don't come near our office. Now the mistress is
set against ye it might be worth my place to be seen
talking to ye.'

The young fellow nodded. ' I'll no bring ye
into trouble,' he answered reassuringly.

Mr. Anderson proved much better than his word.
The very next day Robert received intelligence that
a certain Mr. Chaffed, who had sensibly abbreviated
his name to Haffey, could find something for
him to do till he had time to ' look round;' and the
young fellow accordingly found himself the same
afternoon seated at a desk in a wholesale potato
warehouse situate in Tooley-street, where his duties,
though constant, were not so onerous as to preclude
his devoting a considerable amount of thought as to
how he was to push himself on in the world. It
was then chance directed his future steps into the
Scotch trade.' No need to state that of the various
delicacies he brought to London as propitiatory gifts

for this uncle, Mrs. McCullagli never beheld even a
pot of marmalade. All the store which would keep
he kept, giving the more perishable articles, such as
Finnan ladies,' to Mr. Anderson. Far too careful
to consume luxuries of any sort himself, he
found as time went on that he could * place' most of
his good things advantageously as presents.

He lost nothing by it,' to use his own expression
; he found the English generous, and a well-bestowed
mutton ham or paper of  sweeties' returned
him many and many a time admirable interest.

Little by little he planted his stock out, without
any idea of ultimate profit except that which might
accrue in the way of social intercourse or business
friendship from such small offerings ; but after a
time, to his astonishment, he began to be asked to
procure further supplies of articles so exceptionally
excellent.

He had not dreamt of any such result ; but when
he saw fruit so soon ripening where he had dropped
his little presents into the ground, he began to ask
himself whether here might not be an opening; whether
in this way, and without interfering in the least
with his present occupation, he could not commence
to turn an honest penny. At the end of his cogitations
he wrote down to his father :

I think I could *' do a wee" if I had some of
these things in London to sell. All I brought up
was weel liked, and the people I gave them to would
cheerfully pay for more. When Duncan Stewart
comes to London I wish ye could put up a hamper
and let him bring it. If ye can't lie out of the silver
I will manage to scrape enough together and send it
down.'

Mr. McCullagh senior did manage to ' lie out o'
the silver,' and ere long his son returned the money,
accompanied by an order for a further supply of
goods, which were this time to be despatched by sea.
I believe there is something to be done,' wrote the
young man ; and when his father read the letter, he
said, ' If there is anything to be done he'll do it ;'
while his mother observed, ' She had always been
very sure Eabbie would light on his feet.'

Little by little, month by month, year by year,
the business grew and flourished. Those were not
the days, remember, reader, when housewives
thought it was cheaper to buy preserves than to
make them, and when they believed raspberry and
currant jams could be obtained just as genuine from
the nearest oilman as out of their copper pans.
Bought articles had then to be pure and excellent to
stand the test of domestic competition. Women at

that remote period knew how to do many things
which bid fair ere long to be reckoned amongst the
lost arts ; they could spice beef, and make pickles,
and manufacture cheese-cakes ; and therefore goods
turned out wholesale had to be very good indeed
to bear comparison with those produced at
home.

Now everything Mr. McCullagh sold was of the
very best quality, and his fame and his connection
gradually swelled, till he felt himself justified in
giving Mr. Haifey notice and taking a little cellar in
Wormwood-street.

It's an awful risk,' he said to Mr. Anderson,
referring to the rent, which was ten pounds sterling
a year ; * but I believe I can make it off. I'll try
my hardest, at any rate.'

"Mien a man tries his hardest he generally succeeds,
and Mr. Robert McCullagh succeeded.
Through his father, who, though a poor man, was
well known as an honest one, he first got a certain
amount of credit from a large wholesale house ; that
house was his reference when in turn he wanted to
deal with another in a somewhat different line of
business. How his trade grew he could scarcely
have told ; but it did grow, and ere he had been six
years in London he found himself in a position to

negotiate for the house in Basinghall-street and take
a wife.

They were two momentous steps to venture upon
in the course of a single twelvemonth, hut Robert
McCullagh did not lack courage. If the wife did
not turn out so good an investment as the ' house it
was scarcely his fault. A business can be entered
upon by degrees  not so marriage ; a man can get
rid of a business  he cannot get rid of a wife ; he
can mould and shape his trade  he who can mould
and shape a wife must be clever indeed.

In his after life Mr. McCullagh never voluntarily
referred to the period when there was a Mistress
McCullagh. Wisely, perhaps, he permitted that
part of his experience to lapse. The matrimonial
venture did not on the whole prove a success, and
the wife wisely and considerately resolved the distasteful
partnership in the best way possible  she
died.

But before she died she left behind some very
tangible proofs of her existence in the shape of four
healthy boys. In her husband's memory she left
marks, perhaps even more traceable.

For the marriage proved most unhappy : not as
marriages do in the modern sense, in an era when
men and women can slip off the yoke as easily as a

loose garment, but in a perhaps more unpleasant,
though less public, manner.

How irksome he had felt her companionship, or
rather want of companionship, he scarcely realised
till he was relieved of it for ever. She, on the contrary,
understood perfectly well how totally uncongenial
she found him, and, as is the manner of some
wives, she took the whole of her own little world
into her confidence on the subject of his shortcomings.


And yet in no one essential point could Mr.
McCullagh be considered a bad husband. He did
not starve his wife or beat her, he did not drink, he
did not give her even a pretext for jealousy ; according
to his lights he was just, and on occasion could
be generous ; but still, as she said, ' his ways broke
her heart;' and those who knew her best always
believed she died as much from inability to bend his
will as from disease.

When he first met her at the house of a mutual
acquaintance she was a young silly girl, the only
child of a small builder, reported to be worth some
money; perfectly destitute of mental resources 
possessed of a pretty face, a slight graceful figure, a
fluent tongue, an incessant laugh, high spirits, and
a love of dress.

Mr. McCullagh said she was a ' bonnie lass' and
had ' nice eyes of her own,' but whether he had ever
quite forgotten a certain other * lassie' left behind in
Scotland, who was as unlike Annie Mostin as weare
led to believe North Creina was unlike Lesbia,
is, to say the least of the matter, doubtful.

What could be considered by no means doubtful,
however, is that he liked the notion of her money.
He wanted a housekeeper, and he desired a home ;
he wished to have ' his meals regular.' It struck
him that a wife, more especially one who did not
come with her hand empty, might enable him to
secure all these advantages upon very easy terms.
Then certainly she was pretty ; if she did not chance
to be quite the style he most admired, it would have
been hard for any man to look upon her face without
favour. Further, she liked him ; perhaps because
he was different from all the men she had
previously come in contact with ; perhaps also because
he took less notice of her. Add to these
reasons that they were both young, that the lady, at
whose house they often met, was an enthusiastic
match-maker, that Mr. Mostin's worldly and social
position was much above that of the young Scotch
plodder, and it may easily be imagined Robert
McCullagh soon began to weigh the pros and cons

of 'telling her his mind,' and ere long decided the
beam inclined to matrimony.

I'll just marry her,' he said to himself; and as
neither Miss Mostin nor her father threw any obstacle
in his way, he did marry her, and repented
doing so every after hour of his wedded life.

It never occurred to him that when she became a
wife she would not ' settle down.' He had been wont
to regard her flighty ways, her foolish laughter, her
silly talk, just as a horse dealer might view the antics
of a colt.

You'll soon get out of all that,' he considered,
regarding her and her girlish companions with grim
disapproval. 'It is a wonder to see young women
of their age getting on like children.' But after
marriage Mrs. McCullagh did not get out of it ; she
never got out of it : she was a silly girl, a silly wife,
a silly mother.

I have seen wee lassies of six years old that had
more sense,' he told her often; to which Mrs.
McCullagh would answer, * Wee indeed !' in a tone of
scathing irony.

Ridicule was the only weapon at her command,
and she used it unsparingly.

Under her utterances Mr. McCullagh often

writhed, but the principal feeling her mimicry
excited was hatred.

When * courting ' he had been wont to expatiate
upon the superiority of his native tongue, and to
give the young lady examples from the poetry of
Burns, Motherwell, Allan Ramsay, and other writers,
of the power inherent in * braid Scotch' to express
love, regret, anger, and enthusiasm.

While landing her fish. Miss Mostin, was quite
ready to believe ' love' to be superior to * love,'
'greet' to 'cry,' 'leal' to 'loyal,' and 'bairn' to
child ;' but when once she found herself bound for
the term of her natural life to her husband's vernacular,
a change came o'er the spirit of her dream,
and she never employed a Scottish phrase save to
make fun of it.

To Mr. McCullagh  who believed in his native
land as he believed in his Bible ; who regarded the
English tongue' as effeminate and inexpressive ;
her foolish ridicule, her most ill-advised mockery
proved intensely galling. He could, perhaps, have
pardoned her a sin, but he could not forgive the
slights she put on himself and his country.

And the worst of it was, he could not speak without
giving her a handle, which she was generally
swift to use. In all their domestic disagreements 

which were many, and in which she invariably came
of worsted  both argument and rebuke were ended
by some absurd mimicry of his way of speaking.
She was not a good mimic either, which made it all
the harder to bear.

I never did lift my hand against a woman, but I
feel often sorely tempted,' he declared once, in a
moment of exasperation.

Those who knew the McCullaghs well always
declared that the first quarrel occurred over their
first tete-a-tt'te breakfast in the honeymoon, and that
the cause of it was a piece of toast.

They were on a journey which it was hoped
would combine business and pleasure, and at the
hotel where they stopped a round of buttered toast
was brought up in a covered dish.

Isn't that like an inn ?' said Mrs. McCuUagh,
the moment the waiter left the room, turning over
the toast as she spoke.

Mr. McCullagh did not answer : he had not the
faintest idea what she meant, and did not like to
confess his ignorance ; so dropped his eyes again on
the paper, which had made its appearance with breakfast,
and remained silent.

Happening to look up again in a minute, he saw
his wife buttering the toast.

What are ye coin' ?' he asked ; ' sure, the toast
was buttered.'

Only on one side she replied gaily.

'Put down the knife!' he cried, 'put down the
knife ! Lord's sake, are ye out of yer senses ?
Most folk are glad enough to have their bread
buttered on one side, without wanting it on both. I
never heard tell of such a thing ! Ye won't have
your toast buttered on both sides by me, I can
warrant ye that ! '

Nor had she. In some shape or form she was
always trying to get her toast buttered on both sides ;
but Mr. McCullagh would not permit her one single
luxury of which he disapproved. Their whole
married life was a long struggle on her part and
a stern repression on his.

The one social weapon she at first possessed in
the shape of her father's position, and the yearly
amount he allowed her, soon snapped in her hands.
Her father failed. He had long been in difficulties,
unsuspected by the outer world, but well understood
by himself; and at last he was obliged to appeal for
assistance to his son-in-law.

He sent for him one morning, and standing in
the middle of his yard, filled with building materials,

surrounded by many outward and visible signs of
prosperity, he said,

I am very sorry to tell you, Robert, that if
I cannot get some assistance I shall have to
stop.'

Ay, indeed,' said Robert coolly, though really
he felt almost stricken dumb ; ' I am grieved to
hear it.'

Yes, it is a bad job ; and it is a pity too for a
business like this to go to pieces.'

It is that,' agreed his son-in-law.

If I had a thousand pounds, if I had five
hundred of ready cash, I could carry on.'

Could ye, now ?'

Yes ; I have contracts in hand that would soon
enable me to turn myself round.'

Wouldn't your bankers help ye ?'

They would help me, if I could give them any
sort of security.'

Well, surely ye ought to have no difficulty about
that, and you so well known.'

Yes ; but don't you see, if I go about amongst
my friends asking for help, it will be thought my
affairs have got embarrassed.*

They are embarrassed, though, aren't they T
said his son-in-law simply.

Of course ; nevertheless, there is no need to tell
that to everybody.'

No, not unless ye think the body ye tell can
help ye.'

*I don't know anybody I think can help me
except yourself.'

And I am very sure I don't see howI can do
that ; ye don't suppose I have five hundred pounds
or five hundred pence lying idle ?'

No, but you might join me in getting what I
want ; my bankers will advance what I need if I
take them a good name on a bill ;' here the speaker
paused, and looked at Mr. McCullagh, who did not
answer a word, but stood looking intently at a
chimney-pot waiting removal.

It would not take a sixpence out of your pocket,'
went on Mr. Mostin eagerly ; ' and it would enable
me to turn a very ugly corner. Come into the office,
and I'll show you the contracts I spoke of, and then
you can see for yourself; come ;' and he laid a persuasive
hand on his son-in-law's arm.

'No, I don't think I'll go in,' said the other
slowly, at the same time quietly releasing himself
from Mr. Mostin's grasp. * I am very sorry, on
every account, to hear what ye say ; but it is no in
my power to help ye. I couldn't do what ye want,'

VOL. I. B

he added, seeing Mr. Mostin about to speak ; ' and
I hope ye won't press me, because now ye are in
trouble I don't want to say anything to hurt you. I
am a young beginner, and I have got a wife, and I
have got a child, and it would not be right for me
to do anything of the sort.'

But you would never be called upon for a penny,'
urged his father-in-law.

That's just as it might be ; at any rate, I'll not
run the risk. I'd never have a night's sound rest
till the bill came due ; and maybe I'd never have a
sound night's rest after. I'm real vexed to have to
refuse ye; but I couldn't do it, I could not indeed.'

In which determination Mr. McCuUagh evinced
his usual excellent judgment ; for when Mr. Mostin's
affairs came to be wound up, or rather unwound, it
was proved conclusively that eight times five hundred
pounds would not have enabled him to surmount his
difficulties, and that the builder himself least, of all
persons interested in the matter, understood how he
was situated.

Mrs. McCullagh, however, always chose to believe
her husband could have ' saved her father ' had
he pleased to do so ; and his conduct on this occasion
alienated the ill-matched couple, if possible, further
from each other.

Mr. Mostin's bankruptcy had also this further
evil effect : it enabled Mr. McCuUagh, whenever his
wife, jeering at his circumscribed ideas and parsimonious
ways, pointed her sentence with the remark,
'We never thought of such-things at home,' ' I was
not brought up to consider cheese-parings,' or, *I
would not have married if I had known I was to be
nothing better than a household drudge,' to say,

Maybe if ye had thought a bit more of such
things at home it might have been better for ye ;'
or, 'It's a pity ye had not been brought up in a
different manner;' or, ' If ye had not been married
ye would have been forced now to turn out and earn
your own bread;' all statements with which, on the
score of veracity, no exception could be found, but
which were exceedingly hard to bear notwithstanding.


For his father-in-law, Mr. McCullagh, when the
worst came, showed a consideration which could
scarcely have been expected from him. He said,
when the messenger entered into possession of the
yard and house and offices and furniture,

Ye had better come round and take a bed with
us. There's room enough, and ye're welcome to
share what's going ; and if ye would like to employ
yourself I can find ye some writing, and pay yester



IINtVFDCITV np

or fifteen shillings a week till ye are out of your
trouble;' an osier Mr. Mostin declined with many
thanks, and which his daughter construed into a
desire, on her husband's part, to insult the family.

Maybe it was an insult to offer a man board and
lodging and wages,' agreed Mr. McCullagh ; ' but I
did not intend it as an affront, and I don't think
your father took it as such.'

The years went by, passed in perpetual bickering,
till at last Mrs. McCullagh fell into a bad state of
health, and drooped slowly out of life.

She was ill for a considerable time  eighteen
months and more  and it was whilst she faded away
that Mr. McCullagh wrote for the presence and
assistance of his kinswomen, Miss Nicol.

All in vain Mrs. McCullagh said she would not
remain in the house if a ' strange woman' were set in
authority over it. Mr. McCullagh asked where she
meant to go, and whether she really thought he
would permit the house to go to wreck and ruin, and
the children to run wild, so long as there was anybody
to be found who would keep ' things together .

You'll marry her, I suppose, when I'm dead,'
wept Mrs. McCullagh.

Her husband looked at her with a singular expression,
and answered, with caustic irony.

I think I'll no do that. I have had about
enough of marriage to last me my lifetime.'

You never liked me,' whimpered Mrs. McCullagh
weakly.

I liked ye well enough,' answered her husband,
and I'd have liked ye better if ye had had any
sense or could have learned any ; but there's no use
talking about that now,' added Mr. McCullagh
hurriedly, and not without a touch of feeling in his
voice, 'no use at all.'

No,' she agreed, ' it is of no use talking about
anything now ; it is too late;' and she turned her
head aside to hide the tears he knew were falling.

I wouldn't do that, Annie,' said Mr. McCullagh,
drawing the shawl which had fallen from his wife's
shoulders around her with more tenderness than
might have been expected. * Ye'll only hurt yourself.'


But she wept on bitterly. Perhaps at the moment
she was thinking if she had only understood something
of the virtue of silence that first morning when
she wanted her toast buttered on both sides, life
might have proved happier than she had found it !

FATHER AND SON.

*Now then,' said Mr. McCuUagh, when he and his
first-born were safely shut in the ground-floor room,
which Robert too well remembered as the place
where many a pitched battle between his mother and
father was fought, and lost by the former, ' what is
this weighty matter that can only be told with closed
doors ?'

There was a sneer both of contempt and irritability
in Mr. McCullagh's tone; but the young
man replied, with an assumption of careless jocularity
he was far from feeling,

I thought mine would be great news till I found
Kenneth had taken the wind out of my sails.'

Well, whatever it may be, tell me at once, that
is if ye think fit.'

I came here for no other purpose, father,' was
the answer ; ' but I confess I do not care to talk
about my private affairs, more especially affairs
that are still doubtful, before Miss Nicol and Effie.'

'Ye might talk before two worse people,' remarked
Mr. McCullagh dryly.

Very likely ; but I do not see the necessity of
talking before any one. If the slightest chatter came
round to Mr. Pousnett's ears it might spoil all my
chances.'

Pousnett has to do with the matter, I suppose,'
surmised the Scotch merchant.

Yes ; he has offered me a partnership.'

Offered  you  a partnership !' repeated Mr.
McCullagh. 'Well, you do astonish me!' and he
looked his astonishment. * It's no credible,' and he
sat silent a moment, whether stricken dumb by the
consideration of his son's good fortune or Mr. Pous-
nett's folly did not transpire.

*I felt incredulous at first,' said Robert, thinking
to follow up the advantage he fancied he had
gained.

I don't wonder at that,' said his father.

*But it is coupled,' went on the young man,
with a condition.'

There's a conception, is there ?' commented
Mr. McCullagh.

Yes, and one perhaps you may not like just at
the first.'

I can't judge of that till you tell me what it is.'

He makes it a sine qua non for me to bring in
seven thousand pounds.'

Ay indeed.'

He wanted ten thousand, but finally consented
to take seven.*

It's an awful lot o' silver.'

Of course, seven or even ten is nothing to such
a firm, but he requires a certain amount to be invested
so as to bind my interests and those of the
house together. I told him I could do nothing till
I talked the matter over with you, so he has given mea
fortnight in which to make up my mind.'

Well, and what d'ye think ye'll do ?'

That depends almost, if not entirely, on you,
sir.'

On 'me ! How can I have any say in the
matter?'

Of course, unless you can help me to the
money  '

Help ye ! For piety's sake speak out, man. Ye
don't suppose I have seven thousand pounds lying
idle iu my breeches-pocket !'

No, certainly ; but your name is good for seven
times seven thousand, or for more even than that,
and I am sure Mr. Pousnett would take your security
for the amount with pleasure.'

And I'm sure that is very good of him,' said
Mr. McCullagh ; but whether he spoke in jest or
earnest no man who had not known him well could
have told.

I can live on little proceeded Robert, * and I
would not touch a penny of my share of the profits
beyond the merest trifle till you were paid back.'

No doubt,' commented his father.

And it is such a splendid opening,' went on his
son.

If ye think so I hope ye'll be able to avail yourself
of it.'

I shall not without your help, sir.'

Putting this remark judiciously on one side by
the simple process of ignoring it altogether, Mr.
McCullagh observed,

How does it chance Pousnetts' firm wants another
partner ? I thought ye had enough and to spare of
able-bodied and strong-minded men there already ?'

Well, the fact is  you won't mention this, will
you?'

 No, I'll mention nothing ye want kept hid.
What is the fact ?'

There is going to be a split in Pousnetts' firm.'

Ye don't say so !' exclaimed Mr. McCullagh, his
attention and curiosity fully aroused.

It is quite true ; Mr. Pousnett told me himself.
Mr. Giles is going to start altogether on his own
account at Liverpool. Mr. Linton means to proceed
to Bombay and establish a business something of the
same sort there. Mr. Hume Pousnett sails early
in the year to open a branch at Melbourne, and
his brother, young Mr. Stanley, takes his place
here.'

Lord bless and save us !' ejaculated Mr. McCul-
laugh. ' It is like a vairse out of one of the chronological
chapters in the Scriptures.'

So you see, sir, the house could not do without
taking in one partner, to say the least of it.'

I should have thought,' said Mr. McCuUagh, ashe
spoke producing his snuiBf-box and taking thereout
a pinch which he held suspended between his finger
and thumb till he had finished his sentence,  ' 1
should have thought Pousnetts might have had their
pick and choice of the best in London.'

So they might, so they might,' interrupted
Robert eagerly.

And what puzzles me,' comforting his nostrils
with that deferred pinch, 'is icJiy they would take
you /'

There was nothing remarkable in his words, but
the tone in which Mr. McCullagh spoke italicised

every one of them. It implied, 'Here is a poor,
weak, vain, useless creature; what can a big firm
like that want with a brainless idiot I would not give
a pound a week to for entering goods in the day-book
r

You see I know all the ins and outs of the business,'
remarked Robert deprecatingly.

Well, there's something in that,' conceded his
father.

And I do think Mr. Pousnett has a regard forme.'


'There's no telling,' said Mr. McCullagh, in a
manner that suggested, however incredible the statement
seemed to him, he did not desire to contradict
it as impossible.

He has always taken more notice of me than of
anybody else about the office.'

I make no doubt you have done your best for
him,' was the reply.

Indeed, I have ; I felt it both a pleasure and an
honour to work for such a perfect gentleman. Why,
there are fellows I know in the City ready to knock
me down for envy, many a time, when they see me so
much thought of!'

'I always said it was very wonderful,' observed
Mr. McCullagh.

And now to think of my being offered a partnership
 why, men who have been fifty years on 'Change
would jump at such a chance !'

If it had been offered to one of them, I should
not have been as much surprised.'

And yet you see he passes over them and comes
to me.'

That is the puzzle of it,' observed Mr. McCul-
laugh.

I know you would not offer me a partnership,
father,' said his son, a little bitterly.

'I'd offer one to no man,' was the answer. * So
long as there are clerks to be had for a weekly wage,
I'll content myself, and try to carry on my business
single-handed.'

I won't say but you are right,' said Robert
reflectively.

Ye needn't, because I know I am right. What
I have, I have made for myself; what I own, I'll
keep for myself.'

They were getting very wide now of the real matter
in hand, so wide that Robert felt they were
drifting out to sea altogether, and he therefore ventured
to recall his father to Mr. Pousnett's offer, by
asking,

What do you say to it, sir ?'

What do I say to what ?' returned Mr. McCul-
laugh sharply.

To this proposal to become a partner.'
I say it sounds to me much like a suggestion as
to whether you would like to go to the moon, or take
unto yourself wings and flee across the Atlantic.
The one thing is just as feasible as the other. In
the name of common sense, where would you get
seven thousand pounds to run the chance of profit
and loss in any house ?'

It's mostly profit in our house, father.'
Granted ; we'll grant Pousnetts' is an exception
to most rules ; that is, there is not a particle of
risk in the matter. Where are you to get seven
thousand pounds, or seven hundred, for the matter
of that ?'

'Nowhere, sir, unless you will give a helping
hand,' said Robert sticking to his previous text.
Me ! Do you think I am out of my mind f
No, I do not ; but as this is a chance which
may never offer again  '

That is what every man says who comes a-
begging,' observed Mr. McCullagh. * I mean no
offence to you,' he added, seeing his son wince and
colour. * I spoke in general terms. Whenever a man
wants credit, or a loan, or a reference, or anything

you don't feel well inclined to give him, lie says such a
chance cannot come his way any more. The minute
I hear that phrase, that minute I put up my purse.
You'll have plenty more chances, Robert. I am
older than you; and ye may take my word, the
openings that seem the most likely are those
which, as a rule, take a man straight to the Court at
the bottom of this street, and leave him there.'

Yet you seem to think well of the opening which
has come to Kenneth,' ventured Kenneth's brother.

That's a horse of quite another colour,' answered
Mr. McCullagh ; * just as Kenneth himself is
quite another sort from you. To a certain extent, I
can see the why and the because of his good fortune ;
but I can't make head or tail of Pousnetts' wanting
you, and seven thousand pounds in your hand. It
beats me, Robert. Most times I can see daylight ;
but now I confess I am lost  I can't discern even my
hand before me.'

I thought you would be glad and proud, father,'
remonstrated the young man, mortified ; ' but there,
I might have known how it would be : you never
thought anything of my mother, and you'll never
think anything of me, because I am like her, and I
can't take to Scotch ways or Scotch people.'

We'll let your mother rest, if you please,

Robert; and as to your mislike of your father's
country, and your father's country-people, that I consider
more your misfortune than your fault. If a
colt is not properly trained he will aye be running
over to the wrong side of the road ; and it is the
same with a lad. If he is brought up to hear nothing
but folly and nonsense when he is a child, he
will never be worth much all his life long.'

Say what you please against me, sir ; but do
not, even by implication, speak against your dead
wife. I know what she had to bear ; I know how
you broke her heart  '

*Just bide a wee,' interposed Mr. McCullagh,
'and don't, in your temper, speak words you may
wish tomorrow you had never spoken. One story
is good till another is told. There is not a judge in
the land would give his opinion till he had heard the
defendant's case. As we have somehow got upon
the subject  sorely against my will  I'U tell ye this :
that there never was a husband willing to do more
for his wife than I for your mother. If she spoke
the truth on her dying bed, she could not say I ever
was aught but good to her. She tried me sore, I
won't deny that ; and I would not let her ruin me ;
if she had had her way we'd have been begging our
bread within a year of our marriage. I never

thought to say this much to ye ; but when ye imply
I am unfair to you because your mother was unfair
to me, I can hold my peace no longer. Ye know,
Robert, the beginning and end why we have never
just agreed. Ye know ye have always and ever set
yourself up against me. When ye were quite a
small child  '

sir, don't let us talk of that now !'

I must talk of it, Robert, for ye began the fray.
Ye remember what ye were brought up to think of
your father, who should have been first in your
thoughts. I say that seriously. A child may love
his mother most, but his mother should teach him
to respect his father. The man should be head of
his own household.'

Is it necessary, father, for us to go over all that
old ground ?' asked his son.

Yes ; for the reason you and I have never
travelled it before. Always and ever there has been
a hidden reference to some wrong your mother
suffered at my hands; and God knows the only
wrong I ever did her was saying, '' Will ye be my
wife?" We were not suited, Robert. Her ways
were not mine, or mine hers ; and yet, do ye know,*
said Mr. McCullagh, with a dash of poetry and sentiment
which seemed quite foreign to his nature, ' if

she had been a bit gentle and lamb-like, if she had
not angered me with her senseless mocking wanderings,
I think I might have been a different person.
I have seen women just fit to make of a man what
they liked. Your mother, Robert, did not see fit to
make anything of me.'

I would rather not speak of her,' his son said
stiffly.

It was you introduced her name. Just when
your mother and I were at what I may call our
worst, I heard one man say to his fellow, "Why do
you thrash that poor brute of a horse as you do ? It
makes me sick to see you." And the other made
answer, " Because he is the greatest devil ever drew
breath." " That's your version of it," said the
first. " I should like to hear the horse's side of the
story'' Now that is what I mean : there was another
side to the story, and that was mine. I refused
many of her wishes just for the same reason I refuse
your demand for seven thousand pounds,  because
there was no reason in them.'

But surely, sir, you can see some reason in my
desire to obtain a partnership in Pousnetts' '?'

And pay seven thousand pounds for the privilege
?'

Seven thousand pounds seems nothing to them.'

VOL. I. p

Do you know what I started with ?'

A very small sum, I believe, sir.'

Something like seven shillings, Robert, when I
first found myself adrift in your big world of London.*

But the times were different then.'

I think they were a trifle harder.'

You will acknowledge that a man who has to
make his way with a good coat on his back must
fight a harder battle than the man who wages the
battle of life in his shirt-sleeves.'

Perhaps so ; but my coat was good enough, and
I did not insult my first employer by entering his
office in my shirt-sleeves.'

There was silence for a minute ; then the younger
man said desperately,

To put it in plain words, sir, will you help mein
this matter ?'

To put it in plain words,' answered Mr. McCul-
laugh, * I don't see how I can.'

Of course I did not mean exactly in money ;'
this with all his feelers out.

How then ?' this doggedly.

Why, your name, sir, would be quite sufficient.'
Don't ye know,' asked Mr. McCullagh, ' that

in my business I never give nor take a bill ? You
may sneer,' for indeed at that moment Robert did

uplift nose and chin with a significant gesture ; * but
my notion is that bills are the Satan of trade. They
lure a man to destruction. He promises to pay,
say, wool three months after date. How, on the
face of God Almighty's earth, can a man promise to
pay anything three months hence! To-day is his,
but tomorrow is not.'

Then, sir, you would stop all trade.'

No, I'd stop all illegitimate trade. What I
said at first to my folks was this, " I'll pay ye when
I can ;" and I did. There was no call for me to lie
awake at nights thinking the fourth of the month
was coming close ; and the plan I adopted then I
stick to now. Since I began no one has lost a
sixpence by me, and I have not lost much myself.'

Then, to cut this matter of mine short,' said
Robert impatiently, ' you distinctly refuse to help mein
any way ?'

*I distinctly refuse to help you in this way,'
answered his father in his broadest Scotch accent,
which always grew painfully pronounced when he
was very much in earnest. ' Knowing my principles,
I really wonder at your coming to me on such
an errand.'

So do I  now,' muttered his son.

Ye haven't asked me for my opinion,' went on

Mr. McCullagli, his shrewd face looking shrewder
and thinner than ever by the dim light of that
solitary candle ; ' but I'll give it ye, because I could
not just reconcile it to my conscience to refrain from
telling ye how this offer strikes me. As ye very
truly say, seven thousand pounds is nothing, or
should be nothing, to a firm like Pousnetts. If
they had bid ye bring in twenty-five or thirty
thousand I should not have made a bit of wonder
of the matter ; but seven ! Why, they must turn
as much as that often in a day !'

'More,' agreed Robert.

Well, then, if they're solvent  '

Sir !' interrupted the younger man.

I would not fire up about nothing if I was you.
I am only putting a supposititious case. I don't say
they are not solvent. All I do mean is, if they are,
seven thousand pounds can't signify to them, and
therefore it is not for the worth's sake they insist on
your finding it.'

I told you before the value of the money had
nothing to do with the question.'

'But,' proceeded Mr. McCullagh, as if his son
had not spoken, ' if, on the other hand, they really
want ye to stop, or to put it in other words,' amended
the merchant, checking his utterances off slowly with

the first finger of his right hand, carefully striking
the first finger of his left, ' if ye're of as much use
to them as ye're always thought, and, indeed, as
I have always understood myself, what is there to
hinder them taking ye in without any capital at all ?
It's simple folly and nonsense talking about binding
your interests to theirs. Sensible business men
would not talk such babbles unless there was something
behind.'

And may I ask,' inquired Robert sarcastically,
Mf you do not believe one of the largest and oldest
firms in our trade to be on the eve of bankruptcy,
what you may be pleased to consider does lie behind
?'

I think they want civilly to get rid of ye ;' and,
feeling he could add nothing to the force of this
unexpected statement, Mr. McCullagh rose and
lifted the candle, as a sign the interview might be
considered at an end.

But his son was not to be so dismissed.

You never were more mistaken in your life, sir,'
he said indignantly. ' I am invaluable to the firm.
Mr. Pousnett acknowledges that himself.'

I am real glad to know it,' was the dry comment
; ' for, in that case, they'll give ye a small share
without any money whatsoever. The whole matter

lies in a nutshell : if they are insolvent, the seven
thousand pounds would be useful to them; if they
are solvent and want ye, they'll take ye and not look
for a penny of capital.'

Retrospective.

When Mrs. McCullagh died, the evil wrought by
her weakness and folly did not die with her. Weeds
as well as flowers can grow above a grave; other
actions besides those of the just can spring up from
the dust, and blossom and bear fruit a hundredfold.


Young though her first-born child was at the time
of her death, he was quite old enough to understand
his father and mother had never been of one mind ;
and that, while he was ' mamma's pet,' his brothers
were regarded by his male parent with more favour
than himself. The reason for this was not far to

In the child Robert Mr. McCullagh beheld reproduced
the beauty, the giddiness, the silliness, the
perversity of the girl he had married all too rashly ;
and to this might be added the mortification of seeing
his own boy brought up to deride him, encouraged
in petty deceit and constant dissimulation.

From the time little Robert, or ' wee Eabbie,' as his
father at that period affectionately termed him, was
sufficiently advanced in life to sit on a footstool and
behave himself prettily,' he had been accustomed
to hear his mother and her gossips talking over all
the trials of her wedded life, mourning that Mr.
McCullagh was not like anybody else, and could not
be remade into a similitude of any other person.
There are always women to listen when a woman
speaks ill of her husband ; there is no lack, in this
world, of ladies only too ready to sympathise (?) 
Heaven save the mark! with those of their sex who
have a fancy to expose a real or imaginary grievance
to the public eye.

Over cups of tea and slices of thin bread-and-butter
Mr. McCullagh's shortcomings were discussed,
every fresh instance of what Mrs. McCuUagh called
his ' niggardliness' evoking a perfect chorus of
pitying exclamations. Amongst Mrs. McCullagh's
friends chanced to be those whose English was none
of the purest ; but without a thought of their own
sins in the way of pronunciation and grammar, they
were unanimous in the opinion that Mr. McCul-
laugh's Scepticism were perfectly dreadful, and never
wearied of asking his wife why she did not teach him
better.

Anything more ludicrous to an outsider than
the imitations of Mr. McCullagh's mode of speech in
which the various ladies indulged, could scarcely be
conceived. Those alone who have been privileged
to hear an Irishwoman with a very broad accent
mimicking the 'English tongue' can form some faint
idea of what Mr. McCullagh's sharp incisive sentences
and peculiar forms of expression became when
reproduced by ladies in the habit of dropping their
h's, as the young person in the fairy tale dropped
pearls, whenever they opened their mouths to speak,
and of inserting them where Ji had no manner of
right to be.

Had the school been a good one it is more than
likely little Robert would not have learnt the lessons
set before him with such rapidity as was the
case ; but being what it was, the child soon knew by
heart every peculiarity of his father's speech and
manner, and felt very sure his mother was the only
person in the establishment to love and obey.

After a fashion, indeed, the boy had to obey the
head of the household ; but he only rendered the
obedience of fear and of dislike. Whenever he could
safely run counter to his father's wishes he did so ;
and in this course of conduct he was encouraged by
his mother, whose whole existence seemed spent in

considering how she could elude her husband's vigilance,
and procure for herself, and give Robert share
of, those little luxuries her soul loved, indulgence in
which Mr. McCullagh met either with active hostility
or viewed with grim disapproval.

As regarded the training of children, Mr. McCul-
laugh's ideas were Spartan. His own breakfast was
always prefaced by a great basin of porridge, which
he pronounced ' parritch' and spoke of as ' them ;*
and he conscientiously believed no one could grow
up to be strong, wise, or happy who had not morning
after morning partaken of a sufficient portion of
Scotch oatmeal thus prepared. He had ' eaten
them,' he said, ' for mony a year, and was glad to
get them, and he did not know what his wife meant
by turning up her nose at good victuals and setting
her boy's stomach against them too. What serves
me might serve him, I think,' added Mr. McCullagh;
and there was a certain amount of reason in this
remark, though Mrs. McCullagh utterly failed to
see it.

After his mother's death the position of the boy
Robert was, as may readily be conceived, none of the
pleasantness. During her illness he had lived much
in her room, sharing the dainties she could barely
touch, doing very much what he pleased, and petted

and extolled by visitors for his filial affection. The
lad felt her loss most bitterly. Independent of the
anguish all children experience when they are brought
in contact with the angel who seems to them so terrible
in its silence, so merciless in its strength, there
was for this precocious child with the dark eyes and
the curly hair a certain knowledge that when the
coffin was carried down-stairs the only friend he possessed
in that house was leaving it for ever. The
child  for he was nothing more  sat down in a corner
and cried as if his heart would break ; and as
the days went on and his tears refused to flow any
longer, he began to mope about the rooms, haunting
his late mother's bedchamber, and being enough, so
declared Miss Nicol, ' to make a person go melancholy
mad.'

Let him be, Janet, let him be,' said Mr.
McCullagh, when appealed to on the subject of
Robert's ' vagaries ;' * the mother made, perhaps,
over much of him, and it's natural he should fret
after her;' and in his own way Mr. McCullagh tried
to conciliate and comfort the boy. He gave him
weak tea or milk-and-water for his breakfast. He
brought him up tiny parcels of confectionery, he got
him a bag of marbles and a spinning-top, but it was
all in vain ; the child took what his father had to

give with listless indifference, and soon recommenced
bis aimless rambles through the bouse.

What you want is a sound whipping, Robbie,'
said Miss Nicol one day, when, meeting bim coming
slowly up the stairs, she asked bim ' what he wanted,'
and the boy answered he did ' not know ;' ' and if I
were your father I would give it to you.'

Robert did not say a word in reply ; he only laid
bis face on the broad balustrade, and as she reached
the landing she heard a strangled yet irrepressible
sob.

Carle take the lad,' she muttered ; ' why can't
he go and play himself like his brothers ?' and again
she spoke to Mr. McCullagh, stating her belief that
unless ' something was done Robert would break ibis
heart.'

If ye could tell me what is to be done, there
might be some use in your talking,' answered Mr.
McCullagh, in the tone which had so often exasperated
his wife ; ' but if ye can't, we'd best hold your
tongue.'

Miss Nicol followed this excellent advice, not
because she felt in the slightest degree offended at
Mr. McCullagh's words or manner, which were only,
as she often said, ' his way,' but because she really
had no suggestion to offer, having merely thrown out

a hint as to the child's condition in the hope it would
simmer' in his father's mind.

Mr. McCullagh was, however, neither blind nor
indifferent. Hard he might be, but just at that
period he came nearer loving his first-born than had
ever been the case since the boy was two years old.
Deep down in the depths of the flintiest nature there
is implanted a desire to be mourned after and remembered
when earth's cares and vanities are for us
no more ; and Mr. McCullagh, seeing the child's
grief for his mother, longed perchance for even a
modicum of that attachment to be transferred to
him.

But it was not to be. At the precise period
when Mr. McCullagh felt most perplexed as to what
he should do with regard to Robert, Mr. Mostin
chanced to call.

By one of those inexplicable turns of fortune
which are always coming to men who fail to make a
proper use of them, Mrs. McCullagh's father had
some time after his bankruptcy (his estate paid about
twopence in the pound) fallen upon his feet. A
City gentleman who had known something of Mr.
Mostin in his best days, wishing to be his own
architect, asked the former builder to carry out his

plans and see the work was well and substantially
executed.

In its integrity Mr. Mostin understood his trade
to a nicety ; he saw that the best materials only were
used, that the bricks were properly bedded, that the
timber was well seasoned, the drains perfectly laid.
Not being tied down as regarded expense, he suggested
and carried out many small improvements on
the original plan, which, principally relating to
kitchen and laundry arrangements (people washed at
home in those days), got talked about and gained
him credit.

The one house led to more ; by degrees he got
together an admirable connection, and at the time of
his daughter's death was doing better than had been
the case in his palmiest days.

Coming up from the country, where he was superintending
the building of an additional wing to a
lordly mansion, he happened to call on one of little
Robert's worst days at the house off Basinghall-street.


The little lad's no so well as he might be,' said
Mr. McCullagh, in apologetic explanation.

He will never get better if he goes on as he is
doing,' added Miss Nicol, with cruel and unnecessary
candour.

His grandfather looked at the child thoughtfully.
He was standing beside the window, listlessly gazing
out on the dreary court ; his cheeks were white, and
great black rings circled his eyes. He was growing
tall and weedy, 'just like a potato-haulm in a cellar,'
thought the builder ; his clothes were different from
those his mother had got for him ; they were strong
and good and warm enough, but they were not
nice.'

Here, Bob, my boy,' said Mr. Mostin cheerfully,
when his scrutiny was quite completed, ' I want
you.'

And don't walk as if you had fourteen-pound
weights to your shoes,' observed Miss Nicol.

Let him be, let him be, Janet,' expostulated
Mr. McCullagh, using his customary formula : ' the
child is ailing ; anybody with half an eye could see
that.'

It seems to me,' observed his grandfather, putting
his hand under the boy's chin, and turning up
a very mournful, pallid face for public inspection, 
it seems to me, young gentleman, that a run in the
country is about what you stand most in need of.
How should you like to come with me down into
Devonshire for a fortnight ? I am lodging at a nice
farmhouse there, where there are cows and ducks and

Guinea fowl and pigs and horses, and an old pony I
daresay they would let you ride round the paddock.
Do you think that would put some life in your body
and some colour in your cheeks  eh '?' and Mr.
Mostin, who, while thus speaking ostensibly to the
child, had been really addressing the father, glanced
as he concluded round at Mr. McCullagh to see how
he took the proposition.

"Would you like to go with your grandfather,
Rabble '?' asked Mr. McCullagh ; ' don't say no if ye
want to say yes.'

For answer the boy put a thin hand in that of his
grandfather, while his eyes lighted up, and a faint
smile flickered about his mouth.

You would be pleased to see all those things ?'
said Mr. Mostin ; ' well, then, you shall. Go and
say, " Thank you, father, for giving me leave to take
such a fine holiday ;" ' and he pushed his grandson
gently towards Mr. McCullagh.

Thank you, father, for giving me leave to take
such a fine holiday,' said the child obediently, but
retreating even as he spoke to Mr. Mostin's side.

He's like his mother,' thought Mr. McCullagh,
with a bitter pang.  He can't abide me. He'd take
sooner to any stranger.'

I don't think he has o-ot auv clothes fit to go

from home in,' said Miss Nicol, practical and disagreeable
as usual.

0, we needn't trouble ourselves about clothes,'
answered Mr. Mostin gaily ; * we don't want velvet
and fine broadcloth to run about a farmyard, and
race with the dogs, and shake down apples in the
orchard, and roll on the grass. Eh, my boy ?'

It was thus it chanced that Robert the younger
left his father's house. When the fortnight was
over, Mr. Mostin asked permission to keep the child
a little longer; then he formally proposed to take
him altogether, pay for his education, and start him
in the world.

Mr. McCullagh made no objection. He knew
well enough, if no one else did, there was that in
Robert's nature which would divide them for ever,
though one roof covered them, though they ate atone
table and sat in one room.

Ye can't do it,' he said, in answer to his relation's
remark, that she did not think it was well
to part brothers, or let a boy be brought up independent
of his father. ' If two are so constituted it is
just an impossibility they can run together, it's best
they should run separate, xnd ye know ye couldn't
get on with Robert, to say nothing of other matters.
Ye would be for aye girding at the boy, and he would

VOL. I. G

be for ever mocking you. It is in his blood and
bone, and he can't help it. He'll be better with his
grandfather; "like likes like," ye remember, and
they'll suit one another to a turn.'

All of which was so far true that Mr. Mostin
and Robert agreed admirably ; and that, at those
convivial meetings when the ex-builder, no matter
where he chanced temporarily to put up, gathered
various choice and hilarious spirits around him, the
boy was encouraged to give, not without success,
such specimens of Miss Janet Nicol's accent and
phraseology as delighted the table. Sometimes,
emboldened by applause, Robert also ventured a sly
imitation of his father's peculiarities, which were
totally different from those of his kinswoman.

On such occasions, Mr. Mostin, having generally
partaken of more punch than was good for him,
would rebuke the lad for ' daring to make game of
his parent;' but, at the same time, Robert, seeing
him winking at his boon companions, understood
clearly his grandfather enjoyed the ' representation,'
and only mentioned he was doing wrong as a concession
to the proprieties.

In particular there were three Scotch songs the
boy chanted with such inimitable gravity and precision,
a whole company would be convulsed by the

performance. Who knows ? Perhaps while the
droning melody continued, accompanied only by
shrieks of laughter, Mr. Mostin felt at last ample
measure was being dealt out to those who had not,
he thought, dealt quite fairly with his daughter ;
and it is very certain the little lad went to rest after
one of these exhibitions satisfied and happy, and feeling
his mamma would have been pleased had she
heard his accurate reproduction in the vernacular of
Sir Patrick' and ' Auld lang syne.'

There came a day, however, when Mr. Mostin,
who happened about that period to be somewhat
ailing and short of money, decided a stop must be
put to Robert's performances.

You had best leave off all that sort of thing when
we get back to London,' he said to the boy as they
walked to the coach which was to convey them to
town ; ' you hardly know now when you are doing it,
and you may get me and yourself too into trouble
if anything of the kind should come round to your
father's ears. When I can manage it I'll send you
to school for a while, where I hope the master will
find you something better to do than making game
of your elders.'

nae coot,' answered Piobert, running off to the
other side of the road as he spoke, and laughing

till the very birds ceased their songs to listen to
him.

He was nearly a year older then than when he
first quitted Basinghall-street, strong, healthy,
happy.

Such a pretty boy everybody said.

And a good boy, too,' his grandfather quickly
added.

In due time Robert went to a boarding-school ;
and Mr. Mostin, in the course of his business meeting
with a certain nobleman possessed of very pronounced,
if somewhat crude, ideas on the subjects of
architecture and decoration, readily induced him to
start a weekly journal, in which were explained and
discussed at great length and expense the various
crotchets agitating the lordly mind. It was about
this period that, according to Mr. McCullagh, the
builder ' lost his head.'

It never was good for much,' opined his son-in-law
; ' but it's clean gone now. Why, I met him
to-day driving a cabriolet down Cheapside. He was
smoking a cigar as big as a carrot ; and he had a
slip of a boy in top-boots, not a bit bigger than wee
Archie, perilling his life, holding on like grim death
behind.'

That was the golden summer-time of Mr. Mostin's

existence. He did not do anything in it worthy the
name of work ; his name appeared on the outside
page of the journal as a ' Consulting Builder,' in
which character he was good enough to find fault
with almost everything everybody else did. Mr.
McCullagh was quite right. His father-in-law had
lost his head, and he never found that useful appendage
again, till one day when news arrived at the
publishing office of his patron's death.

Then, as if by magic, all the clocks of the establishment
ran down and were never wound up again ; the
editors, contributors, clerks, and errand-boys disappeared
as quickly as though they had been touched
by an enchanter's wand. The journal was offered for
sale, and not a bid could be got for it ; the shutters
were put up, and bills posted all over them announcing
the place was to let ; in about forty eight hours the
premises had acquired a premature look of neglect
and age ; and at the end of the same period Mr.
Mostin was offering his cab and high-stepping horse
with plated harness, at a ruinous sacrifice, and the
child in top-boots had gone crying home to his
mother, knowing he would never again get such an
easy place or indulgent master.

Before all these events happened, Mr. Mostin
had done two good things  he married an extremely

practical and sensible woman, possessed of a small
competence which neither he nor any creditor could
touch ; further, he had got Robert a very good situation
in a merchant's office.

If you will go back to your own proper business,
and stick to it,' said the sensible second wife, addressing
her husband, ' and you,' turning to Robert, ' goon
as well as you have been doing, we shall be able
to make shift somehow. Of course I always knew
we could not continue to live as we have been
doing.'

Mistress IMostin is letting lodgings, and he has
taken a situation to look after dilapidation for a
gentleman who owns a lot of property in Bermondsey,'
explained Mr. McCullagh to Miss Nicol.

That's a bit of a come down, I'm thinking,' said
that lady dryly.

They seem getting along pretty fair,' answered
Mr. McCullagh.

Is Robert coming home ?'

No ; I asked him, but he seemed like casting
in his lot with them.'

How is he getting on ?'

First-rate  better nor ever I expected he would
get on at anything.'

And so Robert continued to get on ; spite of his

father's doubts, no complaints of his son ever reached
him. He appeared to give satisfaction to his employers,
for, as time went by, they advanced him
from post to post, at each change raising his salary.

'Pousnetts set great store by Robert,' Mr.
McCullagh was wont on such occasions to remark ;
to which Miss Xicol would reply, ' Ay, so it seems,'
in a tone which committed her to nothing.

The other sons were her favourites. Robert,
with his handsome face and easy pleasant manners
and southern tongue, might be somebody's fancy 
no doubt,' she thought, * he is ; but for her part
give her the other lads  quiet and canny, and with
no nonsense about them. There might be something
in Robert that suited the English folks ; but
for her she felt misgivings.'

Still, the years went by, and the young man's
conduct justified none of her forebodings. He and
his father came no nearer to each other; but she
felt though Mr. McCullagh did not like, he was
proud of, his first-born.

When talking about his sons to strangers, he
was apt to say they had done wonderfully well, finishing
with the remark, * Pousnetts thought a deal
of his eldest. He's manager there, and they trust
most things to him.'

Every man has his weakness. Mr. Callaghan
his heart did not care for or believe in his firstborn,
3'et he liked thus to boast about him occasionally.


When he saw him rushing out of bank-parlours,
or stopped in the streets and button-holed by the
heads of large houses, he was wont to cast disparaging
glances upon his son's superfine broadcloth,
spotless linen, and carefully brushed hat, and murmur,
' Fine feathers make fine birds. It's to be
hoped you'll never have your's plucked ofi" your
back;' but then he would return home and tell Miss
Nicol how he had seen Robert * at home amongst
the best.'

He had always high notions,' Miss Nicol invariably
answered.

And perhaps it was for this reason, whenever the
young man entered his father's door, he seemed to
bring the same repellant element with him across
the threshold which he met upon it.

MR. POUSNETT REQUESTS THE PLEASURE.

Not even in the former days, when, after being
turned out of the room for some childish misdemeanour,
he stood on the landing and shook his
little fist in impotent rage at the door just closed
against him, had the younger Robert felt he hated
his father with such a perfect hatred as when he left
the house near Basinghall-street, to which he had
gone so jubilant on * a fool's errand.'

If Mr. McCullagh had considered for days and
weeks how to mortify his son, he could not have
devised a more perfect plan than that he got up on
the spur of the moment. In the course of an interview
which lasted little more than ten minutes he
managed to extol his own system of doing business,
to depreciate that of other men, to cast a doubt on
Pousnetts' solvency, to insinuate his son was no
better than a simpleton, to cut the ground of supposed
usefulness from under Robert's feet, and to suggest
an awful idea which had not before occurred to the

young man  namely, that if he failed to find seven
thousand pounds in cash, or cash's equivalent, good
bills, he Twould very likely  most likely, indeed  lose
his berth, and find himself as completely out in the
cold as had been the case in his childhood, when
Mr. McCullagh was in the habit of saying,

If ye can't behave yourself, Robbie, ye had best
leave the room. I can't have dour contrary boys
sulking where I am.'

It all came back to him as he strode hurriedly up
the court. Fast as he walked, the old, old times
seemed to follow faster after him. His pretty indulgent
mother, whose beauty was set amid such
sordid surroundings ; the meagre fires ; the meagre
meals ; the wearisome supper-parties, which derived
their only scintillation of amusement from ' toddy ;'
the quavering Scotch ballads ; the decisive, yet
drawling, Scotch accent ; the cold of the house ; its
scanty furniture ; the advent of Miss Nicol ; his
mother's death ; the small lamentation which was
made about that event ; the intensely Scotch gathering
which partook of the funeral baked meats and
draperies' of whisky ; the instant changes which
occurred in the household ; the sudden disappearance
of all the dead woman's little decorations ; the swoop
which was made upon her small vanities ; the quarrels

he and his father waged during his boyish visits
home ; the sneers at his grandfather's uprightness ;
the mock condolences when Mr. Mostin fell ; the
sarcasms, not always covert, at his own pretensions 
as all these things rushed through his mind, the
younger Robert hurried on as though, to quote one
of his father's favourite phrases, ' the deil were after
him;' which, perhaps, indeed he was.

As a rule, a man need have no worse devil at his
heels than a weak ill-regulated mind.

There was nothing less likely than that, in his
present state of irritation, Robert junior would immediately
bend his steps in the direction of his
employers' office. With a feeling of the keenest disappointment
distracting his heart, the young man
traversed that nest of courts and alleys which still
intervenes between Basinghall-street and Gutter-lane.


Those alone who, in their extremity, when some
grievous hour of need was just upon the point of
striking, have turned out of the busy, bustling, noisy
thoroughfares of London, thronged full of people,
can understand the soothing effects produced upon
young McCullagh's mind by Three Nuns-passage, or
the narrow pavement around the church of St.
Michael Bassishaw.

By the time lie reached Gutter-lane and was
making his way back to Cheapside by Mitre-court,
he felt able to face the position. Quiet London had
laid her soothing hand upon him (and in the whole
of Nature there is no such soother as London can
be on occasion  at once an opiate and a tonic), and,
though the trouble still remained, he felt he could
go back and talk to Mr. Pousnett about it ; tell him
he must give up all idea of the partnership ; that he
had played the sole card he possessed, and lost his
game.

Pousnett's firm carried on business in a court
leading out of Leadenhall-street ; they had the whole
of the court to themselves, and even then their premises
were not half large enough for the business they
did. They owned Nos. 1 to 7 inclusive ; and every
inch of the premises was filled by clerks, packers,
foremen, correspondents, and suchlike. A princely
house Pousnetts' had once been styled; and Mr.
Pousnett, the present head of the firm, was reckoned
in the City a most courtly gentleman. His appearance
was one which commanded attention ; his manners
were in advance of that of any Lord Mayor,
past or present. He did not patronise City tailors ;
and his dress was of a cut and style Lombard-street,
with tardy halting steps, lagged after in vain.

Pousnetts did business with all parts of the habitable
globe. It was an old house, which had been inexistence
before George II. came to the throne, or
Culloden was fought. No more respectable firm
existed in the City of London. The world clearly
understood when it put itself in Pousnetts' hands it
would be well treated, and that it might relax a little
of its customary suspicion in dealing with people
who stood so far above all suspicion. Vain as Piobert
McCullagh happened to be, his own rapid advance
in Pousnetts' house had surprised himself almost as
much as it had done his father. He could ascribe
it to no other cause than the liking Mr. Pousnett
had conceived for him. Love begets love, we are
told, and it was possible the young man's admiration
of his chief, his slavish imitation of his dress
and manner, his fixed belief that on the face of the
earth no such house as Pousnetts' could be found,
might have touched even the worldly heart of Herrion
Pousnett. Ice was not colder or stone harder
than that heart in reality ; but it wore on the surface
a pleasant air of sunny geniality. Mr. Pousnett
had never been seen in an undignified rage ; he
never vituperated his clerks ; he never signed angry
letters; he never stormed and swore 'promiscuous,'
like old Betterton in Tower-street, when business

matters went wrong, or uninsured ships went to the
bottom, or people failed and let the house in for
what would have seemed great fortunes to smaller
firms. Summer and winter, this good Christian's
temper was always the same ; his manners were uniformly
suave ; his course of proceeding dignified
respectable.

When debtors did not pay he never troubled
them or himself with unnecessary correspondence;
he simply handed the matter to his solicitor, and
said it had passed out of his control. The most
severe thing he ever said about a persistent bore,
with right on his side, was,
 ' 'Do not let that person see me again.'

Though not foremost, Mr. Pousnett was ever
prominent in good works. He did not attend meetings
or sit on committees ; but he gave his cheque
for most charitable purposes which, in the opinion
of various secretaries, answered all purposes quite
as well. He had a house at the West-end, and a
pretty place on the Thames. In private life he did
not affect business acquaintances. It was known at
the office his daughters had their maids, and his
sons their hunters. It was understood Mr. Pous-
nett's Christian name was derived from his mother's
side of the* house ; and that, in some remote way,

he was through her allied to nobility  a stately gentleman
as ever paced Leadenhall-street morning
after morning, and affably returned the respectful
greetings of his clerks, and opened the letters laid
upon his table without haste or anxiety, or the
slightest dread as to what the envelopes might contain.


In striking contrast all this to the proceedings
in that other court off Basinghall-street, to the primitive
manners, the broad Scotch speech, the keen
cynical tongue of ' auld Rab' and his awkward squad
of Northern followers, not one of whom had been
trained, or could have been trained, in that school of
politeness it was the glory of Pousnetts' young men
to belong to, and their study and ambition to maintain
intact.

And it was in such a house as this young Robert
might, but for his father's absurd prejudices, have
been partner ; there he had the opportunity of hanging
up his hat for life, and yet could not avail himself
of the offer. Well, it was not his fault ; if he
had been constituted differently, perhaps his father
would have helped him : but, save in a spiritual
sense, a man cannot be born again, and if he could,
Robert McCullagh felt very sure no number of fresh

births were likely to make him resemble the Scotch
merchant's idea of human perfection.

No, it was all over, and he would tell Mr. Pous-
nett so at once. No object could be gained by delaying
his communication.

It was with a very dejected mien that, after
knocking at the door of the great man's room, Robert
entered the apartment he had hoped, but a few
hours previously, soon to be free of. Mr. Pousnett
had already got on his top-coat, and was looking
into his hat, as is the custom of men, before covering
his head. He did not glance round as the manager
entered ; he merely said,
Well, what is it ?'

*I only wanted to speak to you, sir,' answered
young McCullagh ; * but I see you are going, and I
will not detain you. To-morrow  the next day 
any time will do.'

I am in no hurry,' answered Mr. Pousnett pleasantly.
' I was only going because there seemed
nothing more to do here ; what did you want to say
to me ?'

Certainly a polished gentleman in appearance,
manner, and speech ; so polished, and so dissimilar
from Mr. McCullagh, it was difficult for a moment
to realise they belonged to the same species.

I have spoken to my father, sir.'

Yes.' How different that yes sounded from
the same word when used interrogatively by ' plain
old Rah' ! Nothing harsh or querulous about it in
this case ; it merely seemed musically to lead the
listener on to the next portion of his theme.

And I must give up all idea of availing myself
of your kindness. He won't help me in the least.'

That is bad replied Mr. Pousnett. ' I am very
sorry to hear such news. Tell me what passed. Sit
down;' and the great man laid aside his hat, unbuttoned
his top-coat, and resumed the chair he had
so lately quitted.

It was not in the least degree difficult to talk to
Mr. Pousnett : many men, indeed, had, at one time
or other, found cause to curse the fatal facility with
which speech seemed to flow from their lips in his
presence ; for Mr. Pousnett never forgot anything :
the most careless sentence uttered in his hearing remained
stamped in his memory, and was apt to be
recalled to the speaker long after his random utterance
had faded from his mind.

In five minutes, nay in two, Robert put him in
possession of his father's views on things in general,
his opinion of Mr. Pousnett's offer, and his determination
neither to mull nor meddle in the matter.

VOL. T. H

1 might have had a chance if it had not been for
Kenneth finished the young man gloomily; and it
is to be feared, in his heart, at that moment, he
wished anything but good to that more fortunate
individual.

Kenneth ! who is Kenneth ?' asked Mr. Pous-
nett, rousing himself from a reverie into which he
seemed to have fallen.

My brother, sir, the one I told you about who  '

Who is to have the three thousand pounds and
the pretty wife ?' interrupted Mr. Pousnett, laughing.
I understand now ; only you did not mention his
name when speaking about him. A very fortunate
fellow indeed, and I wish him all success in his business,
and happiness in his marriage. By the way,
what is the name of his future father-in-law ?'

'Johnstoneeee, sir  Y. Johnstoneeee & Son of Liverpool.
The head of the firm must have been dead
this hundred years, I think, for the present man
looks about two centuries oldy.

Johnstonee,' repeated Mr. Pousnett ; ' do you
mean Vincent Johnstonee of Old Hall-street *?'

His place is in Old Hall-street,' conceded Robert
gloomily.

Then your brother has stepped into a good
thing, a remarkably good thing,' said Mr. Pousnett

thoughtfully, ' and I heartily wish him joy. A house
in a small way, perhaps ; but safe. I know no firm
which, in its degree, stands higher. I am not surprised
at your father's pleasure, particularly as it
costs him nothing.'

It would be a most remarkable thing which could
please my father if it did cost anything,' saidKobert,
in a tone of conviction.

I do not wonder at his refusal to assist you in
the face of such a windfall as that you mention,' went
on Mr. Pousnett blandly.

sir,' pleaded young McCullagh, * I wish you
would not mention this business and old Johnstonee's
in the same breath !'

'I am not comparing them,' said Mr. Pousnett
benignantly. ' I was only trying to put myself in
your father's place for a moment  trying to look with
his eyes, and understand what he must feel. He
seems to be, if somewhat narrow in his views, a most
astute man  so far as he goes a most remarkable
man.'

Piobert looked at his principal to see if he were in
jest ; on the contrary, Mr. Pousnett's face wore an
expression of anxious and perplexed consideration.

A most remarkable man. I should like to know
him personally ;' and here he paused again, whilst

young McCullagh, fairly lost in amazement, stared
with all his might at the countenance of his chief.

It is the specialty of fools that they ever fail to
grasp the fact of unlikely men being wise.'

Robert had always thought his father sharp,
shrewd, mean, quick at a bargain, in a pottering sort
of way a keen man of business ; but it had never
before, never once, occurred to him he was clever.
Mr. Mostin was his ideal of a clever fellow. ' Lord
bless you,' Robert would say, * drop him where you
like and he'll drop on his feet. Only think of all the
misfortunes he has passed through, and how no sooner
did he find one door shut before he found another
open ! I never saw such a man : full of resources,
ready to turn his hand to anything;' and all the
while he contrasted his father with this paragon, and
thought in his heart, ' Ah, if Mr. Mostin only had
the business in Basinghall-street, what would he not
make of it !' utterly ignoring the fact that the ex-builder
was one of those men who eventually make
ducks and drakes of most businesses, and who, while
an admirable manager in theory of their fellows' concerns,
never prove equal in the long-run to managing
their own.

I do not think,' resumed Mr. Pousnett, after a
pause, ' your father can have grasped all the advantages

which would accrue to you and his other sons
were he to put you in the way of accepting my
offer.'

'I am sure he has not, sir,' answered Robert;
and what is more, he never will.'

That is to he seen,' said Mr. Pousnett, leaning
back in his chair, and half closing his eyes as he
spoke. ' I think I must take him in hand. I want
to have you as one of the house,' he added, with a
delightful smile (people said Mr. Pousnett's smile
was to him what the angel's veil of moss was to the
rose) ; * but I am determined you shall not enter it
empty-handed.'

I quite understand that, sir,' said Robert, in a
coldhearted manner ; * and I assure you I left
nothing unsaid I considered likely to move my
father to compliance. It was all to no purpose,
however ; I might just as well, better, have held my
tongue ; and so I have given up all thoughts of it,
sir, and  and  I have nothing more to say,' finished
Robert, dejectedly rising as he spoke, and pushing
his chair as far as it would go under the table in a
crazy absent-minded sort of manner.

Mr. Pousnett watched this manoeuvre curiously.
There could be no doubt that the son at least understood
the value of what he was losing.

You have quite interested me in your father he
said at last. ' I feel I must make his acquaintance.
I will call upon him ; no, I will ask him to dinner 
cut his mutton with me, eh ?  and we'll talk the
matter over exhaustively, after we have finished cutting
our mutton.'

To dinner, sir ? I don't think you exactly understand,'
stammered Robert. ' My father is not exactly
don't press me  Mr. Pousnett, please to say what
I mean !'

He is not exactly like anybody else, I suppose,'
said the great merchant, laughing ; ' indeed, I am
very sure that he is quite different from most people.
I must know him. I regret extremely no opportunity
has before presented itself of making his acquaintance.
I will write and ask him to dine with me ;
then we can talk this matter over.'

I do not think, sir, you have any idea of what
my father really is,' said Robert resolutely.

I hope soon to have the pleasure of knowing,*
was the. reply.

An angel could not lead and the devil could not
drive him,' persisted young McCullagh doggedly.

'I have no gift either for leading or driving,' said
Mr. Pousnett ; ' but I mean to make your father's
acquaintance, and hope our intimacy may prove profitable

to both. Of course, I shall expect the pleasure
of your company on the same evening, this day week
at seven ;' and this time Mr. Pousnett put on his
hat, opened the door, and walked, deferentially
followed by Robert, across the office to the street,
where, bidding his manager good-night, he passed
out into the gas-illumined darkness of a November
night.

Mr. Pousnett was not a man who ever let grass
grow under his feet; and accordingly next day at
breakfast Mr. McCullagh, sitting down to his porridge
as a preliminary to the tea, fried bacon, and bread he
had to follow, received a missive sealed with a great
seal, bearing sundry heraldic devices intelligible only
to the King-at-Arms.

Bless and save us all, what's this ?' exclaimed
Mr. McCullagh, whose eye was caught by the bold
telegraphy and the pretentious coat of arms. ' It
must be from the Lord Mayor at the very least !
What an awful' waste o' wax, to be sure !'

'It is a grand seal, though,' said Miss Nicol,
taking up the envelope which Mr. McCullagh had
tossed aside. ' Look, Effie, can you make out the
words underneath? They're Latin, I am almost
certain.'

By this time Mr. McCullaoh had mastered the

contents of the epistle, which he laid face downwards
on the table.

I'll give ye,' he remarked, commencing at the
same moment a vigorous attack upon the basin of
porridge which stood smoking at his elbow, 'I'll
give ye three guesses to say who that letter is from.'

Maybe from the Lord Mayor himself,' hazarded
Miss Nicol.

'Or Prince Albert,' conjectured Effie.

Or the Emperor of the French,' said Miss Nicol.

That is three among ye,' remarked Mr.
McCullagh, chuckling ; * and all wrong. No, we'd
never guess if ye sat trying for a twelvemonth. It
is from Robert's employer.'

What's wrong now ?' asked Miss Nicol ; ' I
thought he seemed sort of uneasy last evening.'

'Did ye?' commented Mr. McCullagh dryly.
'Well, there is nothing wrong. All the man says
is, "Will ye take a knife and fork with us this day
week in Portman-square ?" '

That is a good joke, too !' said Miss Nicol.

Never for an instant did that worthy lady think
the statement other than a piece of the ' wut' in
which it pleased the Scotchman occasionally to
indulge.

Joke! it is no joke,' answered Mr. McCullagh.

It is as civil a note as ever I read, and as well put
together. What he says in effect is, Will ye take
pot-luck with us in a homely friendly sort of way ?'

But ye'll not go,' assumed Miss Nicol, jumping
to conclusions too hastily, as her sex are wont to do.
I don't know that,' answered her relative, who,
indeed, till that moment, had not entertained an idea
of accepting the invitation. ' Why wouldn't I go ?
What for should I affront the man by declining what
no doubt is weel meant.'

There is no reason, of course,' acquiesced Miss
Nicol ; ' only I thought ye didn't much care to
consort with such grand folks.'

'It is not consorting with grand folks to once
and away put my legs under their mahogany. I
supped last night with Kenneth's master, and a
right good tumbler of toddy he gave us. I may
just as well eat my dinner with Robert's master. I
never have seen him, and I am a bit curious to see
him.'

Here is Robert,' said Effie at this juncture ; and
almost as she spoke the door opened and that young
man himself appeared.

Find yourself a place !' cried Mr. McCullagh
effusively. * The tea is mashing ; ye'll take a cup,
won't ye ?'

*I breakfasted an hour ago, thank you answered
Robert, finding himself a place, however, as desired.

Ye ken,' said Miss Nicol, who never lost an
opportunity of dealing the young man a back-handed
blow, ' he doesn't think our brew strong enough.'

On the contrary,' Robert replied, ' I generally
find it far too strong  bitter. I do not think tea
ought to stand a minute.'

'Hoots !' cried Mr. McCullagh, * how would ye
ever get the good out of it if ye didn't let it stand ?
But tea is not the question now. I have just got a
letter from your master asking me to dine with
him.'

He told me he meant to ask you last night,'
said Robert, whose sole motive in coming round had
been to ascertain whether Mr. Pousnett had carried
his project into effect.

And your father is going,' said Miss Nicol
suggestively.

*Who told ye I was going?' inquired Mr.
McCullagh. * I asked ye what would hinder me
to go, and I said I might as well eat my dinner with
him as my supper with old Johnstonee, and that I
was a bit curious to see the gentleman ; but I never
said I had just made up my mind.'

You won't go, though, of course,' remarked his

son carelessly. * I told him it was of no use asking
you.'

And why did ye tell him anything of the sort,
and what should hinder me going ? To hear ye both
talk, any one might think it was an invitation from
Windsor Castle that had come instead of a friendly
note from a merchant like myself.'

You mistake me, father,' said Robert, though,
indeed, his father had not mistaken him in the least.
All I meant was that, as you do not care much for
visiting out of your immediate circle of acquaintances,
I thought you would not fancy going so far as
Portman square ; and besides  '

Besides what '?' asked Mr. McCullagh sharply.

All those sort of people dress for dinner,' explained
Robert desperately, 'and I did not know
whether you had any clothes just suitable to go in.'

What's the matter with my clothes ?' cried Mr.
McCullagh, glancing first over one shabby shoulder
and then over its fellow. ' I am sure this is a good
enough coat for all ordinary purposes ; but I have a
better, Robert, don't be uneasy. If ye never have to
put up with any more discredit than your father
brings upon ye, ye'll have no cause of complaint;'
and having so spoken, Mr. McCullagh handed his
empty basin to Effie, who removed it to the sideboard,

and then brought a plate of bacon that had
been simmering in front of the fire, which she placed
before her benefactor.

Try a wee, Robert,' said Mr. McCuIIagh hospitably.
But Robert in answer only shook his head ;
he felt, indeed, at that moment as though food would
choke him.

Then I can tell Mr. Pousnett he may expect to
see you,' he observed after a second's pause.

Ye'll tell him nothing whatsoever from me,'
answered Mr. McCullagh, discussing his bacon. ' I
am not so helpless but I can answer my letters for
myself, and make up my mind for myself too.'

I meant no offence, sir.'

And I have taken none,' was the quick reply.

If you decide upon accepting the invitation, will
you let me know ? Mr. Pousnett has asked me as
well, and we could go together.'

111 communicate with ye,' promised Mr.
McCullagh ; and having gained no single point save
this, Robert, muttering something about being late
at the office, took his leave.

Mr. Pousnett seems to set great store by him,'
remarked Miss Nicol, as the sound of the young
man's footsteps upon the stairs died away.

There's no reason why he shouldn't,' retorted

Mr. McCuUagb, who was great in opposition.
Where would ye meet a straighter, better-built,
better-looking, better-spoken young man than my
son Robert ? He's just a credit, even physically
speaking, to any house. So far as looks are concerned,
ye must admit, Janet, he's the pick of my
sons. What do ye say, Effie !'

But Effie, who had stolen across the room to
watch Robert's retreating figure till he turned the
angle of the court, kept her face fastened upon the
window-pane, and affected not to hear.

A Familia PARTY.

The eventful evening arrived. Duly and truly Mr.
McCullagh had signified his intention of making one
at Mr. Pousnett's social board; and it is not too
much to say that, during the days which ensued
after his parent's decision was made known to him,
the younger Robert suffered agonies.

Mentally he beheld his father in every likely and
unlikely social scrape ; clearly he heard every intonation
of that remarkable accent grate upon his ear ;
in imagination he saw that mean ill-clad figure
surrounded by rank, fashion, and those who were to
the manner born. He fancied how the servants
would stare at him ; how the ladies would start at
sound of a voice little, if any, sweeter than his
national bag-pipes ; how Mr. Pousnett would repent
his rashness ; how he, Robert, would be covered
with shame, and feel disposed to request the earth
to open and swallow him up.

That fickle jade Ideality, which will not answer

to our call when most we desire her company, and
insists on keeping step with us when we wish her
miles away, never quitted Robert's side ; she was forever
presenting to his consideration some almost impossible
dilemma, and playing him even in sleep
some scurvy trick, such as setting Mr. McCullagh
down to dinner in his hat or without his coat, or
making him insist on a ' cut of beef while fish was
still in progress.

It was only a week from the first intimation of
that trouble till its consummation ; yet, during the
progress of that week, Robert fell away in flesh, and
his face grew peaked and anxious. Mr. Pousnett
beheld and smiled in private, but said nothing.
Long before, he had taken the measure of his manager,
and knew how to fit him like a glove.

All his trouble, however, had not prevented the
younger McCullagh ordering a quite new suit of
clothes, in which, well covered from sight by a
top-coat closely buttoned, he appeared at the paternal
mansion a little after six o'clock.

You do look a swell, Robert,' said Miss Nicol,
regarding with no particular favour the young man,
who, standing uncovered in the dreary sitting-room,
could not conceal his curly hair fresh from an artist's
hand, his bright boots, his faultless collar, his white

tie ; ' doesn't he, Effie ?' But Effie, who had been
feasting her eyes upon this spectacle of manly beauty,
again made no direct answer. Muttering something
about her uncle, as she called Mr. McCullagh, wanting
her, she hurried from the room, only to encounter
that sage individual on the threshold.

I am quite ready, Robert,' said Mr. McCullagh,
coming briskly forward.

Like another famous personage,

He was drest in this Sunday's best ;'

and Robert, as he surveyed his parent,, had never
felt so near liking him before. He had never thought
the * sweetstuff-man,' as some persons called him,
could have looked, not merely so decent, but so
presentable.

Though Mr. McCullagh wore his clothes almost
to the last thread, he always bought them of the best
materials ; and the consequence of this was that the
coat, which he kept for attending funerals, was of a
quality neither tailor nor flunky could gainsay.

If it lacked the cut Robert's own swallow-tail
boasted, it was perhaps more suitable to the role of
a successful City man. There was an amplitude
about its skirts which suggested a good balance at
the bank ; and in the loosely-tied bow of Mr.

McCullagh's washing neckerchief there was a defiance
and an indifference a Rothschild or a great
financier might have envied.

He had oiled his sandy hair, and shaven himself
even cleaner than usual ; into his manner he had
imported a certain festivity of demeanour, which his
son remembered well as an adjunct to those supper-parties
where Scottish songs and Scottish anecdotes
beguiled the length of an otherwise tedious evening ;
there was a scent of Windsor soap, and a perfume of
fragrant linen and broadcloth laid aside with lavender-bags
between, that seemed grateful to the younger
man.

Inwardly he thanked his father for what he could
not but consider concessions ; it was really good
of him, he felt. Perhaps, after all, he was reconsidering
that matter of the seven thousand
pounds !

Shall I get a cab, sir ?' asked Robert, who had
indeed brought his boots by that means spotless to
the top of the court.

'A cab!' repeated Mr. McCullagh. 'The
Lord preserve us, Robert, are ye mad ? A cab,
and the night fine and the stars shining ! No, no,
I am not just so tired of my hard-aired sixpences
as to throw them away that gait.'

VOL. I. I

*I only thought we might be a trifle late,' said
Robert hypocritically. ' Time is getting on.'

Let it,' observed Mr. McCullagh ; ' we'll be at
Portman-square well within the hour. Good-night,
Janet,' he went on ; * good-night, Effie. It'll be onto
eleven before I'm back. Don't lose your beauty
sleep, either of e, for me.'

Gaunt and erect stood Miss Nicol during the
progress of this amiable speech ; meek and drooping,
Effie.

Good-night, Effie,' said Robert kindly, with a
feeling for the moment stirring his heart that the
girl's life was lonely and unnatural. ' Good-night,
and be sure you don't forget the beauty sleep.'

Ay, ay, mind that,' added Mr. McCullagh,
groping his way down the grand old staircase, lighted
by the mournful gleam of one sad dip held aloft by
Effie on the landing.

Never had Robert known his father talk so much
to him as while they stepped briskly down 
side by side. With his work-a-day suit
Mr. McCullagh seemed to have doffed his ordinary
manner, and discoursed on all sorts of subjects till
Old Jewry was passed and Cheapside reached, and it
became necessary to concentrate his attention on
stopping a Baker street omnibus.

No poor wretch who ever travelled the West-end
route, surrounded with much state and circumstance,
to Tyburn, experienced a greater sinking of the
heart than young McCuUagh, as the vehicle bumped
and jolted along.

The demons exorcised for a few minutes came
back now accompanied by legions of fresh doubts
and fears.

Would his father expect the company to sit
round the table and sing songs when dinner was
finished, as had been the wont at those supper-parties
Robert remembered as a boy ? Would hein
the plenitude of his jocularity, ask Miss Pousnett
to give them a stave ? would he tell Mr. Pousnett, if
he declared he had no voice, he would be let off with
a good story or a bit of recitation extracted from
Whistle Pinkie? would he propose a toast, and
suggest it should be drunk Highland fashion, by the
gentlemen guests standing on their chairs and planting
one foot upon the table ? would he act as fugleman,
and lead on the cheering ? All these things,
and many more, had Robert beheld, and he turned
literally sick as he reflected what might be in
store for him.

You're no looking just the thing to-night,'
observed Mr. McCullagh, as the omnibus drew up at

Oxford-circus and the light from a lamp fell full
upon his son's face.

I have not felt well for some days past,' was the
answer.

I think ye are a hit over-anxious,' said his
father. ' If ye would take a word of advice from me,
don't fret about the matter. Supposing the offer
does come to nothing, some day maybe ye'll see it
was all for the hest;' from which cheering remark
Robert gathered the seven thousand pounds was as
far from him as ever.

I am not fretting about that,' said the young
man.

What are ye fretting about, then ?'

I don't know that I am fretting about anything;'
and then the omnibus jogging on again, conversation
became difficult.

The door of Mr. Pousnett's house in Portman-square
was opened by a butler whose grave and
dignified demeanour seemed to impress even Mr.
McCullagh with a feeling of solemnity. No archbishop
ever comported himself with greater stateliness.
The way in which he assisted the elder guest
off with his coat and relieved him of his hat was a
study ; the hushed and suave voice that asked.
What name, sir ?' was one never to be forgotten.

As lie might have gone to the scaffold, Robert
ascended the stairs, which were covered with carpeting
that felt like moss beneath his feet. He
went so slowly, his father, who had skipped lightly
on before him, had to pause on the landing ; whilst
the butler, who stood with the handle of the drawing-room
door clasped in his fingers, looked upon the
younger man's tardiness of progress more in sorrow
than in anger.

'Mr. McCullagh Mr. Robert McCullagh,' announced
the butler, flinging wide the door.

It was done ; the axe had fallen ; the Rubicon
was passed ; they were in the bosom of the Pousnett
family ; their first experience of high society had
commenced.

In the most genial manner Mr. Pousnett came
forward to greet his guests. He was delighted to
make Mr. McCullagh's acquaintance ; he was
charmed to see him in his house ; he felt his coming
all the greater honour because he understood that,
like a wise man, Mr. McCullagh thought there was
no place like home.

Let me introduce you to my wife,' he said ; an
attention Mrs. Pousnett declared was quite unnecessary,
' for I feel,' added that lady, who weighed
about twenty stone, and had that dulcet smoothness

of tone and manner which distinguishes fat people,
as if we were old acquaintances. Come and sit near
me, Mr. McCuUagh, pray do. This is my eldest
daughter. You do not know Mr. Stoddard, or
Captain Crawford;' and as she mentioned each name
she dexterously made Mr. McCullagh known to its
possessor. ' And now we can talk comfortably.
What lovely weather this is for the time of year !
O, by the bye, I have not spoken to your son. Mr.
Robert, I hope you will excuse my rudeness ;' and
again rising, she shook hands with her husband's
manager in a very gracious manner.

And yet Robert had never felt himself so utterly
a subordinate as at that moment.

After a short time two other young ladies entered
the room, who were mentioned respectively as ' my
niece Miss Vanderton, and my daughter Maude.'
The party now seemed complete, and Mr. McCullagh,
who was seated beside his charming hostess in the
full glare of an immense fire, began to wonder when
dinner would be served.

A mingled odour of many good things had
greeted his nostrils as he entered the hall, and as,
looking forward to the evening's dinner, he contented
himself with a mere snack in the middle of the day,
he was beginning to feel hungry.

Proverbially there is no worse quarter of an hour
than that which now ensued ; and though Mrs.
Pousnett did her best and Mr. Pousnett exerted himself
to the utmost, it was a very bad time which intervened
between the announcement of the guests
and the reappearance of the butler on the evening
that proved the turning-point in young McCuUagh's
life.

To his amazement, Piobert found he was far less
at ease than his father ; that the latter took all the
ease and luxury and magnificence of the house as
mere matters of course, and viewed with the indifference
of a Pied Indian hangings and pictures and
statues and screens and nicknames that he himself
was forced to glance at surreptitiously, his gaze
seeming to be attracted to them by some power much
stronger than his own will. Very good-naturedly
the eldest daughter took pity on him, and invited his
attention to some wonderful Indian carvings that
ornamented a side-table ; then she took him to the
conservatory, which led out of the back drawing-room,
and they talked about flowers, of which Robert
knew but little, till they were joined by their hostess
and Mr. McCullagh, who, it turned out, was much
more at home in Flora's domain than his son.

He had seen good gardens in his youth, and

remembered what he had seen. He was able to talk
about the Duke of Hamilton's hot-houses in Arran,
and the ferns and heather he had gathered in that
island when he was young. He knew the names of
many of the plants in the conservatory which were
strange to his son, and could give Miss Pousnett a
hint as to the mode of striking myrtles so as to
insure their blooming.

Knowledge of any kind is sure to make its way,
perhaps for the reason that, as a rule, people know
remarkably little; and before she swept down the
stairs to dinner, leaning on his arm, Mrs. Pousnett,
who was a remarkably astute lady, understood Robert
McCullagh was a well-meaning good-looking goose,
while his father possessed all the brains of which the
young man was destitute.

What a fairy-scene that dining-room seemed to
Robert ! Its warmth, its comfort, the subdued
lights, the appointments of the table, the silver, the
glass, the china, the snowy damask, the noiseless and
perfect attendance, the dresses of the ladies, the
quiet repose of their manners : he had never seen anything
like it before in all his life, and it came upon
him with a new pang that such an existence might
be his if only his father would listen to reason. Ashe
thought of this, Robert looked very steadily at the

author of his being, and was fain to confess he had
never beheld a man less likely to be coerced or
flattered into any course of action than the architect
and builder of his own fortunes.

Amongst all that grandeur he sat unmoved as
the Sphinx in the desert. There must have been
things in connection with such a meal to try the
equanimity of a man whose own domestic arrangements
had always been of the roughest and readiest
description ; but Mr. McCullagh might have been
sitting at great men's feasts all his life for aught anyone
could from his manner have told to the contrary ;
at any critical period one glance around told him
what others were doing, and seemed to give him the
needful hint. Robert, had he been gifted with a
spirit of prescience, might have saved himself much
unnecessary anguish of mind. Whatever the father
might feel, the son looked by far the more awkward.
In his attempts at conversation with the daughters
of the house, in his answers to Mr. Pousnett's remarks,
in his evident fear of doing that which he
ought not to do, and leaving something undone which
he should subsequently call to remembrance with
burning cheeks, Robert McCullagh was as evidently
out of his element in Mr. Pousnett's dining-room
as he felt in the paternal parlour.

Setting aside all social reasons for these results,
the young man was anxious and nervous as to the
upshot of the evening's proceedings. Would or
would not his father be led to see the error of his
ways, and delightedly make himself responsible for
seven thousand pounds ? Would the wealth and
the grandeur and the kindness and the deference
induce him to alter his decision ? Would his pride
be touched, his vanity flattered, his reason be convinced
? Robert did not believe it. With a fainting
spirit he addressed himself to the dinner, to which
he brought but scanty appetite, and with all his
heart and -r with all his soul wished the whole thing
over.

Mr. McCullagh, on the other hand, was quite at
his ease ; he was passing through no alternations of
hope and fear ; he had quite made up his mind on
the subject at issue, and so felt able to devote himself
to doing the agreeable.

Captain Crawford had not long before been
stationed in Edinburgh  indeed, he was of Scotch
extraction  and he and the merchant talked of many
things, in which Mrs. Pousnett also professed the
keenest interest.

We have spent some most delightful months in
Scotland one time or another,' she was good enough

to say. ' I always tell my husband there is no place
like it.'

And ye're very right,' remarked Mr. McCullagh.
Where would ye find a town like Edinbro', for instance,
or, just to go no further, any scenery like
that of the Clyde ? Have you seen the Holy Loch ?
No ! And I mind me ye said ye had never been to
Arran.'

'But we know the Burns country,' pleaded the
lady in extenuation.

And have ye stood on the very spot, mem,' said
Mr. McCullagh, warming to his work, ' where the
witches got hold of Meg's tail, and pulled it right
away from  Ahem !' coughed the North-countryman,
remembering just ia time that the broad speech of
his earlier youth might be somewhat out of place in
Portman-square and the presence of ladies.

Mrs. Pousnett, however, took no notice of his
confusion.

*I think we saw everything,' she said: 'the
thorn-tree and the place where  what was her
name?  hung herself; the old ruin where I really
could conjure up that weird company  see the Evil
One playing jigs, and Cutty Sark capering away to
the delight of Tam peeping through the window. It

is a most eerie place. Do you know, I dreamt of
that old churchyard for nights afterwards.'

For my part,' said Captain Crawford, ' I like
Edinburgh better than any other portion of Scotland.
Scott has invested the city and its environs with a
charm it must retain so long as the ruthless hand of
improvement passes it by. I never wearied of
walking over Arthur's Seat, or exploring the Canon-gate,
or mooning about Holyrood Palace. If it had
not been for the hope of being ordered abroad, I
should have quite lamented returning to London.'

Are ye expecting marching orders, then ?' asked
Mr. McCullagh, who was amongst other things a
keen politician.

'Sailing orders,' amended the officer. *Yes, I
trust we shall be sent to the Crimea ere long. It is
dreadful to stay here idle, and think of all that is
going on there now.'

He had struck the right vein ; as the war-horse
rushes to the battle, Mr. McCullagh plunged into
the conversational abyss thus opened. With his
keen eyes growing keener, with his sandy hair seeming
to bristle like that of a rough terrier, with his
heart on his lips and his soul in his face, the merchant
held forth on the weakness, folly, incapacity of the
Government.

Every man of them ought to be indicted for
murder,' he said ; * not manslaughter, but murder.
They'll make England the byword of the world. I
wonder what will be said in nineteen hundred and
fifty-four, when people read how the best and
bravest were left to die like cattle ? And all for
what? That red tape might assert its supremacy,
and a wheen idle young puppies in Government
offices make it appear as if they had something really
to do.'

*I am quite with you there,' said Captain Crawford,
as if at some far-away point he meant to differ
from the speaker in toto,

Now, Captain, pray do not disturb the peace of
the household by introducing politics,' entreated
Mrs. Pousnett. ' Mr. McCullagh, may I beg of you
to abandon the Eastern Question ?' and the lady laid
a persuasive hand, on which glittered many rings, on
the merchant's arm as she spoke. 'If you knew,
if you only knew the dread I have of hearing
the word Crimea, you would pity me, I am quite
sure.'

I can't say I think ye are alone in that dread,'
observed Mr. McCullagh dryly.

There now, I felt sure you would agree with
me,' she said, * in so far as this, at all events, that

politics are better absent from the dinner table.
You have no appetite,' she went on, with a bland
smile. * Is there nothing that you like ?'

*I have done very well, thank je,' answered Mr.
McCuUagh, who had marked with amazement Mrs.
Pousnett's gastronomic capabilities.

At that moment the lady took a goodly helping
of cabinet pudding, remarking as she did so,

It is said, I believe, that fat people are, as a
rule, small eaters: if you ever hear that again, Mr.
McCuUagh, don't believe it.'

I won't, mem,' he agreed, with a readiness quite
unexpected.

It was irresistible. Mrs. Pousnett laughed, her
daughters laughed. Captain Crawford laughed, and
finally Mr. McCuUagh himself joined in.

I would beg your pardon if it had not been
your own fault,' he said, when the merriment subsided.


'I do not think it was any one's fault,' Mrs.
Pousnett replied, laughing again, and then fanning
herself vigorously.

At length the dinner came to an end, the cloth
had been drawn  incredible as it may sound nowadays,
cloths were drawn six-and-twenty years ago 
dessert had been partaken of, the ladies had retired,

and then Mr. Pousnett, passing a decanter of fine
old port towards Mr. McCullagh, said he thought he
would find that a wine to his taste.

It is verra good,' answered the guest, taking a
sip out of his glass ; * sound, and of a rare vintage.
But I tell ye fairly, Mr. Pousnett, in my opinion
there never was the wine bottled could compare with
old Glenlivat.'

There is no Glenlivat in the house,' answered
Mr. Pousnett ; ' but I have some Bushels that is
beyond dispute. Touch the bell, Charlie, will you ?'
he said to Mr. Stoddard, who evidently stood high in
his good graces. * No, no, Mr. McCullagh, let me
have my way, please. It was stupid of me not to
think of it before.'

So the whisky was brought by the butler, who
looked as if he had never seen spirits in his life
before, and who would  judging from externals  no
more have thought of entering a public-house than a
bishop might have done. To Robert's great relief
both Mr. Pousnett and Captain Crawford ' mixed'
for themselves, just, as the gallant officer remarked,
to keep Mr. McCullagh company ; and when he and
Mr. Stoddard declined to join in such wild festivity,
the Scotchman made no remark save one disparaging
to their heads, repeating at the same time the old

advice concerning not sitting with their backs to the
fire, or mixing their liquors.

After a time Mr. Stoddard seemed to get very
tired of the whole affair, and hinted to Robert they
at least could join the ladies. Nothing loth, the
manager availed himself of the opening thus afforded,
and ascended with his companion to the enchanted
regions above blessed with the presence of lovely
women.

Ere long Captain Crawford followed their example,
and Robert then knew the eventful moment had come.
Probably at that instant Mr. Pousnett was breaking
the ice. Well, nothing good would come of it  of so
much he felt certain.

In a kind of stupid despair he glanced around the
paradise out of which he was to be cast for ever.

The mirrors, the rich hangings, the soft carpets,
the deep luxurious easy-chairs, the subdued light,
the leaping fire, the pictures, the ornaments, the
statuettes, the numberless adjuncts which make up
what is called the furniture of a modern drawing-room,
mingled all together as in a dream before his
eyes. There were the perfumes of flowers too, and
the tones of music. These were the surroundings
amid which the Pousnetts and thousands like them
lived every day; and he, Robert, might have been

one of that happy band  not a chief, perhaps, but a
happy subordinate  if Heaven had only gifted his
father with what the young man mentally styled
'common sense and notions like other people.'

The young ladies played and sang. Mrs. Pousnett
from the depths of an armchair addressed at intervals
some pleasant remark to a guest she could not but
see was ill at ease. Mr. Stoddard and Captain Crawford
concentrated their attentions on the daughters of
the house, and Miss Anderson. It was an awful
time of suspense to Robert, worse than any quarter
of an hour before dinner ever endured by hostess ;
the minutes went by slowly, coffee was carried round,
time passed on at a funereal pace. At last there was
the sound of voices on the staircase, the drawing-room
door opened, and Mr. McCullagh, followed by
Mr. Pousnett, entered the apartment.

Piobert looked at his father  he was wonderfully
brisk and gay in his demeanour ; then his glance
travelled to Mr. Pousnett, whose face wore an expression
of the blandest serenity. Mr. McCullagh
went direct to the fireplace, and began to talk to his
hostess concerning some knitting which she was
holding in her taper fingers.

Why,' she said, laughing, 'it seems to me you
know something of everything. Now my husband

VOL. I. K

is unable to tell knitting from netting, and can
recognise no difference between crotchet and tatting.
How is it you understand such matters ?'

I suppose it is because I bave aye kept my eyes
open,' answered Mr. McCullagb modestly. ' That
is a nice song your daughter is singing;' and he
turned bis bead slightly on one side to listen.

Sbe knows several Scotch ballads,' remarked
Mrs. Pousnett suggestively.

'Does sbe, now !' exclaimed Mr. McCullagb.

Yes ; and sbe will sing one for you if you ask
ber.'

'I will do that,' was the eager answer; and Mr.
McCullagb moved with the quick sidling walk which
was one of bis peculiarities towards the grand piano,
were Mr. Pousnett already stood conversing in a
low tone with Mr. Stoddard.

Miss Pousnett's song finished, Mr. McCullagb
preferred bis petition. If sbe could give bim just
one of the ballads of bis native land, bed be thankful.
He could fancy bow that lovely voice of hers
would sound in ' Tbe Land o' the Leal' or * A wee
bird cam' to my ball-door.'

I'll sing anything you like that I happen to
have, Mr. McCullagb,' replied that young lady
pleasantly. (' No saying I canna or I wunna about

her,' as Mr. McCullagh explained afterwards.)
What shall it be ?' She went on turning over the
leaves of a music-book handed to her by Captain
Crawford. ' There are a great many Scottish ballads
in this.'

'And Miss Pousnett has been good enough tolet
me teach her the proper pronunciation,' observed
Captain Crawford.

That's a verra important point,' said Mr.
McCullagh gravely.

How can he go on talking such nonsense,'
thought Robert, * while I am fretting my life out on
the hearth-rug ?'

Finally a song was selected, one Mr. McCullagh
was good enough to tell the company he had not
heard for forty-years  ' Flora Macdonald's Lament'
and forthwith Miss Pousnett commenced her
accompaniment, her latest admirer beating time all
wrong, as people do beat it with hand and foot and
head, the while he kept an appreciative eye on her
profile.

Just as she sang the first bar Mr. Pousnett made
the slightest possible sign to his manager, and walking
towards the conservatory, stood looking at the
flowers with apparently absorbed attention till Robert
joined him.

'It is best to put you out of your misery at
once,' began the great merchant ; ' your father
won't listen to my proposition.'

I knew he would not,' said the young man, in
an access of despair.

Well, I thought he would ; but I am forced to
confess you were right and I wrong. He is a wonderfully
clever man, would be a delightful man to do
business with, only  '

'He is as obstinate as a pig,' broke in Robert
angrily.

I did not mean to say that,' observed Mr.
Pousnett ; * but he is prejudiced  very ; and owing,

 I suppose, to the limited circle in which he has
moved, his view, both of men and things, is narrow.'

'I should think so,' agreed Mr. McCullagh's son,
with scornful emphasis.

I confess I did not believe the man lived who
could have been blind to the advantages of a partnership
in our house,' went on Mr. Pousnett.

There is not another man living who would be
blind to them but himself,' said Robert.

'However, I feel the matter is at an end now, 
that he will never reconsider his decision.'

No, that he will not,' acquiesced the other
mournfully.

I think 3'ou believe I have done all I could for
you.'

I am sure you have, sir ; and I can never feel
sufficiently grateful for your kindness.'

Thank you for saying so ; it makes what I have
to observe not quite so difficult of utterance.'

Yes, sir.' Robert spoke firmly, but his very
heart died away within him.

*It is this,' proceeded Mr. Pousnett, stooping
over a rose as he spoke. * Under present circumstances
I shall not be able to keep you on as
manager.'

Just what his father had prophesied. In a dumb
frenzy the young man stood waiting Mr. Pousnett's
further utterance.

Had I supposed for a moment your father would
refuse to help you, I never would have suggested
such a thing as a partnership to you, but I cannot
now repair that error. I raised your hopes in ignorance
of your true position, and I am very sorry for
it. I will do my best, and you must do your best, to
get a good berth ; plenty of firms will be glad to
take a person recommended by me ; but I cannot
keep you on. It would be an awkward position for
us both ; your own excellent sense will tell you a
man who once expected to be partner in a house

would never again be quite satisfied with a subordinate
position in it. Just now, perhaps, you may
imagine you would be, but I know to the contrary.
It is best we should part, and you may
rely on my exerting myself to the utmost to get
you a situation as good as that you hold now, if
not better.'

Do you wish me to go at once, sir ?' asked
Robert, in a choking voice.

At once ? Of course not. I have no intention
of casting you adrift in that fashion. Only we must
part, remember. I have thought it better to say
this to you to-night here, rather than tomorrow at
the office ; and now we won't talk any more about
the matter. You look pale ; of course this has
been a blow to you. Better come down-stairs and
have a glass of wine.'

But the discarded clerk would not go down-stairs;
in a blind sort of way he determined to remain in
paradise till the very last minute.

He felt he might never have another chance of
reentering it, never mix even on the semblance of
equal terms again with his employer's family.

*Just as you like,' said Mr. Pousnett, kindly
tolerant. * I cannot tell you how sorry I feel for
your disappointment, and how vexed I am with myself

for an interference which has ended so disastrously.'


You are very kind, sir,' murmured Robert ; and
they returned to the front drawing-room just as Miss
Pousnett was ending a second Scottish ballad for the
delectation of Mr. McCullagh.

How much longer the concert might have lasted
is uncertain but for Mr. Stoddard saying he had no
idea it was so late.

Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Pousnett said it was not
late or begged him to remain longer ; they took it
quite as a matter of course he should leave ; and
seeing this, Mr. McCullagh followed his lead, and
remarking to his son it was time they were thinking
about making their way home too ; thanked Miss
Pousnett for her * music,' and advanced to bid Mrs.
Pousnett good-night.

That lady, with her knitting trailing behind her,
met him half-way.

'Must you go, Mr. McCullagh?' she said sweetly,
quite pressing his hand as she held it in hers. ' I
am so sorry ; it has been such a pleasure to see you.
I am delighted to have made your acquaintance.'

I am going too ; I will walk with you a little
way,' volunteered Captain Crawford, as Mr. McCul-
laugh was about to say good-bye.

Mr. Pousnett went down into the hall with his
guests, and, urbane to the last, thanked Mr. McCul-
laugh for coming so far, and hoped he would not take
any cold. ' Good-night, Crawford ; we shall expect
to see you next Monday, of course;' and then the
butler held the front door wide, and they passed out
into the square, and paradise was left behind, and
Robert and his fortunes were pacing the cold wet
pavement. It had come on to rain slightly, and the
external air, after the genial warmth of Mr. Pous-
nett's room, felt chill and damp.

But the dull night and the slight drifting rain
did not seem to affect Mr. McCullagh's spirits in the
least.

He talked to Captain Crawford volubly as they
went along.

Ye'll no forget,' he said at length, 'that ye promised
to give me a call. I'd be proud if ye would;
and ye shall give me your opinion of what I call
the best whisky that ever came south.'

*I will come, thank you,' said the Captain politely.


Robert did not shudder now ; what did it matter
to him who came or who went, who stayed away or
stopped ? It could not alter his position or make
his prospects any brighter.

Mj' road lies in this direction,' remarked Captain
Crawford when they reached Oxford-street, pointing
towards the Marble Arch. ' I shall have to bid
you good-night now.'

Good-night, sir,' said Mr. McCuUagh, who had
taken for the officer one of those singular predilections
which at once set reason at defiance, and seem
to have no origin in instinct. * Good-night, and I
wish ye weel.'

I am sure I am very much obliged to you,' replied
Captain Crawford ; and having so spoken, he
took his departure, and the father and son were at
last alone.

We may as well walk on,' observed the elder ;
it's a trifle cold standing at this corner.'

It is enough to perish one to death,' said
Robert.

By the aid of a street-lamp they were passing
Mr. McCullagh stole one swift look at his son's face ;
what he saw in it probably suggested his next remark.


What a lot of timber they have in those rooms,
to be sure !'

I don't think I quite understand you, sir,' answered
his son.

Furniture  furniture, I mean,' said Mr. McCul-

lagli quickly ;  mahogany's timber and rosewood's
timber and ebony's timber, aren't they ?'

Of course,' agreed Robert. ' Yes ; I never was
in so handsome a house.'

What a trial it must be to a man to have such
a mountain of a wife always before his eyes !' was
the next genial observation.

*Mrs. Pousnett is considered a very fine woman,'
objected Robert irritably.

She is a very weighty one, at any rate,' said
his father.

The younger man deemed it best to make no
comment on this undeniably true statement, and
they accordingly walked a few yards further in silence.


They are a surprisingly pleasant family,' Mr.
McCullagh again broke ground. * I can't recall to
mind ever meeting with so many agreeable people
living under one roof. I wonder,' he added, ' if they
are as pleasant when they are alone.'

I do not know why they should not be pleasant,'
answered Robert, with some asperity, 'when they are
all of one mind.'

*I believe ye're right there,' said his father, with
a short laugh. *I do think they are all of one mind.'
Which observation suggested so many disagreeable

deductions, that the young man felt thankful to find
the omnibus they hailed so full there was only room
for one inside, which fact necessitated his climbing
to the knife-board.

Nevertheless he insisted on walking with his
father home to the very door, though Mr. McCullagh
said, * Hoots ! there is no need ; no need at all.'

The little attention must have pleased him,
however, for he observed at parting,

I won't ask ye to come in to-night, Robert, for
it's late, and ye ought to be in your bed : but if ye
can call round in the morning after breakfast, anytime
before ten, I'd like ye to do so ; there is a
matter I want to speak a word to ye about.'

MR. M'CULLAGH is GENEROUS.

It was with the gloomiest forebodings that Robert
McCullagh proceeded, on the morning after Mr.
Pousnett's dinner-party, to obey his father's behest.
He felt sure the interview would prove of no pleasant
description, for it never occurred to him  knowing
he had got as good as his marching orders  that anyone
could be ignorant of the fact. Whereas, in
truth, the idea that his son was politely dismissed
had not crossed Mr. McCulIagh's mind. He could
not have done such a thing himself : ask a man, for
instance, to partake of toddy, and seize an opportunity
over the last half tumbler to announce his
intention of making him bankrupt.

He was a hard man, a stern creditor, a trader who
wanted his honest pound of flesh ; but he had fine
instincts nevertheless. His best friend could not
have called him a gentleman ; but his worst enemy
must have admitted he had in many respects gentlemanlike
feelings and ideas. He often expressed the

opinion that it was ' aye best to keep business and
pleasure apart,' and carried his theory into practice
even to the extent of disliking to ' trade regularly
with his familiars.' Who that has ever been seduced
into friendly relations with the heads of a wholesale
house from whom he purchased his stockings, or the
customer to whom he subsequently retailed those
stockings over the counter, but must confirm the
truth of Mr. McCullagh's dictum ?

The younger Robert need not, as he wended his
way to Basinghall-street, have vexed his soul with
speculations concerning what his father would say on
the subject of his notice to quit. It never entered
into Mr. McCullagh's mind to imagine he had received
it : that interview in the conservatory he concluded
related solely to his own refusal of the seven
thousand pounds.

Seven thousand pounds, indeed !' mused the
canny Scot. ' My faith, even if he had seven thousand
pounds, the lad is better out of that hotbed of
extravagance.'

The morning was blustering ; after the previous
night's rain the wind had risen and was hurrying up
and down streets, and swooping around corners, and
playing at hide-and-seek both with its own currents
and passers-b}, at the angles of unexpected City

churches, and in all places where open spaces or
railings enabled it to have games in the least frequented
thoroughfares.

Greeting his son, Mr. McCullagh pronounced the
day 'fresh,' and said there was a pleasant change in
the weather ; which fact his face certainly seemed to
indorse, for it looked bright and sunshiny, and as if
its owner had been taking a country walk before
breakfast. He was standing on the doorstep,
evidently watching for his son, as Robert turned into
the paved courtyard ; and though he did not express
any joy at sight of his firstborn, the look of satisfaction
upon his countenance when the young man
loomed in view was unmistakable.

Come in, come in,' he said hospitably, flinging
wide the door of that apartment where Robert had,
eight days before, experienced seine forte et dure.
Take a seat. Are ye cold?' and Mr. McCullagh
actually stirred up a fire large enough to bear stirring.
Ye don't look well, Robert. What ails ye, man ?'

There's nothing ailing me, thank you,' answered
Robert ;' but I don't feel very well. I took too much
of Mr. Pousnett's wine, perhaps, last night.'

'It's no that,' said Mr. McCullagh. ' As ye are
aware, I don't hold with wine, thinking it a poor
liquor, only fit for weemen and foreigners ; but good

wine can hurt no man, and that wine we had last
night was just what a fault could not be found with.
Ye're too anxious, Robert. When all's said and
done, that's about the truth of it ;' and Mr. McCul-
laugh paused and regarded his son attentively.

Well, I need not be anxious now, at all events,'
answered the young man, with a bitterness of feeling
he was at no pains to conceal. ' It is over and
done with.'

As regards the partnership, we may con feeder
the matter settled,' agreed Mr. McCullagh. 'It
was nonsensical, and I may say an unfit thing to
make such a proposition to a person in your position ;
but big people like Mr. Pousnett take no thought for
anybody except themselves.'

After his experience of the previous evening,
Robert felt in no mood to do battle for the Mr.
Pousnetts of this world, and contented himself with
a muttered remark to the effect that ' no good could
be done by talking about the matter now.'

I do not want to trouble ye with any talk concerning
the partnership,' said Mr. McCullagh,
looking at his son with an expression in which pity,
contempt, and a lurking feeling of pride were
curiously mingled. ' I did not bring ye here to go
over the old ground again ; but I do want to have a

few words regarding your future, because I am much
out in my estimate of Mr. Pousnett if, after a bit, he
does not take some opportunity of sending you'about
your business.'

Robert looked up swiftly. After all, then, his
father did not suspect that already the fiat had gone
forth. There was comfort in the thought, Robert
felt, though any one might have wondered where he
found it; and his manner at once lost the certain
hard defiance which had characterised it since his
entrance.

Astute as he was, Mr. McCullagh failed to guess
the cause of the sudden brightness in his son's
face, ascribing the altered tone in which Robert said,
I think it is very likely he will,' to relief at the idea
that some * feasible plan of making a living was
about to be proposed to him.'

I am truly glad to see ye are beginning to look
at the affair sensibly,' observed Mr. McCullagh.
What I have got to say to ye will seem, no doubt,
a very poor sort of proposal after the big prize that
was dangled before your eyes ; but remember this,
my offer is an honest one, and I make it free of all
condition and stipulation whatsoever.'

'You are very kind, sir, I am sure,' said Robert,
puzzled beyond measure. After all, was his father

going to suggest taking him into partnership in his
own sweet-stuff line of trade ? On the whole, the
young man did not think he would care for such a
distinction.

'I need not go back over what I have told you
before about my own humble beginnings,' proceeded
Mr. McCullagh ; ' because you are not me, and your
time is now, and mine was then; and, all things considered,
it would not be fair to expect you to do at
your age what I felt small hardship when I was
nearly ten years your junior ; so we'll put my doings
on one side,' added Mr. McCullagh magnanimously,
and just see what we can devise to start you afresh,
if Mr. Pousnett should tell you he wants your room
instead of your company.'

Robert winced ; there was, alas, no 'if in the
case. He had been given to understand too clearly
Mr. Pousnett could exist without him.

It seems to me,' went on Mr. McCullagh, ' that,
supposing the worst comes to the worst, it would be
well for ye to try and do something for yourself. A
situation is all very well early in life ; but as a man
gets on, I think he has more heart in working for
himself than in toiling for a master. Now just at
the present time there are openings for making money
that may not soon occur again, and what I am willing

VOL. I. L

to do for ye is this : cast about and see the thing ye
feel most fit for. Consider at your leisure the line
ye think you're most likely to succeed in, decide as
to the locality where ye had best take an office, and
when ye are ready, come to me, and I'll do this :
guarantee your rent for one year, furnish your office,
so as to enable ye to begin in a creditable manner,
and lodge five hundred pounds for ye in the bank,
which, with good management, ye may increase
twentyfold before you're forty years of age.'

Here was a noble brought to nine pence ! Here
was an air castle resolved into a mud cabin ! A
possible seven thousand pounds, and many impossible
seven thousand pounds at the back of it,
reduced to five hundred, with no certainty or expectation
beyond, save that of hard work ! When a
man asks his fellow for ten pounds, and is offered
half-a-crown instead, with an air as if that sum would
purchase the Koh-i-noor, be rarely feels ecstatically
grateful. From the donor's point of view he should
do so, perhaps ; from Mr. McCullagh's, Robert ought
to have blessed him for his generosity. Disappointed
though he was, the young man made an effort to
express his gratitude. He recognised all such an
offer meant to a hard prudent man of business. Six
hundred or six hundred and fifty pounds in hard cash

he knew was a handsome present for his father to
suggest ; he had done nothing like this for his other
sons. Of course it was possible he might do more
for them eventually ; but, then, he also might do the
same by Robert. Deep in his soul he felt his father
was entitled to his heartiest thanks, and yet he found
it impossible to do more than utter a few commonplace
words of gratitude.

I'm no looking for gratitude,' said Mr. McCul-
laugh, a little vexed at his son's lack of enthusiasm ;
and if ye can put the money to good account, it'll be
more to me than a bushel-measure full of thanks.
Ye're my first-born, Robert, and though ye're not
much like your father in ways or thoughts, any more
than looks, I'm very sure you're not answerable for
that. The Almighty never meant us all to be just
similar ; and I  I want to do what is right by ye, if
I can.'

That I'm sure you do,' said Robert, touched by
something in his father's tone he had never heard
ringing through it before ; * and I am very, very
grateful to you.'

And ye're very welcome,' answered Mr. McCul-
laugh. ' It's a come-down I can weel understand ;
but still, as time goes on, I hope you will be able to
make a fine business. I began in a cellar at ten

pounds a year, and look at me now. Though I say
it as maybe shouldn't say it, there's not a man in the
City better trusted than " plain auld Eab." '

I know that father, well,' agreed Robert, remembering
many things Mr. Pousnett had said about his
parent.

After ye spoke to me first,' went on Mr. McCul-
laugh, ' I kept turning your matter over and over in
my mind, and I just determined, if Pousnetts were
playing at fast and loose with ye, I would see ye did
not fall too heavy; so if the worst should happen,
don't trouble yourself about looking after another
situation. While ye're fresh out of such a big firm
set up for herself, and see if ye can't make a spoon.
There's no call for ye to spoil a horn.'

And what line of business should you suggest,
sir, as the best for me to take to ?' asked
his son, who had sense enough to understand that
the words just uttered contained both rhyme and
reason.

Time enough for all that,' answered Mr. McCul-
agh. * We won't rush at any scheme. Consider
the matter quietly, and then, if Pousnett should say
he is going to make different arrangements, come tome,
and we'll put our two heads together, and see
what we can make out of them.'

There are many people in the world who consider
frankness a mistake, and draw a wide distinction
between keeping silence and telling a lie ; yet the
fact is that, in many cases, reticence and falsehood
prove synonymous terms, and produce the same
results.

By holding his tongue at that critical moment,
and failing to say, ' Virtually Mr. Pousnett has
already dismissed me,' Robert McCuUagh commenced
that course of deceit which eventually caused him
much misery.

He had never been candid with his father, and at
this critical juncture he felt it more than he could do
to confess : ' I shan't be in Pousnetts' long ; the
sooner I clear out of the place, the better Mr.
Pousnett will be pleased.'

'And while we are talking about your future,
Robert,' continued Mr. McCullagh, totally unconscious
of the trouble agitating his son's mind, ' there
is another matter I want to say a word about. Don't
ye think it would keep ye together a bit if ye took
to yourself a companion ?'

What sort of a companion ?' asked the young
man, in amazement.

Why, a wife, to be sure,' answered his father
somewhat testily.

' A wife !' repeated Robert. ' Where would I get
one ? What would I do with her ?'

I know where ye could get one,' said Mr. .
* What ye would do with her is quite
another question  not treat her ill, I hope.'

You may he very sure I would not ill-treat any
woman,' answered his son; 'but I have never yet
seen the person I should like to marry.'

That's strange,' mused Mr. McCullagh ; ' and
you getting on for thirty year of age.'

*It may be strange, but it's true,' Robert replied.

And yet there's a young woman who is very fond
of you, if I am not greatly mistaken.'

Of me ! Who on earth is she ?'

Jest Effie, the creature.'

Effie !' echoed Robert. ' D'ye mean Effie Nicol ?'

I do not know any other Effie,' was the answer,
dryly spoken.

But what makes you think she cares for me ?'

Man, man, if ye hadn't been so taken up with
yourself and your concerns, you'd have found that
out long and long ago. She's young, and she's not
bold, and she has not the gift of the gab, and she'd
be ashamed to put herself forward ; but any one with
half an eye could tell she likes the very ground ye
step on.'

What an awful idea !' ejaculated Robert involuntarily.


What's an awful idea ?' asked Mr. McCullagh.
Isn't it a good thing for a wife to like her husband ?
D'ye think it is a happiness for a man to feel she is
aye scorning and looking down upon him ?'

No, sir, I do not ; but I think a man should
love his wife, and most certainly I do not love Effie.'

Just give your mind to the matter, and ye'll soon
care quite enough for her.'

That I am sure I never should,' was the quick
retort. ' I have not the smallest fancy for spending
my life with a mute.'

Mr. McCullagh laughed sardonically.

When ye're been married to her a year ye'll find
out the difference ; maybe ye'll be wishing then she
had never found the use of her tongue.'

I have not a word to say against Effie,' began
Mr. Robert McCullagh.

If ye had, we'd best not say it before me, ' interpolated
his father.

I said I had not. She is a good girl, I make no
doubt, and I hope she may take the fancy of some
worthy man ; but so far as I am concerned, if there
was not another girl on the face of the earth, I would
not marry Effie Nicol.'

Weel, weel,' said Mr. McCullagli, 'ye need not
make such a racket about the matter ; nobody's going
to force ye to marry her. If ye don't like the lass,
and can't like her, why, somebody else will, that's all
there's to be said. She's fond of ye, as I said ; but
I'll be bound she won't break her heart about ye ;
and as ye say it's just impossible ye could ever fancy
her, I'll soon put the notion out of her head. I am
sure I don't know how it ever got there.'

Nor I,' said Robert emphatically ; ' not through
any fault of mine, that is quite certain.'

I wish ye could have made a match of it,' observed
Mr. McCuUagh, in a matter-of-fact sort of
way, as if he were talking about a deal in Scotch
provisions. * She'd have made ye a good managing
sort of wife, and helped ye to put by something
against a rainy day ; still, as it's not to be, why, it
won't.'

*It can't be, sir,' amended his son.

That's just what I'm saying, and so we needn't
waste any more breath talking over impossibilities.
Ye'll bear in mind, though, what I mentioned about
that five hundred pounds. I'll put it on one side, soif
ye do get the route at Pousnetts', or if ye should
think we'd like to try for yourself, it'll be ready.'

I really do not know how to thank you sufficiently,

father,' said Robert, with as much show of
gratitude as he could call up.

I can tell ye,' answered Mr. McCullagh : ' put
the money to a good use  mind the parable of the
talents  and neither fling the cash away, nor fail to
make more of it. There's a deal to be done with
five hundred pounds in ready cash if a man knows
how to lay that amount out judiciously. Situated as
ye are, Robert, ye ought to know how to lay your
hand on many and many a bargain.'

Yes, sir, I often know where bargains might be
picked up.'

Then, for the Lord's sake, don't let them slip 1'
entreated Mr. McCullagh, with an earnestness of look
and diction which was quite pathetic. ' If ye are so
situated ye can't turn them to account yourself, let
me have a chance to make an honest penny. I am
afraid ye haven't been half wide enough awake. Why,
the flotsam and jetsam floating by a big house like
Pousnetts' ought to be enough to make a dozen moderate
fortunes. Keep your eyes open, Robert, and
God be with ye ! Mind about the five hundred, and
if ye see or hear of a chance, don't let it escape ye.'

It shall not,' answered Robert, inwardly lamenting
he had permitted so many likely things to elude
his grasp.

That's right,' returned his father ; ' and now
I'll bid ye good-morning, for ye must be wanting to
make your way to Pousnetts', and I've an engagement
in Little Britain before eleven. I hope ye feel a bit
more content.'

It would be strange if I did not, sir,' replied
his son ; but Mr. McCullagh understood his words
lacked the ring of true sincerity, and when Robert
left the room, said audibly,

He's hankering after the flesh-pots of that vile
land of Egypt. It's a pity, but I won't be hard upon
him ; no, the Almighty knows I want to do right by
the lad, though I am not going to give my hard-earned
money to make him a cipher among those
grand folks, who don't care a twopenny-piece what
becomes of him so long as he serves their turn.'

Half MOSTIN.

After leaving Basinghall-street, the object of Mr.
McCullagh's anxious cogitations did not immediately
proceed to Pousnetts' offices.

Almost without definite intention he involuntarily
bent his steps towards North-street, in the neighbourhood
of Barbican. As a child when in trouble turns
naturally to its mother for consolation, so in the
extremity of his depression Robert McCullagh thought
with comfort of the only person of whom he had ever
made a confidant  his second cousin, Als Mostin.

There was nothing in his life that agreeable relative,
stanch friend, old schoolfellow, did not know ;
and the young man felt it would take the keen edge
off his disappointment to hear his cousin's view of
the matter, and to receive the ready sympathy he
had never yet found denied him.

As he reached the house where Mr. Als Mostin
resided, and carried on an unprosperous business, all
upon the second floor, there came out upon the step

the very prettiest girl Mr. Robert McCullagh had
ever seen in the whole course of his life. She was
leaving the house, and turned at the instant of his
arrival down North-street, so that she met the young
man point-blank. She was like a gleam of sunshine
in a dark place ; and Robert, forgetting for a moment
all his annoyances, stood upon the doorstep looking
after her retreating figure. While he watched, the
wind served him a good turn, and the girl a scurvy
trick. It blew her dress over a rude scraper which
projected awkwardly upon the pavement ; and as she
walked on, unconscious of the catastrophe impending,
gave the silk another twirl round the piece of iron.

Next moment there was the sound of something
being suddenly and violently rent ; the lady was
striving to extricate her skirt, and Robert was beside
her, proffering his assistance. How pretty she was !
How pleasantly she laughed ! How modestly she
blushed ! How sweetly she thanked him for his
help ! How deftly she gathered her dress round her,
so as to conceal the grievous slit in the poor cheap
silk ! How fair she was to look upon ! What an
exquisite rose-pink tinted her cheeks ! What threads
of gold flecked her brown sunny hair ! Robert had
scarcely self-possession enough left to raise his hat
as she bowed and said, * Good-morning.' If he never

was in love before, be was in love now. Cupid bad
not been blind this time ; be took straight aim, and
shot the young man through the heart. ' Love at
first sight,' some one laughs, perhaps. It sounds
ridiculous ; and yet there are those wbo believe that
this love at first sight is the only love a man remembers
when be is taking bis last look back over
life for ever.

Like a man in a dream, young McCullagb waited
till sbe turned the corner of the street and disappeared
from outward view; then slowly be retraced
bis steps to the door from wbicb sbe bad
emerged.

Tbe ground and first floors were occupied by a
solicitor, wbo used the rooms as offices; the basement
and attics were retained by the old lady wbo
lived on the amount ber bouse produced by letting
in this manner ; on the second floor Als Mostin resided,
bad resided for years. Could it be possible
be knew the girl? Could sbe bave been coming
from bis office ? As the idea flashed through Robert's
mind, for the first time in bis life be felt a pang of
jealousy.

Ab, if Effie Nicol bad a poor chance before, sbe
bad none at all now ! Then and for the future
Robert McCullagb's hitherto vague ideas on the subject

of female loveliness found embodiment in a pair
of dark-gray eyes, shaded by darker lashes, a straight
delicate nose, a frank mouth, a complexion such as
is rarely seen save in young children, soft hair,
amongst which the sunbeams seemed to have made
their home, a slight willowy figure, and a manner
which, though modest as a woman's could be, had
yet about it a simple winning grace.

Passing into the hall from which this vision of
loveliness appeared, robert McCullagh made his way
up to the floor occupied by his cousin. There were
two doors on the landing, one of which, marked
Office,' was used by Mr. Mostin for business purposes
; whilst the other, bearing the legend * Private,*
he kept sacred to the delights of domestic life. Out
of the office, which overlooked the street, there
opened a small inner chamber, where Mr. Mostin
slept.

Without waiting an answer to his knock, Robert
opened the door marked private, and entered a room
pervaded by a smell of fried bacon. Beside the fireplace,
indeed, stood a gentleman in his shirtsleeves,
who had evidently been engaged turning some rashers
in the pan, when distracted from his employment by
the advent of a visitor.

It's you, is it. Bob ?' he said cheerily, shifting

a fork from his right hand to his left, and extending
the former to Robert. * You are just in time. The
coffee is made, and the bacon will be done in a
minute. Get yourself a cup, like a good fellow, and
pull off your top-coat.'

*I can't stop, thank you,' said the new-comer,
taking a position at the opposite side of the hearth,
and standing propped up against the mantelpiece.

I have breakfasted, and I must be getting on to the
office.'

Sit down, at any rate, man,' urged the other ;

there is an easy-chair beside you, and tell me the
news. Why, it is an age since I saw you ! What
have you been doing ?'

'Nothing that's any good,' answered Robert
gloomily, the while his eyes wandered slowly round
the room. No; she could not have been there. A
man without his coat, engaged in frying rashers of
bacon, in an atmosphere redolent of pig in its artificial
state, could not have been visited by youth and
beauty, by dark-gray eyes and sunny hair and peach-like
cheeks, and a forehead as white as snow. It was
simply impossible.

Anything that's very bad ?' asked Mr. Mostin,
putting the rashers on a plate, and lifting the coffee-pot
from the hob.

Yes, a great deal that's bad,' replied his cousin ;
or, at least, other people have been doing it for me.'
'What's the matter now ?' inquired Mr. Mostin,
regarding his relation with a look of fixed attention.


Go on with your breakfast, and I will tell you,'
said Robert ; and he drew his chair closer, though
the room was so small he could well have made himself
heard in any part of it.

'All right,' agreed his cousin, setting to work
with a will upon the viands himself had prepared and
spread on the hospitable board.

A good-looking man ; a better-looking man than
Robert McCullagh, though the latter was by far the
handsomer of the two ; a man with twice the brains
and thrice the heart, yet one who would never do
much good for himself by reason of a curse which
had been laid on him at birth  inveterate laziness.
All the talent of the Mostin family, and all their failings,
seemed to have descended to him. : all their
kindliness, all their versatility, all their want of thrift,
all their power of making friends, all their facility for
letting opportunities slip through their fingers. The
man did not exist who could have made a good thing
of life for this Als Mostin, since, had any one handed
over to him a fine estate, he would, without indulgence

in a single vice so called, soon have muddled
it away.

Whether the lack of any kind of management be
not as much a vice as gambling, drinking, or stealing,
is a question the world has as yet decided in the
negative. The day must come, however, I fancy,
when the man who cannot make his incoming and
his outgoings balance will be looked upon as little
better than a thief.

In those days, in that state of life in which he
had been born, Als Mostin managed to rub along
somehow. He sustained existence after an economical
fashion, cooking his own meals when he had
any, employing no errand-boy, and when he was
absent from his office tacking pieces of paper on his
door, which perhaps served his purpose better than
any clerk. He had a pile of these papers laid aside
in a corner ready for use ; they varied from minutes
to hours, from to-day till tomorrow, or even longer,
which he used as expediency or fact warranted. For
example : ' 1 p.m.  return in half an hour ;' or ' return
in five minutes  please wait,' were usually
genuine, and meant business ; while ' Gone out of
town  return on Thursday,' signified, as a rule, to
the initiated that Mr. Als Mostin had a pressing creditor
he did not want to face, and that, instead of

VOL. I. M

being in the country, he was really behind bolted
doors sitting over the fire, striving with some novel
to cheer his loneliness.

A useful man to have for a friend, since there
was nothing in the whole gamut of sin and folly his
fellow need have feared or been ashamed to tell him.
He did not love wickedness per se ; but experience
had taught him it was more natural than virtue ;
whilst for the evils arising out of bad management
and weakness, he held that thorough sympathy no
man can ever feel whose own life is not a series of
shifts and excuses.

How he had drifted into the sea of turbid troubled
waters in which he was engulfed it would be difficult
to say. He did not go straight from school into the
purgatory of debt and duns, from which it now
seemed as though nothing short of a miracle could
release him. At some time, in some way, he took a
wrong turn, and from that period he had proceeded
slowly, but surely, downhill. Already honest traders
shook their heads dubiously when Als Mostin was
spoken of; his paper was considered something more
than 'shady;' his promises were simply regarded as
in the nature of piecrust. There were those who did
not care even to be seen talking to him where ' men
do congregate ;' and jeX, he had that power of making

fresh and eligible acquaintances, and that accursed
facility for raising money, perfectly inexplicable to
toilers along the world's highways, who have not
found it easy to make useful friends, and who are
very sure silver and gold are not to be picked up
without extremest labour on any road they have ever
passed along.

Such, however, as he was, there he sat in his
shirt sleeves at breakfast on the morning after Mr.
Pousnett's party, eating bacon, drinking coffee, cutting
himself hunches of bread, and all the while listening
attentively to his cousin's tale of woe. He did
not interrupt it by a word ; he heard in silence, as
though the offer of a partnership in such a firm as
Pousnetts' and an invitation to dinner from Portman-square
to Basinghall-street were amongst the commonest
incidents of ordinary existence.

Down almost to date Robert brought his narrative
; he told about his father's offer, even repeated
what he had said concerning Effie, ere Als Mostin
spoke. Then the only remark he made was,

I wonder jon ever mentioned the matter in
Basinghall-street at all.'

'I should not have mentioned it, you may be
very sure, if I had known what the result would
prove.'

Yes, but that is just what you ought to have
known.'

I didn't think there was a man in London who
would have refused his son help to get him a partnership
in Pousnetts'.'

Didn't you ?' Well, I could have told you that
your father would be the man.'

And such a chance !' said Robert gloomily.
Such a chance as can never come again  never.'

*It was a grand chance,' agreed Mr. Mostin.

And what on earth I am to do now I am sure I
have not a notion.'

You can't take to Effie and the five hundred
pounds ?'

No, I would not marry Effie for fifty thousand
pounds.'

I don't think I would myself,' said Mr. Mostin
musingly. ' She's uncommon still water ; but I'd
take my oath there's a devil at the bottom.'

Robert, who had been tracing a pattern with
crumbs on the tablecloth, looked up quickly.

You're wrong there, Als ; the girl is colourless
altogether.'

Is she ?' laughed Als.

Have you ever seen her cross ?' asked Robert, in

hot-vindication of the girl he had pitied the preceding
night.

No, and I don't want to see her.'

I had no notion you had ever noticed Effie at
all,' said Robert curiously.

'I've noticed her,' was the reply. 'I've cast up
the young lady, stock, lock, and barrel, and believe
she is dangerous. However, we needn't talk about
her now. Can't you take to the five hundred ?
Small beginnings, you know.'

I am afraid I could not make much out of five
hundred. I have been trained in too big a house
for that.'

It seems to me a man had better have nothing
than such a sum,' said Mr. Mostin from the hearth-rug,
where, having finished his breakfast, he had
now taken up his position. ' He can't lose nothing ;
and he can lose five hundred, and hear a deuce of a
row about it too.'

Which I should, if I lost it,' answered Robert,
to whom this view of the question had not previously
occurred.

What bothers me, is why you went to your
father at all,' said Mr. Mostin, reverting to his first
inquiry. ' You must have known he would refuse
to help you.'

How was I to know anything of the sort ?'

How ? Just the way everybody else does. Men
who like to keep what he calls " a grip of the silver"
are not in the habit of presenting even a beloved
first-born with seven thousand pounds in hard cash.'

But it would not have been giving it to me. If
he had put his name on a bill at twelve, eighteen
months, two years, Mr. Pousnett would have made
no difficulty.'

Yes ; but, you know, he won't accept a bill,'
said Als Mostin determinedly ; ' and, what's worse,'
he went on, with a comical expression, ' he won't
take one : he actually refused mine.'

You don't mean to say you offered it ?'

Why not, my son ? And had he taken that
bill, it would have been paid. The chance came in
my way of sending out goods to that place which, in
the charming alliteration of the City, is called the
Cursed Crimea. Your parent could have supplied
many, and got all of them. I pointed out to him it
was an opportunity which might never occur again.
I offered him my bill, and promised he should have
that of a good firm to replace it the moment the
goods were shipped. I employed all my eloquence.
I said things which, I think, ought to have drawn
blood from a stone ; but your papa did not see it.

He thought it " would jest suit him ; that he
diana care to extend his trade in the direction I
pointed out ; that he had as much to do as he could
weel get through, but he felt no doubt there were
bigger houses would be glad to execute my order."
Having uttered which sardonic remark, he added he
was busy, and must wish me good-day.'

And then  '

Then I went and blasphemed like the parrot
under my breath all the way up the court, and all
the way back to these diggings.'

But, Als '

Yes, Robert.'

There is this difference between the cases  that
you very often do not pay.'

There is no difference at all ; you might not
pay.'

I should have been sure to do so.'

That is what everybody believes when he borrows
money, backs a bill, takes a house, buys on
credit, makes himself liable in any way. Do you
know, Robert, if a man can act up to his profession,
I think your father is right. The devil of it is,
there is not one in a thousand, there is not one in
ten, in a hundred thousand, who could lay down a
rule and stick to it as he has done. In the first

place, carrying such a rule out means an inflexibility
of purpose happily rare ; in the next, it means
giving up everything a human being finds pleasant
to the eye and grateful to the sense. It all resolves
itself into a question of temperament. His is cold
and hard, like his native climate. Here in London
we can't live on sheep's head and oatmeal
porridge ; we like our beer and our steak if we can
get them, and the consequence is often bankruptcy,
no doubt ; yet we have enjoyed the ale and the
steak more, I fancy, than we should the sheep's
head with prosperity, and the oatmeal with a balance
at the bank.'

I thought the sight of that magnificent house
last night might have turned his purpose,' said
Robert, disregarding his cousin's abstract reflections,
and reverting, as people always do revert, to his own
aims and disappointments.

Did you ? To such a man the sight of a fine
house merely serves the same purpose as a lighthouse
does to vessels  warns him to keep his distance.'


You are in a most cynical mood this morning,
Als,' said his cousin irritably.

Possibly, I want five pounds badly,' answered
the other.

Take it, then, for Heaven's sake !' exclaimed
Piobert, throwing a note on the table.

'And Bark said to Balaam  ' muttered Mr.
Mostin to himself, turning his face towards the fire,
and kicking down the coals, which were burning
hollow, with the heel of his slipper. ' I wonder,' he
resumed, after that momentary diversion, ' whether
Doyle could not manage this business for you ?'

Who is Doyle ?'

Don't you know Doyle ? Bless your innocent
heart, I thought every one in the City knew that
friend of youth and inexperience. Doyle is a gentleman
who was born in Dublin. His papa's name
being Schnee, and his mamma's Burt, he decided
that Doyle would commit neither side of the house.
Mr. Schnee was a German, Mrs. Burt an American.
Doyle is an Irishman ; and when I say that in his
own person he unites the vices of the three nations
mentioned, you will perhaps think I have stated
enough.'

Having concluded which eulogium upon his
friend, Mr. Mostin turned the little clock that
adorned his mantelshelf right round, took ofi" its
back, and commenced winding it up with the claw
of a hammer.

With a horrible fascination Robert watched this

performance ; the man to whom it could have occurred
to wind up a clock with the claw of a hammer
might really perhaps get him seven thousand
pounds. To be sure he stood in want of five
pounds himself, but that was nothing. If he
lacked that amount to-daj', he might have five
hundred tomorrow.

I think Doyle would do it for you somehow,'
said Als Mostin, as he replaced the clock in its
former position, and listened with an approving
expression to its brisker click, click, click, click.
Shall we go and ask him ? It could not do any
harm to ask him, could it ?'

'No, that it could not !' exclaimed Robert McCul-
laugh, springing to his feet. ' Where is his place *?'

In Bush-lane,' answered Mr. Mostin, ' the very
dirtiest dingiest hole in the City. However, if the
money can be got, it does not matter what mine it is
dug out of. Gold is always gold. Bob, even when it
comes from a certain locality which shall be nameless.'


*If I could but get it, if I only could!' sighed
his cousin mournfully.

Well, let us try, at any rate,' said Mr. Mostin,
donning coat, topcoat, and hat with the speed of a
magician. ' One minute ; I must just stick up a

notice  " Return at one"  that will give law enough.
Now come along ; there's no one to fling an old shoe
after us for luck, unless I ask Mother Clements to
perform that ceremony'

As he spoke, a very different vision from Mother
Clements recurred to Robert's memory, and instantly
he spoke.

'By the bye, Als,' he said, 'as I was coming inhere
this morning I met a lady.'

Did you really ? Yell, that is nothing to make
a song about.'

But she was young and very pretty.'

Likely enough. Some mornings all the pretty
girls turn out ; some mornings all the old hags.'

She came out of this house.'

You don't mean it "?'

Yes, I do. Is she a friend  of yours ?'

Of mine ! Lord love you, I do not know a
pretty girl ; if I did, she would not come visiting a
chap so out at elbows with Fortune as I am.'

I wonder who she is ?'

"VVTiat does it matter ? eye have other fish to
fry besides pretty girls. Let us go and see Doyle.'

COME INTO MY PARLOUR,' ETC.

As they strode hurriedly towards Bush-lane, Mr.
Robert McCullagh junior felt grateful to his cousin
for selecting the least frequented of the City thoroughfares.
So far as it was in the young man's
nature, he loved Als Mostin, yet for very different
reasons from those which occasioned the avoidance
of ' good men and true,' Robert would rather not
have been seen walking at high noon with his relative.
Mr. Mostin was, in truth, as regardless of his
appearance as of his character. Muddy boots, unbrushed
coat, shabby hat, gloveless hands at a period
when gloves obtained, were to him matters of the
utmost indifference. Always careless concerning his
dress, he had, since the occasion of the World's Fair
in Hyde Park, become, as his uncle's wife said, * perfectly
dreadful.' From the day he first set foot in
the great glass house he let his beard and moustache
grow, and that at a time when such facial adornments
seemed not merely strange to the mass of Englishmen,

but wicked. Likewise he wore coloured neckties
instead of orthodox black, and shirts with pink
and lilac and blue stripes upon them, which filled
the soul of Robert McCullagh with dismay. Further,
he never carried an umbrella, though he was often
to be met nursing a great brown-paper parcel. A
capital fellow, no doubt, in North-street or in the
shades of evening, but scarcely the companion young
McCullagh felt proud to be striving to keep step
with, when at any minute he might meet one of
Pousnetts' clerks or Pousnetts' customers.

Though quite unconscious of the feelings at work
in his cousin's breast, Mr. Mostin intuitively never,
save when it was necessary to cross a great thoroughfare,
touched even upon the leading streets. He
avoided all busy bustling pavements as if by instinct ;
he knew short cuts no man save himself could ever
have discovered ; he went straight up passages which
led apparently only to some house, and went through
the building out into another street; he was far
better acquainted with the queer courts and alleys
of the City than Mr. Pousnetts' manager, and merely
for the ' sport,' as it seemed, took so-called short
cuts and indulged his fancy for devious ways when
the direct route would have served as well, if not
better.

On the present occasion nothing, however, could
have pleased Robert more than this game of dodging
here and there, of turning into alleys apparently
blind, and emerging through queer little passages
into narrow lanes beyond. Many of these places are
now done away with altogether, and those which are
left it would be difficult to indicate to an outsider ;
but on the morning in question they served their
turn. Not a creature that the cousins knew did
they meet ; not an acquaintance save the wind
greeted them the whole length of the way from
North-street to Bush-lane.

Mr. Doyle was in his office and alone. His clerk
chanced to be out, so he answered Als Mostin's
knock himself.

0, how d'ye do, Mr. Mostin ?' he said, extending
his hand. ' Pray come in. Is this gentleman with
you ?' he asked, turning to Robert.

It is my cousin. Come in, Bob ;' and the three
accordingly entered Mr. Doyle's inner office.

Dingy most certainly it was, but dirty decidedly
not. Next to great financial ability Mr. Doyle's
strongest point was order. If he had removed in
the morning, evening would have found him with
books, boxes, papers all ranged methodically in due
place, all ready to his hand. He never wasted his

time hunting through piles of untidy papers for a
letter. He could produce any document at a moment's
notice ; his correspondence M-as pigeon-holed,
his bills and receipts filed alphabetically, his accounts
kept  save for one peculiarity  so that all who ran
might read. A housekeeper was paid for keeping
the place clean ; and Mr. Doyle had no idea of paying
any one when work was left undone.

About his office there was nothing suggestive of
the mere commonplace money-lender, nothing such
as we read of in books and see occasionally in real
life. Not a picture of any sort, not a scrap of china,
not a sample bottle of sherry : no dentist's operating-room
was ever barer of ornament than the apartment
where Mr. Doyle received his clients. Over the
mantelshelf hung a map of South America; on the
wall, between two high cabinets, was suspended an
almanac ; an old Turkey carpet covered the centre of
the floor ; an escritoire stood in a recess beside the
fireplace, flanked by a huge safe. Almost every
available foot of wall-space was occupied by cupboards
of one sort or other. These cupboards all
locked ; when Mr. Doyle left his office at night he
did not leave so much as his blotting-pad on the
table to add to the housekeeper's labour, or to whether
laudable curiosity.

In person Mr. Doyle was as clean and orderly as
his office. A man of middle height, and more than
middle age, getting, as men in the City are apt to doa
little fat, with a round face so close-shaven as not
to leave even the vestige of a hair on cheek, chin, or
lip, a head already giving signs of coming baldness,
a perfectly expressionless cast of countenance, light-blue
eyes, light eyelashes, a white but healthy complexion,
plump well-formed hands, ears with that curl
in them which is supposed  I think untruly  to indicate
a love of music, and a somewhat short neck,
necessitating, as he liked to hold himself erect, an
upward carriage of the chin, imagined by many to
denote conceit.

In this idea, however, the many were totally
wrong. Probably the man never existed who was so
destitute of conceit as Mr. Doyle. Mentally he
chanced to be too clever for such a weakness ; and as
regards physical matters he entertained a contempt,
warranted, perhaps, by the circumstances of his
experience, for handsome men. He despised good
looks in his own sex, just as he contemned the use
of scents.

Beauty and eau-de-cologne are the perquisites
of women,' he was wont to remark : ' men ought to

have something better to do than think about perfume
and padding.'

Mr. Doyle had, at any rate, something different :
to make money and to keep it, so that one day
he might be rich enough to drop money-lending
altogether, and start in quite another line of life.

Next to his desire to amass wealth was a mania
for respectability. It needed but one look at his
appearance to guess the name of the god on whose
shrine he was willing to sacrifice. The cut and
quality of his clothes, his immaculate linen, the stiffness
of his stand-up collar, the tie of his cravat, the
spotlessness of his cuffs, the plain solidity of his
watchman, the polish of his boots, the measured
flow of his words, from which every trace of accent
had been carefully and painfully eliminated  these
things, and such as these, were but the outward and
visible signs of the ceaseless war two most opposite
characteristics were ever waging in Mr. Doyle's
heart. Even the wife of his bosom had no idea of
the nature of the business in which her liege lord
was engaged. He lived in the suburbs  indeed,
quite in the country, a long way from London, as
distances counted in those days. He had a good
house at Enfield Highway, with some nine or ten

VOL. I. N

acres of land attached ; he was a churchwarden, and
much esteemed by the local clergy ; his boys and
girls went to schools in the neighbourhood, and were
in much favour with their masters and mistresses.
The family had quite a nice little circle of acquaintances,
who knew no more of their friends' position
in life than that they were very pleasant people, who
gave agreeable parties, and that the husband was
something in the City.'

Many of the men looked his name up in the
Directory, but could not find it for the reason
indicated by Als. Mostin.

The ground, however, Mr. Mostin implied was
wrong. Mr. Schnee and Mr. Burt, widow of Barry
Burt of New York, United States, and Cork, Ireland,
were as honestly married as man and woman
could be ; and when in the course of time young
Richard was born in Dublin, whither his father had
come to produce an opera which never was put on the
boards, not a question could be entertained on the
subject of the child's legitimacy. Schnee the elder,
being a musician, a dreamer, a poet, and a spendthrift,
no one will be surprised to hear he captivated the
heart of an eminently hard-headed practical woman,
who gave him the love of her life, and, what seemed
of perhaps more consequence to the German, all the

careful sayings left to her by Mr. Burt, provision
merchant.

Need it be said that before Richard was ten years
of age Mr. Burt's money was muddled away, that his
father sought an engagement in the Theatre Royal,
Dublin, that his mother was obliged to let lodgings,
and that all the ills and evils of poverty were patent
to the lad ere he entered his teens ?

He saw the life of that lower Bohemia, which
does not differ much from the existence lauded by
writers of fiction, save that it drinks ale instead of
champagne, and smokes pipes perforce because it
cannot afford cigars. He understood the pain of
such an experience, if he failed to participate in the
pleasure.

When he got a situation as errand-lad in Mr.
Doyle's offices in Dame-street, the very jacket he had
on his back was charitably given him by a pawnbroker,
between whom and the elder Schnee the
most friendly relations existed.

Mr. Doyle did a good deal in a quiet way of the
same sort of thing as the pawnbroker did openly.
He advanced money. Most young men of family
came to him when they were hard up. Many owners
of landed estates also were deep in his books. ' An
oily, plausible, agreeable scoundrel,' some one said

of Mr. Doyle ; but that some one being a debtor perfect
reliance cannot be placed upon his statements.

Mr. Dojde grew old and prospered ; Richard
Scbnee grew older also, and looked about him to see
how he might prosper too. He was a remarkably
sharp lad, who developed into a very clever young
man ; so clever, that Mr. Doyle suggested articling
him without a premium, and inducting him free of
expense into those mysteries which had driven many
a client into foreign parts or the nearest asylum ;
but his clerk did not quite see it. He believed an
excellent business could be done without the assistance
of further legal knowledge than he already
possessed ; he had a notion the ' oracle could be
worked' with unprecedented success between himself
in London and Mr. Doyle in Dublin.

Eventually he brought Mr. Doyle round to his
way of thinking, and started in that gentleman's
name, and on that gentleman's capital and account,
in Bush-lane.

He had not been there a year, however, before
Mr. Doyle died, and he was obliged to account for
and hand over all the moneys entrusted to him.
The business also would have been closed had he not
decided to carry it on himself. At first it proved uphill
work, but eventually he got into smooth waters.

He made a connection and met with a capitalist
willing to co-operate with him. In due time he saw
a lady he thought he should like to marry, and whom
indeed he did marry in his rightful name of Schnee.
Germans were not, however, at that time as popular
in London, or as plentiful, as they have since become ;
and accordingly it was not long ere he dropped his
original cognomen, substituting in its stead the
simpler translation Snow. As Mr. Snow he was
known at Enfield Highway, attended local meetings,
handed in his subscriptions for the repair of the
church, the purchase of an organ, and many other
such good deeds; but still there was no secrecy
about the matter. Every one knew his father had
been a German called Schnee, which name was
Snow in English. People understood the gentleman
to be British in feeling as well as by birth, and
approved the sentiment which led him to adapt his
nomenclature to that of the land to which he ' owed
so much.'

What they did not know was that Mr. Snow,
trading as Jeremiah Doyle, lent money at sixty, one
hundred, one hundred and twenty per cent. What
he made, who but himself could tell ? If he had
not lost sometimes, he might have been a millionaire.


*Well, and what can I do for you this morning?'
lie asked, settling himself comfortably in his office-chair,
and looking amiably across the table at Mr.
Mostin.

'For a wonder, nothing,' was the answer. 'That
is, I daresay you could do many things ; but as I am
very sure you would not, why waste time in discussing
them ? I am here entirely on my cousin's behalf.
I don't know whether you can serve him or
not ; but at all events, I thought it could do no
harm for him and you to have a chat together.'

Very happy, I am sure, Mr.  ?' answered Mr.
Snow interrogatively.

McCullagh,' supplied Als Mostin : ' Robert .'


'Not Mr. Robert McCullagh of Bread-street-hill?'
suggested Mr. Snow, acknowledging the introduction
with a courteous inclination of his head.

dear no !' explained Mr. Mostin, in a tone
which implied the McCullagh of Bread-street-hill
was a different and most inferior creation. * Son of
Robert McCullagh of Basinghall-street. You have
heard of him ?'

I am sorry to confess that I have not,' answered
Mr. Snow.

Als Mostin laughed.

After all,' he said, 'I do not know why I asked
SO silly a question. You never met his name travelling
about the City on paper, I know.'

That is very true ; I never have.'
'No, nor any other man.'

*My father never draws nor accepts a bill,' explained
Robert, speaking for the first time.

He must be either very prosperous or very poor,
then,' said Mr. Snow. ' For your sake, I hope he
is the former.'

He is prosperous enough, I believe,' answered
Robert dryly. ' He has a good business, and he
spends little out of it.'

Mr. Snow looked at the young man with attention,
looked him over in one comprehensive glance,
and decided that for once he found his instincts at
fault.

He could not form the remotest idea what his
visitor wanted. There was that about Robert's whole
appearance which negatived the idea of his being
hard up, or of his having done anything to bring
him within reach of the arm of the criminal law.
One time and another Mr. Doyle had made a nice
little sum of money by finding, at critical periods,
funds to satisfy a wrathful employer who gave a
parent, say, till six o'clock to make up his son's

defalcations. Clerks at the verge of despair, merchants
on the point of committing suicide, men who
had but the start of a few hours to flee from justice
all, all had sat in that room and told their stories,
and been helped or sent away desperate, just as Mr.
Snow had seen the chance of making much or nothing
out of their necessities.

But he could perceive plainly that his present
visitor did not come within any of these categories.
Als Mostin, he was well aware, would have brought
a man red-handed to him, and asked for twenty
pounds to take him to Spain or Jericho, as expediency
might suggest. That introduction went for nothing.
What did go for a good deal was Robert's look of
childlike simplicity, the quietude of his hands, the
repose of his mouth. He had not stolen or forged,
or got himself into any mess ; he was not at his wits'
ends to pay a gambling debt or replace his employer's
cash. What the deuce did he want? What on
earth had brought him to Bush-lane ?

 I gather from your words that you think your
father does not make you a sufficient allowance ?'
said Mr. Snow, after that one swift glance which told
him the many wants which Robert had not.

Als Mostin laughed outright.

'Did your dad ever give you anything except
good advice, Bob ?' he asked.

I do not think he did anything to speak of,'
answered Robert, ' till this morning, you know.'

'And this morning?' inquired Mr. Snow, still
all at sea.

'He offered him five hundred pounds,' explained
Mr. Mostin, ' and a wife.'

And you don't like the proposed wife, Mr.
McCullagh ?' said Mr. Snow, groping his way.

0, the five hundred pounds did not depend on
the wife,' said Mr. Mostin joyously. ' She was
thrown in.'

'I really am at a loss  ' began the moneylender.


My cousin is so fond of his joke,' said Robert,
who had never before felt Als Mostin's jests so out of
harmony with his own mood.

If you will kindly tell me how I can help or
advise you ?' suggested Mr. Snow, whose time really
was of value.

That's it,' interposed Mr. Mostin. ' Advice 
that's what you can give us. Here's how we stand.
If you knew my cousin's father, even by repute, you
would understand the position better. Here goes,
however, to try and explain it. Mr. McCullagh the

elder is a Scotchman. He came to London with
about a crown-piece in his pocket, and he is now
worth  Heaven knows how much, we do not. He
did not get on particularly well with his wife  many-men,
self-made and otherwise, do not get on with
their wives  and the first-born, my cousin, whom you
see before you, was brought up by his grandfather,
Mr. Mostin, my uncle  '

!' said Mr. Snow, who thought he was beginning
to see light.

Before my uncle dropped into the line of business
out of which he has of late years made his living,'
proceeded Als Mostin, with an emphasis not thrown
away on one of his hearers, 'he got his grandson a
berth in Pousnetts'  '

The Pousnett ?' inquired Mr. Snow.

The Pousnett,' M. Mostin replied. ' He has
been in that house, man and boy  how many years.
Bob r

Fourteen,' answered * Bob,' thus appealed to.

A double apprenticeship,' murmured the moneylender
suavely.

'Well, yes,' agreed Als Mostin. 'He has gone
from post to post, climbed every step of the way, I
can tell you, from young clerk to older clerk, from
older clerk to manager.'

Mr. Snow regarded Robert McCuUagh with attentive
interest.

An onerous post,' lie observed tentatively.

'I don't think he ever found it so,' said Als
Mostin, in his cheeriest manner. ' Bob never was
afraid of work, and never shirked it. Pousnett
thought so too, apparently; for somewhat less than a
fortnight ago, he offered him a partnership on condition
he could bring seven thousand pounds  just a
flea-bite  into the business.'

Yes r said Mr. Snow, interested at last.

Bob goes to his father, never doubting the old

man would guarantee the amount at once, and is

met with a decided negative. His brother has done

so good a thing for himself, it dwarfs Bob's chance at

once  Kenneth is going to marry the daughter of

V. Johnstonee of Liverpool, and become a partner

without paying down a halfpenny  and therefore the

Pousnett offer is regarded with disdain. Pousnett

asks the old man to dinner, is as civil as civil can be,

tells him what a chance he is throwing away, and all

the rest of it ; but without producing the smallest

effect. He never backed a bill, and he never will.

He thinks Pousnetts' may be a very grand offer ; but

it is one his son cannot possibly accept. He believes

Pousnett only wants to get civilly rid of his manager ;

and, acting on that supposition, says he is willing to
find him five hundred pounds to start on his own
account.'

Well, and why don't you start on your own account?'
asked Mr. Snow, turning towards Robert.
Five hundred pounds is a very nice little nest-egg.'

The young man shook his head.

I would rather, if need be, take another situation,'
he answered. ' My father means well, but I
think it would drive me mad to start with that
millstone of five hundred pounds hung round my
neck.'

He offers to give you the amount in question,
though, does he not ?' suggested Mr. Snow.

He does not want it back again, if that is what
you mean,' said Robert ; ' but he would want to know
what became of every shilling of it. If you knew my
father, you would better understand how I feel. I
could not take that money from him.'

'And yet you could take fourteen times five
hundred.'

That would be quite a different matter,' returned
Robert, flushing. ' Pousnetts' is a great
business, and the result would not be dependent on
my own personal exertions or judgment.'

'Besides, it is such a chance,' urged Mr. Mostin.

It is a large sum to pay for it, though,' observed
Mr. Snow.

'Do you think so?' asked Als Mostin. 'I can't
agree with you there. It is more than doubtful
whether there is another man in the City or in England
to whom Mr. Pousnett would offer a partnership
on the same terms.'

You are very likely right,' agreed Mr. Snow.
May I put a question to you without offence ?' he
added, turning to Robert.

Certainly,' said Robert, ' anything you like ;' but
he hoped, spite of this permission, Mr. Snow was not
going to ask him whether Mr. Pousnett meant to
dispense with his services.

It is only this. Can you give me any idea, have
you any idea yourself, icy Mr. Pousnett offers to
take you into the firm ?'

Here it was again ! His father's inquiry, his
father's wonder, only differently worded. It never
seemed to occur to either of them the manager might
be wanted for himself.

Just for a moment the young man hesitated;
then he said,

I only know of one reason, and I scarcely like
mentioning it, because  '

You need not be afraid of telling me anything,'

suggested Mr. Snow, * everything is in strict confidence
here.'

0, there is nothing to he ashamed of exactly,
hut I felt afraid you might think the remark conceited.
I can't give you any reason except this 
that I do think Mr. Pousnett has a liking for me.'

Mr. Snow smiled  in spite of himself he smiled;
the idea of love, or liking, or reverence, or faith influencing
any business transaction was too much for
his sense of the ludicrous.

That a man should gravely say he could step from
manager to partner merely because he was dear to
the heart of his employer seemed an excellent joke ;
and when in addition the man evidently believed his
own statement, the jest became delicious.

Mr. Snow could have roared over it; but he
merely smiled, and remarked that from the little
he had seen of his visitor he did not wonder Mr.
Pousnett should entertain a regard for him.

There are going to be changes in the firm,' went
on Robert, perfectly unconscious of the satire underlying
Mr. Snow's compliment, ' and I fancy Mr.
Pousnett would rather have me near him than a
stranger.'

And quite natural too. What are the changes ?'

The manager told him ; went once again over the

ground he had travelled in Basinghall-street ; enlarged
upon the greatness and the glory of the house
of Pousnett ; spoke of the enormous trade it did, and
of the still more enormous trade it expected to do ;
grew eloquent concerning Mr. Pousnett' s business
capacity, and only stopped suddenly, seeing the person
he addressed in a brown study, and apparently not
attending to a syllable he was saying.

But Mr. Snow had not missed a word or a point.
It is always unconscious utterances that reveal the
true character ; and in like manner it is invariably
casual remarks which throw light on a mystery.

Humph !' was all Mr. Snow said, when Piobert
came to a conclusion ; and rising, he walked to one
of the cabinets, from which he drew a long thin book,
which he opened and studied at a particular page.
He had a reason, no doubt, for this reference ; but
what that reason might be, and whether it related to
their business or his own, Als Mostin and Robert
McCullagh could not make out in the least.

Closing the book, and replacing it on the shelf,
Mr. Snow returned to his place.

Would you mind telling me, Mr. McCullagh,'
he said, ' what salary you receive from Mr. Pous-
nett ?'

Four hundred,' was the reply ; ' but I have only

had that within the last two years. I had three
hundred for some time previously. When I first
went to the firm my stipend was almost nominal.'

Just so,' remarked Mr. Snow, to whom one
thing, at all events, was patent, viz. that his visitor
had no intention of deceiving him.

You were to have had five hundred next year,
were you not, Boh ?' interposed his cousin.

Yes ; but the partnership was proposed instead.'


And speaking roughly, what do you suppose
your share would amount to annually, if you were
able to take advantage of Mr. Pousnett's ofl:er ?' It
was Mr. Snow who spoke.

I am not to have much of a share at first, at all
events,' answered Robert; 'but Mr. Pousnett did
mention fourteen or fifteen hundred pounds as about
the lowest calculation.'

From your own knowledge, should you consider
such a calculation likely to be correct ?'

Yes, quite correct.'

And what percentage did you propose to pay
your father for the money he advanced ?'

AYe never got so far as that :' and then they all
laughed.

But you must have had some idea on the subject,'

continued Mr. Snow, when gravity reigned once
more. ' What did you think of offering him ?'

I do not know that I thought of offering him
anything,' was the frank reply. ' Of course Mr.
Pousnett is too shrewd a man of business to suppose
any one engaged in trade would take such a sum out
of it at a minute's notice. He knew my father's
name would be just as good as money, that he could
get his bills done at Bank-rate ; therefore the
question of interest did not occur to either of us.'
Cool, at any rate,' commented Mr. Snow.
Of course I should not expect any stranger
to advance money for nothing,' explained Robert
eagerly.

I do not suppose you would. If you did, you
would find yourself miserably mistaken.'

Silence ensued for a minute after this home-thrust.
Robert McCullagh could not speak, and
Als Mostin did not care to do so. It was Mr. Snow
who at length resumed the conversation.

If a person could be found willing to advance
such a sum of money,' he said, addressing Robert,
what proposition do you think you could make to
him?'

'I have not a notion,' answered the young man
feebly.

VOL. I. o

Bat that's nonsense, Bob,' struck in Mr. Mostin.

What should you say would be a fair rate of interest,
Mr. Snow ? A long percentage is out of the
question in such a case as this.'

'Your cousin seems to imagine no percentage
would be about the right thing to give.'

I did not say that,' objected Robert.

Well, then, Bank-rate,' amended Mr. Snow,
with a fine sneer.

I did not mean that either,' answered the young
man helplessly.

Perhaps you will kindly tell us what you did
mean,' suggested Mr. Snow.

I am sure I can scarcely tell what T meant,' said
Robert, in desperation. ' I only know this, that if
any man would enable me to get into Pousnetts'
house, I would do anything that lay in my power for
him in return.'

You would really ?'

Keally and truly,' answered the manager, in a
tone in which nervousness and despair and hope were
all curiously blended.

The worst of it is,' remarked Mr. Snow, * that
there does not seem much you can do. The amount
is large, and your prospects at present are but small.
Suppose your share does come to fourteen hundred.

The interest, even at ten per cent, on seven thousand
pounds is seven hundred a year. Seven hundred a
year for interest alone. How should you ever pay
off the principal T

I would reduce it by five hundred a year,' said
Robert.

Mr. Snow smiled doubtfully.

You have saved nothing hitherto,' he observed,
as if he knew the fact from personal knowledge.

*No, but I would save now,' answered the young
man.

Are you in debt ?

I owe my tailor ten pounds, perhaps.'

Are you married ? But I remember, you are
not. Your father offered you a wife.'

No, I am not married,' agreed Robert.

 And if as manager at Pousnetts' you contrived
to spend four hundred a year, how do you propose to
live on two hundred when you become a partner ?'

I'd manage somehow,' was the reply.

Do you live at home ?' asked Mr. Snow  * with
your father, I mean ?'

With my grandfather, Mr. Posting

You pay him something, I suppose ?'

About a hundred a year.'

 So you have dribbled away something like six

pounds a week, and I daresay could not tell where
the twentieth part of it went.'

I am afraid I could account for a good deal of
it,' said Als Mostin good-naturedly.

That would go for something,' retorted Mr.
Snow. ' I know by experience one might as well
throw money on a sandbank as give it to you.'

There is many a true word spoken in jest,'
agreed the ' ne'er-do-weel.'

*Jest!' echoed Mr. Snow. * If you think I am
speaking in jest, I wonder what you would call
earnest ? But to revert, Mr. McCullagh, to your
matter, I must have time to think it over. I can't
say I will help you, but neither do I say I will not.
It is far too big a thing for me ; but I shall see a
gentleman to-day who might feel disposed to go into
it. Come here tomorrow afternoon. No, give me
your address, and I will write to you.'

By the hye,' he added, as Robert handed him a
card, ' you came here to ask for my advice, did you
not ? That I can give you at once. Take your
father's offer, and learn to save shillings. What !
you don't like it, don't you ? What you really want
is help to take your own course. You are not singular.
Most of the people I come in contact with desire
nothing better than the loan of a few hundred or

thousand pounds, as the case may be, to enable them
to go to the devil. Now, never hereafter says I did
not give you fair warning. Your father, I feel sure,
is a most sensible gentleman ; but I am afraid he
has a very foolish son.'

With which genial remark, pleasantly and smilingly
spoken, Mr. Snow escorted his visitors across
both the inner and outer offices, held the door open
for them to pass out, and wished them a smiling
Good-morning.'

Well,' said Robert, as they walked through the
alley leading into SufFolk-lane, ' what are the
chances ?'

He'll do it,' answered Als Mostin. * I never
knew him entertain a matter, and then drop it. Asa
rule, he's a rare fellow at saying no.'

Do you really think he knows any Jon e who
would advance seven thousand pounds ?'

He knows himself,' was the reply, somewhat
roughly spoken. ' I tell you he means to let you
have the money ; but, Bob  '

Yes, Als.'

Take a fool's advice, and go no further into this
affair. Mischief will come of it. I cannot tell you
why, and I cannot tell you how ; but I feel as sure

evil must come of your going into Pousnetts' house
as that I see that old graveyard now.'

What has come to you ?' asked his cousin.

I do not know, only I am sorry I ever brought
you and that old fox together. It does not signify
to a man like myself, who has nothing to lose ; but
you have everything to lose, Bob. Promise me, do
promise, that, let him write what he like, you will
have nothing more to do with him.'

Als, you have gone crazy.'

Have I ? "Well, time alone can show. Onlookers
see most of the game, remember ; and if Snow has
not a game of some sort on, I am greatly mistaken.'

I do not care what game he has on, so long ashe
gets me seven thousand pounds by hook or by
crook.'

It will be by crook,' muttered Als Mostin
bitterly.

So let it be,' said Robert McCullagh, stretching
out his hand in farewell. ' Good-bye for the present.
Mr. Pousnett will wonder what has become of me.
I will be sure and let you know when I hear fi'om
Mr. Snow.'

And he was gone.

MR. snow's capitalist.

I THOUGHT you had construed my words too literally,'
said Mr. Pousnett to his manager, whom he
encountered and stopped in Leadenhall-street, * and
never meant to enter the office again.'

Had it not been for that interview in Bush-lane,
Robert felt he would have turned very sick ; for there
was a ring in Mr. Pousnett's voice which told the
younger man, had he stayed away altogether, his
principal might not have proved inconsolable.

But, as matters stood, everything was not lost 
one chance still remained. Not yet did it seem necessary
for him to face the question of seeking another
situation, or of commencing on his ' own account' 
Heaven save the mark !  with Mr. McCullagh's five
hundred pounds and Mr. McCullagh's supervision.

I am very sorry, sir,' he answered, ' to be so
late ; I hope you will excuse me. Last night my
father asked me to go round to Basinghall-street this
morning, and then  '

Any change in the wind there ?' interrupted Mr.
Pousnett, unheeding the two last words in Robert's
unfinished sentence.

Not as regards the partnership, though he seemed
willing enough to assist me in a small way. Since I
left him, however, I have seen a cousin of mine, who
thinks I can get the money you require through
another source. I presume, sir,' hurried on Robert,
speaking thickly and nervously from sheer excitement,
' that if the seven thousand pounds be forthcoming
it will make no difference to you who advances
it ?'

Just for an instant Mr. Pousnett hesitated ; then
he said slowly,

Always supposing he be respectable.'

He is quite respectable,' answered Robert, who
was, had he only known it, saying a great deal for
Mr. Snow.

'In that case,' agreed Mr. Pousnett, 'if you are
able to find the money I still adhere to my osier.
Clearly understand, however, the amount must be
paid in cash. I was willing in your father's case to
concede something, and take bills ; but I will not
take any other man's paper.'

I quite understand that, sir,' replied the younger

McCullagb, who had not till the present instant
given the matter a thought.

And when do you imagine you shall know for
certain what your friend can do for you ?' asked Mr.
Pousnett, flicking a grain of dust off his glove as he
spoke.

In a very few days  within a week,' said Robert,
who was not going to cast his fate into the scales
within the next twenty-four hours if he could help it.

Very well, then ; for a week the matter shall
remain open,' agreed Mr. Pousnett. ' When you get
to the office you will find several things waiting your
attention.'

I did not mean to be so late, sir ; but when one
is talking time slips away, and  '

It is not of any consequence,' said Mr. Pous-
nett, cutting across his manager's apologies ; and
then he proceeded towards the Exchange, while
Robert sped along in the opposite direction.

Meanwhile Mr. Snow was standing in his office,
one arm resting on the chimney piece, one foot placed
on the fender, looking at the fire.

He stood thus for some time quite quiet. From
his rapt contemplation of the smouldering coals, anyone
might have imagined he was considering some
abstruse problem connected with the laws of heat.

Usually a busy man, and one not given to reverie,
the change which had come over him since the
cousins quitted his office was remarkable. If they
had left him the Philosopher's Stone for analysis, he
could not have appeared absorbed in a more profound
reverie.

At length in a moment his mood changed. He
took his foot off the fender, and planted it firmly on
the ground. He lifted his arm from the chimney-piece,
and, feeling for his watch, looked at the time ;
then, crossing to the table, he placed such correspondence
as the morning's post had brought in one
of the drawers, and locked it up ; after which he put
on his hat and top-coat, crossed the outer office, went
out, saying merely in passing to his clerk, who had
returned some time before,

I shall not be back much before two o'clock,
James.'

Mr. Snow, in unconscious emulation of Mr.
Pousnett's example, pursued his way likewise to the
heart of the City.

But he had no intention of going on 'Change ; he
had nothing in the way of merchandise to buy or sell.
Foreign bills often came into his hands ; but not
such foreign bills as are offered and purchased at
high noon where men do congregate.

Mr. Snow's way led him to many banks. The
business in which he was engaged required the cooperation
of several obliging managers, just as the
insurance risk upon some great concern or ship has
to be divided amongst various offices and underwriters.
Save Rothschild or the Old Lady in
Threadneedle-street, no bank was too big for him.
Except it appeared in the shape of some outcome of
a loan-office or friendly society, none seemed too
small. He had to do with the most modest of private
banks and the largest of joint-stocks; he kept what
he called a little account with most of the leading
houses in Lombard-street, and maintained many
other accounts besides. No one could have accused
Mr. Snow of trusting all his eggs in one basket ; the
wonder was how he contrived to procure even one
egg for all the nests he made.

Having finished his business with the great establishments,
Mr. Snow sought out a dingy edifice ina
narrow lane. On the doors, innocent for years of
fresh paint or varnish, a brass plate bore the name
of a most obscure firm of bankers  men who, nevertheless,
did a good and thriving business amongst
small and struggling traders. Inside, the place
looked as dull and shabby as though it were 
with Fortune ; the floor was dirty, the

counters were of painted deal, the brass fittings
looked as though they had never been cleaned for a
quarter of a century. The principal clerk sat
perched up on a high stool behind an old desk
covered with green baize, spattered all over with ink-stains
and notched by the penknives of successive
generations of clerks with initials and hieroglyphics,
some of which were almost as old as the bank
itself.

Mr. Snow was evidently an accustomed and welcome
visitor. At sight of him a young lad nodded
brightly in answer to his words of greeting ; a cashier
came forward to take his cheque, and the clerk descended
from his stool and advanced to the counter.

Mr. Meakin in ?' asked the new-comer.

He is not in at present ; and, in fact, I do not
think he will be back this afternoon. Anything I
can have the pleasure of doing for you to-day, sir ?'
and the clerk rubbed his hands jubilant. The
sight of this just man and clever financier was more
than grateful to him.

'I only want a few pounds,' was the reply; ' as
usual, I have left myself without a sixpence.'

As if leaving oneself without a sixpence was the
best joke imaginable, the boy, the cashier, and the
head-clerk laughed in unison.

You will have your jest, Mr. Snow,' said the
eldest of the three. ' Come in, sir, and Artill will
bring you your change. Should you like a note, or
all in gold ; and do you want any silver ? Very well,
sir ! All in gold, Artill, you hear ! Sit down,
pray;' and having got Mr. Snow into the dismal
stuffy little office, sacred to the firm when any of
those gentlemen were at the bank, the clerk pulled
forward an ancient arm-chair and again earnestly entreated
the visitor to be seated.

Well, Fletcher, and what is the best of your
news ?' asked Mr. Snow, stretching out his legs and
crossing his arms as he put the question.

'News, sir!' repeated Fletcher. 'Lord bless
you, there is never any news here ! Year in, year
out, it is just the same old humdrum routine.'

You have not been making your fortune, then, I
presume ?'

Xo ; and what is worse, I am not likely to make
it.'

That is a pity ; but there is one comfort  you
are not placed in a position where you could easily
lose one if even you felt inclined.'

You may take an oath of that, Mr. Snow, so
long as Mr. Meakin has his eyesight.'

Mr. Snow laughed.

Sees a new necktie, does lie not, on the spot ?'

That he does. The boy out there, Charley,
declares he knows when anybody puts on a fresh pair
of socks.'

It is a fault in the right direction,' observed Mr.
Snow. ' Even his failings, Fletcher, lean to virtue's
side. Thank you,' he added, speaking to the cashier,
who at this juncture laid a little pile of gold on the
table beside him; 'quite correct: I am obliged.
And so there is nothing new with you, Mr. Fletcher?'

No, Mr. Snow ; we are still singing the same
old song.'

To the same melodious accompaniment,' suggested
Mr. Snow, letting the sovereigns slip slowly
from the fingers of his right hand into the palm of
his left.

As you say, sir, to the same accompaniment.'

Mr. Snow reversed his previous experiment and
let the gold slip gently and tenderly from his left
hand into his right ; then he produced a little canvas
bag, poured the coins into it, tied a scrap of red tape
round the neck, and thrust the precious parcel into
his pocket. This operation performed, he rose to
go ; in fact, was at the door of the office, when he
stopped suddenly.

0, by the bye,' he said, ' I recollect now what I

was going to ask you. Do you know anything of a
Mr. Pousnett ?'

I know there is a Mr. Pousnett, a very wealthy
merchant. Do you mean that gentleman ?'

Very likely. His place is somewhere in or off
Leadenhall-street.'

The same, sir. He is in an enormous way of
business ; trades all over the world.'

Does he, now ?' said Mr. Snow suggestively.

Bless you, yes ! He is one of the merchant
princes of the City.'

Any of his paper ever come here ?'

No such luck, sir.'

Isn't there even one amongst your many customers
who has any transactions with him, then ?'

Our people are all of them  most of them, I
mean,' added Fletcher, correcting himself, mindful
he was addressing a customer, ' in a small way. We
have had consequently Pousnetts' cheques here
occasionally, but never any paper. The firm won't
accept a bill for what that house calls a trifling
amount ; they pay cash, and deduct five percent.'


In other words, they discount their own bills at
twenty per cent : not a bad notion,' commented Mr.
Snow.

Five per cent per annum, sir,' explained Messrs.
Meakin's head-clerk.

Even that means a profit,' said Mr. Snow. ' I
wonder, now, what amount a house like that considers
trifling. It would be interesting for poor
people like us to know that, eh, Fletcher?'

'You have such a way of putting things, Mr.
Snow !' exclaimed Fletcher. ' As if all the world
isn't aware you are as rich as any man need desire
to be !'

I am not at all rich,' was the answer. ' I am
very poor in comparison to Pousnett. I have to look
sharply after sovereigns  shillings, indeed, for that
matter. How much do you suppose the big merchant
in Leadenhall-street regards as a bagatelle ?'

I can't say exactly ; but I have heard five hundred
pounds. I think the limit is about five hundred.'


After that I may go,' said Mr. Snow, laughing :
though I really did hear this morning something
even better.'

What was it, sir, if I may make so bold as to
ask?'

Only the name of a man who will neither take
nor give a bill ; who, in fact, has never drawn nor
accepted since he started in business.'

That must be old McCullacrh in Basincfliall-

street.'

You are right ; old McCullagh is the man.'

Have you had any business dealings with him,
Mr. Snow ?' asked Fletcher tentative.

To quote your own eloquent words, my friend,
'' no such luck." I should like to have a deal with
him, only that, as I suppose you know, it is said,
"A canny Scot would outwit Shylock any day;"
what chance should I have in such an encounter ?'

If the expression of Mr. Fletcher's face at that
moment were any reflex of what was passing in his
mind, he thought Mr. Snow's chance would be a
remarkably good one ; but he only said,

I have always heard old McCullagh spoken of asa
very fair-dealing sort of man. Hard and careful
about a halfpenny, but just.'

You do not know him, then, personally ?'

No ; I have seen him. A queer-looking little
fellow he is too ; I am acquainted with those who
have done business with him ; but I never spoke to
Mr. McCullagh in my life.'

His sons seem likely to do even better than
their father.'

Indeed ! How many sons has he, Mr. Snow ?'
I am not sure ; two, at any rate.'

VOL. I. p

And they are in a way of pushing their fortunes T

Well, yes. I think you will say so when I tell

you one of them, who has been in a Liverpool house,

is about to marry the daughter of his employer, and

become one of the firm ; and the eldest son  '

He is manager at Pousnetts', I just remember,'
interpolated Mr. Fletcher, as Mr. Snow paused.

Quite right ; and they have offered him a partnership.'


You cannot mean that, sir !'

I do ; it is all but settled. The matter might
have been arranged long ago, but for some stupid delay
and hesitation on the part of old McCullagh.'

He did not want to come down with the amount
of cash needful, I suppose ?' conjectured Mr. Fletcher.

Very likely. He threw impediments in the way,
at any rate ; but they are all removed, I am told.'

'He'll just go mad with pride now,' said the
bead-clerk. ' How some people do get on, to be sure !
They say he came to London without a shoe to his
foot, and began business in a cellar ; and look at him
now ! Why, before he dies, he'll be amongst the
first in the City!'

I believe Mr. Pousnett has the highest opinion
of old McCullagh  asks him to dine, and all that
sort of thing.'

Isn't it just wonderful how one successful man
finds out another ?' observed Mr. Fletcher plaintively.
It does not seem to matter how far divided they maybe
in other respects as long as they are lich  merely
rich.'

They are like the rogues. If there is a thief at
this present minute travelling into London by any
road, I'll lay a sovereign that within an hour he has
discovered a bosom-friend whom he never saw nor
heard of before in his life; that they will sup
together and lodge together to-night, and lay their
plans for committing a burglary all before they sleep.
It is the same with needy people, with adventurers,
with swindlers. It is only the honest folk, it seems
to me, who never recognise each other.'

Having uttered which truism Mr. Snow said good-afternoon,
and passed out of the bank, leaving as
usual golden opinions behind him.

From Means' bank to Bow is a long walk ; but
Mr. Snow did not seek any conveyance to transport
him thither. He was fond of exercise, and would
have liked more than he had time to take ; for that
tendency to grow fat, which has been already mentioned,
caused him, occasionally, some uneasiness.
Moreover, he knew, by experience, that a man can
think twice as much when he is walking alone as

when he is sitting alone ; and he had a good deal to
think out and arrange as he plodded through Mile-end,
and over Globe Bridge, and so on to one of the
old red-brick houses standing near the church at Bow.
Judging from externals, no human being would
have supposed that house was the residence of a
wealthy man. For outlook, it had in front all the
traffic, and din, and dirt, and misery of that great
East-end thoroughfare ; the south-west wind bore toit
the villanous smells and sulphurous vapours of
Bow Common ; at the back it had a distant view of
the Hackney and Lea marshes, while to one side it
was hemmed in by a manufactory, and on the other
jostled by houses of about the same age and condition
as itself. The brass knocker had been rubbed
up to a state of brightness in which Mr. Snow could
see the reflection of his own nose and chin with
exasperating fidelity; the step was of a snowy whiteness
; the window-sills were clean as sills could be ;
the wire-gauze blinds that guarded the dining-room
from vulgar gaze had not the suspicion of a rent in
any of the tender fret-work. When the door was
opened, the visitor found himself in a hall, where,
though everything was old, all things were polished
and bees-waxed to an extent which suggested that
honest poverty felt determined to make the best of

its surroundings, and that, though it could not afford
to replace the worn floor-cloth or the threadbare
stair-carpeting, the clock-case and the hat-stand
should shine resplendent as a good deed in a wicked
world.

There was a smell of dinner, however, which
somewhat negatived the idea of short means conveyed
by the appearance of the furniture. It seemed
savoury when wafted to the nostrils of a man who
had eaten nothing since breakfast ; but he knew
enough of the ways of the establishment to understand
it was but the fragrance of a departed meal
which hung about the hall.

Mr. Alty, like Mr. McCullagh, was partial to an
early dinner, only he preferred the hour of three to
that which found favour in the eyes of Robert's
father. What the family doctor said to the mode
of life Mr. Alty adopted, history teeth not ; but
one thing is certain, if any person now followed the
same fashion, premature death would be prophesied
as his fate.

Mr. Alty breakfasted  and breakfasted well  at
nine. He then proceeded to the despatch of such
business as required his attention, about twelve
eating in some tavern a crust of bread and a piece of
cheese, washed down by half a pint of his favourite

ale. At three be returned to dinner, after which meal
he drank punch, and slept till tea-time. At nine he
supped ; and then, a square decanter of whisky and
a kettle of boiling water being again produced, he
drank steadily on till half-past eleven, when he went
to bed.

And to look at him any one might have imagined
he was a strict teetotaler, who had never partaken of
a good joint in his life. Sallow, thin, white-haired,
slow of speech, apparently slow of thought, that man
would have needed to be swift as a hare and cunning
as a fox who, even at a quarter-past eleven o'clock
at night, hoped to get the best of Mr. Alty in a
bargain.

This was Mr. Snow's capitalist, to whom the neat
housemaid announced a visitor by first rapping gently
at the dining-room, and then saying softly,

Mr. Snow, sir, if it is quite convenient for you
to see him.'

*Mr. Snow  ah!' said Mr. Alty, who had just
mixed his first glass of punch. ' Show him in,
Sarah, show him in at once.'

He might have sat for a picture of Benevolence
as he turned smilingly towards his friend, with the
bright firelight irradiating his serene face, and
leaping about the walls, and throwing bright darts

into the street, where the afternoon shadows were
already darkening. He looked so kind and cordial,
so thoroughly comfortable, so surrounded by life's
comforts and the world's good cheer, that a simple
guileless sort of person might have been seduced
into asking him for the loan of five pounds, or the
gift of a sovereign to help some poor widow in her
extremity. His face was wreathed with smiles, his
eyes actually twinkled with hospitality.

I am delighted to see you. Snow,' he said, as
that gentleman was commencing some lame apology
for intruding upon Mr. Alty's dinner-hour. 'Pull
up your chair ; touch the bell, if you don't mind, and
Sarah shall bring another tumbler.'

Not for me, thank you,' answered Mr. Snow.

Since when have you become a total abstainer?'
asked Mr. Alty, surprised.

Since no time,' was the reply; ' but I dare not
drink when I am fasting, and I have had nothing today
except my breakfast.'

'Well, that is an omission you can surely supply
now,' said his genial friend. ' There is something
in the larder off which you will be able to make a
meal, I'll go bound. There is a piece of capital
corned beef in cut, I know. We had a pheasant today
for dinner, but I am afraid to offer you any of

that : first, because there was very little left ; and
second, because it would be in that worst of states 
between hot and cold.'

No, I would rather try the corned beef, thank
you,' Mr. Snow declared. He understood well enough
that Mr. Alty wanted to pick the pheasant's remaining
bones for supper. ' There is one great merit
about your house,' he went on, spicing his speech
with a pleasant flattery,  ' a person may be sure
whatever you offer him to eat or to drink is of the
best possible quality.'

I endeavour to have such the case,' said Mr.
Alty, assuming no airs of modest self-depreciation,
but, on the contrary, answering Mr. Snow's remark
with the most serious gravity; ' for I hold,' he proceeded,
crossing his legs and sipping his punch in a
manner suggestive of the keenest enjoyment, ' that
no money 2chich a man spends on himself is nastecL
Do not look so surprised at my statement, but hear
me to the end. Good food and good liquor  you
will admit they are not wasted ; suitable clothing,
warm in winter, cool in summer  that is not a superfluity
either. A liberal expenditure of fuel indoors
I suppose you will admit to be merely prudent ; and
the use of omnibuses and even cabs, when proceeding
on any necessary business, is not to be gainsaid

in order to save fatigue and avoid exposure to the
weather. It is the moment a man begins to spend
for others that he begins to go wrong.'

*I have followed you so far with interest,' remarked
Mr. Snow, as his coadjutor paused in his pompous
periods and took a pinch of snuff. ' I have no doubt
I shall continue to listen with interest to the end of
your argument.'

When a person buys new furniture, for instance,'
proceeded Mr. Alty, *he does not buy it for himself.'


For whom then, in the name of Heaven?' asked
Mr. Snow.

For his wife or his neighbours ; to humour Mrs.
Green in the next street, or excite the envy of Mrs.
Brown over the way. I have been thinking the
whole question out to-day, and decided that the moment
when a man forgets himself and commences
to think of others is the moment when he takes his
first step towards ruin. First he furnishes, then
he starts a trap, then he removes to a new neighbourhood,
then he begins to give parties, then he
neglects his business, then he finds his way to ,
and then concluded Mr. Alty, finishing
the contents of his tumbler at one gulp, ' he goes
to the deuce.'

I never looked at the matter before from your
point of view,' said Mr. Snow; 'but I daresay you
are quite right. Where I suppose most men would
find the bother is the exact point where self ceases
to be considered and some one else comes forward
demanding attention.'

'Yet it is as simple as A B C,' suggested Mr.
Alty.

I see it is, as you put it answered Mr. Snow
dryly. ' The whole idea is new to me ; but I admit
it is worthy of the most careful consideration.'

You will find it so, if you want to make money,
or keep money when you have made it. And now
what is it, if I may ask, brought you here this afternoon
? I know you did not come solely for the purpose
of solacing a poor invalid ?'

An invalid ? Have you been ill, then ?'

'Very ill. Caliban never was plagued with fiercer
aches and pains. Stitches, cramps, and the devil
knows what besides, have been racking my poor body.
I am better; but if I had followed the doctor's advice
I should not have been sitting opposite to you now.
"Eat what you like," he said, 'but drink easy."
For two days I tried his prescription. On the evening
of the third I asked for a looking-glass. I just
took one glance at my face, " Bring me up a bottle

of the old port," I called to my sister, as well as I
was able. "But, my dear Jacob  " she remonstrated.
"Bring me the port!" I shouted; and she did. I
finished it before I went to sleep, and I verily believe
they all expected to find me dead in my bed next
morning. However, instead of that I got up, and
crawled down into this room before the doctor called.
''Ah, you are better," he said; and then he felt my
pulse. " A. great deal better. We cannot improve
upon the treatment, I think." " I think not," I
answered. "You are making a wonderful recovery,"
he said. "Yes, I feel I am," was my reply; but I did
not tell him a word about the wine, or he might have
cut off the medicine. "You may have a little weak
sherry-and-water to-day," he said, " with your sole,
if you fancy it." I told him I did not care for sherry-and-water.
"Perhaps you are just as well without
any stimulant for the present," he said, and then he
went.'

Why did you not write to me?' asked Mr. Snow;
or get some one else to write to me ? I would
have come over at once.'

I can't bear making a fuss about illness. It
seems to bring  you know what I mean.'

Mr. Snow nodded.

Like the devils, there are times when even men
like Mr. Alt believe and tremble.

Still, I wish I had known,' said the junior in
sin as well as in age. ' You must have wanted a
person to talk to.'

I did indeed. If it had not been for books, I
don't know what I should have done.'

Marvellous contradiction ! this creature read !
He had Shakespeare at his fingers' end; on his
shelves were tomes for which collectors would have
given fabulous prices. He was an antiquarian and
a lover of all the side-paths along which may be
gathered those flowers which redeem and beautify
the arid tale of English history.

Mr. Snow looked at him, and considered that
better where the many children at Enfield Highway,
and the wife who sometimes was not so pleasant as
she might have been, than the dreary household at
Bow, where this old man lived but for himself and to
add thousand to thousand, not knowing who might
gather.

By this time he had finished a moderate meal of
beef and bread, and, declining to partake of a rampart
hospitably sent in by Miss Alty, was mixing
himself a small modicum of whisky and cold water
when his host spoke again :

But after al], Snow, you have not told me what
brought you here this afternoon.'

I want you to lend me four thousand pounds fora
month.'

Of course ; but what do you want it for ?'
A speculation which may, or may not, turn out
well.'

Can't I go into it with you ?'

'I think not. You might not like it.'

0, if the matter is a secret  ' began Mr. Alty.

There is no secret about it,' said Mr. Snow.
Only, as I have made up my mind to go into the
affair, I don't want to waste time in useless argument.'


All right ; you shall have the four thousand
whether I take any part of the risk or not. Now
what is the venture ?'

Ere he replied, Mr. Snow pushed his chair closer
to Mr. Alty, and replenished his glass.

HOPE IS EXCHANGED FOR CERTAINTY.

Engaged next morning in shaving (an operation he
performed with religious punctuality), Robert
McCullagh heard the postman's knock, and, razor
suspended, paused in agony of expectation to listen
if the missive was for him. His suspense was not of
long continuance. Another moment and he heard
the poor little drudge-of-all-work running up the
stairs, then a letter was thrust under the door. Spite
of Robert's superior predilections there was not much
of the ceremony of service, and of handing about of
cards and notes on salvers in that house.

Almost before it left the girl's fingers Robert had
seized the envelope. It was blue. It was not directed
in any hand he knew : it must be from Mr. Snow.
His excitement was so great he had to pause before
examining its contents.

Suppose Mr. Snow had decided to say no ? Robert
McCullagh's hand shook so much, he could not have

finished shaving at that moment if the whole seven
thousand pounds had been his for doing so.

All at once he made a dash at the envelope, and
tore it open ; his eyes raced over the enclosure :
Seen my friend  certain conditions  am willing to
meet your views  call upon me after four o'clock
tomorrow.'

The young man sat down ; he could not see to
read every word in the short letter then.

Thankfulness, triumph, a sense of unreality, a
disbelief which failed to accept the evidence even of
his own senses, a mad delight which threatened to
choke him  these and fifty other feelings strove
together in Robert's breast as he said, almost
aloud,

So after all I shall be a partner in Pousnetts' !'

And then another vision arose, smiling, before
his mind's eye. That girl he had seen in North-street
! He must find out who she was and where
she lived  he could not rest till he knew more about
her. All things seemed possible to him at that
moment  love, position, wealth, happiness. The
stream of his life was running fast and free that
morning, making melody as it went ; and the song
it sung was all about success and beauty, pink
cheeks and sunny brown hair, and vessels bearing

costly freights from the other side of the world for
the benefit of Robert McCullagh junior.

He had never shaved himself so badly. Neither
in Mrs. Mostin's long experience of him had he ever
looked so well as when he entered the common sitting-room
that morning.

Why, Robert,' she cried, ' you look as gay as a
lark, and as blithe as a linnet ! Have you had good
news ?'

I have had news I hope will prove good,' he answered,
with a little reticence. He was afraid of
speaking of his probable fortune lest it should fade
away like precious stones in the old fairy-tales.

Before he went to business, Robert gave the poor
little drudge half-a-crown. His was not a nature to
keep all the sunshine that fell across its path strictly
for its own benefit. The young man had ever been
prone to make presents. From the day he left his
father's roof his lot was cast amongst people who,
receiving freely, gave lavishly ; and thus both example
and temperament induced what many people would
have called an excess of generosity, which failing indicated
the fact that young McCullagh lacked one
essential element of success.

That day McCullagh junior said nothing to his
employer of the good fortune impending ; but Mr.

Pousnett, furtively regarding his manager when they
came in contact, knew Robert's hopes were great.

He believes he will get the money,' decided Mr.
Pousnett. ' Well, we shall see.'

Meanwhile, true to his promise, Robert despatched
a note to his cousin, saying he had heard from Mr.
Snow, and was to see that gentleman in the course
of the afternoon. He did not feel sorry to recollect
the shortness of Mr. Snow's notice left no time for
consultation with the sage of North-street.

For good or for evil, he had decided to become
a partner in Pousnetts' house if he could anyhow
manage to do so ; and he did not want to hear anymore
unpleasant remarks or listen to absurd warnings
on the subject.

Naturally Als Mostin  who was notorious for
never keeping a promise where paying money chanced
to be concerned, whose name on a bill as acceptor
could not be regarded as other than a mere waste of
paper and stamp, who muddled away hundreds of
pounds, who was a disgrace in the matter of dress,
who mismanaged every chance Fortune threw across
his path  felt alarmed at the idea of a man, who had
a great deal to lose, hampering his future with seven
thousand pounds borrowed from a usurer. Als
knew it would be impossible for Robert to slip out

VOL. I. Q

of his responsibilities. He was aware if his cousin
failed to meet his engagements, not merely great
scandal, but total ruin, must ensue. Mr. Pousnett's
manager looked quite tolerantly at Als's view of the
matter, because, as he decided, his cousin took the
wrong view so far as the future partnership was concerned.
Mr. McCullagh junior felt satisfied that
whatever liabilities he incurred he would discharge.
In all his life he had never owed a man a penny he
could not, and did not, pay. He knew the position
of Pousnetts' house, and believed his share of the
profits would amount to something over fifteen
hundred a year at least. Well, he could, and he
would, live on two hundred. He had no doubt at
all about being able to repay the whole amount in a
short time.

It was nearly five o'clock before he found himself
in Bush-lane. The day had been an exceptionally
busy one, and even at that advanced hour he met
with some difficulty in leaving the warehouse.

When he reached Mr. Snow's office he found a
clerk mounting guard in the outer room : a very
respectable and well-behaved young man, who had
the sleekest of sleek black hair ; a most composed
demeanour ; a quiet gentle voice ; an expression as
if, since he was short-coated, he had never thought

of such a thing as a will of his own ; and an air of
subdued deference which recommended him both to
his employer and his employer's many visitors.

He was dressed in shabby but well-brushed
black ; snowy linen ; the tie of his cravat was neatness
itself. He wore for a watchman a very slight
thread of gold manufactured in what used to be
called the Venetian pattern. He looked poor, but
like one who had known better times, and might see
greater prosperity in the future.

I like that young fellow of yours,' said Mr.
Alty to Mr. Snow one day. ' Knows his place.'

He has not much brains,' answered Mr. Snow ;
but he does his best, and he is useful.'

You don't want too much brains in a clerk,' remarked
Mr. Alty oracularly.

No, I don't,' agreed Mr. Snow. ' Still, I should
like some.'

It was the young fellow his employer considered
deficient in this respect who asked Robert his name.

McCullagh,' was the reply. ' I am here by
appointment.'

Next moment he found himself in the presence
chamber.

'You received my letter, I suppose,' suggested
Mr. Snow blandly.

Yes. I am sorry I could not get here sooner.
I had a great deal to do to-day.'

I said after four if you recollect,' observed Mr.
Snow, in bland reminder, ' and therefore you are intime.
"Well, now as to your matter. I have seen
my friend, and he is willing on my recommendation
to go into it. As to terms, our idea is ten per cent
interest, and that some portion of the principal shall
be paid off each year. Though you did not think of
giving your father any percentage, I hope you consider
that as strangers we are reasonable in our
propositions.'

'Most reasonable,' agreed Robert.

I am glad of that,' said Mr. Snow, with a slight
inclination of his head. ' As we are disposed to
meet your wishes and consider your convenience, it
is satisfactory to find our motives appreciated. To
revert to business, however. On the first of January
and of July in each year we shall require your promissory
note for the amount of principal due and the
interest for six months. It will also be necessary
for you to insure your life, and assign the policy for
this debt. You have no objection to doing that, I
suppose ?'

Not the least,' answered Robert readily.

My friend makes it a si7ie qua non that Mr.

Pousnett is put in possession of all the facts of the
case.'

I have no objection to his knowing everything,'
said young McCullagh.

And that I see him personally on the subject,'
went on Mr. Snow, as though his visitor had not
spoken.

I shall be very glad, indeed, for you to do so.'
You see it is a large sum, and we should like to
know exactly what we are doing, and whether we
stand on firm ground or not,' explained Mr. Snow.

I scarcely understand what you mean by that,'
said Robert ;' but it is only reasonable you should
wish to satisfy yourselves, and I do not want to keep
any secrets from Mr. Pousnett.'

Then will you arrange for me to see him ?'
asked Mr. Snow.

Certainly. Will sou excuse me asking you one
question ?'

A dozen, if you like,' was the ready answer ; but
had Als Mostin been there he would have seen Mr.
Snow instantly put on defensive armour, a shirt of
mail under his frank and easy manner.

Thank you, but I only want to say one thing.
When  or perhaps I ought rather to use the word if
this partnership is arranged  '

Yes,' observed Mr. Snow, to show he was attending
to his visitor's hesitating utterances and kindly
wished to encourage him.

You will not expect Mr. Pousnett to take bills
for the amount? He was willing to do so in my
father's case ; but I should be afraid  '

You need not be afraid,' interrupted Mr. Snow.

We take paper here ; but we do not give it. No ;
when the matter is properly settled, the money shall
be forthcoming.'

'I hope you forgive my plain speaking?' said
Robert, immensely relieved.

There is nothing like a plain understanding
about every affair in life,' answered Mr. Snow.

And, to show you I act up to my profession, I will
now tell you that if, to quote your own expression,
this partnership becomes un fait accompli, you will
find you have bound yourself to a very heavy thing.
Because, mind you, we shall expect to be paid, and
to be paid first. So long as you deal fairly and
honestly by us, we shall consider your convenience,
so far as it is possible, with a due regard
to our own interests; but we should not feel disposed
to wait long out in the cold if we saw
you launching into extravagance or neglecting our
payments.'

You will not find me doing either one thing or
the other,' Robert replied.

I hope we shall not ; but you will be placed in a
difficult position, more especially as I must bind you
not to mention how you are situated to any one
except Mr. Pousnett and your cousin. It would
not answer our purpose for the world to know we had
done a thing of the sort. It is quite out of our line.
If Pousnetts had not stood as they do, nothing on
earth would have induced me to advise my friend to
entertain the idea even for a moment.'

For my sake, independent of you altogether, I
should observe secrecy about the matter,' said Robert.
Life might become inexpressibly disagreeable to me
if my father knew I was borrowing money from a
stranger.'

 Ay, and such sl stranger,' capped Mr. Snow,
hammering in the nail Robert had struck so feebly.
As you know  for your cousin told you the truth,
no doubt  we are money-lenders here, pure and
simple  money-lenders who, as a rule, ask a long
percentage, and get it too ; who have kept many a
man's head above water when he must otherwise
have sunk ; but who are thought none the better of
in the commercial world for that. Make no mistake
about the sort of persons your are dealing with, and

talk as little as may be about me and my office in
Busy-lane. In fact, were I you, I should not come
here again at all. Mr. Mostin could transact everything
there is to be done. Your can trust him, I
suppose ?'

yes, I can trust Als.'

Yes, I fancy he is to be trusted, except in that
little trifling matter of never meeting a bill nor paying
a debt. I will call on Mr. Pousnett any day and
hour he may appoint. And now, Mr. McCullagh,
since we have, I believe, said all there is to say, the
sooner you go the better I shall be pleased, as I have
still some letters to write before post.'

ALL ABOUT HER.

So you would not take warning ; you have put your
head into the lion's mouth.'

It was Mr. Als Mostin who spoke  Mr. Mostin,
not engaged on this occasion in frying bacon and preparing
coffee, but employed in the, to him, far more
congenial task of mixing punch.

A week had passed since Robert's interview with
Mr. Snow. The remains of a modest supper were
still on the table ; but Als had drawn a small stand
close up to the fire, and, with all the materials for
what he called ' spending an innocent evening' within
reach, invited Robert to draw forward his chair and
enjoy himself.

Your father can get no better whisky than that,'
he remarked, pushing a brimming tumbler to his
visitor, and noticing as he did so the cloud his former
speech had brought over Robert's face.

Possibly,' was the somewhat sulky answer; 'but
he would not pay as much for it.'

I paid nothing for it,' answered Mr. Mostin.
*You can't buy what jour father calls "a guide
spirit" at a much cheaper rate.'

'You will have to pay for it, though, I suppose,'
retorted Robert.

Xo, I shan't, 'replied his cousin. ' Two gallons
were sent to me yesterday as a present.'

You seem to have got in luck's way.'

So far as eight quarts of whisky are concerned,
I have.'

How long will eight quarts of whisky last you,
Als?'

That entirely depends upon the number of
friends who come and help me drink them ; also on
whether I give a few bottles away; also whether I
offer any of the precious fluid as an oblation on the
altar of self-interest. Snow might be propitiated
with half a gallon.'

He might, as he says he never can get any
money of you.'

A mere figure of speech,' retorted Mr. Mostin.
'Did he use it in the course of friendly conversation
?'

'He said something of the sort, but I was too
much occupied with my own affairs at the time to pay
much attention to his remark ; and I might have forgotten

it altogether if he had not repeated the statement
to Mr. Pousnett, who mentioned it to me.'

And if it is a fair question, how did my good
name happen to come up between your great chief
and my little Shylock ?'

Simply enough. Mr. Pousnett wished to know
something about the gentleman through whose introduction
I had been fortunate enough to make Mr.
Snow's acquaintance.'

And then Shylock launched out into eulogium
upon his favourite client.'

So far as I can understand, he did nothing of
the sort,' answered Piobert quickly. 'He said you
were a splendid hand at borrowing, but slower than
any tortoise about repaying.'

Et tu, Brute /' exclaimed Mr. Mostin sadly ;
and thou, my Shylock  to whom I have taken the
rare sovereign and the hardly-earned shilling ; to
whom I have introduced men harder up even than
myself  men willing to pay any interest under
heaven for the sake of a few pounds slowly doled outby
those unwilling hands. But 'twas ever thus.
Pray proceed, Piobert. Had these two righteous men
any further fault to find with your obedient servant ?'

Mr. Pousnett had no fault to find whatever. On
the contrary, it seems he was rather captivated by

Mr. Snow's description of you, although that gentleman
went on to say you knew neither how to get up
in the morning, nor how to go to bed at night.'

Keally ! His acquaintance with my little weaknesses
does him infinite credit. How did Shylock
guess my infirmities ? Can I ever, in an access of
misplaced friendship, have taken him into my confidence
?'

You ought to be able to tell that better than I,'
answered Robert ; ' all I know is he described your
habits accurately. More  he said you were a man
of parts, who would never achieve any good thing
either for himself or anybody else ; that you had
plenty of brains, which you could not or would not
make use of; that if your own father were alive you
would ruin him with the best intentions ; that if a
bill-stamp were put into your hands you would do
yourself some mischief within five minutes ; and
that, speaking broadly, you were going to the deuce
as fast as a man with a dozen irons in the fire, not
one of which could ever by possibility get hot, can go.'
And to all this sack was not there even a mite
of bread ?' asked Als Mostin plaintively. ' Had
Shylock not one good word to say of the impecunious
wretch he has helped to ruin ? Stay, I must be just.
Snow, after all, has only helped me to ruin myself.'

There was something in the tone in which Als
Mostin spoke the last few words that arrested his
cousin's attention, for before answering he turned
and looked sharply at his companion.

Surely, Als,' he exclaimed, *it is optional with a
man whether he ruins himself or not !'

Quite. 0, of course, quite optional ! Circumstances,
associations, temperament, the tricks of that
jade Fortune, have nothing whatever to do with the
matter. But to revert to our Snow: could he not
find one word to speak oa my behalf ?'

He found several,' replied Robert reddening, and
trying to cover his embarrassment with an affectation
of easy indifference which aroused Mr. Mostin's
curiosity.

'For instance  ' suggested his cousin.

He said you were very clever,  twice, three
times over as clever as I am,' added young McCullagh,
with a forced laugh; 'that you wrote a beautiful
hand ; that you were quick at figures except where
your own affairs were concerned, when you made
extraordinary errors; that you would attend carefully
to any one's business but your own ; that, if you
could be induced to pay a little more attention to
your personal appearance, you would, in a confidential
capacity, be invaluable to any house; that

though you never met your engagements, nor
thought of meeting them, you could be trusted with
untold gold ; that, spite of the fact of your reformation
being hopeless, he liked you better than many a
better man ; that in effect, in a way, there was no
person he liked so much as impecunious, unstable,
impetuous, Alfred Mostin.'

The gentleman thus eulogised lifted the poker
and broke a lump of coal ; and, as he did so, the
leaping blaze revealed a grave and thoughtful face.

We have heard,' he remarked, ' of the devil
fiddling and of the devil dancing ; but I can't recall
ever hearing of him in the character of a draughtsman.
Just to give him his due, I think he has now
produced a very fair sketch of me. It is not often a
fellow recognises his own likeness. Does not the
Bible say a man looks in the glass, and straightway
goes away and forgets what manner of man he is ?
I am sure I did not exactly realise " myself" till Mr.
Snow turned his lantern upon my shortcomings.'

I think he spoke very fairly, Als,' said his cousin.

0, you do, do you ?' commented Als.

Yes, I do. When Mr. Pousnett asked me about
you afterwards, I was obliged to admit the truth of
Mr. Snow's assertions.'

You were, were you ?'

'When he put the question to me straightforwardly,
what could I say T

It does not much matter to me what you said
answered Mr. Mostin shortly. 'Mix,' he added
impatiently, pushing over the decanter ; then seizing
it himself, he remarked, ' Why, man, you have not
drunk a drop of your punch ! What ails you ?
What has ailed you ever since you came in ?'

'Nothing ails me,' answered Mr. Eohert McCul-
laugh, applying himself to his neglected tumbler.
You are not vexed, are you, Als, at what I have just
told you ?'

Vexed,' repeatedJais cousin; ' quite the contrary.
Father gratified ; delighted to find myself, all of a
sudden, a person of such consequence that a great
man like Mr. Pousnett condescends to interest
himself about my shortcomings; and, by the bye,'
he went on suddenly, setting down his glass and
turning so as to command a full view of his visitor's
face, ' ivill you tell me how it came to pass Snow was
so communicative ? I have known him this many a
year, yet he is the last man it ever occurred to me to
suspect of the vice of gossiping for gossip's sake.'

'Mr. Pousnett, as I have told you, asked him
about you.'

But why did he ask him about me ? Of what

earthly interest could I or my affairs be to your
chief?'

Well, the fact is'

0, something does lie behind, then !'

Mr. Pousnett, hearing I had been introduced to
Mr. Snow by you  '

Thought I might be even such another paragon
as yourself, eh, Bob ?'

Being relations, he perhaps imagined we might
be like each other,' amended his cousin.

A. delusion which Mr. Snow soon dispelled.'

Whatever Mr. Snow may have said, and I believe
Mr. Pousnett repeated the gist of the conversation
to me, did not produce an unfavourable impression.'


How do you know that ?'

Because he still holds to the idea which prompted
his questions.'

He had, then, some underlying notion. I thought
as much ;' and Als Mostin smiled significantly in
confidence to the fire.

'He said to Mr. Snow, so far as I understand
matters : " Once this partnership is arranged we
shall require another manager  not exactly in Mr.
McCullagh's place, because we do not propose that
another man shall step into such large shoes; but

still a manager. Do you know of any one you think
would suit ?" '

'And straightway Mr. Snow said, ''If you can
induce Als Mostin to take the berth, you may go to
the Mediterranean, or Ceylon, or Terra del Fuego
with an easy mind. He will keep things together
for you; he will steer the Pousnett craft off alp
dangerous coasts ; enable her to weather any storm
she may be called upon to encounter, and bring her
safe into port laden with goodly merchandise, which
he will dispose of to great advantage, and by first
post remit the proceeds to your order, mighty
king !" '

He said nothing of the sort,' retorted Robert
testily. ' He assured Mr. Pousnett you were the last
man it would, with your present habits, be safe to
place in a position of trust ; for, although you were
perfectly honest as regarded hard cash, you were not
to be relied upon in the matter of time ; that, in fact,
you had no idea of time ; that if you made an appointment
for eleven, you kept it about four, or possibly
not at all.'

Now I wonder who he thinks would be likely to
keep an appointment with him ?' soliloquised Mr.
Posting

If he would only come to me when he ought

VOL. I. R

to do, I should not say a word," Mr. Snow went on,
Mr. Pousnett told me, almost with tears in his eyes ;
"for I have a sincere liking for the young man, and
want to help him to get out of my hands." '

I daresay,' interpolated Als gloomily.

" But for weeks and months together I not only
do not see his money, but I do not see him." Mr.
Pousnett was quite pleased with the manner in which
Mr. Snow spoke. " There must be something very
exceptional about your cousin," he remarked, " for
him to have gained such a hold over a person like
Mr. Snow." '

Go on,' entreated Mr. Mostin ; ' the play begins
to thicken.'

So far from Mr. Snow's plain speaking (and it
seems to me he spoke very plainly) prejudicing Mr.
Pousnett against you, whatever he said appears to
have produced a precisely contrary effect. Mr. Pous-
nett, directly he had left, called me into his room,
and, after just mentioning that everything was satisfactorily
arranged, and that, as soon as the lawyers
had done their part, I should become one of the firm,
plunged into the matter about you. " I am quite
sure," he said, " Mr. Mostin would suit us ; and, of
course, I would rather have some one belonging to
you in the office than a stranger." '

And you ?' asked Mr. Mostin quietly.

Well, Als, what could I say ? No cousin ever
was fonder of another than I am of you ; it would be
strange if I were not. But I don't think you would
be in your sphere at Pousnetts', and I could not say
I thought you would. Could I ?*

Certainly not agreed Als Mostin. ' Truth before
everything !'

Mr. Pousnett would have a direct reply. He
repeated to me what Mr. Snow had told him, and
then asked my opinion point-blank. When I had
given it, he cross-examined me as to the why and
the wherefore ; and then, when he had quite finished,
before in fact he dismissed me  '

I am waiting the end of your sentence,' observed
Mr. Mostin as his cousin paused.

He said he should like to see you,' Robert
hurried on ; ' that he believed you and he would get
on capitally together ; that he had an aptitude for
making useful goods out of unlikely raw material ;
that he felt sure, from what Mr. Snow had hinted
and I had confessed, you would be the right man in
the right place if he could induce you  that was his
word, Als  induce you to accept the post which
would soon be vacant in the office.'

He did not say anything else, did he ?' asked
Mr. Mostin.

Of what sort. I scarcely understand you.'

He did not say, for example, that your description
of your father had proved so far inaccurate, he
thought he should like to judge for himself whether
you and Mr. Snow had done strict justice to me,'

For a moment Robert McCullagh hung his head.
If Mr. Pousnett had not, in so many words, said he
doubted the truth of Mr. Snow's statements, duly
confirmed by his manager, his manner implied that
he felt far from satisfied.

People see with different eyes,' he remarked
suavely. ' I should like to talk to your cousin
myself.'

Robert did not think it necessary to repeat this
sentence; but Mr. Mostin knew it, or something
very similar, had been uttered.

'I'll go and see your governor with pleasure,
Bob,' he remarked, after a pause, during which he
had waited in vain for an answer. * I am quite sure
he wants me to call. Shall I make an appointment
or take my chance ?'

You would never think, Als, surely of taking a
situation in Pousnetts' !' exclaimed Robert, aghast.

What, the future partner objects, does he ?'

conjectured Mr. Mostin, laughing. ' You don't
want a poor devil like me in the office to stand between
your worshipful self and the wind of your
nobility. Make your mind quite easy, old chap.
The salary could not be named which should induce
me to take a berth in Pousnetts' house with you as
one of the firm. For the rest, should Truth and I
ever have to try a wrestle over your perfections, I
think I shall do my best to pitch her over before I
am so candid about your shortcomings as you confess
to have been about mine.'

I assure you, Als  '

It is no use. Bob ; your own mouth has damned
you ; I see now what the future partner will be. God
grant his pride may not meet with any very grievous
fall ! Just for to-night, however, we will forget all
that. Mix, mix, mix ! If any amount of liquor can
make you genial, drink ! I vow and protest I think
your father would, under the influence of this splendid
spirit, form a more lively companion than his son.'

You are most unreasonable, Als,' expostulated
Robert ; ' you screw secrets out of me, and then are
angry because I can't tie people's tongues.'

Nor your own.'

I did not say a word except what Mr. Pousnett
wrung from me.'

I feel I am contracting quite an affection for
Mr. Pousnett,' said Mr. Mostin, with forced enthusiasm.
* Upon second thoughts, my dear cousin, I
shall not leave this matter in your hands ; I shall
appoint a time and place for the momentous interview
myself.'

Yhen it comes off, I hope you will allow me to
lend or huy you some new clothes.'

*TVTiy?'

Because you have not the faintest idea of the
effect your usual habiliments might produce ?'

Have you ?'

Yes, indeed, Als; I know how much externals
are considered in our office. Why, the youngest
clerk there  '

Dresses better than I do,' finished Mr. Mostin,
as his cousin paused.

I did not mean to wound you ; but such is indeed
the fact,' said Mr. Robert McCullagh, with
smug self-complacency.

It will take down their self-esteem a peg then,
perhaps, for once to see a man who does not care the
sixteenth part of a farthing for Pousnett, or his
partners, or his clerks, or their clothes, or any single
thing about the whole blessed concern,' answered
Mr. Mostin, using the word blessed in a manner

which indicated that it was employed quite in a
satirical sense.

You are angry, Als,' exclaimed his cousin, looking
at him in surprised alarm.

Mr. Mostin burst out laughing, lifted the poker
again, hammered another lump of coal, threw down
the blackened and misshapen piece of iron, drained
his tumbler, and then, jumping up, walked about the
room for a few moments, remarking good-humoured,


Well, perhaps I was. Bob ; you see, you are
such a snob !' And he laughed again, but whether
at his own thoughts or the disgusted expression on
Robert's face, who could say ?

'What a lot of bosh we have been talking!' he
declared, as he resumed his chair, and laid his hand
once again on the too convenient decanter. ' Spoiling
our evening, getting very near to quarrelling,
putting an affront on prime liquor by discussing
knaves and swells over it ! Here's good luck to you,
Bob! May you soon have as many thousands as you
have now hundreds a year, health to enjoy your fortune,
and a pretty wife to  0, that reminds me !' he
broke off suddenly. ' I've seen your young woman.'

My young woman ?' repeated Robert, in amazement.
' Do you mean Effie ?'

*Effie  no!' was the scornful reply. ' You told
me you would have nothing to do sith her. I mean
the vision of loveliness you told me you encountered
one day in North-street.'

*Do you really mean that, Als? You are not
jesting now ?'

Jest ! What should I jest about ?' asked his
cousin. ' Keally, she is a very sweet parcel of goods,
Master Bob.'

I wish, Als, you would not  '

Wish I would not what ? Wish I would not
tell who she is, where she lives, or her name ?'

 You know nothing about her.'

Don't I ? That's all you know about me. I
could impart some pieces of information you do not
care to be told  give you her name ; where she lives,
which wouldn't interest you, of course ; who she is,
and the errand that brought her into North-street 
but I will not. As you have chosen to be nasty tome,
Master Bob, I will be nasty to you.'

But, Als, I was never nasty to you.'

0, yes, you were; and your conscience tells you
you were.'

Should you like to be in Pousnetts' house 

'No; not at all.'

Well, then, I was not nasty to you.'

Meaning that you want to know all about the
young woman.'

Meaning nothing ; though I thought her the
not beautiful creature I ever saw in all my life.'

Humph !' said Mr. Mostin dubiously. ' However,
she is not amiss. I have met with worse-looking
girls. She is natural and unaffected and
pleasant in her manners ; in which last respect, Robert,
she differs from you. She will be twenty-one
in May ; she is very poor, and she lives with her
mamma at Old Ford.'

'In the name of Heaven, Als, how did you find
out all this ?'

By using the brains Heaven gave me, Mr. ,'
was the sedate reply.

But how did you use them ? By what accident
were you able to ascertain  '

It was not by an accident at all. An opportunity
to learn something about the young lady came
in my way, and I availed myself of it ; why, I am
sure I cannot tell, unless with a vague idea of pleasing
you.'

*How good you always are to me, Als!'

Mr. Mostin did not see fit to take any notice of
this gush of feeling, so Robert proceeded diplomatically.


You seem to have spoken to Miss What

is her name ?'

His cousin burst out laughing.

You don't trap me that way, Bob he said. * I
will tell you all I know about her out of my own freewill,
but I am too old a bird to be caught unaware,
specially by a fledgling like you. The young lady is
a Miss Lilands ; Christian name Jane ; her mamma
calls your fair, Janeyy. Her papa was an admiral,
who, when he died, left his widow and only child
but scantily provided for.'

Go on,' entreated Robert.

Go on !' repeated Mr. Mostin. 'I am going on
as fast as I can. Are you too impatient to let a
fellow draw his breath ? Besides, there is very little
more to tell. They come from some place in the
North, and are only living in London till Mrs. Lilands
has won a great lawsuit old Napier is fighting for
her.'

But how did you contrive to hear all this ?
How were you able to get introduced to them ? " I
know you can always manage to do almost impossible
things, but it does seem to me most extraordinary
that you should become in a moment, as
one may say, hand and glove with total strangers.'

And pray who said I was hand and glove with

them ?' retorted Mr. Mostin. ' I am very sure I
never did.'

'You have spoken to them; you know the ins
and outs of their affairs.'

Of course I have spoken to them, and of course
I know something of their affairs ; just as you might
have done, if you had ever thought of getting off that
high horse you are so fond of riding, and talking to
poor devils who are forced to go afoot. There is a
young fellow in Napier's ofi&ce who seems to get
whatever kicks may be going in that establishment.
He and I pass the time of day sometimes, and occasionally
I have given him an order for the theatre.
Well, it so chanced that last Monday I saw your
young woman coming out of Napier's, and got a good
look at her. She is really not amiss. I had not
time then to run her to earth ; besides which I knew
I could hear all about who she was, and the rest of
it, from my friend. The same evening I ran against
him just as he was locking up. '' Are you going down
North-street"! asked. "No," he said, with a naughty
expression old Napier would have had many remarks to
make concerning had he heard it. " I am going up
North street, and across the square, and along Wore
and so to that blank blanked Old Ford."
*i'll go with you as far as Worship-street," I remarked.

"Have a cigar?" So he had a cigar, and lit it 
in fact, we both lit up ; and when he began puffing
in good earnest, I remarked carelessly, "I saw a neat
thing in petticoats leave your office to-day. Who
is she ?" " What sort of a thing ?" he asked. " We
have several things in petticoats, worse luck !"
"Don't you like the ladies?" I suggested. " No,
I can't bear them in business." This was exactly
what that young Goth said. " Old or young, one
woman has given me more trouble than twenty men."
I saw it was no use going on in this way, so I went
straight to the point. " The woman I refer to is
young, and I may say attractive. She wears a
sweetly-becoming black-straw bonnet, a black-silk
dress, and a black-velvet mantle, both rather shabby.
She is pleasant and winsome-looking, she has brown
hair, and a colour in her cheeks like delicate rose-leaves."
" And she is the plague of our lives,"
interrupted Barnes  that is the name of the legal
misogynist. "At least," he added, "her mother is.
It is all on her account I have now to trail off to Old
Ford, instead of going to my uncle's, where there is
the jolliest party imaginable." '

Well?' asked Mr. McCullagh junior.

Well, can't you guess the rest ?'

You went with this young man, I suppose  '

Wrong, my son. I went in his place. I said,
** I will take the deed, letter, parcel, or message.
One way is as good to me as another, for I am not
bidden to any party ; indeed, the way to Old Ford is
better than any other." He hummed and hawed
just a little, for old Napier is a hard old nail ; but
he knew me, and he wanted to go to his uncle's, and
he did not want to go to Old Ford.'

'At all events, you went to Old Ford.'

'How impatient you are!' laughed Als Mostin.
But you are right  I went to Old Ford. I generally
take a stroll somewhere at night, and Old Ford
and your young woman suggested two objects to my
consideration. Good Heavens, what a hunt I had
to find Acacia Cottage ! However, at last, about
half-past eight o' th' clock, I did find it; a poor
little place, with a garden in front surrounded by
palings, and the gate locked; no bell, no means of
attracting attention.'

What did you do ?' asked Robert, who certainly,
in such case, would have retraced his steps.

I got over the paling and knocked. The door
was answered on the chain by the very smallest servant
I ever saw in a cap and apron ; and at the same
moment I heard a shrill voice exclaim from the parlour,
"You have forgotten to lock that padlock again,

Ruth." In a breath Kutli answered she had not,
and asked me, with a scared face, what I pleased to
want. I said I had a letter from Mr. Napier.
Having received which message, the small damsel
shut the door in my face and retired. After a short
pause she returned, and asked me for the letter. I
declined to deliver it, except to Mrs. Lilands. The
child closed the door again, and retired once more.
After a still longer pause, I heard a different footfall
across the hall, the chain was removed, the door
opened quite wide ; candle in hand, your fair scrutinised
me doubtfully. " Are you from Mr.
Napier ?" she asked. " I have a letter from him,"
I said, removing my hat. ' Miss Lilands, I presume."
"Yes," she answered; "pray come in."

It is a very poor house they occupy. Bob, very
poorly furnished ; and yet the moment I crossed the
threshold I felt I had fallen amongst gentlefolk.
She is simply charming. For aught she knew, I
might have been the least-considered clerk in Napier's,
yet her manner was perfection. " I am so
sorry you should have been kept waiting," she said.
Mamma, this gentleman has come from Mr. Napier
; you need not have been uneasy." " But what
a time of night !" grumbled the old lady. You
won't find her a charming mother-in-law. Bob.'

I wish you would not, Als  '

0, indeed ! After taking all that trouble on
your behalf?'

And Mr. Als Mostin mixed for himself again,
and after doing so looked straight into the fire.

I wish you would go on with your narrative,
Als,' said Robert, after a pause.

And a few minutes ago you wished I would not,'
answered his cousin. * If I go on with it,' he added,
I shall have to say things you won't like. They
are people not in our groove. You know I hold
with Stephenson that all men are alike ; or, at all
events, many men might be alike if they pleased.
But the same doctrine won't wash with women.
Now these women  the one disagreeable, and the
other agreeable  are quite unlike anything in our
set.'

Speak for yourself,' thought Mr. Robert ,
mindful of Portman square ; but he wisely
refrained from speech.

They are very poor ; but the mother, at any
rate, is as proud as Lucifer, and I should say she
would as soon think of her daughter marrying a
sweep as either of us.'

Either of us /' once again considered his cousin
scornfully.

From what Mrs. Lilands said,' went on Mr.
Mostin, 'I gather that if they win their case  and I
do not think old Napier would have taken it up had
the chances of success not been very good indeed 
missy will be an heiress ; and whether she is poor
or rich, I should not like to ask Mrs. Lilands for
her hand. I thought about it all sitting in that
little room, while the mamma meandered on concerning
the lawsuit, and said how slow Mr. Napier was,
and how wearisome she found it having to do with a
man who wanted facts repeated to him over and over
and over again. " He seems to me to have no grasp
of intellect," she observed at last, and then paused
for a reply. " I have never spoken to Mr. Napier
in my life," I answered. " What !" she exclaimed,
*' and you in his employment?" " 0, no," I said;
"I am not in his employment, although I happen to
bring a letter from him." " Not one of his clerks ?"
with increasing amazement. You know my principle.
Bob, that I make it a point of conscience never
to tell a lie when truth will serve the purpose ; so I
was at some trouble to explain I had offices in the
same house, and as it was difficult for Mr. Napier's
clerk to deliver the letter that evening, I bad undertaken
the duty of doing so. "I shall certainly
write to Mr. Napier on the subject," said the old

-lady indignantly. '' mamma," cried her daughter,
'when this gentleman has been so very kind as
to take the trouble of coming all this way "?" I
thanked Miss Lilands only by a look, for I wanted to
answer her stern parent without delay. " I do not
think you will, ma'am," I said : "in the first place,
because I am sure it would be but a poor satisfaction
to get a clerk into trouble ; and in the next, I have
brought the package as quickly and safely as any one
could. The young man to whose care it was intrusted
wanted to go to a party at his uncle's, which
would have been impossible had I not offered to be
his deputy." " It was exceedingly good of you, I
nm sure," cried the young lady; but Mrs. Lilands
murmured a remark to the effect that "business was
business." " And pleasure is pleasure," I ventured
to add, at which obvious truism her daughter
laughed pleasantly. "I assure you the clerk in
question is not so overburdened with invitations, he
can afford to decline the few which do come in his
way," I went on. " So far as I can see, Mr. Napier
-keeps the noses of his employed pretty well to the
grindstone." '

What a thing to say !' observed Robert,
shocked.

She did not seem to mind. She appears to me
VOL. I. s

to care for nothing except what concerns the great
suit. She said she did not desire to injure any 
a dependent position, and that she would overlook
the fault of which she still considered the young man
had been guilty. "An important letter," she remarked,
*' ought to be delivered by an accredited
agent. Mr. Napier also wishes a reply to be sent by
his messenger. It is really very awkward." I told
her I would take her reply safely, whether verbal or
written. "But I shall have to detain you while I
write," she said; and I replied, *' Though, as a rule,
I regretted my time was not valuable, I felt happy
at last to be able to state the fact." " Can I answer
Mr. Napier's letter for you, mamma ?" asked her
daughter, seeing her mother took not the smallest
notice of my civil speech. " Xo, I must write myself;"
and, having made this reply, she rose and
left the room.

And did Miss Lilands remain with you ?'
*Miss Lilands remained with me. She said
apologetically her mamma was so anxious about the
lawsuit, she sometimes seemed a little irritable ; but
it was only manner. I declared I was quite sure of
that. "Wien one has to tell a fib, it is best to tell
it heartily. "And it is trying," went on the girl
wearily. " I often wish poor mamma had never

thought it her duty to go to law. Mr. Napier does
seem so slow." " Lawyers are proverbially slow,"
I answered ; and then I ventured to ask if the stake
at issue were large. " It seems large to us," she
said  " forty or fifty thousand pounds, I believe. I
suppose," she added wistfully, " Mr. Napier is very
clever?" "I suppose so," I agreed. "At any rate,
I have always heard him spoken of as very safe."
"What do you mean by safe?" she asked. " That
he is not speculative; that he won't go into a thing
he thinks doubtful." " Then he must be very sure
of this." "There can be little doubt of that," I
replied.

We did not talk any more about Mr. Napier or
the lawsuit ; indeed, we had not long to talk on any
subject; forms. Lilands shortly afterwards appeared,
bearing an envelope, which she delivered to me with
great empressement. " I have no resource, sir, save
to give you this trouble," she said. " I can only
hope the next time Mr. Napier intrusts a message to
his clerk, the young man may see fit to deliver it in
person." I did not take any notice of this backhanded
blow at what she evidently considered my
officiousness, but assured her it had given me great
pleasure to be of the slightest service ; and added,
"I only wish it might fall to my lot to bring you

intelligence of the successful termination of your
suit." 'thank you," she said stiffly; 'but when
that event happens, I should imagine Mr. Napier
would bring me intelligence of it himself." Having
dealt me which final slap in the face, she called
Ruth to open the door and unlock the gate, and
bowed me out with a look that implied, " I shall be
very glad to see the last of you." Miss Lilands*
smile, however, comforted me. Without the memory
of it, I should have felt very small indeed as I
trudged back to the City.'

How I wish I had a little of your impudence !'
said Robert reflectively, after a moment's silence.

Mr. Mostin looked at him with a comical expression,
but made no reply. He had helped his
cousin to mount the ladder, and already he was
experiencing the fate of those who stay below.

DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.

All in the dull damp weather which preceded the
green Christmas of that dreary winter, Mr. Pousnett,
as unmoved by atmospheric influences as he seemed
indifferent to business crises, picked his way, one
dark afternoon, over the muddy crossings, and paced
along the dirty pavements, which brought him, as
they had previously brought Robert McCullagh the
younger, to Basinghall-street.

He did not, though threading the City lanes and
alleys, as familiar to him almost as they were to
Alfred Mostin, look like one who spent most part of
every day within a few minutes' walk of the Exchange.
There was that in his carriage, his appearance,
his dress, which separated him in some indescribable
yet subtle manner from the bulk of those
who rushed and pushed and jostled each other upon
the very pavements he trod. He had never posed
for a City Father. He had always fought shy of the
honours Cockaigne can and does confer upon favourite

and deserving children. In his heart of hearts Mr.
Pousnett, if such heresy may be whispered, despised
the aldermanic gown and the Lord Mayor's robes.

There were those who  having, misled by the
merchant's genial manners, ventured upon a certain
degree of easy familiarity much in favour round and
about Capet-court and its environs, found themselves
and their advances repulsed with the coolest and
civilest contempt  declared that 'Pousnett was as
proud as Lucifer,' generally adding a desire to know,
addressed to no one in particular, * what he had to
be proud of.'

Following his erect figure, his firm yet easy walk,
the manner in which he made all comers give place
to him, simply by drawing away from instead of
hustling them, any dispassionate observer must have
confessed that, even physically, Mr. Pousnett had
cause for standing well in his own esteem. Every
yard or so he was greeted by some one who understood
his greatness; and the mode in which he
lifted his umbrella to his hat in acknowledgment of
such marks of respect reminded one irresistibly of
an officer answering the salutes of his privates. Mr.
Pousnett regarded a good many worthy citizens, who
stood pretty high in their own conceit, as mere 
in his serviceable army.

"With the leisurely step, that yet made such good
progress, which had brought him from Cornwall to
Basinghall-street, he turned out of the latter thoroughfare
into the unnamed court where Mr. McCul-
laugh resided. Just for a second, as he debouched
into the open space mentioned in an early chapter of
this story, he paused and looked around with the
natural curiosity of a man of leisure, who for the
first time finds himself in a strange locality in a
familiar neighbourhood. In the City there are still
nooks and crannies upon which even a man accustomed
to the pavements within the walls all his life
may light unexpectedly ; and though '}li\ Pousnett
knew the ins and outs of London better than most
people, it so happened he had never chanced before
to visit the place where Mr. McCullagh resided, and
which, indeed, was only distinguished in the Directory
by a certain number in Basinghall-street.

As he glanced about the still, quiet court, where
the roar of traffic sounded but as the wash of waves
upon some sandy coast, his eyes chanced to perceive
the face of a girl peeping from an upper window.
When she saw she was noticed, she instantly withdrew
from observation. Mr. Pousnett smiled. * I
Think,' he considered, ' my new partner told me he
lead no sister.' Then he went straight across to the

house where any one could from afar behold Mr
McCullagh's good name set out in white letters on a.
black board. Crossing the threshold he stood for a
moment uncertain ; there was a door to his right,,
another to his left, and a grand old staircase in front
He was admiring the latter, when a boy came into-the
hall. He had his hand on the right-hand doors
when, perceiving the stranger, he paused.

What's year wull ?' he asked ; and then Mr.
Pousnett knew he was in the presence of some one
attached to the establishment.

Can I see Mr. McCullagh ?' he asked presently
*Ay, can you,' the lad replied, looking with

national suspicion upon the agreeable Southerner
He'll be in the counting-house. Will I say who it
is that wants him ?'

There is no necessity,' answered Mr. Pousnett,
and, adroitly frustrating the youth's intention of
rushing before him, he walked straight into the
office.

At the farther end  at the extreme end, indeed,,
of the warehouse  beyond the desks and the partitions,
stood Mr. McCullagh, ' up till his neck,' ashe
himself would have said, ' in work.'

Book in hand and pencil at work, he was engaged
in * figuring out' various facts which were at intervals.

shrieked up to him from below, whilst he in turn
screamed down into the basement :

What are ye thinking of, mixing the boxes that
gait ?'

For the Lord's sake, mind what ye're about with,
that marmalade !'

There ! I was confident we'd o'erlook the mute
!'

Man, man, ye're nae mair sense nor a three-year-old
infant !'

Didn't I tell ye as plain as I could speak to
send up that cask of sweeties before ye took another
job in hand ?'

'I am afraid I come at an inopportune time,'
observed Mr. Pousnett, who, though he could have-stood
listening to these proceedings with interest fora
considerable period, thought it advisable to announce
his presence. ' Shall I call another days ? You remember
me, don't you ? My name is Pousnett.'

'Bless and save us !' ejaculated Mr. McCullagh,
taking the hand offered, and shaking it in an access
of surprise and confusion. ' If I had not clean forgot
ye ! I had never seen ye in a hat before, ye-understand,
and that does make a wonderful differ.'

'It does,' agreed Mr. Pousnett, who was too well
bred to point his acquiescence with a look towards.

mr. McCullagh's headgear, an old Scotch cap of the
species now known in England as Tarn O'Shanter,
stiff with grease, and powdered with oatmeal, which
added at least ten years to Mr. McCullagh's apparent
sge, and deducted about a hundred per cent from the
respectability and prosperity of his appearance.

I will come in again some other time,' repeated
Mr. Pousnett.

Deed will ye no,' said Mr. McCullagh, with a
heartiness which was not quite real. Tve just upon
finished checking some goods that are bound to
be got off to-day, and am quite at your disposal.
Have ye anything to say to me in private '?'

Well, no,' answered Mr. Pousnett, looking round
the warehouse and wondering as he spoke where the
private sanctum might be to which Mr. McCullagh's
speech seemed indirectly to point. ' I called to speak
to you about two or three little matters, but they are
not of a private nature  not at all.'

Maybe ye wouldn't object to stepping across to
the other room,' suggested Mr. McCullagh. ' This
place is aye throng, and folk are given to interrupt
me when they see me about.'

'I hope you do not include me amongst the number,'
said Mr. Pousnett, ' though I am afraid I did
interrupt you unwarrantably just now.'

'It would be strange if I could not make a
minute for you, Mr. Pousnett/ answered Mr. ,
pronouncing the name loud enough to be
heard distinctly at some of the desks, ' considering
the honour ye have put upon me and my family.'

The honour is mine, Mr. McCullagh,' replied
Mr. Pousnett, with that proud bow which apes humility.


It's very good of ye to say as much,' returned
Mr. McCullagh, which interchange of diplomatic
phrases brought them into the hall.

There for a moment Mr. McCullagh hesitated.
The impulse was strong upon him to ask his visitor
up-stairs, and show him more of the glories of the
old house, concerning the perfections of which Mr.
Pousnett commenced to wax eloquent.

But it had always been his practice to mistrust
impulse, to believe it was merely a wild impish device
of the Evil One to lead men to perdition. His
sober senses' were, Mr. McCullagh felt, the best
guides always to follow.

"When a man is a bit uplifted, he is apt to forget
himself,' v-as one of his truisms; and no doubt
in this idea, as in most of those he took to his
bosom and cherished, Mr. McCullagh was right.

Yes,' he said, in answer to Mr. Pousnett, when.

after that temporary hesitation, he flung open the
door of the room which Robert hated as he detested
no other apartment in the house; 'it's an honest
building, with, as you say, a fine staircase, better
than yours in Portman-square. No offence, I hope.'

Offence !' repeated Mr. Pousnett. ' I only wish
to Heaven any house I lived in could boast anything
like it.'

'Won't ye sit down?' asked Mr. McCuUagh, to
whom at that moment no other observation occurred.

Thank you, Mr. McCullagh, I will,' answered
Mr. Pousnett. ' I have come round this afternoon,'
he went on, plunging in hellas res, ' because I think
we may be able to do some business together.'

Ay ?' said Mr. McCullagh interrogatively, and
placing himself on guard at once.

We want a lot of things in your line, and if you
can meet me in price, of course I would rather buy
of you than from any one else.'

'I am sure I am much beholden to ye,' answered
Mr. McCullagh.

Can you oblige me with a price-list ?' inquired
Mr. Pousnett.

'Certainly, certainly;' and the required document
was produced with due expedition from a drawer
in the table beside which the Scotch merchant sat.

For a couple of minutes there was silence, broken
only by the noise made by Mr. Pousnett's pencil ashe
marked various items on the paper ; then, pushing
the list over to Mr. McCullagh, he said,

When can you have those things ready for shipment
?'

Mr. McCullagh looked at the articles and the
weights pencilled on the margin, ere, glancing up,
he observed,

It's a big order.'

Do you think so ?' returned Mr. Pousnett.  I
trust to send you a better one ere long. When can
you deliver it ?'

The day after tomorrow. Will that be soon
enough ?'

It must be if you cannot send it tomorrow.'
I can't do that.'

Well, let us say the day after. I will send you
marks and shipping-note in the morning.'

Thank you,' said Mr. McCullagh, looking down
at the paper once more. * Ye know my terms, I
suppose?' he added next instant.

The usual terms, I conclude,' answered Mr.
Pousnett easily.

That depends on what ye call usual,' was the
reply.

'You have me there,' laughed Mr. Pousnett;
for, trading with all sorts of people, I find we deal
on all sorts of terms. Let us, however, say the best
for the seller  a month, two and a half ois.'

That's not the way I conduct my business'"
answered Mr. McCullagh.

"What is your way, then ?' asked Mr. Pousnett*

Cash,' was the solemn answer.
Cash when ?'

Before delivery.'

Do you get anybody to buy from you ?'

"Whiles two or three.'

Mr. Pousnett lay back in his chair, and laughed
heartily ; and Mr. McCullagh sat looking at him and
wondering what on earth he could find so amusing.

You delight me, Mr. McCullagh,' he said, when
he recovered his composure. * Why, if we were to
attempt to do business on the same terms we might
put up our shutters within six months.'

D'ye think so ?'

I am sure so. Credit is the very life of trade.'

That may be, but I doubt it,' said Mr. McCul-
laugh slowly. * At any rate, cash is my rule, and I
see no reason why I should depart from it.'

Nor do I, since at present you have almost a
monopoly of the Scotch trade in your hands. If,

however  or, perhaps, I should rather say, when 
some opponent comes into the market, you will perhaps
see reason to alter your tactics.'

It's no very likely that I shall,' retorted Mr. ,
with a heightened colour, which told the
shot had gone home. ' I have always maintained
it's a3-e wiser to cry over your goods, nor after them.'
'If you can't get rid of your goods, it comes to
pretty much the same thing, I should imagine,' said
Mr. Pousnett equably. * However, we need not trouble
ourselves with abstract questions. As you won't
even trust me,' he added jocularly, * let me have invoice
in the morning, and I will send a cheque with
the shipping-note.'

If the great man expected Mr. McCullagh would
say nay to this proposition, he was deceived. Some
canny Scotch body' he was willing enough, as a rule,
to trust, or a small tradesman trying to make an
honest penny in a cautious way; but he had no faith
in large firms, dealing in tens and hundreds of thousands.


They're here to-day and there tomorrow,' he
was wont to observe ; * and mostly before they do
go, every farthing of capital has been spent ; while
as for assets, they generally, after the first statement,
assume the form of bad debts.'

If Rothschild had offered Mr. McCiillagh a six
months' hill, he would have told them civilly he
would not care to put himself under the obligation
of asking his hankers to discount it. ' I have never
needed a favour from them yet he would have explained,
' and I just feel I should' like to begin
now.'

For which reasons, and also perhaps, as he often
said, he ' diana care to trust too many eggs in one
basket,' Mr. McCuUagh implied he would accept the
proffered cheque, and have the goods ready at the time
specified.

So that is done with,' remarked Mr. Pousnett,
with the relieved sigh of a man who wished it to be
understood he detested nothing so much as the dry
details of any commercial transaction. business
first, pleasure to follow. On New Year's-eve, Mr.
McCullagh, my wife means to give a little party, and
she has commissioned me to ask you if you will do
her so much honour as to join her guests.'

She's verra good,' said Mr. M'Cullagh, who really
felt amazed, both at the promise of cash for such a
quantity of goods, and the certainty of this most
unlooked-for invitation.

We shall dine at seven,' proceeded Mr. Pousnett,
and I should esteem your coming up at that hour

and taking share of whatever may be going as a
favour. We are asking our friends to come early, as
we propose to have only one dance after the clock
strikes twelve.*

*I take it very kindly, both of you and Mrs. Pous-
nett,' said Mr. McCullagh, perplexed.

The kindness is all on your side,' answered Mr.
Pousnett.

I'm no sure that I'm just fit to go among a lot
of young people,' observed Mr. McCullagh modestly.
'I've stayed so long in my hole, in a manner of speaking,
that it seems strange to me even to put my head
out.'

Nonsense,' retorted Mr. Pousnett. * You seem
to me to enjoy society far more than your son.'

You scarcely saw him to advantage that evening,'
Mr. McCullagh replied. ' He was just as uneasy
as a hen on a hot griddle.'

'I don't know what a griddle may be,' said Mr.
Pousnett ; ' but now you speak of the matter I think
it likely he was anxious. You were surprised, I
suppose, to hear we had taken him into partnership
after all.'

I can't say that I was exactly. I always told
Robert if you wanted him you would not stand out
about the money.'

VOL. I. T

You were quite right there returned Mr. Pous-
sett, with a smile.

He did not think I was right at the time,* went
on Mr. McCullagh, unsuspicious of the double meaning
underlying his visitor's words.

Young people often despise the wisdom of their
elders,' a general proposition which committed the
speaker to nothing.

Ye're no far out,' agreed Mr. McCullagh, accepting
the statement as having particular reference to
his son. * Robert thinks he could buy and sell me
too.'

 He thinks wrong, then,' replied Mr. Pousnett
shortly.

Yell have bidden him, I suppose, to that set-out
ye were speaking of?'

*No, I have not,' was the unexpected answer;
and, what is more, I am not going to ask him. Do
not look so astonished, Mr. McCullagh. You will
soon understand the why and wherefore of my seeming
inhospitality, for I am going to be quite frank
with you. I have daughters, fairly good-looking,
and, I think I may say without vanity, possessed of
pleasant manners.'

Indeed ye may do that,' said Mr. McCullagh, as

the speaker paused. ' Handsomer or more agreeable
young ladies it would be bard to find.'

Thank yon. Well, your son is still a young
man, and be appears younger than bis actual age ;
be is not destitute of personal attractions, and 
Need I explain my meaning further, Mr. McCul-
lamb ?'

Weel, no. I understand pretty accurately.
Ye're afraid one of your girls might take a notion of
bim.'

Mr. Pousnett nodded. He could not bave spoken
sat that moment, great as was the amount of gravity
at bis command, without breaking into another peal
of merriment.

I won't say ye're wrong,' went on Mr. McCul-
lamb. 'It's aye best to be on the safe side. There's
no telling what young folks will do ; and if it's a
thing ye wouldn't like  '

I should not like it,' interposed Mr. Pousnett,
seeing bis opportunity. *I bave quite other views
for my daughters, and I intend to bave no entanglements
or complications I can avoid. That is why I
do not mean to ask sour son to my bouse. You
see, Mr. McCullagb,' added the great merchant
lightly, * the confidence I place in you.'

You consider me a horse of another colour.'

Of quite another colour,' said Mr. Pousnett.

There are some persons with whom it is dangerous
to indulge in even the politest joke, and Mr. 
chanced to he one of them.

Then if I understand you aright,' he remarked
facetiously, ' when I propose myself to you for a son-in-law
ye'll make no objection.'

Had an earl ventured a similar observation in a.
similar manner, Mr. Pousnett's pride would have-risen
in arms ; and it was with much ado he checked
an angry retort. Perhaps, however, the sight of Mi
McCullagh as he sat peering across the table, and
the absurdity of the position, did more to restore him
to good temper, than any merely prudential consideration.


The whole thing was irresistible.  "When he described
the scene afterwards to his wife, she laughed,
till she cried.

 The dear old creature!' she exclaimed. * And
what answer did you make, Herrion ?'

I said, " I thought that was a contingency it
scarcely seemed necessary at present to contemplate."
'

Which happened to be, indeed, word for word
Mr. Pousnett's reply.

But supposing I did take such a notion into my

leach,' persisted Mr. McCullagh, whose ideas of ' wut*
vere of the crudest description.

*In such a case,' answered Mr. Pousnett, *I
should refer you to my daughter.'

That's no so had,' said Mr. McCullagh, with his
short dry chuckle ; ' hut ye may make your mind
easy, Mr. Pousnett. I'm thinking the woman has
yet to he born who could beguile me into the holy
estate of matrimony a second time.'

You found once enough,' conjectured Mr. Pous-
nett, answering rather the tone of Mr. McCullagh's
words than the remark itself.

I did ; and yet, upon my conscience, I don't
know to this day whether the fault was hers or
mine.*

*I am certain it was not yours,' said Mr. Pous-
nett politely.

Well, in one way perhaps not ; for I could not
change my nature, and that was about the only thing
could have us run smoothly in harness.'

Your son resembles his mother, I suppose ?'

He favours her,' said Mr. McCullagh shortly;
and there was that in his voice which told Mr.
Pousnett the conversation had better be changed.

In the best of all ways he effected the desired
diversion by rising to go.

You will receive a card from my wife Mr
Pousnett remarked ere lie went ; * and I shall tell
her she may hope.'

"VMth which diplomatic speech the great man
departed, leaving Mr. McCullagh more curious
more puzzled, and more totally at sea than he had
ever felt before in the whole course of his life.

EFFIE ASKS A QUESTION.

After a considerable amount of what he, in his
rich and expressive idiom, called ' withering,' Mr.
McCullagh finally made up his mind that he would
grace Mrs. Pousnett's reception with his presence.

Unless I see more of that man I shall never be
able to make head nor tail of him,' he considered,
and, making thus both a virtue and a necessity of
his own inclinations, he wrote the * good lady' a
formal epistle, intimating that, if in the mean time
all went well, he hoped to have the good fortune to
meet her in good health on the evening of the thirty-first.
By the same post he despatched a note to
Mr. Pousnett, thanking him for the hearty manner
in which he had renewed his invitation to dinner,
and signifying that about seven p.m. on the day
named he might be expected to turn up in Portman-square.
Then, but not till then, he one afternoon
took Mrs. Pousnett's card out of its envelope, and

saying carelessly, ' That's the way the big people
Robert's got among ask their friends to take a cup
of tea with them,' placed it in a conspicuous position
on the mantelshelf.

He had not thought it well to apprise Miss Nicol
of the advent of this second mark of favour till he
should have decided whether he meant to go or to
stay away. Ever since he had cautiously broken
the news that Robert was indeed a partner in the
great house, he had noticed what he mentally termed
a * girning' on the part of Miss Nicol and a drooping
depression in the fair Effie.

The former lost no opportunity of ' girding' at
the ' lad's shortcomings,' while Effie looked out of
window for his long deferred appearance with such
pallid cheeks and red eyes that Mr. McCullagh was
fain to cheer her with the honoured old proverb
which assures disappointed maidens and jilted
swains there are as * good fish in the sea as ever
came out of it.'

Mind your seam,' he said, recalling the words
he had heard addressed to his sisters when they were
'wee town-headed lassies,' * and hold yourself up;
there's money bid for ye.' Hearing which facetious
piece of consolation Effie was wont to wrench herself
somewhat ungraciously out of Mr. McCullagh's

grasp, and retreat to her own room, where she would
have stayed altogether in those daj's when Robert
came not near, if Miss Nicol would only have ' let
her be.'

He'll be far too grand to come near us now, I'm
thinking,' was Miss Nicol's first remark when she
heard from the proud father of the ' rise' his son
had got in the world.

He's gone to Holland,' answered Mr. McCullagh;
but I daresay when he returns he may give us a
sight of himself now and again. After all, Janet, it
is not Robert's fault his employer should have taken
such a liking to him. I'm sure, to hear ye, anybody
might think the boy had committed some
sin.'

It was because of this little failing of jealousy on
the part of his kinswoman (a failing circumstances
had not hitherto brought into prominence), that Mr.
McCullagh decided to avoid all comment and controversy
on the subject of Mrs. Pousnett's invitation
till the die was cast, and he could simply say, ' I am
going.'

In silence Miss Nicol read the card; in silence
she made room for Effie also to read it.

They must be very grand folk,' said the latter,
with the suspicion of tears in her voice. ' If ye had

not told me,' she added, turning to lier benefactor,
I'm sure I never would have guessed what it all
meant.'

And I am sure I don't know what all of it
means now,' capped Miss Nicol. *It is the strangest
thing I ever saw : no compliments, no asking the
favour of your company. Well, it's some of the
new fashions, I suppose. And what does R.S.V.P,
stand for ? It is something like that they put on
the Woman Catholic tombstones, isn't it ?'

Come, Effie, now's the time to air your French,*
cried Mr. McCullagh. ' Construe, construe, like a
good girl.'

I know nothing about it,' answered Effie pettishly.


\yhat does it mean '?' asked Miss Xicol, discreetly
anxious to avert a storm.

Send a reply, if you please,' explained Mr. ,
who had been at some trouble to obtain his
information in an indirect way.

It is a pity she couldn't have said that in
English.'

I make small doubt she could if she had been
so minded.'

And ye're going to send an answer ?'

0, I've done that ! Mr. Pousnett came here

himself, and was so terrible pressing I could not but
say I would make one fool among many.'

Ye'll be getting quite conceited now such great
people are running after ye.'

I may. When I feel the symptoms coming on
I'll tell ye, Janet.'

And I suppose Robert is going too ?'

He is not going with me, at any rate,' answered
Mr. McCullagh, too wise and loyal to ' let on,' as he
would have phrased it, that his son was left out
in the cold. ' He is still in Holland, as I am given
to understand ; and now he is one of them he'll see
enough of the Pousnetts, I'll go bail.'

He'll, maj'be, be marrying one of the young
ladies ye said play-ed so well,' hazarded Miss Xicol,
with a sly glance towards Effie.

There is nothing impossible ; but I don't think
that is likely,' observed Mr. McCullagh, in a manner
which did not encourage Miss Nicol to continue the
conversation in the same strain.

And so ye really are going out to a dance,' she
said, after a moment's pause, with a sort of elephantine
playfulness.

Ay, and to dinner first,' answered Mr. McCul
laugh, glad to get this additional explanation over.

They seem to have taken a wonderful fancy to
je,' remarked Miss Nicol dubiously.

And why wouldn't they ?' returned her relative,
in a tone of defiance. * Is there anything about me
that should prevent man or woman taking a fancy tome?'


No, no ; ye misinterpret me altogether,' said
Miss Nicol hurriedly ; * only it appears sudden,
that's all.'

It's not so sudden as the change in 3'ou, Janet,'
retorted Mr. McCullagh. * There was a time when
apparently I could do nothing wrong in jour esteem ;
now it would seem there is not a single thing I can
do right, even to accepting an invite from those who
have stood friends to my son, and are willing to be
friendly to me.'

Some day ye may know who are your true
friends,' answered the housekeeper sententiously.

Some day, Janet, all things will be revealed ;
but till then we must just do the best we can with
the light at our disposal,' answered Mr. McCullagh.
And now, to put matters upon a reasonable footing,
I may tell ye, once for all, I am not going to be told
by anybody living under my roof and eating my bread
who I am to know, or who I am not to know ; where
I am to go, or where I am not to go ; who I am to

call my friends, and who I am to consider my enemies.
You haye been taking a wee too much on
yourself of late, Mistress Nicol, and it is best we
understood one another soon. We must, in any
event, do that syne.'

Mistress Nicol, as he called her  Miss Nicol,
who once had hoped to change that patronymic for
the lengthen, if less euphonious, name of McCullagh
who, indeed, still entertained a lingering expectation
that some day, any day, her kinsman might say,
Janet, wull ye be my wife ?'  for reply only took
out her handkerchief and applied it to her eyes, to
conceal perhaps the most genuine tears of rage ever
shed by a ' douce' Scotchman.

Her emotion might have moved many a one of
the male sex ; but Mr. McCullagh had served an
apprenticeship to female tactics, and would not have
been much affected even by a fit of hysterics.

I do not see what call ye have to greet, Janet,'
he said, in his hardest and most unsympathetic
Doric. ' If it was Effie, now, I could understand it
better, though, as I told her no later nor yester e'en,
it's no Robert's fault he could take a fancy to her ;
and I am sure I'm sorry enough he couldn't. All
the fretting in the world won't snare a man's heart,
though.'

I'm very sure I want none of this heart exclaimed
Effie, in an access of indignation. * I take
it hard of je, uncle, to make so little of me as to
conceit such a thing.'

It's no making little of 3'e to conceit ye might
have taken a liking to my son retorted Mr.
McCullagh.

Ay, hut it is,' retorted Ef&e, * if he never
thought of me.'

I'm thinking ye're the hest of it, my lass,'
returned Mr. McCullagh, who was just, if not
chivalric. ' Ye're quite right ; and I'm fain to ask
your pardon for what I said just now. I'm real
sorry you and Eohert couldn't make a match of it.
I'd have liked it well enough, though ye haven't a
halfpenny-piece, or the chance of one.'

There's no need to mind me I have no money,'
expostulated Effie, who indeed looked as unlike a
young woman possessed of a ' great fortune' as a
young woman well could.

If he'd had a mind for ye, I'd have made that
right, though,' explained Mr. McCullagh blandly.
But there's no use talking about that now.'

If I'd been consulted,' interposed Miss Nicol,
whose tears were now dry, ' there would have been
no use at anytime. I would rather see my brother's

child in her coffin than wife to a man who hasn't a
thought beyond his genteel figure and his well-fitting
clothes.'

Would ye now !' said Mr. McCuIlagh, after the
manner of an interjection.

I wish ye wouldn't quarrel concerning Eohert
over me,' suggested Effie, who at that moment was
the coolest of the party. * I do assure ye both I am
not troubling my head about him.'

'And I am very certain I am not,' exclaimed
3Iiss Nicol, with a gasping sob.

And ye may both take your oath, I am not now,'
finished Mr. McCullagh. * The lad has struck out
;a course for himself, and a fine course it is. I never
thought any son of mine, and more especially the
son least resembling myself, would do so well as
Robert has done. I'm thinking none of us knew
what was in that boy. I take shame to myself whiles
for thinking his brothers would beat him in the race.'

The race isn't over yet, mind that,' said Miss
nicol, with a certain Satanic exultation.

God forgive me, Janet, if I wrong ye ; but I
think we'd be glad if Robert came a cropper,'
observed Mr. McCullagh, wisely avoiding the discussion
Miss Nicol's speech invited.

0, I've no ill-will to Robert, I'm sure,' she

answered. *He's "vvell enough behaved, and fair
spoken into the bargain. The worst fault I've to
find with him is, he has more outside his head than
he'll ever have in.'

*He's got a fine shock of curly black hair, if that's
what je mean,' answered Mr. McCullagh ; ' and
maybe, if we'd had curly black hair, we might have
been a thought proud of it too.'

Robert as partner in Pousnetts' and Robert as.
manager were two quite distinct personages. Mr.
McCullagh now recalled the facts that, * first or last,*
his eldest born had never, so to speak, cost him a
penny; that he had, in appearance and manners,
been a credit to the house of McCullagh ; and that
perhaps, upon the whole, he had been hardly done
by. Miss Nicol's antagonistic remarks did more to
establish Robert in his father's good books than any
amount of praise could have effected.

I'm of the opinion,' said Miss Nicol, * that
we'll all of us have to be content with the hair the
Almighty sends us.'

*I think He almost forgot you and me, Janet,'
remarked Mr. McCullagh, with an awful pleasantry.
We've neither of us much more covering to our
heads nor Effie, and she doesn't own enough to keep
out a small shower of summer rain.'

Having delivered himself of which genial remark,
Mr. McCullagh left the room, and sought his sanctuary
on the ground-floor.

While he was still a struggling man, doing, in
Ms early days, a Squall business, that apartment had
"been the common sitting-room for himself and family.
After his wife's death, however, he changed the
Arrangement of the house, dividing the chamber in
twain, and taking one half for a private office, and
devoting the other to sleep. Here he had for years
been wont to retire when he got tired of his womenfolk
or wished to work out any problem in arithmetic
which required the whole devotion of his mind. Latterly
he had shut himself in this quiet haven more
frequently than of yore, for he found many questions
to think out in solitude ; and it was, besides, an undeniable
fact that, since she heard of the greatness
thrust on Robert, Miss Nicol ' was not near so pleasant
as she might be.*

She never missed an opportunity of giving the
young man's vanity what Mr. McCullagh styled a
side-wipe;' and worse than all, she did not hesitate
whiles' to indulge in a ' nasty sneer' regarding her
patron himself.

Mr. McCullagh reviewed Miss Nicol, and came
to the conclusion * he wasna just satisfied' with that

VOL. I. u

lady. She was * taking on her' in a way he did not
exactly understand. He recalled the fact that years
previously Miss Nicol had once before ' tried it on
with him, and signally got the worst of the encounter.
On the occasion in question she wanted to wring
out of him a promise of an annual * steeped,' she
who was boarded and lodged at his expense, and had
no call to soil her fingers.'

Miss Nicol took quite another view of the matter,
and, although she had a small income sufficient to
provide her with dress, thought she was well worth
five-and-twenty pounds a year.

Ye're out of your mind, Janet,' Mr. McCullagh
informed her ; * seeing the riches and extravagance
of London has turned your head a wee, I'm thinking.'


My cousin John says he'll be glad to give me
thirty pounds a year if I'll go to Liverpool and keep
house for him.*

Then ye can't do better nor accept his offer,*
observed Mr. McCullagh, in his most decided manner.


*I'm sure I don't want to leave ye,' answered Miss
Nicol, *if ye can only pay me something.'

I can pay ye nothing,' retorted Mr. McCullagh,
nothing at all. It's not as if ye were a servant ;

ye know, ye're your time to yourself. The children
are at school most part of the day, and ye can sit
down to your book, or your needle, or, if ye prefer it,
go out and see your friends. I told ye before, and I
tell ye again, that so long as ye don't stint the food
ye may keep aught ye can save out of the housekeeping.'


Out of the housekeeping !* repeated Miss Nicol,
with a sudden uplifting of hands and eyes. * Preserve
us ! A flea would starve upon all that is to be
saved out of the money you allow.'

If ye're dissatisfied, we'd best see how ye can
hit things off vdth your cousin : only mind this,
Janet, once ye leave here, ye'll leave for always. I
can't have ye coming back again in case ye find,
when ye get down to Liverpool, ye're jumped out of
the frying-pan into the fire ;' which last hint was
so unmistakable Miss Nicol decided to remain in
Basinghall-street.

Better the you know,' she thought, * than

the you don't.'

She was aware her cousin John had a considerable
spice of ill-temper in his nature; for which
reason, and also because she firmly believed Mr.
McCullagh would one day make her all his own,
she decided to stay where she was, save any trifle

she could out of candle-ends, and wait patiently
for what, in the fulness of time, might be brought
forth.

'I wonder what she has in her mind now?' considered
Mr. McCullagh, reverting to the insubordination
of his womankind. * I'm not surprised at
Effie, because I've been forced to come down pretty
heavy over her knuckles to rout that notion of Robert
out of her mind ; but Janet seems clean demented.
A fine think;, indeed, if I am to ask her leave and
license before I go to eat my dinner at a friend's,
house !'

He went on with some work he had brought with
him from the opposite office, and becoming gradually
absorbed in the interesting details of business,
soon forgot all about Miss Nicol's discontent and
Effie's disappointment ; indeed, he had so many calculations
to make and important items to enter that
time slipped away without his noticing the fact, and
he was only at length aroused from his occupation
by a gentle knocking on the panel of the door.

Come in, come in,' he cried, * whoever ye are I
0, it's you, Effie, is it ?' he added, as that meek and
colourless young person advanced a step or two into-the
room.

Will I bring ye down a cup of tea "?' she said,.

in that low voice of hers which alway's seemed to be
begging pardon for making itself heard at all.

What, is it that late ?' asked Mr. McCullagh.
'Why, bless me,' he went on, 'I had no notion of
the hour ! No, no : I'll come up. I'll follow je
immediately. Is the tea wet ?'

Ay, this twenty minutes,' answered Effie. 'That's
why I thought I'd tell ve ;' and she flitted, with her
dull, lifeless, girlish step, back to the first floor,
where she now lit a candle, and poured more water
into the teapot, and buttered some scones she had
been keeping hot on a little toaster hanging before
the meagre fire.

We've a good smell here,' said Mr. McCullagh,
entering the room a minute afterwards. ' What is
it  griddle-cakes ?'

*I thought I'd bake ye some scones,' answered
Effie. 'Ye didn't take much dinner, I noticed.'

I'd plenty for my dinner : but scones are aye
welcome. Where's Janet '?'

If ye mind she said she was going round this
evening to see old Mrs. Anderson.'

'I believe she did,' returned Mr. McCullagh, who
felt his kinswoman's absence a relief. 'Those scones
are capital, Effie ; ye're a rare light hand for baking
of all sorts.'

Effie received this compliment in silence, with a
drooping head and a sad smile. It was an awful
experience to try to keep up a conversation with hers
Nevertheless Mr. McCullagh, who possessed the great
vii-tue of never sulking, plunged cheerfully into the
abyss.

Have ye been for a walk to-day ?'

No, I haven't.'

But ye'll have been for your music-lesson ?'

No.'

How's that ? Why didn't ye go f

It's not the day for it.'

*Ye're not eating anything. Have a piece of
scone ?'

I'm doing very well,' answered Effie, munching
a morsel of stale bread.

Nonsense ! Take some of this while it's hot ;'
and Mr. McCullagh hospitably handed the plate across
the table. Effie modestly helped herself to the eighth
portion of one of the delicacies proffered. ' And so
this isn't the day you have your lesson ?'

'No.'

D'ye think ye're getting on well with the piano ?'

a can't tell.'

But your mistress says you've made great head.*
*Ay, so she says.'

Ye don't speak as if ye were exactly of her
opinion.'

Mr. McCullagh intended this remark merely in
the way of a polite observation, for his mind was
wandering off on quite an opposite path from Effie
and her music ; but the maiden accepted it as a query.

Well, I'm not,' she said, in that low slow drawl
which was to English ears so inexpressibly aggravating,
but which Mr. McCullagh considered the
' right sort of thing' in a ' lassie.' ' If she'd just a
bit more life about her,' he sometimes added. ' I
thought I was getting on fairly till I heard j'ou talking
about the way those ladies 'made the piano
speak." '

D'ye mean Mr. Pousnett's daughters '?'

'I couldn't mean anybody else,' answered Effie
meekly.

Well, their performing is something beyond the
ordinary, that's a sure thing,' said Mr. McCullagh
meditatively.

Ye don't think I'd ever be able to play like
them?'

Ye might, ye know,' replied her relative. But
his tone implied that if he had observed. * ye might
not,' it would have been nearer the mark.

'I was talking to Mrs. Olfradine about it,' went

on Effie, ' and she tells me lie believes musicians
are born, not made.'

That's curious too, and her a teacher.'

She can teach,' continued Effie, taking heart to
speak out her parable ; * but she can't play, not like
those sou were telling me of.'

That's a pity,' answered Mr. McCullagh, helping
himself to another scone.

*And I'm very sure,' finished Effie, putting a
little drop of tea in her cup and filling it up with
lukewarm water,  ' I'm very sure Fll never be able
to play like them either.'

'Ye'll play well enough,' returned Mr. McCul-
laugh encouragingly. 'It's nice to hear the pianoforte
made go through its paces once in a way ; but
I'd just as lief hear ye, droning out some old lilt
in the twilight, that takes me back to the times
when I was a lad, and used to follow old Gavin
Drily, the blind fiddler, down to the place where
the steamers landed. My word, he used to make a
mint of money ! Lord, he could give " Roy's wife
of Aldivalloch" in a way that might have raised the
very dead ! If ye're done your tea, Effie, and a very
poor one it was, go and play us " Roy's wife." *

Beautifully compliant, Miss Effie Nicol moved to
the instrument, which was entirely out of tune, of

which several notes were dumb, and evoked from
its internal economy as best she might the air Mr.
McCullagh's soul loved exceedingly.

*Ay, ay,' he said; 'that's it. Weel done, Effie !
I can see Gavin now, as I've seen him a hundred
times, with the fiddle pressed against his cheek, and
his right hand working the bow like a steam-engine,
and his sightless eyes rolling in his head, and all
the dirty bairns of the town at his heels, playing
away like a good one. Let's have it again, Effie :
and as, encouraged by his enthusiasm, her stiff awkward
fingers managed to evolve some faint semblance
of spirit out of the instrument, Mr. McCullagh, who
had by this time finished his own tea, grew so excited,
he seized a knife in his left hand and beat time
with the handle on the table, whilst snapping his
fingers at intervals jubilant, he chanted out, iu a
sort of thin cracked tenor,

Pwoy's wife of Z-di-valloch,
Roy's wife of IZ-di-valloch,
Wot ye how lie cheated me,
As we cam' over the braes of Ballot ?'

'Ye'll do, ye'll do, Effie,' he exclaimed, when,
after having sung all the verses, and ended with a
shriek on the last syllable, which he pronounced
 lough,' in a manner no English tongue could ever

VOL. I. X

hope to pronounce, the melody played on the piano
and the vocal melody died away into silence at the
same time. *Ye'll do. So long as ye can turn
a tune like that, ye needn't trouble your head about
Miss Pousnett's shakes and quavers.'

Mr, McCullagh had not the faintest idea what a
quaver might be, but he used the word as a good
general sort of musical term.

The fair Effie, not at all elated by the extraordinary
performance in which she had just taken
part, glided silently from the piano to the tea-table,
where, in a dull and mournful manner, she piled
the plates, knives, cups, saucers, and other impedimenta
skilfully upon the tray. Having concluded
which ceremony, she called the red-armed hard-featured
servant Mr. McCullagh generally, in an
easy colloquial sort of way, mentioned simply as.
the girl.'

CHAPTER I.

MR. SNOW CONFESSES HIMSELF AT FAULT.

You can think what sou please, of course,' said
Mr. Alfred Mostin, speaking loudly and angrily, and
looking with indignation down on Mr. Snow, who
occupied the one comfortable armchair the shabbily-furnished
room boasted. In his surprise at the
accusation brought against him, Mr. Mostin had
risen from his seat, and, standing on the hearthrug,
was delivering from that vantage-ground sentiments
remarkable for terse frankness. ' Let whoever may
have been chattering about your affairs I am not the
person. You had better look elsewhere for your
"little bird," Mr. Snow; and when you find him,
wring his neck, to prevent further singing to the
same tune.'

Well, I tell you candidly,' answered Mr. Snow,

VOL. III. B

that I am very sorry to suspect you. I did think,
drunk or sober, you were not a fool ; and I believed,
like a fool myself perhaps, you were loyal. Now
what am I to conclude ? I find matters with which
you confess you have by hook or by crook got
acquainted, talked about, or, perhaps I should better
say, hinted at. Of course, on all accounts, I feel
grieved to suspect you ; but what else am I to do ?'
Mr. Mostin's answer was short and not polite.
Indeed, it was so uncivil, Mr. Snow remarked he
ought not to speak in that sort of way ; intimating
at the same time vehemence of language was no proof
of innocence  rather the contrary, indeed.

If you like to believe me a spy, and a sneak, and
a mischief maker, there is no more to be said,' exclaimed
Mr. Posting

do not like to do anything of the sort, and
that is why I came to you to see if you could throw
any light on the subject.'

How can I do that ? I know no more than the
dead how your secrets have got wind. All I do know
is, I have not talked about them.'

Then who can have done so?'

Surely that is a question you ought to be able to
answer for yourself. When did you hear these hints
dropped you speak of *? To what effect were they ?

Where were they dropped, and who shed such pearls
of price about the City ?'

It is some little time,' answered Mr. Snow, too
deeply in earnest to resent, or indeed notice, the
ironical tone of Mr. Mostin's question, ' since a word
accidentally let fall at Meekin's surprised me, as
showing my dealings with the Bread-street-hill
McCullaghs were known.'

Likely enough my respected employer that is to
be let the cat out of the bag himself,' suggested Als
Mostin.

'Not a week had passed,' went on Mr. Snow,
without answering this observation, ' before a remark
was made about my cleverness in having got " hand
and glove" with Pousnett. This time it was Mr.
Meekin himself spoke about the matter, and said I
had done what many a first-rate banker would have
felt proud to accomplish.'

Why didn't you ask him how the deuce he knew
what you had done or left undone ?'

Because I did not want him to think there was
a secret I wanted kept. Remember, as yet, no harm
apparently has come of any talk there may have been ;
the only thing is I want to know who is chattering
about my affairs, and to stop his mouth for the future
if I can.'

Well, SO far as I am concerned, I plead " Not
guilty;" whatever I may think of you or your business'
(Mr. Snow winced), ' I have never tried to
injure you, or Pousnett, or even plain auld Eab. By
Jove, that reminds me ! When Upperton first
started, that delightful gentleman, possessed by a
notion that some one or perhaps all the Scotch
houses intended skimming the cream of the London
market, asked me to find out who Upperton might be.
I very soon discovered that ; but then the trouble
was to discover Moorhall's backers. When at last
I nosed that out also, I just lied to the old boy, and
said I could find out nothing about the matter. I did
indeed ; though he offered me money  pressed it
upon me  declared I had earned five pounds, and so
forth, I never told him who his best friend was,
never dropped a hint Pousnett was trying to damage
him.'

Why on earth did Pousnett start that opposition
?' asked Mr. Snow, not sorry to be able at last
to speak freely on a subject which had always puzzled
him.

Don't you know ? Auld Eab refused him
credit.'

No ! not possible !'

He did, though, and made a boast afterwards

that for all Pousnetts' was so big a house, and his
son was one of the firm, he had not relaxed his rule
when the senior partner came dealing, but asked him
for cash, just as if he were the poorest tradesman in
the City.'

'Good Lord, what a fool !' ejaculated Mr. Snow.

Yes, it just shows the sort of mistake a shrewd
man is capable of making when he gets "uplifted,"
as Mr. McCullagh calls it.'

And how came you to know Pousnett had anything
to do with Moorhall ?'

By putting this and that together. The first
and only time I ever saw Robert's partner to speak
to, I took his measure pretty accurately, I flatter myself
; and if I were in a position to mind a man
doing me a bad turn I should not care to offend
Mr. Herrion Pousnett.'

Ah !' said Mr. Snow, reflecting. ' Was that
the reason you did not take the offer he made
you?'

Well, no, not exactly. For one thing, liberty
seemed sweet then, as liberty would seem sweet now,
were it attainable.'

Yes ; and for another ?'

Perhaps you can guess the second reason, Mr.
Snow,' suggested Als Mostin, with a curious smile.

I scarcely can ; what was it ?'

Mr. Mostin hesitated. ' I don't want to do
Robert's partner any injury,' he said at last.

And you may be very sure neither do I,' concurred
Mr. Snow.

Besides which, I may be quite wrong in my
view.'

Possibly, but not probably. Now let me hear
it. Where did you think there was a hitch  '

I saw no hitch. It only occurred to me that a
man in the position I should have filled there might
be told to do things he would be blamed afterwards,
if needs were, for having done."

Mr. Snow did not say a word for a minute. He
only looked straight up at Als Mostin, who, in
return, looked straight down at him. Then drawing
a long breath he observed, ' I see ;' which clearly
had no sort of reference to any object within the
range of his actual vision.

You are a very smart chap, Mostin,' he began,
after a pause. *I wonder you have not done better.'

So do I,' agreed Mr. Mostin, with a charming
frankness.

I feel quite satisfied now it is not from you any
information respecting my affairs has come.'

Much obliged, I am sure.'

A man can do no more than acknowledge himself
mistaken,' observed Mr. Snow sententiously ; for
Alfred Motions tone and Alfred Mostin's manner
were extremely trying.

'I did not expect you to do so much answered
the ne'er-do-weel.

And I wish very much,' proceeded Mr. Snow,
feeling it vain to endeavour to extort any greater
meed of civility, 'you would take this matter in
hand, and find out for me who it is that interests
himself in my concerns.'

Could not possibly,' said Mr. Mostin, with a
twinkling eye. ' All my time for the future will beat
the disposal of Messrs. Robert McCuUagh & Co. ;
and the friend who secured this fortune of two
pounds a week told me, if I managed to get out of
my new situation, I was never for ever to go to him
again for help.'

Mr. Snow laughed. ' Your friend will take
care,' he remarked, ' you do not lose your situation
through any folly on his part ; and as you are
always about, you can pick up the information I
want without interfering with your employer's interests.
Just take the matter in hand, will you ? I
daresay a few pounds in addition to your salary won't
prove unwelcome.'

They would be particularly welcome now,' answered
Mr. Mostin, at last thoroughly in earnest.

Mr. Snow took the hint, and at once paid down
an instalment.

I have a day or two still at my disposal before
I put my neck under the yoke,' observed Als Mostin,
which I will try to utilise. First, tell me who
knows of these transactions ?'

No one, so far as I am aware, except the persons
interested.'

Meaning Pousnett, yourself, and Alty, eh ?'
Mr. Snow coloured. He had a bad habit of
turning red, which sometimes proved as fatal to him
as the weak spot in the heel of Achilles. However,
in this case he accepted the situation boldly, and
said, ' Yes, and Alty if you will ; and, by the bye,
how could you be so rude and stupid as to address
him as you did at Chard's ?'

The temptation was u-resistible. The old
wretch told a fellow I know, who chanced to be a bit
in arrear with some trifle he owed him, he would
never prosper unless he took the pledge. Now that
poor devil's rare extravagance is a pint of porter
drunk on his own premises ; whilst as for Alty,
there is scarce a bar in the City where his hypocritical

face  as great a liar as its owner  is not
well known.'

Mr. Snow shook his head gravely.

You will never learn prudence, I am afraid,' he
said.

I hope I shall never become such a humbug as
your rich friend. But to return to the great question,
who has the run of your office besides that
dumb fellow in black ?'

My clerk is not dumb,' suggested Mr. Snow
mildly.

He might as well be for all the use he seems
willing to make of his tongue. You have a housekeeper,
I suppose, who tides up, and is in the pay,
as most housekeepers are, of one of the mercantile
associations.'

I don't believe she is, but in any case, I defy
her to get much information out of my place when
I leave it.'

*Pooh!' said Mr. Mostin, who, owner of three
sovereigns, felt himself suddenly transformed into a
prosperous individual. ' To a shrewd female trifles
apparently light as air are full of significance  the
blotting-pad, the waste-paper basket, the letter-box !
what more is needed out of which to construct a very
pretty drama ?'

A good deal,' I should say, answered Mr. Snow,
inwardly determined, however, for the future to take
these various hints seriously to heart.

Then you lock up your drawers and cupboards,'
went on Mr. Mostin. 'Just let me look at your
keys.'

I have only one bunch with me,' said Mr. Snow,
producing it as he spoke.

Alfred Mostin turned the keys over curiously ;
there were eight altogether.

Safe, cash-box, latch,' he observed ; ' the only
three worth a rush.'

Nonsense ! they are all capital keys,' retorted
Mr. Snow, offended.

For which you paid a capital price, no doubt,'
said Mr. Alfred Mostin. ' Nevertheless, within ten
minutes' walk I could take you to a place in St.
Luke's where you may buy just the same article for
as many pence as you paid shillings. I think I
shall begin with your housekeeper, who probably hasa
husband that is porter somewhere, and boys who
have situations as minor clerks or errand-boys.'

Do you suppose that poor Mrs. Cruse has skele-
ton-keys ?'

It is quite on the cards that she has, and that
your books are periodically inspected.'

Well, she would not make much out of them if
she did,' said Mr. Snow triumphantly.

Some of those people are much sharper than
you might imagine,' answered Als Posting

don't care how sharp she might be, she would
find my books puzzle her.'

Do you keep them in cipher, then ?' asked Mr.
Mostin.

Something of that sort ; unintelligible, at any
rate.'

Couldn't I make them out ?'

No, that you could not.'

We must fall back on the letters, then.'

I have had no letters bearing on this matter.'

The mystery deepens,' said Mr. Mostin. ' You
have had callers, however, I suppose ?'

No ; Mr. Pousnett has never been inside my
office, and I have not been in his for eight or nine
months.'

Who is your go-between ?'

We have none.'

Really, I think I must throw the new McCul-
laugh over, and devote the whole of my energies to
solving this enigma.'

You had better not,' retorted Mr. Snow, who
knew this black sheep only wanted the shadow of an

excuse to be off his agreement ; * for I could not pay
you two or even one pound per week for any length
of time.'

Why don't you engage me as your clerk ?' suggested
Mr. Mostin ; ' I should then be on the spot
to ferret out this malignant spy.'

You might get to know more than would suit
me about other things,' answered Mr. Snow. ' Upon
the whole, my friend, I am inclined to think you area
trifle too sharp to be safe.'

*You will recant that opinion when I tell you
who has been talking about Mr. Snow's clients.
Heavens ! I have a most delightful acquaintance, a
pawnbroker, who spoke the other day about his
clients ;" but I think Alty's phrase is better.'

How do you know anything about Mr. Alty's
phrases ?'

That is quite outside the present question, and
I must decline to reply. In a week's time I shall
hope to be able to bring you some useful intelligence.
What a funny notion, keeping your books in
cipher ! It is not half a bad one, though.'

If Mr. Snow had only then and there made Mr.
Mostin acquainted with the sort of cipher he employed,
he would have saved that clever individual a
considerable amount of trouble.

MR. M'CULLAGH is UNDECEIVED.

It is one thing to live on very little, and quite another
to possess the power of making a little go a long way;
in other words, there are persons who can do without
butter altogether, but yet fail utterly when asked to
make a small portion cover a large quantity of bread.
Superficial observers are very apt to confound the two
gifts  for each in its way is a gift  and to jump to
the conclusion that those who cannot by any stretch
of courtesy be called good managers are extravagant ;
the fact being it is as a rule the difficulty of accommodating
a past of utter shortness to a present of
comparative competence which drives many women
half crazy, and induces comments from men concerning
wretched housekeeping that, though perhaps
somewhat inconsiderate, are wholly natural.

Mr. Robert McCullagh's young wife was not a
good manager in the sense of being able to get a
pound's worth of value for ten shillings' worth of

expenditure. It is an extremely simple system to
make the two ends meet by living on tea and bread-and-butter
; but this proves a bad education for a
future career in which daily dinners form a feature ;
dinners a husband expects to be good, and provided
at a not exorbitant cost. Janeyy had not been long
married before she began to realise she knew nothing
whatever about the mysteries of domestic management.
She was a quick and clever gentlewoman ;
she could make a room look pretty with the cheapest
of materials ; she could have nursed Robert day and
night had he been taken ill; she could induct a
housemaid into the mysteries of waiting at table;
but what she could not do was keep her bills within
a certain limit if she had to conduct the establishment
in a given style. She knew what tea cost a pound,
and how much bread and butter might serve for a
week, but there her information ended. She had
learnt music from the time she could remember anything,
and she commenced reading too far back in a
remote past to recollect when she found any trouble
with the long words, and her nurse at a very tender
age tied a piece of thread to a pin and gave her a
piece of coarse muslin, and so the child began to
sew; but of that which constitutes humanity's
greatest and most constant want  food  Janeyy had

only the knowledge that she had, when younger,
seen it placed in different forms on various tables.
As to what it might be in its original shape, or the
nature of the manipulation and processes it went
through to fit it for ordinary appetites, she was as
utterly ignorant as a French child of English ora
farm-labourer of Latin and Greek.

If Mrs. Lilands had ever been conversant with
such details  which is extremely doubtful  obviously,
in the lady's then state, to consult her about a problem
in housekeeping would have proved worse than
useless. The doctor's sister, Janeyy's only female
friend in London, dwelt afar off; and so it came to
pass that Mrs. Robert McCullagh had to wrestle with
the difficulties all alone, as she found cookery books
rather mystify than enlighten her.

The result of this proved exactly what might
have been expected. Janeyy failed to make her
housekeeping money and her housekeeping expenses
agree.

I know it is my own fault somehow,' she decided
modestly ; and, indeed, it was, if not her fault, her
misfortune. When a lady does not know the name
of a single joint, and has not the faintest notion concerning
the quantity of lard or butter usually employed
in making enough pastry for an apple-tart, it needs

no sage to tell that a considerable expenditure and
very little comfort are likely to ensue.

But, though humiliated, Janeyy was not beaten.
Diligently she set herself to master the science of
domestic management, just as she would have studied
some unknown language had she found herself transported
suddenly to a foreign shore. She knew how
her husband liked to live, and it was not long before
arithmetic and her own common sense came to the
conclusion it was impossible to keep a liberal table
and have everything in the house en suite upon the
amount Robert indicated as that he should prefer not
to be exceeded.

One by one, accordingly, she kept on lopping off
expenses which necessitated no privation to her
husband. First both cook and housemaid departed,
and a general servant was engaged ; then she too
received her dismissal, and the little maid of the Old
Ford days was reinstated, Mrs. Lilands' attendant
promising to give some assistance each day in
the kitchen while Mrs. McCullagh sat with ' her
mamma.'

Under this new order of things, which was not
inaugurated till Janeyy had been married some
months, the household was not, perhaps, less comfortable,
but it proved more open to criticism.

Even Mr. McCullagh wondered Robert could content
himself with one 'wee girl;' while Miss Nicol opined
the 'fine new wife must have a temper of her own,
as she did not seem able to keep a decent servant in
the house.'

They keep that one they have for looking after
the madwoman,' said Mr. McCullagh, in extenuation
of Janeyy's many sins ; for though he did not like her,
he did not care to hear her run down.

Ay, I'm thinking that's the leak lets out most
of the money,' observed Miss Nicol oracularl3\

What d'ye mean ?' asked Mr. McCullagh.

Why, that your son's earnings are being spent
in trying to mend Mrs. Lilands' cracked head. They
had two of the great West-end doctors seeing her the
other day, each of them in a carriage and pair, no
less. It won't take long to drive through a fortune
at that rate.'

Well, I'm sure ye needn't grizzle at the creature
for wanting to get the best judgment she can to bear
on her mother's misfortune.'

Fm not complaining ; I've no need,' replied Miss
Nicol. 'It's not ny money that's being wasted.
But a person may make a remark, I suppose ; and
having still the use of my eyes, I can't help seeing
there's not a thing about the house just as it ought

VOL. III. c

to be, except what's for the use and benefit of a woman
who has lost whatever sense she had, always supposing
she ever had any.'

I'd never desire to sit down to a better dinner
than they give me,' said Mr. McCullagh, who knew
it was a bitter drop in Miss Nicol's cup that she had
only been asked to partake of tea.

Nobody, as I am aware of, ever considered
eating and drinking would be behindhand where
Robert was,' retorted the lady, who was perfectly well
aware she had but to advance any suggestion to
Janeyy's disadvantage for Mr. McCullagh to take it
into his mind and hatch it at his leisure.

This was precisely what happened in the present
case. He considered the question, turned it over
and over, and came solemnly to the conclusion, not
only that a mint of money was being wasted on Mrs.
Lilands, but that Robert had entangled himself with
her affairs, and become bond or guarantee or 'something
he'd repent sore' for his mother-in-law.

The whole land of Janeyy's mind, indeed, lay open
for him to explore. In the length and breadth of it
he could not discern an ambuscade or a fenced city,
and perhaps it was for this reason he decided she
was deep and false.

She is for aye saying, " We can't afford this,"

or *' We must do without that," or '' We will have
the other when we can save up enough to huy it."
Now, what the deil can she mean by such hints and
make-believes ? She knows well enough what's
taking cash out of the lad's pocket, and why should
she make a to-do about it ? He was never short
till he met her ; and I've looked about me, and I
can't even find out what they've done with that
hundred pounds.'

At last he could bear the uncertainty no longer,
and asked Janeyy plainly liovr it was they did not
seem to get ' before the world.'

'Robert's share in Pousnetts',' he went on,
mayn't be a big one, but it ought to go a good bit
farther than it seems to do.'

I don't know what his share comes to,' answered
Mrs. Robert simply ; ' but he wants us to
spend as little as we can till he is out of debt.'

How did he get into debt ?' Mr. McCullagh's
tone, as he put this question, was very sharp, and his
face looked very keen; even his nose seemed to point
an interrogation.

'He never told me,' said Janeyy, frightened; for
she began to think Robert might not wish his father
to learn anything about his affairs.

I thought he told ye everything  that he

hadn't a secret from ye,' was the ironical comment.


'Robert has not any secret,' retorted Janeyy, with
spirit. ' I have no doubt he would have told me all
about it if I had asked him, but I did not.'

I daresay,' observed Mr. McCullagh ; and Janeyy
did not like to inquire what he meant.

'What's this I hear about your being in debt?'
inquired the father of the son, on the very next
opportunity which presented itself of putting such a
question.

If he had not been forewarned, Robert certainly
would have found himself in an embarrassing position
; but informed by his wife of the conversation,
he was prepared with an answer.

*I am not in debt any more than I can pay,' he
replied, trying to laugh, and not succeeding very
admirably in the endeavour.

But how does it happen ? how could such a thing
come about ?'

0, it's a long story,' said Robert diplomatically.
Were ye so far left to yourself as to become

surety ?'

Well, something of that sort,' stammered his
son.

*I deemed as much  I deemed as much,' commented

Mr. McCullagli. * Man, man, that's an
awful rope to knot round your neck. Yell never
run yourself into such a snare again, will ye ?'
'I don't think I will,' was the truthful reply.

Could I help ye ?' Maybe ye're fallen among
thieves that are charging an exorbitant interest. If
I was to speak a word (I am considered to have a
good judgment in some matters), would it be any
use, think ye ?'

I do not fancy so ; thank you, sir, all the same,'
answered his son. * They seem fair-dealing people
enough, and I hope to be all right after a time ; only
for the present Janeyy and I considered it best to cut
our coat according to our cloth, and save as much as
we could.'

Ay, that is only prudent ; but, lad, if we'd
only had the sense to stay single for a while ?'

There is no use in talking about that now, is
there, father ?' asked Robert.

No, no manner of use at all,' agreed Mr. 
; and he abandoned the conversation, fully
believing Robert had at last come round to his way
of thinking.

He's just spoiled for life,' he thought. ' The
Lord alone knows what sort of a hole this is he has
let himself into. Mad or sane, they've been wise

enough to get the foolish boy into their clutches, and
I am real sorry, for it is on my mind he is the best
of the bunch. There is that Archie now coming
tearing home, when I am very sure nobody wants
him, unless it may be David. Well, they must each
and all go their own way. Wae's me ! I never
thought to be so weary of my own sons.'

Upon the whole, the year had opened and gone
on well, so far as business was concerned. The new
firm of Robert McCullagh &; Co. did not yet seem
to be doing the same amount of damage to the elder
house as that wrought by Upperton & Co. Eventually,
no doubt, they might prove dangerous; but a
certain amount of caution characterised their dealings
which had been totally wanting in the opposition
inaugurated by their predecessors.

 They look more like " holding on," ' suggested
Mr. McCullagh to his son.

*Well, other people can hold on too,' replied
David, with that bold decision which characterised
all his utterances, and often angered his father, who
entertained a natural objection to other persons
holding as positive opinions as himself.

Both the Basinghall-street house and the business
presided over by Mr. David were indeed doing an
exceptionally good trade, and Mr. McCullagh felt

well satisfied about bis returns, and also concerning
the money Captain Crawford had intrusted to him.
If be could only have made himself as content about
his sons as his business, he might have been regarded
as a happy man ; but he did not get on well
with David, who spoke of him in a disparaging way as
the 'Old man,' 'Dot and carry one,' Steady-goer,'
Slow and sure,' and other such terms, which in due
time came round again to Mr. McCullagh's ears.

That David had some project of his own in view,
he felt what he called ' morally certain.' After sounding
his father on the subject of a partnership, and
finding that hope ' no go,' he suddenly took hold of
the trade helm, which he had suffered in his vexation
to slip out of his hand a little, and began steering
away for success like a madman. It was then he
wrote for Archie to come home  Archie, who was.
Air. McCullagh hoped, settled in Spain, where he
held a good situation under a firm in the East-end
of London  and when his father remonstrated, said
he knew what he was about, and that he wanted
somebody he could trust to leave in the office when
he had to be away.

Mr. McCullagh would have asked how David
imagined he had contrived to get people about him
he could trust: but knowing by experience David

thought hut little of any of the * Basinghall-street
gang,' discreetly held his tongue, and wondered what
the younger man had in his mind.

'He's for ever going down to Liverpool,' he
thought ; ' and as for Kenneth, he's not a bit like
what he used to he ; and I'm just afraid Archie will
upset the house here altogether ; and then there's
Eohert, afraid to spend a sixpence on an omnibus,
let alone cabs. Lord, I little thought when I was
rearing my sons I'd have all the trouble with them
they seem going to bring on me.'

There could be no question the change in Robert
affected Mr. McCullagh more than all his other
causes for anxiety. It was an alteration more to be
felt than described. His walk was less jaunty, his
manner more constrained, while in general appearance
he seemed older and more thoughtful.

He's just got as dull as ditchwater,' summarised
Miss Nicol. 'That's ae the way with his sort 
they're either up in the garret or down in the
cellar.'

0, I think he has scarce got just as low as the
cellar, Janet,' remonstrated Mr. McCullagh.

'No one would know him for the same young
man,' she went on, unheeding this appeal. ' As ye're
aware, I never was so taken up with his face and his

ways as some folks, but that does not hinder me
being sorry to see him now. There is not a thing
fitting in the house. The other evening, when they
asked me to tea, I took a pot of jelly with me, thinking
it might be a little change, and, if ye believe me,
there was not a glass dish to be had to put it on !
I could not help saying I was glad Mrs. Kenneth did
not happen to be there, or she'd have thought us all
disgraced.'

I can't consider that was a very pleasant observation,'
objected Mr. McCullagh.

Mrs. Robert '11 never learn if she isn't taught,'
answered Miss Nicol. ' Well, I was telling ye, she
said she'd buy a dish, and then Robert spoke up in a
perfect fury : '* If there never was one in the house
it couldn't be regarded as a matter of any consequence."
'

With all her soul Janeyy had tried to propitiate
her husband's family, and without result. As Miss
Nicol truly remarked, * There is a something in fire
and water that hinders them getting on well together
;' and, although there was no open quarrel, Mrs.
Robert McCullagh felt herself a waif who could never
hope to obtain admission within the holy of holies in
Basinghall-street, where the broadest Scotch was
spoken, and ideas such as she had never heard of, or

imagined, ruled the minds of Mr. McGullagh and
his surroundings. She did her hest to accommodate
herself and her ways to the strange family that now,
by a curious fiction, was supposed to be hers also.
She dressed after a fashion she imagined might find
favour in the eyes of Miss Xicol. She drank weak
tea which had been brewing twenty minutes ' within '
the fender. She asked Effie to play ; and when that
young person objected   she hadn't her notes ' 
begged her to sing, and offered to accompany her.
Then Effie would say she ' couldn't mind the words ;'
and when Janeyy herself endeavoured to extract music
out of that awful instrument with the loose wires and
the dumb notes, observed, ' Mister McGullagh cared
for nothing but Scotch tunes,' and hinted his favourites
were 'My Nannie, 0,' 'John Anderson,' and
others of the same description, all requiring an instrument
sound in wind and limb to make them
other than a disastrous failure.

As to what she endured at the hands of Mr.
McGullagh in his endeavour to teach her a proper
Scotch pronunciation, nor man nor woman could tell.
Whenever he went to Robert's house  and he went
very often  he devoted himself over his ' toddy ' 
the materials for which Janeyy, who would have done
anything almost to try to please him, insisted should

be carried into the drawing-room  to the genial task
of fault-finding. He ' set her to sing,' and stopped
her constantly with, ' We've no got that jest right
yet ;' ' Ye're better at it, but ye haven't got it quite
the thing ;' ' It's queer now that ye can't pronounce
"bonnie" as it ought to be spoken;' 'I wonder if
ye'll ever be able to say " love." '

With the sweetest patience, Janeyy would laughingly
endeavour to correct her errors ; and that she
made but poor progress was owing, Mr. McCullagh
one evening told her, he felt sure, to no want of
will, but just to a sort of ' deficiency in her.'

Most unfortunately, Alfred Mostin chanced on
this occasion to be present. He had sat chafing
under the various corrections to which Janeyy was
subjected; he had listened to Mr. McCullagh accompanying
Janeyy with his cracked tenor in *0, wert thou
in the could blast;' borne his strictures upon his
daughter-in-law's rendering of 'Bonnie Lesley,'which
he said, needed a * wee pawky dash of humour ;' but
when he interrupted her two or three times in ' A
Red, Red Rose'  for Mr. McCullagh had arrived at
a state in which he was nothing if not critical  'Mr.
Mostin could endure the infliction no longer.

'You seem to forget,' he said, addressing the
architect of his own fortunes, ' that it is as hard for

Mrs. Robert to learn Scotch as for you to speak
English.'

Or for you to show good breeding,' supplemented
Mr. McCullagh. ' Ay, I had forgotten it.'

Then ensued a hubbub for a minute ; and there
would have been a wordy war had not Janeyy interposed,
and patched up a hollow peace between her
father-in-law and her friend.

It was all her fault,' she declared. ' She could
not remember, and she felt ashamed after all the
teaching she had had.'

Mr. McCullagh pretended to be appeased, and,
beyond advising Als Mostin ' to keep a bit more
check on his tongue,' made no further allusion to
the matter; but it was long before his vanity recovered
the blow thus dealt, for it is a fact that he
considered his English accent a degree more perfect
than his Scotch. He said nothing about this episode
to Janet, as she in like manner kept from his
knowledge the particulars of a dreadful humiliation
which had befallen her on the occasion of the second
visit she paid Mrs. Robert.

When she entered the room Mrs. Lilands was
there, seated beside the fire in one of the crannies
of her cranky tempers. She was, indeed, so cross,
Janeyy did not venture to introduce the new-comer to

her notice ; and keeping: Miss Nicol at a discreet
distance from the hearth, discoursed in a somewhat
low tone on various subjects she supposed might
meet with that lady's approval.

Suddenly, in the midst of a fascinating conversation
concerning the merits of a new pattern in tatting,
from the depths of Mrs. Lilands' armchair
came a querulous * Janeyyyy, Janeyyyy !'

*Yes, mamma;' and Janeyy, instantly on the
alert, approached her mother, and, bending down
over the bent and shrunken figure, inquired what
she wanted.

Tell that woman to go away,' said Mrs. Lilands,
in a voice which, though broken, was painfully distinct.
* How dare she sit in my presence ! You
are far too familiar with such people ! I always
told you so !'

You do not know who this lady is, mamma,'
said Janeyy, who felt ready to drop with shame and
vexation ; but Mrs. Lilands was not to be appeased,
and the young wife had actually to ask Miss Nicol
to adjourn to the dining-room. Some sort of apology
and explanation was attempted ; but after such an
insult what apology or explanation could avail ?

Almost with tears, Janeyy besought Miss Nicol
to attach no importance to ' poor mamma's wanderings

;' and Miss Nicol, with a toss of her head which
set the feathers in her best bonnet quivering, answered,


Ye need not concern yourself about the matter.
"What's said by folks as is out of their mind never
troubles me ; only, if I was you, I wouldn't have
her about. Strangers might be offended, or even
frightened, and I'm very sure nothing could vex
Robert more than for it to get about his wife's
mother had lost her senses.'

Having gracefully administered which ' tit' to
Janeyy for Mrs. Leland's ' tat,' Miss Nicol turned
her conversation to other less personal topics.

Time passed on, and ' Mrs. Robert' was reluctantly
acknowledged as an accomplished fact. She
had married into the McCullaghs, and was treated
according.' Mrs. Kenneth solemnly invited her
down to Liverpool ; while Kenneth himself calledon
his brother's wife more than once, and took some
trouble to ascertain how the land was ' like to lie' as
regarded Robert and her in the old man's will.

David was an occasional visitor also ; while Miss
Nicol and Effie were, as they expressed it, ' not
behind either.'

Truth to tell, Janeyy saw a great deal more of the
whole family than she felt to be quite pleasant. The

more she saw of them, the less she liked them. At
first she had been willing to condone many faults
and many sins against her tastes and prejudices,
because she believed them to be good and honest
and true  not good merely in the sense of being
virtuous, or honest in so far as not cheating a man
of his money, or true only in the way of not telling
a lie ; but leal and loyal and faithful. Diamonds in
the rough she had been willing to deem them ; but
by degrees Janeyy found herself tending to the other
extreme, and wondering whether there was anything
of the diamond except the rough about them. Never
did woman try harder to propitiate her husband's
family, and never did woman fail more utterly.
Her very appearance was an insult to them ; the cut
of her mantle an affront.

If she had taken the high hand, kept them at
arm's length, paid them visits, say, once in three
months, they would have still hated, but they would
have feared, her. As it was, she met them on eveif
ground, and they felt they would like to trample her
in the dust ; all, indeed, save Mr. McCuUagh, who
could not but confess the new daughter-in-law had
ways with her 'just beyond the lave.'

Most undoubtedly her father-in-law disliked her,
because she had taken Robert's notions up ' a peg

higher;' but if he could only have acknowledged it
to himself, he loved her for her ' lady's ways and
gentle manners,' for that which is beyond price and
favour.

In an unguarded moment Mr. McCuUagh, finding
his son's wife * a bit peaky,' invited her to partake
of the hospitality of Basinghall-street, where

ye shall hae,' proceeded Mr. McCullagh, with relish,

right guide Scotch fare.' And then he went on to
enumerate some of the dishes wherewith Scotia rewards
those of her children who, remaining faithful
to her traditions, can, in the midst of English plenty,
retain intact their love for ' winged sheep's head,'
cock-a-leekie, haggis, and other dainties, even the
component parts of which are unknown mysteries
south of the Tweed.

Hitherto the hospitality extended to the new wife
had been confined to tea with hot scones, crisp oatcake,
marmalade, and preserve. There were reasons
for this which will readily occur to the reader, who
recollects the first time he crossed the threshold of
Mr. McCullagh's abode. It is simple enough to tell
a son to ' bring forward a chair,' and 'take a knife
and fork;' but it proves a matter of some difficulty
to provide a ' dinner according' for those accustomed
to the luxuries of modern civilisation.

A ' dinner,' except of the crudest description was
a thing which had never been thought of in Mr. 's
house; even Mrs. Kenneth, for all her
tocher ' when she came to London, was obliged to
content herself with a ' bit off a joint,' and a ' help '
of potatoes, and perhaps a little cabbage, and all
things else ' in proportion.'

It was therefore with a ' bent true ' and an angry
glower ' Miss Nicol heard that Janeyy had not only
been invited to dinner, but had consented to come.

It must be just as you please, of course,' she
said; ' but I don't know what we are going to do with
her.'

Hoots, woman !' answered Mr. McCullagh, who
considering the matter in cold blood, felt he had
made a mistake, but was determined thumbscrews
should not induce him to confess the fact, ' she's no
that ill to please. It does not trouble her what she
is set down to. She wants a bit of change, being
shut up day after day with that daft auld wife ; and
I'm thinking we haven't done what we might by her,
considering she always seems ready and willing todo
what she can by us.'

I'm thinking she knows there's a good deal to
be got by pleasing ye,' answered Miss Nicol dryly.
'However, that's nothing to do with me. If ye'll

VOL. III. D

say what ye would like me to get for dinner, and
give me money to get it with, I'll do my best to
have things as they should be ; though unless ye
see fit to replenish the linen-cupboard, and order inmost
things people nowadays think needful for table
use, I am afraid I can't make much of a show.'

There is no call for a show,' retorted Mr. 
; ' ye might jest with as much sense ask me
to refurnish the house at once. She'll have to take
us as we are. If she can't do that she'd best let us
alone.'

That wouldn't suit her, I'm very sure,' said Miss
Nicol, with a sneer, to which no attempt at description
could do justice. ' I'll need to have Ef&e hereto
help,' she added, seeing a storm brewing on Mr.
McCullagh's countenance.'

Well, have Effie ; who's hindering ye ?'

It is almost unnecessary to say Robert excused
himself from forming one of the party assembled
round his father's festive board. His reminiscences
of that dinner-table were of too terrible a
nature to permit of his voluntarily witnessing the
effect likely to be produced on Janeyy by this private
view of his father's menage. He pleaded the impossibility
of getting away from Pousnetts' at the
early hour mentioned, but promised to call in the

evening for his wife. He begged that tea might not
be waited for him, as it was uncertain when he could
get round ; the fact of the matter being that he did not
want to encroach further on the hospitalities of 
than the inevitable tumbler of punch,
which he knew his father would insist on his mixing.
Upon the whole Janeyy felt very much pleased to
have made even this amount of progress. Mr. Snow,
in whose worldly wisdom she felt implicit confidence,
had urged her to use every lawful means that might
tend to bring the father and son nearer each other ;
but besides this, the young wife felt a pity for Mr.
McCullagh that gentleman would scarcely have liked
had he known of its existence. She was perhaps the
only human being who had ever understood even
partially the Scotchman's true nature. He had
wearied, he had offended, ho had tried her. She
often felt sorry to think her husband should have
such a father. His manners and appearance and
ideas belonged to a class with which she had nothing
in common. Nevertheless, deep down in her heart
she knew there was good in his nature  understood
dimly, it might be  but certainly he had walked
thus far through life lacking the warm clasp of the
hand, the appreciative word, the loving glance which
would have made a different creature of a man who

seemed to her, spite of all his money, lonely beyond
belief.

The day arrived, and the dinner, which, though
good and thorough of its kind, could scarcely be pronounced
a success. Janeyy did her best to eat and
praise the various unwonted viands with which Mr.
McCullagh, in his desire to show her she was welcome,
heaped her plate ; but she was not well, and
the very effort to accommodate herself to the uncongenial
society with which she was surrounded made
her feel the strain almost more than she could endure.


As usual David was boisterous and offensive;
also, as usual, Effie sat silent and depressed, answering
all remarks in monosyllables, and contributing
nothing whatever  not even a healthy appetite  to
the progress of the proceedings. As usual, Mr.
McCullagh had many remarks to make ; and quite
out of ordinary custom, Miss Nicol seemed almost
gay, answering her kinsman's observations in a light
and jocund manner, and, in fact, making so little of
the trouble she must have had to prepare such a
dinner that Mr. McCullagh felt after all she ' was
not a bad sort ;' ' she had done her best, and her
best was very good, and she diana say a word to let
the new wife know what it cost her.'

Ah, if Mr. McCullagh had only been a woman
acquainted with Miss NicoFs ways, he would have
understood something lay in the background to account
for such unwonted cheerfulness. For once
she could afford to be more than civil to the new wife ;
she held an arrow in reserve ; she knew how to draw
her bow, not at a venture, and yet find the mark.
Tranquilly she bided her time ; she was waiting her
opportunity, and at last it arrived.

Tea in that house was a meal which followed
dinner with an apparently unreasonable rapidity ;
but the reason was not far to find. At dinner the
ladies of the household as a rule ate so little they
were not sorry to supplement the supplies of meat
with bread ; whilst Mr. McCullagh easily fell in with
the custom which left the latter part of the evening
free for a glass or so of toddy. Truly and duly, then,
on an occasion Janeyy had good cause to remember,
tea made its appearance ; not a ' high tea ,' supplemented
with fowl and ham and pie and joint, or
even an extraordinary tea, served with scones and
cake and jams and suchlike, but a common tea, accompanied
only with bread-and-butter, and some
biscuits with which Mr. McCullagh, out of the fulness
of his heart supplemented the feast.

He came up from the warehouse to partake of

the meal in the highest good-humour. He was, as
Miss Nicol said, * full of his jokes;' he told a few
old stories which were new to Janeyy, and made her
laugh heartily ; matters, in fact, went merry as possible,
till something was said as to the time when
Robert might be expected to appear upon the scene.

He'll not show yet a bit,' observed Miss Nicol.
He never was over and above fond of coming
here.'

'Ye needn't begin to find fault with him, Janet
interposed Mr. McCullagh. ' We'd best let bygones
be bygones. If he didn't care to come maybe he had
his reasons ; and I'm sure he makes himself pleasant
and chatty enough now. I know he'll be here as
soon as he can get round. He's in a big firm, and
must have a heap on his shoulders. It's just wonderful
to think of so young a man getting into such
a position. Talk about climbing ! it would be more
to the purpose to say he leaped to success.'

In uttering which words Mr. McCullagh had a
twofold object : to glorify his son before the inappreciative
Janet, and to show the new wife what a
worldly prize she had won in the matrimonial
market.

'Yes,' said Janeyy, vdth a pleasant pride in her
absent husband, 'he must be very clever; of course,'

she added, with a pretty blush, ' I know he is very
clever.'

He must be that argued Mr. McCullagh, ' or
Pousnett would never have taken him in as he did.
It's an unheard-of thing almost for a young man to
get such a partnership without paying for it, and
high too.'

But there are those as say he did pay well for
it,' struck in Miss Nicol.

What d'ye mean ? what are ye talking about ?'
asked Robert's father, struck even more by the lady's
tone than by her words.

'I am talking about Robert. I understand he
had to find a lot of money before Mr. Pousnett would
have him at all.'

'That's nonsense,' said Mr. McCullagh. 'He
had not to find a penny-piece.'

'As far as you know,' suggested Miss Nicol.

'As far as I know!' repeated Mr. McCullagh;
why, I know all about it.'

Or ye think ye do, which maybe answers as
well,' she retorted.

What the deil are ye driving at, woman ?' exclaimed
Mr. McCullagh, forgetting his politeness in
his excitement. ' What's the sense of sitting there
hinting at this and that ? If ye're got anything to

say, out with it. Yell choke yourself if ye don't
speak. Now what isn't ye have against Robert ?'

'I know nothing against Robert answered Miss
Nicol, speaking with slow drawling distinctness.
It's no sin, so far as I am aware, for him to have
borrowed seven thousand pounds at big interest to
buy himself a share in so great a house.'

Seven thousand pounds !' echoed Mr. McCullagh ;
whilst Janeyy, with blanched face, sat looking at Miss
Nicol, utterly unable to speak or even to understand.
' Ye're talking like a child, Janet. Where
would he borrow seven thousand pounds, or the name
of it ?'

I could tell ye that too,' answered Miss Nicol,
toying with her teaspoon ; * but maybe we'd rather I
said no more."

I'd rather ye said whatever there is to say. "Alio
would lend Robert such a sum of money ?'

A man of the name of Snow ye're perhaps heard
tell of; the same as is keeping up your cousin to
your detriment.'

Who told you such a falsehood ?' asked Mr.
McCullagh.

Never mind who told me. Ye'll find it to bethe
truth.'

Without speaking a word, Mr. McCullagh rose

and left the room. For a minute there ensued a
dead silence, but then Janeyy broke out,

Miss Nicol, how could you ! What harm has
Robert ever done that you should try to injure him
in this way ?'

It's time his father was stopped making a laughingstock
of himself,' answered Miss Nicol. ' Everybody
was talking, and saying, "It's ay those the
nearest home as is the last to hear news." Here's
Robert himself,' she added, as the delinquent entered
the room.

Yes, here is Robert,' said the young man gaily,
shaking hands with his kindred. ' Where is my
father ? Why, Janeyy, what in the world is the
matter ?'

I do not feel well,' she faltered. ' I should like
to go home, Robert, if you do not mind.'

What ails you, dear ?' he asked, putting his arm
round her tenderly.

If it had not been for the presence of Miss Nicol
and Effie, she would have laid her head on his shoulder
and burst into tears ; but as matters stood, she
managed to restrain herself and say she would tell
him afterwards.

May I put on my bonnet ?' she asked, turning
to Miss Nicol.

With great alacrity, that lady lighted a candle
and led the way to the apartment where Janeyy had
taken off her out-of-door apparel. Effie would have
followed had Robert not stopped her.

What is wrong with my wife ?' he asked hoarsely.
' Do you know ?'

'I think, answered Effie, as mournfully as
though she had been chanting a dirge, ' Janet said
something that vexed her.'

What sort of a thing ?'

She'll tell you herself,' said the girl deliberately;
I wouldn't care to be brought into the matter.'

'I was an idiot ever to let her come here,' he
cried angrily.

Ye know best about that,' replied Effie.

Let us get away, Robert,' entreated Janeyy, standing
just without the door. ' Good-night, Effie ; goodnight.
Miss Nicol;' and without even offering to
shake hands with either, she took her husband's arm
and began hurriedly to descend the staircase. Before
the hall was reached, however, the door of Mr.
McCullagh's private room opened, and that gentleman
appeared on the threshold, holding a candle
above his head and peering up at the figures advancing
towards him.

Is that you, Robert ?' he inquired.

Yes, sir.'

Just step in here a minute if ye please.'
Wait for me, Janeyy ; will you, dear ?'
I want ye both,' said Mr. McCuUagh, in an even
passionless tone. ' I won't keep ye ; come in.' And
as they did so he closed the door and walked to the
table, where he stood fronting them.

I am going to ask ye a plain question, Robert,'
he said, ' and I hope ye'll give me a plain answer toit.
Did Pousnett take ye into partnership, as I've
always been led to believe, without your paying a
penny-piece for the privilege ?'

Janeyy pressed her husband's arm, but the hint
was unnecessary; he knew now where the danger
lay.

Well, not exactly, sir.'
'Yes, or no, is enough. Is it " No" ?'
If you will not allow me to explain  '
I want no explanation. Is it true ye paid him
seven thousand pounds hard cash, which ye got from
Mr. Snow T

Something of that sort, sir.'
Then all I have to say is this : leave my house,
both of ye, and never set foot in it again. The pair
of ye have made a fool and a dupe of me, and nobody
makes a fool or a dupe of Robert McCullagh twice.'

Blame me as much as you like, sir, but don't
speak against my wife. She knows nothing about
the matter.'

Will ye go,' said Mr. McCullagh, ' or do ye want
to drive me to curse ye outright ? Go, ye're no son
of mine ! Go !' And his attitude was almost tragic,
as he stood with the light shining on his pale,
shrewd, troubled face, and his lifted hand pointing
to the door.

THE FAIR EFFIE.

So,' said Mr. Alfred Mostin  and it would have
been hard from his tone to tell whether he was most
pained or pleased at the catastrophe which had happened
 'you would not take my advice and steer
clear of the women ! Now you see the result of
endeavouring to propitiate them.'

But surely,' urged Janeyy, ' it was right for me
to be ordinarily civil to my husband's relations "?'
I say nothing about the right,' he answered ;

I only know it was foolish. You should have kept
them at arm's length. But there is one comfort
about the affair, you will never need to trouble your
head about a single member of the family again.'

Do you think, then, Mr. McCullagh will not
forgive Robert?'

I do not think, I am very sure. If Robert had
been found drunk in the street, or convicted of
forgery or manslaughter, or even murder, he might
have overlooked the offence ; but, in consequence of

not knowing how the land lay, the old man has made
himself ridiculous, and he will remember the deception
practised on him " till his dein' day." '

It is a most dreadful thing,' said Janeyy piteously.


I see nothing dreadful about it,' was the reply.
Robert is in no worse position ; and you are relieved
from the necessity of trying to please people you
never could please if sou laid down your life for
them.'

Janeyy sighed a little piteously. * It was dreadfully
hard work,' she confessed.

Hard ! you need not tell me that. I would
rather go on the treadmill than live with them  the
women I mean. Give somebody that shall be nameless
his due ; Mr. McCullagh is clever, and there is
something about him that is not wholly repulsive ;
but the women have no single merit.'

As was natural, the episode in Basinghall-street
had caused no slight amount of conversation amongst
those desirous that amicable relations should, in
parliamentary phrase, ' continue to exist ' between
Robert and his father, and indeed, to speak truly,
those also whose wishes ran in the opposite direction.
Mr. Snow felt seriously disconcerted to find this
secret also had leaked out ; indeed, so much vexed

was he that, rightly or wrongly, he would listen to
no words of reason from Mr. Alfred Mostin, but
persisted in accusing him of having chattered about
matters which were no concern of his, and went sofar
as to say there were times and states when the
hermit of North street did not know his right hand
from his left, or good from evil.

Mr. Mostin had failed as signally, and much
more truly, to obtain information concerning the
real culprit, as proved the case in that detective
business of his regarding the Upperton opposition.
To Robert and his wife he confessed himself quite
at sea, while to Mr. Snow he maintained a species
of sullen defiance, inexpressibly aggravating to that
gentleman.

As regarded the Basinghall-street faction, it is
not too much to say they were all, as Miss Nicol
phrased their state of mind, ' on the simmer.' Of
late, the question of how * the old man ' would leave
his money had become a burning one. Ever since
Robert's admission into Mr. Pousnett*s house, his
chances of a goodly legacy had been considered as
much better as those of his brothers appeared worse ;
and it seemed good news to Kenneth and Kenneth's
wife, and father-in-law and mother-in-law, that Mr.

McCullagli had found out the wickedness and deceit
of his first-born before it was too late.

Ay, of late there had come a great change in
him,' said Kenneth impressively. ' He was getting
too much " on " with Robert. Those Pousnetts were
leading him straight to destruction ; and we ought
to feel thankful he has got to know what he has, ere
worse came of it. I wonder how Robert could look
him in the face, I really do !'

From which it will be readily inferred Kenneth
had adopted the simple plan of cutting a brother who
chanced to be in disgrace.

We never stabled our horses together,' he said,
in simple explanation of his course of conduct ; * and
we are not likely to be able to bed them down side
by side now.'

Not so David. He professed to have observed
to his father that he could not see what Robert had
done so much amiss ; and he went to Canonbury a
good deal just about that period, complaining Miss
Nicol and his parent were enough to drive a fellow
to commit suicide.

And there's Kenneth,' he added, ' coming up to
find out, if he can, whether the dad has made his
will, or is going to make it.'

Why, what ails him ? isn't he well ?' asked
Robert, surprised.

What would ail him ?' retorted David, in contemptuous
scorn of his brother's question ; and
indeed Mr. McCullagh's health was, to quote his own
opinion on the subject, 'forbye.' * Only,' proceeded
the third-born, ' Kenneth thinks some sort of understanding
should be come to now. For my own part,
I am sure I wish he would give me whatever he
means to give, and let me go my own way. I'd
promise not to come back again in a hurry on his
hands, like that bad shilling, the prodigal son.'

Mr. David McCullagh indulged in a good deal
of this sort of conversation, till Alfred Mostin, who
one day happened to hear him, suggested to Robert,
that, in the first place, ' David was a young man who
knew his way about ; and in the second, that he
might be one of those not uncommon persons given
to " running with the hare and hunting with the
hounds;" in other words,' explained Als pleasantly,
as if he were stating an agreeable fact, ' I believe he
only comes here to " fish and find out," and that
you would do wisely to be on your guard as to what
you say before him.'

I am sure Robert says nothing about his father

VOL. III. E

lie need mind having published in the Times,' observed
Janeyy, up in arms in defence of her husband
at once.

Yes, if it gained nothing in the telling,' answered
Mr. Mostin.  You know what your brothers were,
Bob, and I don't think any of them have altered
much. Were I in your shoes, I'd show my gentleman
his room would be preferred to his company.
There are spies enough running loose somewhere,
and you'll do well not to encourage one about your
home.'

Which advice Robert, much to the sorrow of his
wife, who was beyond all things a peacemaker, followed
so literally that David complained to his father
Bob had insulted him most grievously  said he was
a sneak and a hypocrite, and that the only thing
they all wanted seemed to be to get him cut off with
a shilling.

Ay, indeed,' commented Mr. McCuUagh ; ' I
misdoubt he won't even have as much as that from
me.'

Ye show right good sense there,' observed Miss
Nicol encouragingly, for this was the first open statement
Mr. McCullagh had made of how he felt minded
as regarded pecuniary matters.

Hold your tongue, Janet,' was the crushing

rebuke Mr. McCullagli administered. ' We've done
sour work, and ye're done it weel. There's no call
for ye to drive the nail home any further  no call at
all; and as for the rest of ye,' continued the successful
man, addressing the only representative of
that faction present in the flesh before him, ' ye
needn't be troubling yourself about my money and
how I propose to bequeath it. I am not dead yet,
and I am not going to die for a year or two, maybe
longer. Kenneth has been up with me, wanting
what he calls his portion ; but, as I told him, I've
no notion of taking off my clothes before I go to
bed. I want them all ; and if I didn't, I wouldn't
be so " blate" as to fling them to the first that came
begging.'

In all conscience this statement might have
seemed sufficiently explicit ; but it did not satisfy
the pertinacious Kenneth, who felt that if any action
of his could prevent Robert coming in with the rest,
he would not mind taking an infinite amount of
trouble to accomplish so praiseworthy an object.

Now is the time to get him to do something,'
he remarked to David ; but David only shook his
head, and made emphatic reference to somebody who
would be unequal to driving his father.

I am getting quite sick of it all,' he said ; ' I'd



iiNiVFRSITY OP nnMni5

no notion I was being brought south to do a clerk's
work for less than a clerk's wage.'

It's hard for ye,' agreed his brother, ' and it's
hard for all of us. Who would ever have thought
but matters could have been comfortably settled the
minute he found out Robert's deceit ?'

'Faith, Kenneth,' was the answer, 'I don't think
Bob practised a bit more deceit than either of us
would have done if we'd seen our way, or thought
we'd seen our way, to make any money out of it.'

You do not seem to understand,' said Kenneth
mildly ; ' this was a thing just beyond the common.
After a fashion it was like stating we'd been crowned
King of England when ye hadn't.'

I can't see it,' persisted David, who liked to torment
his brother ; ' Bob is partner in Pousnetts'.
He did not lie about that.'

He might just as good have lied about everything,'
answered Kenneth, meanly refusing to accept
the argument.

'Well, well, have your own way of the matter,'
said David, who could afford his brother this trifling
vantage-ground. ' I only think that "fair and softly"
wins in the long-run ; and that ye're no action'
rightly to be aye reminding my father he's mortal,
which he does not think he is.'

And, indeed, Mr. McCullagli, supposing this son
right, might well be excused forgetting he was heir
to all the ills flesh must usually expect to inherit.
He seemed made of iron ; indigestion had no terrors
for him, colds and coughs passed him by. He was
one of those men who seemed likely to live to a ripe
and hale old age ; but the Liverpool connection
decided robust health to be deceitful.

It's that sort,' said Kenneth to his wife, ' drops
off in a minute. I should not feel surprised any day
to hear he was gone.'

'Law!' exclaimed Mrs. Kenneth.

*I should not, indeed. With all life is uncertain,
and every one of us ought to settle his worldly affairs
while strong and in health.'

'Yes, dear.'

It was all very well for Mrs. Kenneth to agree in
her husband's opinions, but he wanted something
very different ; he desired not merely the theoretical
but practical concurrence of the Basinghall-street
potentate in his views.

As far as a man could go in the way of hints he
had hinted ; further, he had laid down general propositions
on the subject of imprudent delays on the
part of those 'possessed of something to leave,' to
which Mr. McCullagh listened in silence ; then, ' not

to lose a chance,' he said plainly, he ' believed his
father would be happier and more content if he made
up his mind what he meant to do, and do it.'

Because,' went on Mr. Kenneth, encouraged by
the attentive expression in his parent's face, ' a
great alteration has of late been wrought in many
things.'

'Ay, that there has,' agreed Mr. McCullagh.

And it may be other things want changing inconsequence.'


Ye mean, I suppose, it would be agreeable to
ye if I made a will leaving my worldly gear among
the three of ye, or maybe the biggest slice to herself?'


All that, of course, sir, would have to be just as
you pleased ; only it seems to me, as you must have
put a good bit by, it would ease your mind if you
knew you'd made sure none of it had been left in
the way of being wasted.'

There's something iu what ye say,' conceded
Mr. McCullagh.

*I think there's a good deal in it,' said Kenneth,
misled by his father's manner. ' Such matters should
never be left at the mercy of a mere chance.'

That's true enough ; and as ye feel so strongly
the truth that man's breath goes out of him like the

puff of a candle, I'd advise ye to make your own will
without delay.'

I have, sir.'

Have ye, now ?' The ' pawky' tone in which
Mr. McCullagh uttered these three words is unimaginable.


Kenneth's strong point was not a sense of humour,
and so he took his father's exclamation as a question,
and answered simply,

I executed it on my wedding-day.'

Save and bless us !' ejaculated Mr. McGullagh.
It's no every man has such a genius for combining
business and pleasure.'

If you choose to make a jest, sir, of what I considered
to be my duty  ' said Kenneth, colouring
and biting his lips.

Jest, man ! not a bit of it. A gruesome sort o'
jest that would be ; but maybe not a hair worse nor
looking forward to being *' strait" when we'd just
taken a wife. Now I'm going to give ye a piece of
advice : attend to your own affairs  there's plenty of
them needing your thought, I'm sure  and leave me
to attend to mine. I've minded them for near a
quarter of a century before ye were thought of, and
it's like, if the Lord spares me, I'll be able to mind
them for a quarter of a century more.'

He does think he's immortal,' groaned Kenneth,
when talking over the interview subsequently with
his brother David.

After he has lived five-and-twenty years longer
he'll still be no so old,' observed David dryly. * What
would hinder him lasting out to ninety or a hundred
even ? Ye're wrong to bother him about that'll
happen after he's dead ; we'd do better to try and get
something out of him while he's still going backwards
and forwards through the City.'

Greatly discomfited, Kenneth returned to Liverpool
none the better for his journey to London  indeed,
the worse, so far as that he was minus the
expenses it involved.

Never mind, my lad,' observed old Mr. John-stone,
who chanced to be in Liverpool at the time ;
if your father says little now he'll think the more
hereafter. He's a just man ; and, besides, when a
certain event comes off he'll be bound to consider the
future a little. Get him down for the christening,
and don't say a word more yourself, but leave all tome.
I know how to take him, and as a man well
set up with the world's gear my judgment ought to
go far in influencing another placed in a similar
position.'

Mr. Johnstonee might really have rung some promise

out of plain auld Kab  over those tumblers of
toddy, of which both partook duly and truly, measuring
carefully, sugaring scientifically, watering sufficiently
yet not extravagantly, drinking slowly and with somewhat
of religious solemnity  could Kenneth have
refrained from confiding in his wife, and that lady
been wise.

But she drove Mr. McCullagh ' clean out of his
mind.' As a bride she had seemed to him silly
enough, but in that capacity she was ' a paragon of
sense' in comparison to the way she * carried on' asa
mother.

0' a' the rules,' thought her father-in-law,
watching her ' antics' in silent wonder  * o' a' the
rules I ever did see in all my born days she's the
biggest, and over such a bit wizened thing too, that
I could put in my coat-pocket and never feel the
weight. And to look at the old secondhand face of
the creature, and the eyes of it ! faith, it's more like
a warlock nor a Christian baby ; there's times when
I'm almost feared of it.'

In blissful ignorance of the feelings excited by her
offspring's ' uncanny' appearance in Mr. McCullagh's
breast, Mrs. Kenneth pressed the child upon his
notice as though it were some rare and beautiful
production.

*I know that infant "off by heart"' he said
afterwards ; ' there wasn't a crease in its skin she
didn't show me.'

If Mrs. Kenneth had stopped even at this point
there might not have been much harm done ; but, in
her zeal to help forward the good work Kenneth had
at heart, she could not refrain her tongue from
touching on Robert's shortcomings.

And now that my precious has come,' she
broke out, covering the ' wizened' face of the baby
with kisses, ' its grandpa will make an eldest son
of its papa, won't he ?' and in the playful exuberance
of her spirits she ' dandled' the precious so near
its grandpa's nose that Mr. McCullagh recoiled involuntarily.


As it clearly could not be from a child in arms,
Mrs. Kenneth expected a reply to this inquiry, her
father-in-law, making a virtue of necessity, answered
it himself.

*I don't know rightly what you mean,' he remarked.
' It's no in my power to alter the arrangements
of Nature, and, as ye're aware, Robert came
into the world before your husband.'

Ah, but Robert has been naughty naughty,
hasn't he, pet ? told his poor good papa stories, and

nearly broken his heart. My darling will never
deceive his dear grandpa, will he ?'

0, he'll no deceive me,' agreed Mr. McCullagh,
looking with a feeling of disfavour both on mother
and child.

*No, that he wouldn't !' cried Mrs. Kenneth, rapturously
caressing her offspring, and perfectly unconscious
how completely she was ' putting her foot'
in the affair.

After a series of such conversations and such
 masked attacks,' as Mrs. Kenneth considered them,
Mr. McCullagh returned to the pleasant seclusion of
Basinghall-street, much troubled in his mind.

He had never enjoyed an outing less, but he did
not say so to Miss Nicol. Since the revelation of
Robert's misdeeds a sort of armed neutrality had
existed between that lady and himself. In his own
terse language they were 'two,' for which reason conversation
between them was confined to such generalities
as, if they talked together at all, could not
well be avoided.

'The baby was well enough,' he told her; 'no
big, but seemed strong and like to live. Ou ay, the
mother was taken up with it, and for that matter the
father too ; upon the whole he thought Kenneth was
the proudest. By the time he has to find shoes fora

dozen he'll mend of that,' added Mr. McCullagh,
with dry realism.

It was a grand christening ; all the Liverpool
friends and many of the Scotch relations  a gathering
indeed with which not a fault could be found 
people well before the world, and " considered." There
were a heap of presents. Old Johnstonee gave the
nurse five guineas, which he, Mr. McCullagh, looked
upon as a waste of money. Kenneth had a good
house with plenty in it, and the eating was of the
best, and they had everything needful ; but on the
whole he himself wasn't sorry to get home and be
quiet again. He hadn't been in such a stir before
since he was a bit of a callant and went to Sandy
Jar vis's funeral.'

Surely ye're forgotten the grand doings at Mr.
Pousnett's,' suggested Miss Nicol.

No, I haven't ; there was more noise in an hour
down at Kenneth's than we'd hear in a week at Pous-
nett's.' Having delivered himself of which dubious
compliment Mr. McCullagh took up the newspaper,
a sign in that house the conversation might be
considered at an end.

Truth was Mr. McCullagh did not feel quite
satisfied as to the way he had acted with regard to
Robert. As has been seen, he never loved his firstborn,

and never probably would do so ; but of late he
had grown to like him. He knew he was not
greedy,' many little courtesies and kindnesses
shown by his son had touched the lonely man sensibly
; he felt at home in the new house ; it had
seemed a great thing to have one of his flesh and
blood partner in a big firm, and to be ' hand and
glove' with Pousnett, so rich and powerful. If only
he had never boasted about Robert being taken in
without a halfpenny he could have condoned his
son's silence as to the terms on which he entered
the house. In all his worst qualities Als Mostin
understood his relative to a nicety ; even the suspicion
of being laughed at drove plain auld Kab to
frenzy, and the secret knowledge that on more than
one occasion he had * maybe bounced a wee' filled
him, now that he knew how matters stood, with
agonies of shame and vexation.

No, he felt he could not get over the 'trick' he
had been served. He had said so much, and said it
so often, to Robert about his good fortune in being
taken in without a ' place,' he had praised his own
powers of discrimination so heartily, he had lauded
his * foreknowledge' in such perfect good faith, that
now, when he came to think over his utterances in
the cold atmosphere of Miss Nicol's information, he

felt 'just like ane beside himself.' And that such
knowledge should have come to him through Janet,
through her of all created beings, who had ' aye'
hated Robert and grudged him the way he got on in
the world, and sneered at his fine-gentleman ways,
and never lost a chance of saying something to his
dispraise ! It was very bitter, and Mr. McCuUagh
felt it to be so to the core of his nature. As a
matter of course, he laid all the blame on Robert's
wife. ' If he had never met her,' thought Mr.
McCullagh, ' this would not have happened. She
and that false treacherous loon, Ailfred Mostin, were
in the swim, I'll be bound, before Robert thought of
such a thing. Ay, it's all plain enough : my son
caught with a face he thought beyond the common,
and all a-gleg to secure a seat in Pousnetts' ; a
common money-lender willing' to accommodate, knowing
I was the poor simpleton's father ; that's clear as
clear can be. But ho, in the name of everything
that's wonderful, did Janet come at it ?'

On this point Miss Nicol was far too able a diplomatist
to vouchsafe the slightest information.

I heard it,' was the only answer she vouchsafed
to Mr. McCullagh's eager questions.

But how did ye hear it ?' he inquired.

One told me,' she replied.

And who might that one be ?'

I am thinking ye'll have to find out for yourself.
I have said all I am going to say.'

Now this was very hard on Mr. McCullagh.
There were at least fifty possible people from whom
the information might have come, and he puzzled
and racked his brain to think of the name of the
ane' amongst that number most likely to have given
it to her.

I'd give twenty pounds good money to know
who she had it ofi*,' he decided, after he had thought
it over till he felt ' fit to think no more ;' but in this
liberal osier he was behindhand with Mr. Snow, who,
coming to Basinghall-street for information, said he
would gladly write out a cheque for fifty if he could
only discover who was making himself busy with
matters in Bush-lane.

Mr. Snow was so genuinely angry that he almost
carried Mr. McCullagh away with him.

There is some spy at work,' he said, * and I'd
be grateful if you could help me to unearth him.
Put it to yourself, Mr. McCullagh, how should you
like your most private concerns published in front of
the Royal Exchange ?'

That would depend,' answered Mr. McCullagh
virtuously.  If there was no harm in anybody knowing,

it wouldn't signify so much ; and there's but
little here I'd care was proclaimed by a town crier.'

Supposing now, for instance your cousins got
a list of sour customers, you'd like to know, I
imagine, how they had come by it.'

Has any velain, then  ' began Mr. McCullagh
impetuously; but Mr. Snow stopped him with a
short laugh.

Not that I am aware of,' he said. ' It was entirely
a supposititious case ; but mine is evoii worse
than that. Many of your people must of necessity
know your business. It has been my aim to confine
mine within my own breast. Can you give me no
clue at all ? I do not like to suspect him, but yet
I cannot help fixing on Mr. Alfred Mostin as the
culprit.'

Ailfred Mostin !' repeated Mr. McCullagh, as
genuinely surprised as he had ever been.

*None other,' replied Mr. Snow, watching the
impression produced. ' You know him, I think ?'

Weel,' said Mr. McCullagh, after uttering which
monosyllable he retired within himself to consider
the idea presented. Mr. Snow did not interrupt this
reverie. He hoped something would come of it.

Ye're wrong'  thus the Scotchman at last delivered
his verdict  'altogether wrong.'

Am I ?' returned Mr. Snow, in the tone of one
who felt satisfied he was altogether right.

Ye're out in that guess, 'persisted Mr. McCullagh.
There's not much, unless it might be common stealing,
pilfering, shop-lifting, or the like, I'd put past
Ailfred ; but he has not done this. He'd take his
own father  if he had a father living  by the hand
and lead him to ruin, as soon as he'd say " goodnight;"
he'd lie through a stone wall; he thinks
less of going through the Insolvent Court than you
of crossing Cheapside ; he'd drink the Thames dry if
it was any sort of spirit ; and he'd make a jeer and
a scoff of the best word of advice that could be offered
him ; but he hasn't had a finger in this pie.'

After the remarkably good character you have
given him it would be hard to name the pie in which
he might not have had a finger,' observed Mr. Snow.

Well, ye may content yourself about him so far
as Robert's matter goes. He's far too fond of Robert
and the wife, and he's no too fond of me  ay, I perceive
ye are acquaint with that fact,' Mr. McCullagh
broke off in the middle of his sentence to remark,
seeing an irrepressible smile wandering over his
visitor's face. ' Now I'll warrant me he has been
saying things no just complimentary behind my
back.'

VOL. III. p

He did not say any harm of yon, Mr. McCullagh/
Mr. Snow hastened to explain.

Ou ay ; it's no so hard to guess the sort of conversation
he has been treating ye to about me. I
know he thinks me stingy and close-fisted ; maybe
even he goes so far as to liken me to some miserly
old curmudgeon  and all for why, Mr. Snow ? On
my faith only because I wouldn't bestow my honestly
bought and paid for goods on him, to be played at
ducks and drakes wi.'

You see he has such a fancy for that game,' said
Mr. Snow.

Conscience ! I believe ye ; but as I was remarking,
he was never to my knowledge a mischief-maker
nor a tale-bearer ; and besides, he hates Janet  that's
my relative. Miss Nicol, ye understand  worse nor
poison, and he'd keep a thing hidden for a lifetime
rather than pleasure her by letting her know it. No,
ye must search nearer home or go farther afield. I'd
take my Bible oath the knowledge of my son Robert's
folly hasn't been spread abroad by his cousin.'

Of course I must attach considerable weight to
any opinion you express,' said Mr. Snow, with that
suave courtesy which had made Mr. McCullagh doubt
he was a ' bit too civil.' ' Nevertheless, I am not
quite convinced. And I will tell you what deepens

my doubt of Mr. Mostin. So long back as Christmas
last a word was hinted which induced me to tax him
with talking about affairs that were no concern of his.
He indignantly denied the imputation, and spoke with
so much apparent honesty I not merely felt ashamed
of my suspicion, but asked him to find out if possible
the source through which my private concerns were
made public. You know, I daresay, he is remarkably
clever in unravelling mysteries and getting information.'


He could not well be off getting to know a heap,'
observed Mr. McCullagh, in explanation of one of
Als's numerous and useless gifts. ' He's aye on the
go ; and a man can't be in and out of fifty offices in
the course of the forenoon without hearing something.
Besides, he stands at bars and the like, and all the
time he doesn't look like one hungering for knowledge,
but just wearying for a drop of drink.'

'I see you understand our man as well as I do,'
said Mr. Snow, who listened with remarkable patience
to all Mr. McCullagh's utterances. ' Now I put it to
you : do jou believe he could have been all these
months knocking about the City here and there and
everywhere, amongst likely and unlikely people, and
yet fail to obtain the smallest clue ?'

It does not sound very feasible, certainly,' agreed

Mr. McCullagh, mindful of his own doubts with regard
to the Upperton business ; ' but I tell ye what
most like is the case he added briskly; 'he has
found out, and he does not want to let you into the
secret. What his reasons may be of course I can't
profess to guess ; but ye may depend that's the way
of it.'

It was in the very early days of the coolness
between father and son that this conversation took
place ; and months had passed by when Mr.
McCullagh returned to Basinghall-street from the
delights of contemplating his first grandchild, and
listening to the ' fool talk ' of that ' simple silly
body,' Kenneth's wife.

The ' family,' as now represented by Kenneth,
David, and Archie, aided and abetted by their respective
clans, was no nearer a knowledge of the
contents of ' auld Kab's will ' than ever ; or even,
indeed, whether he had made a will at all. David
was moving all the machinery he could set in motion
to obtain even a mess of pottage at once out of the
McCullagh resources. Archie was apparently ' lying
on his oars ;' Kenneth was writing letters, set to the
same tune of how much he could do, aided by
additional capital, with the regularity of a manifold
copying machine ; and Mr. McCullagh felt he was

getting very tired of it all, when one morning, about
a month after he had been asked to make an ' elder
son ' of Kenneth (' an elder deil,' the Scotch Croesus
impatiently remarked when thinking over the suggestion),
there walked into his office no other than
Alfred Mostin.

The ' ne'er-do-weel ' looked heated, excited, and
triumphant.

Can I have a word with you in private, Mr.
McCullagh ?' he asked, with a ' laugh on his visage '
which puzzled Mr. McCullagh ' sore.'

Ye can ; but I am sure ye have no word to say
to me couldn't jest as well be spoken here,' answered
Mr. McCullagh, without stirring from his desk.

*I don't mean to speak it here, at any rate,' returned
Mr. Mostin.

*Have your way, then, if it'll pleasure ye,' said
Mr. McCullagh ungraciously; 'though I must remark
I am astonished to see ye in any office o' mine
after the way in which ye have been trying to injure
my trade.'

'Bless my soul,' exclaimed Mr. Mostin, as they
walked side by side down the warehouse, ' did you
ever imagine I should consider your trade or you
either when my living was in question ? No, no ;
you showed me the example of '' Every man for himself"

long ago; and I don't forget, Mr. McCullagh,
whatever you may do.'

We can let the past bide,' suggested the Scotchman,
who, though he usually had right on his side,
never could get the best of an argument with Alfred
Mostin.

'And the present too, if you like,' was the answer.
' I can go away without speaking ; though I
am sure you want to know what I came to tell.'

It's scarce worth your while to go away,' replied
Mr. McCullagh, unlocking the door of his private
room, and motioning his visitor to enter. ' The
sight of ye took me by surprise, or it's like I
wouldn't have said what I did.'

Als Mostin smiled ironically' ; but making no
direct comment, he observed,

It's a good rule and a safe to lay down that there
should be no friendship in business ; but in private
life it is hurtful for a man to feel those of his own
blood are trying to ruin him.' .

In business or out of it a man's kinsfolk might
be better employed,' assented Mr. McCullagh, to
whom Mr. Mostin's general assertion appealed with
the force of experience. ' Who has been trying to
ruin you, Ailfred '?'

Me I 0, I don't know or care. I was not thinking

about myself. My remark referred to Robert.
I now know the person who told Miss Nicol how he
got into Pousnetts'.'

Never !' ejaculated Robert's father.

I have though. Who do you suppose it was '?'

How should I tell "? Haven't I been considering
the matter for months, without being able to come
to any conclusion '?'

You will be surprised.'

I daresay; maybe more surprised nor pleased.
Come, Ailfred, leave off beaten' about the bush, and
out wit. What's his name '?'

'Effie Nicol,' answered Mr. Mostin, with a jubilant
exultation he was unable to conceal.

Effie !' repeated Mr. McCullagh. ' Ye're join' ;
it's no possible.'

I am not joking, and it is the fact.'

But how could Effie know anything about the
matter '?'

'I'll leave that for Mr. Snow to tell you,' answered
Als Mostin, too truly enchanted with the impression
already produced to yield to the temptation
of trying to enhance its effect. ' He bid me say, if
sou were in his neighbourhood any time before five,
he'd be glad to see you.'

There had been a period when, had any one

delivered such a message to him, Mr. McCullagh
would have answered, ' If Mister Scow wants to seeme,
he knows the way to Basinghall-street ;' but now
things were different  Mr. Snow was master of the
situation. With the slightest regard to truth Mr.
McCullagh could not say he was ' no that anxious' to
hear with whom Effie had ' foregathered,' able to
give her news of his son's most secret doings.

He felt that till he learnt everything which could
be told he should be a miserable and dissatisfied
man ; so he sent a message back to Mr. Snow to the
effect that he had business ' would take him into
Oxford-court about two, and he'd look round in
Bush-lane as soon after that hour as circumstances
would pairmeet.'

MR. M'CULLIGH is AMAZED.

When Mr. McCullagh returned front that little pilgrimage
round about London Stone, he shut himself
up in his own room to digest the intelligence he had
received, and to decide upon the course he meant to
take.

Mr. Snow's news affected him more than at the
time he perhaps knew himself. It is one thing to
listen to the words of a ' ranting' harum-scarum devil,'
which 'go in at one ear and out at the other;' and
quite another to grasp facts communicated by a gentleman,
who, whatever his trade, had ' respectable
ways with him,' and spoke very fairly and seriously
indeed about what had occurred.

After all it was through Alfred Mostin light
eventually came to be thrown upon the subject.
Thrown off the scent by Mr. Snow's reticence concerning
the manner of device he employed to keep
all entries in his books secret, he did not set himself
to watch the silent clerk, till an unguarded look in

that young gentleman's eyes aroused bis suspicions.


Then he followed his steps from office to office,
tracked him to his home, found out many of the
persons with whom he associated. Yet still, though
running close beside the track, he never got on it ;
and might eventually have missed bis quarry altogether,
bad it not chanced almost by the merest
accident that one Sunday afternoon, when be was
proceeding to call upon an acquaintance resident in
Millbank-street, he saw walking some distance in
front two figures be thought he recognised.

It seemed too good to be true,' he explained to
Mr. Snow afterwards. 'They were " thundering,"
as Mr. McCullagh would say, and I followed them at
a safe distance into the Abbey ; and there I soon saw
that they had come, in fact, to an '' understanding,"
though bow such dummies ever managed to do so I
confess I cannot imagine. After service, still keeping
modestly in the background, I sauntered after
them, and found they returned to the house of a
Mrs. Olfradine, from whom the festive Effie learned
bow to extract some awful sounds from the old piano
in Basinghall-street. To cut a long story short, in
fact, your man in black is Mrs. Olfradine' s nephew ;
and be and Effie walk out together.'

There remains little doubt,' said Mr. Snow,
you have hit the right nail on the head at last ; but
still I am unable to imagine how he obtained his
information.'

Yes,' and that I cannot find out for you till I
have some idea of the nature of the cipher in which
you keep your books.'

And that is precisely what I do not want to tell
you,' answered Mr. Snow.

Just as you like, of course ; but it is evident
Hunt has the key to the puzzle.'

Mr. Snow remained silent for a moment; then
he said,

'After all, I do not know that it matters much.
I mean to give up the Bush-lane business shortly,
and then the books must be kept in plain English,
instead of in German.'

That's the mystery, is it ? And what makes
yuu believe this beggar does not understand German
?'

I asked him when he first came if he were conversant
with any foreign language ; and he said,
No, unfortunately not." '

!' and Mr. Mostin's exclamation seemed to
contain in itself a whole commentary ; ' we will soon
find out how much truth there was in that statement.

You never have, I suppose, employed polyglot
clerks ?'

Certainly not.'

Then depend upon it our friend had been informed
of your peculiarity, and very likely came in
as a spy. There is more of that sort of thing being
done in London than you can imagine ; the trade-lists
and inquiry offices are mainly responsible for
converting innocent young men into troublesome
detectives. I hope you will not take any action in
this matter till every link in the chain is complete.'

Rely upon my discretion,' said Mr. Snow,
handing Mr. Mostin a cheque, which caused the
heart of that vagabond individual to leap for joy.

And now every link in the chain being indeed
complete, Mr. Snow, cheerless, yet happy, slowly
unwound the whole affair for Mr. McCullagh's information.
How Mrs. Olfradine's nephew  the affianced
of that silent and discreet young woman Effie  who
understood German as well as he did English, had
been selling information to all who, in a quiet and
safe way, wanted to obtain and were willing to pay
for it ; how he, Mr. Snow, had thrust him without
ceremony out of the paradise of Bush-lane ; and
advised him not to refer there for a character.

To Mr. McCullagh it all seemed very dreadful.

His lines had not lain amongst dishonest people, and
the disclosures made directly and incidentally by Mr.
Snow shocked him beyond measure.

Why, I'll be lookin' next with a dubious eye
on Alick, our bit errand-boy,' he considered, as he
moved homeward. ' And how am I to meet and
greet that cause hussy I deemed too fond of Robert
even to try and hurt a hair of his head ? Was me,
it's just awful;' and he locked himself into his own
room to digest the mass of information thrust down
his throat.

No man would have liked less to own his ultimate
course of procedure was influenced by hints received
from another, yet it is certain a slight suggestion of
Mr. Snow, that it might be as well before launching
any thunderbolt at Effie's head to 'watch and wait,'
had a considerable effort in determining Mr. McCul-
laugh to ' lie canny.'

I'll no give Janet the satisfaction of thinking'
I am troubling' myself now about the matter,' he
decided ; * and as for Effie, it'll be good practice observing
how she goes on known' the harm she has
wrought. Still, I wish she hadn't been coming for
dinner. It's just over soon to meet her after what
I've heard.'

He had arrived at this point in the argument,

when Alick knocking at his door announced the
arrival of a note from Mr. Pousnett.

What's in the wind now, I wonder ?' thought
Mr. McCullagh, tearing open the letter, and reading
:

" Dear McCullagh." My ! but we're familiar !
That's the way they do, though, among themselves,
I've noticed, so I arena doubt it's all right and
proper.

Dear McCullagh,  The weather keeps so line
we are still at Larchwater." (He does not mean,
I suppose, ever since I was there last, for I've dined
with him since in Portman-square. Weel, week)
A few friends are coming to us this evening I
should like you to know. May I, at so short a
notice, beg you to come down and stop the night '?
My wife will be charmed, and I have a project nearly'
ripe, upon which I should like to take your opinion.
Were I not tied here to the last moment I would call
round in Basinghall-street ; but I shall look out for
you at Waterloo at a quarter to five, and trust you will
not disappoint.  Yours faithfully,

Herrion Pousnett."

The very thing, by my saul ! just what I

wanted !' cried Mr. McCullagb, delighted at the
thought of escaping Effie and Miss Nicol ; ' it has
come in the very nick o' time. Na, na, I won't disappoint
ye, Mr. Herrion Pousnett. That'll I want,
now ?' and he plunged into the mysteries of wardrobe
and toilet with an enthusiasm which would have
amazed Janet had she been there to see.

As matters stood she was up-stairs with Effie,
talking over various domestic incidents with that self-contained
young person, when Mr. McCullagb put ibis
head inside the door. ' Janet,' he began : and then
making a feint of seeing her relation for the first
time, he went on diplomatically, ' Is that Effie ? and
how's the world using ye ?'

0, very well,' chanted Effie mournfully, drawing
a skein of wool out to its full length as she answered.

'That's right,' said Mr. McCullagb. '1 have
just come up, Janet, to bid ye no wait deeper for me;
I am going out of town, and won't be back to-night.'

Not back to-night !' echoed Miss Nicol ; * why,
where  ' But by this time Mr. McCullagb was down
in the hall, and telling Alick to fetch him a hansom.

A hansom !' repeated Miss Nicol, leaning over
the balusters, and listening to these mandates. ' A
hansom ! What next, I wonder ?'

Quite relieved to have left Basinghall-street

behind him, Mr. McCullagh in that conveyance, the
mere mention of which scandalised Miss Nicol,
bowled merrily along.

'Ah, here you are !' cried Mr. Pousnett cheerily,
as the cab-wheel grated the curb. * I am so much
obliged to you. We have plenty of time. Wonderful
weather for the time of year, isn't it ?'

Which greeting, when written down in black and
white, does not sound anything very extraordinary ;
but when set to the accompaniment of cap-touching
porters, and deferential inspectors, and obsequious
policemen, each one more eager than his fellow to do
honour to the great man, stirred even Mr. McCullagh's
cold blood with the feeling that he had ' got into unco'
guide company.'

This was the sentiment, indeed, with which Mr.
Pousnett always inspired him. The Pousnett position
was undeniable. Let who would have to pay for
keeping it up, the Pousnetts were quite sure to have
the enjoyment, and, as a natural consequence, a portion
of the glory surrounding them shone likewise on
any guest they delighted to honour.

Into the compartment occupied by Mr. Pousnett
and Mr. McCullagh there entered two gentlemen,
who greeted the former with evident gratification.
One, Mr. McCullagh knew by sight as the head of a

great house trading with China ; the other, Mr.
Pousnett addressed as Sir Robert ; and both having
the same pleasant and genial manner which distinguished
the head of the Pousnett firm, the four
were soon engaged in a ' most enjoyable' conversation,
in which the state of the Funds, the hollow
peace with Prussia, the recent illuminations, popular
sentiment as regarded the Emperor of the French,
were mere casual trifles.

To a man like Mr. McCullagh, who, having ' the
gift o' the gab,' had all his life long, till he knew
Mr. Pousnett, been doomed either to bury that
talent in a napkin, or use it for the benefit of those
who did not ' possess the wit to see the stuff was in
him,' such a journey seemed a delight not to be
expressed in words.

The train they travelled by was an express, and
only stopped once after leaving Twickenham till it
reached the station nearest Larchwater, so that they
really had opportunity for exchanging many ideas
even before arriving at Staines, where Sir Robert
alighted.

I must have another talk with you, Mr. ,'
he said ; 'your views as regards a Chamber
of Commerce for London are quite new to me, and
well worth considering,' he added pompously. *I

VOL. III. G

am delighted to have made your acquaintance, and
shall hope to meet you again ere long.'

The hest thing you can do said Mr. Pousnett,
is not to separate from Mr. McCullagh now. Come
on and dine with us, I need not tell you how
pleased my wife will he to see you.'

And I am sure I need not say how pleased I
should be to see Mrs. Pousnett,' answered Sir Piobert
gallantly ; ' hut, unhappily, it is impossible. A
number of relations are to dine with us to-night.'

Ah, I cannot offer an equal attraction,' observed
Mr. Pousnett. His face was perfectly grave as he
made the remark, and in his tone nothing whatever
facetious could be detected. Nevertheless, perhaps
because his own feeling concerning kinship chanced
at the moment to be singularly antagonistic to the
sentiment expressed, Mr. McCullagh, as the train
moved on, laughed secretly at Mr. Pousnett's
observation.

'He is no fool,' decided the Scotchman. ' He's
a deep one.'

The whole of the ' deep one's' family greeted
Mr. McCullagh with effusion. Mrs. Pousnett, fatter
if possible, and more elaborately dressed than ever,
took his hand in both of hers, while she asked,

Where have you been all this long, long time ?'

Mr. McCullagh intimated he had been at home,
which caused Mrs. Pousnett to say reproachfully,

What, not out of London ! and yet you never
came to see Joie /'

The Scotchman very nearly retorted that he had
not been asked, for such a thing as a morning call
was quite beyond the wildest stretch of his imagination
; and, indeed, no one would probably have been
more surprised than Mrs. Pousnett had the guest
her husband delighted to honour walked into her
drawing-room uninvited. He checked the remark,
however, and answered gallantly, ' she might be sure
it was not of his own free will he had kept away.'
The young ladies also were friendly; and the lord
who was of the company claimed Mr. McCullagh as
an old acquaintance, and mentioned some incidents
of their former encounter, which showed, as the
Scotchman thought, ' his memory was not so defective
as any one might expect considering his age.'

There were only four strangers present, and they
all ' took notice' of Mr. McCullagh, devoting themselves
to that gentleman, falling into conversation
with him, and altogether treating him with every
mark of flattering distinction.

As usual, the dinner was excellent, the wine of
the best quality, the service perfect. Whilst the

ladies remained, talk ran slowly on topics in wliicli
they were supposed to feel an interest; but when
they departed the men drew closer together, and
plunged into politics, investments, and subjects of
kindred nature, in the discussion of which Mr. 
proved himself quite at home.

'And when, Mr. Pousnett,' asked Lord Gresham
at length, in a lull of the babble of words which had
been going on for some time, ' shall we see your, or
it might be better to say our, advertisement in the
Times r

It will appear on Saturday,' was the answer.

Why Saturday ?'

Because the next day is Sunday.'

You are with us in this matter, I suppose ?'
said one of the gentlemen, addressing Mr. .


I don't know what you allude to,' was the reply.

*No,' interposed Mr. Pousnett. 'I have not yet
bad an opportunity of speaking to Mr. McCullagh.
Fact is,' he went on, with a frank and winning smile,
we are going to make Pousnetts' one of the greatest
firms in the kingdom.'

It was always great enough, I should have
thought, to content anybody,' said Mr. McCullagh.

*Mr. Pousnett is not easily contented,' observed

the gentleman who had inquired whether Mr. 
was * with them.'

'I am quite satisfied, at all events,' said the
merchant prince, ' that in business no man can standstill.
He must be either going forward or backward;
and as I have no fancy for doing the latter,
I mean to travel with the times. Glance over this,
Mr. McCullagh, and tell me what you think of it.'

Mr. McCullagh took the sheet of paper Mr.
Pousnett handed to him. The first words he perceived
as he laid the document open before him
almost took away his breath : ' Pousxett & Co.
(Limited.' The buzz of conversation, which had
for a moment been interrupted, began over again ;
but Mr. McCullagh did not distinguish a word that
was said ; he could not at first even understand the
precise purport of Mr. Pousnett's circular ; it took
him some minutes to recover from the suddenness
of the blow dealt him by that expression ' Limited.'
Every prejudice of his nature, every feeling he cherished,
rose in antagonism to the most ' wicked and
foolish Act Parliament ever passed.' 'limited"
faith !' he thought, ' if their responsibility is, their
notions aren't. " Fifty thousand shares at twenty
pounds apiece." Why, that's a million of money!
*' Directors  Herrion Pousnett, Esq. (Pousnett & Co),

Portman-square, Larchwater, Middlesex, and Norman
Castle, Hampshire"  bless and save us !  " Giles
Pousnett, Esq., Mersey House, Liverpool ; Hume
Pousnett, Esq. (Pousnett & Co), Melbourne ; Lord
Cresham, Forest View, Berkshire, and Drunkard
Park, Co. Cork; Robert McCullagh, Esq. (Pousnett
& Co), Leadenhall-street ; General Vanderton, Upper
Simple-street ; Jacob Alty, Esq., Bow; James
Linton, Esq., Bombay ; Hugh Stoddard, Esq., The
Chase, Andover. Bankers  Messrs. Harrison, Hunter,
& Co., Lombard-street. Solicitors  Messrs. Popish
& Melton, New-square, Lincoln' s-inn. Secretary 
Stanley Pousnett, Esq. Offices  Leadenhall-street." '

This company is formed,' read on poor Mr.
McCullagh, ' for the purpose of acquiring the important
business of Messrs. Pousnett & Co., established
for over a century and a half.'

Then there followed approximate statements of
the enormous profits that had been made, and the
still more gigantic profits which were to be made by
suitable extension and judicious development. It
was a very well and cleverly written prospectus, which
had no doubt been compiled by Herrion Pousnett,
Esq., whom Mr. McCullagh found proposed for the
present to remain as manager, and to give the new
business that important aid only to be afforded by

the senior partner's long experience and practical
knowledge of the trade. As to the sum to be paid
for the acquisition of the business and the benefit of
Mr. Pousnett's invaluable services, the circular was
silent ; but a neat paragraph assured all those whom
such subjects could concern that every information
regarding the agreements and contracts entered into
could be obtained from the secretary. Intending
subscribers were to pay five pounds per share on
application, 'and five pounds on allotment, and no
further call was to be made without three months'
notice.

Mr. McCullagh read the document twice over
before he grasped even these salient points, and of
necessity there were a vast number of minor details
that escaped his attention; but he perceived quite
enough to satisfy him that Pousnett & Co. (Limited)
would be a very close borough, and that, let who
might lose by the transaction, the senior partner was
sure to come out a winner.

I shouldn't wonder,' he considered, ' if they do
gather very near that million of money;' and he
handed the prospectus back to Mr. Pousnett.

What do you think of it ?' asked the senior
partner, with the impulsive openness of a man who
wore his heart on his sleeve.

'It's very well put together,' answered Mr.
McCuUagh.

You will join us, I hope T

You are verra kind.'

It would be a real pleasure to me to see your
name on the board of directors.'

You are verra good indeed.'

The person did not live who could have made an
accurate guess as to what was passing in Mr. McCul-
laugh's mind while he treated his host to these non-compromising
utterances.

Will you allow me, then, to add your name to
our list ?'

I thank you greatly ; but the notion is new
to me  quite new, you see.'

Of course ; and I am very sorry I could not
consult you sooner. There is no necessity for an
immediate decision, only that as the names of the
directors are first published it might be better for
them to remain. However, Mr. McCullagh, we will
always strain a point in your favour.'

I am sure I am greatly beholden to ye.'

We are all going to make our fortunes out of
the successes of Pousnett & Co. (Limited,' observed
Lord Cresham gaily.

That will be a good thing,' observed Mr. McCul-
laugh.

Only yoa have so much money, yo\x do not perhaps
care about making any more,' suggested Mr.
Pousnett.

I have no cause to complain ; but I could do
with another pound or two,' said Mr. McCullagh.

There was a laugh at this, caused more, perhaps,
by the Scotchman's manner than his words ; and
then, seeing in his present mood nothing definite
was to be got out of this ' hard nut,' Mr. Pousnett
shortly proposed adjourning to the drawing-room.

Evidently Mrs. Pousnett had been asleep ; but
she woke up at sight of Mr. McCullagh, whom she
insisted should come and sit near her ; ' for I am
longing for your opinion,' she added. ' I want to
know whether you think this scheme of Herrion's
will transform us into millionaires or land us in the
workhouse.'

I don't think ye're much call to fear the workhouse,'
said Mr. McCullagh, who, having now gathered
his wits somewhat together, was able to bring
some of the resources of his mind to bear on the
astounding fact which had been communicated to
him.

Well, it is a comfort to hear you say that, at all

events. But do jon imagine we shall make any
money ?'

It seems to me ye stand a very good chance.'

0, 1 am so infinitely obliged to you. I shall now
feel much better satisfied. And you are going to
help Mr. Pousnett make the affair a grand success ?'

'My poor help would not be much use to him.'

You are mistaken ; indeed, indeed it would.
Herrion is so impulsive that the restraining influence
you could exercise over him would be beyond all
price. Do, dear Mr. McCullagh, make me happy
by saying you are going to be one of us in this great
undertaking.'

I'd like well to make ye happy,' was the answer;
but I would rather not say anything one way or another
till I have turned the matter over in my mind.
I've scarce yet been able to take hold of the notion.
I always thought till an hour ago that Mr. Pousnett
was as much set against limiting liability as myself.'

But we all think that so charming,' put in Miss
Vanderton, coming forward at this juncture ; * we
may make so much, and we can lose so little. It is
quite as exciting as a lottery. We have all applied
for shares.'

That is setting a good example, anyway,' said
Mr. McCullagh.

111 view of the great matter involved, all this talk
seemed to him childish. ' Still, one must please the
ladies,' he reflected, with polite tolerance of feminine
weakness.

But, spite of the attention paid him by Mr.
Pousnett's female belongings, Mr. McCullagh was
not enjoying himself in the least. He knew now he
had been asked down for a purpose ; and it was beginning
painfully to dawn upon his mind that from
the very commencement the senior partner had
sought his society, not for any abstract pleasure he
found in it, but just because he wanted to make use
of him.

Though how he purposed to do it beats me,'
considered the Scotchman, sitting in the shadow of
Mrs. Pousnett's person, and looking certainly as
much out of his element as could be well imagined.

Casting about in his mind for some remark to
make which should be far enough away from limited
liability, a subject which filled him with affright, he
ventured to ask if Mrs. Pousnefct had heard anything
lately about Captain Crawford.

Yes,' answered that lady easily. ' He was
wounded, you know, and came home during the
summer on sick-leave. He has been staying with
his relatives in the north ever since.'

He was a very nice gentleman,' said Mr. McCul-
lamb.

Yes, I had always a high opinion of him, and
both Mr. Pousnett and I regretted any coldness
should have arisen between us. He was unreasonable.
Ah, what a pity it is one cannot put wise
heads on young shoulders !'

I thought he had a wonderfully wise head for
his time of life,' answered Mr. McCullagh, puzzled ;
and I am sorry to hear you and he came to any
outfall.'

We did not quarrel, if that is what you mean,'
said Mrs. Pousnett ; ' but Herrion was obliged to
tell him very plainly that he must not come here
unless he gave up all idea of Pauline. It is dreadful
when a man will not take '* No ;" it causes so much
unpleasantness ; and we had quite other views for
her. Still, as I said before, I feel very sorry about
the matter, for he was a pleasant young man, and
when he has got over his little annoyance, I trust we
may see him again.'

The evening passed slowly. Notwithstanding
the best efforts time seemed to hang heavily on
hand, and Mr. Pousnett only brightened up when
his guests took their departure.

Now, Maude, let us have some music,' he said,

ere the wheels of the last carriage were heard grating
over the gravel. ' Mr. McCullagh will not come to
see us again if we do not entertain him better.'

I have been telling Mr. McCullagh about your
new purchase, Herrion,' observed Mrs, Pousnett as
Maude went to the piano.

Yes, I shall make some money out of that speculation,'
answered her husband, turning towards Mr.
McCullagh. ' I should like you to see the place,
which I bought almost literally for an old song.
The Castle is a mere ruin, but the situation is something
too perfect. After a time I shall put the
Castle in order, however, and try to develop the
resources of the position. The land lies beside the
sea, and I have an idea might be made most remunerative.'


What did I tell you, Mr. McCullagh ?' asked
]Mrs. Pousnett playfully.

Well, my dear, when I begin to lose money it
will be time enough for you to find fault with my
speculations,' answered Mr. Pousnett.

'And that is just the time when everybody else
will begin to find fault with them,' said Mr. McCul-
laugh.

Then I must not give them the chance,' retorted
Mr. Pousnett ; after which observation it was felt

better to lead the conversation away from business
and business matters, and so at length the weary
evening drew to a close, and Mr. McCullagh found
himself alone in a very grand bedroom, where, by
the light of such a fire as had never been seen in the
Basinghall-street house since he took possession, he
could consider at his leisure the number of strange
events that of late seemed crowding into his life.

Only to conceder him asking for a million of
money  a million, no less !' he thought, referring to
Mr. Pousnett. * Well, it cannot take a trifle to keep
up the places I have seen, and now he must go and
buy another. I don't feel just disposed ever to set
foot in his doors again,' finished Mr. McCullagh,
having an uneasy foreboding he never again would
be asked to set foot in them.

There is neither pleasure nor profit to be had
out of him,' said Mr. Pousnett to his wife.

I think he is delightful, Herrion,' was the
answer ; ' quite refreshing in comparison to some of
the persons one has to entertain.'

On their way back to London in the morning,
Mr. Pousnett asked Mr. McCullagh plainly if he
should include his name in the advertisement which
was to appear in Saturday's Times.

In answer Mr. McCullagh made a general statement

to the effect that ' no offence being meant he
trusted none would be taken. He looked upon the
new act as a very great evil ; he believed eventually
it would lead to very reckless trading ; he conceded
that the system was plausible and fair enough in
theory, but he contended it would never wash in
practice. He did not think it was a good thing to
trade on other folks' money, and he felt satisfied
limited liability would benefit very few and ruin a
great many. To be quite straightforward, which he
believed to be always best in the long-run, though it
might not please at the time, he would not give the
help of his name to anything of the kind. If he did
he should feel himself bound to look after the interests
of the shareholders, who would likewise look
to him for seeing their good money was being so used
that a profit might come of it.'

How long he might have proceeded in this strain
is uncertain, had Mr. Pousnett not cut across the
dissertation sharply with,

I am sorry to find you entertain such prejudices
against a system which will eventually, I am satisfied,
become universal. I hoped you would have
liked to join us, and help on your son. We shall
manage, however, I daresay,' he added, with an ironical
smile, which hurt Mr. McCullagh very much

indeed, and caused him again mentally to repeat the
statement that he would not go to Pousnett's again.

They are a cut above rae,' he acknowledged,
throwing a sop to his vanity ; ' and besides, I'm not
sure I jest like their ways.'

Mr. McCullagh was fast travelling towards a state
of mind in which he felt that he did not just like the
ways of anybody with whom he came in contact.
Other people, he found, were as determined to follow
their own course as he had ever been. New methods
of doing business were coming up ; plodding and
economy and discretion were going out of fashion,
and daft crazy notions taking their place. He had
no comfort either in his children; they were like
dogs pulling contrary ways ; the only time they ever
agreed was in deciding he did not do right. And
then Janet and he could not ' sort' well now ; and as
for Effie, he did not care to think about her !

When, on the Saturday following, the announcement
of Pousnett &; Co. (Limited) burst
upon the astounded City of London, David McCul-
laugh rushed breathlessly to his father with the
news.

They say half the shares are subscribed for
already, and that by this day week there won't be
one in the market.'

Like enough ; fools and their money are soon
parted.'

But that's the way to send a business along
now,' said David. 'If you would only follow suit
we could soon make the Scotch trade profitable.'

I never heard it wasn't,' said Mr. McCullagh.

Well, you know what I mean. If Pousnett can
have a million of money by just holding up his
finger, we ought to be able to get two or three hundred
thousand without much trouble.'

'As long as I live that is not going to be done,'
declared Mr. McCullagh.

I think ye're quite wrong.'

'I am aware ye hold that opinion.'

It's no good lying down to be trampled on.'

It's no good making an edeot of yourself.'

'I wish ye would give me that business in
Crutched Friars, and ye should soon see what I"d
change it into.'

I'll do nothing of the. sort.'

Will ye sell it ?'

Xo, I won't sell it.'

What will ye do then, sir ?'

I haven't just made up my mind.'

I am sure I never expected when I left Mac-vol.
iir. H

Alpin's that ye only wanted to use me as a kind of
cross between an errand-boy and a clerk,'

And I am very sure I never thought when I
sent for ye to MacGalpin's I was bringing such a
Plague of Egypt on me.'

Now I wonder which plague of Egypt he means
to liken me to ?' said David, speaking apparently to
vacancy.

The whole of them,' answered Mr. McCullagh
vehemently. 'Among ye my life's a weariness
Money, money, money, is the cry from one week's
end to another. There isn't one of ye is content to
creep his way as I did, stinting myself, and making
a profit there and laying a trifle by here. Ye want
the best of everything, and then if ye got it we'd
barely say " Thank ye." '

I wish you would only try me,' retorted David.

It M-as probably more desperation than any hope
his father could be induced to do much beyond
paying him a very insufficient salary that induced
David to speak with such irritating plainness.
Greatly to his astonishment, however, he found ere
a month was gone that words spoken by him in very
hot blood had been considered calmly, and were
likely to bear fruit he never expected.

I have thought over what ye said to me that

day ye were put out because I wouldn't change my
honest trade into a swindling company,' began Mr.
McCullagh, ' and I feel satisfied ye'll never be content
with me, any more than I should be content
with you. The new ways ye' re so fond of aren't
mine ; and besides, I've no necessity to put on
spectacles to see ye're all laying your heads together
to carry out some plan of circumventing me ; so as
I want to act fair by you, I've made up my mind
I'll give you and Archie a thousand pounds apiece,
and ye can start what trade ye like and conduct it on
whatever principle seems to ye best. I'll not have
any of ye mixed up with me, mind, and I'd be glad
if we'd both take yourselves off to some other house
than this. I've been used to a quiet regular home,
and at my time of life it's not fair to expect me to
put up with the hours ye and Archie keep, and the
way ye despise food and lodging for which I've never
charged ye a penny.'

'I'm very sorry, sir,' David stammered; but his
father answered,

Ye're no sorry a, bit. What is good enough forme
doesn't content you and your brother, and I'm
tired of it.'

If I vexed you I didn't intend to do so,' maintained
David stoutly, ' All I tbourht and think is

that, unless people have some good of their money
they might as well be without it.'

*I have had plenty of good of my money,' answered
Mr. McCullagh ; ' and even if I hadn't, the
money is mine, not yours. It does seem to me the
very height of impudence to come to a man's house
and say ye should live this way or the other.
Where's your right to bid me do anything ?'

We'd better not talk about it,' said David, with
an affectation of repentance he was far from feeling.
Though a thousand pounds seemed but a poor
amount in comparison to that he once hoped Kenneth
might wring for each of them from his father,
it was far too large a sum to jeopardise by an injudicious
exhibition of temper.

That same evening, Mr. McCullagh having previously
intimated to his bookkeeper, Mr. Roy, that
he would probably ' look round about nine.' proceeded,
at the hour named, to a small house situated
in a street off the City-road, where Mrs. Roy supplemented
her husband's earnings by keeping a little
shop. It was a family of which Mr. McCullagh
greatly approved ; the two daughters were apprenticed,
one to a milliner, and the other to a dressmaker.
The only son held a situation in the London
Joint-stock Bank. Mr. and Mrs. Roy had put

something in the stocking' in anticipation of a rainy
day ; and they were all discreet and well-doing, and
scarcely more given to general conversation than
Effie herself.

 As ye're aware,' said Mr. McCuUagh, when he
and the bookkeeper were closely shut within the
back parlour,' 'I always declared I never would
take a partner.'

You aye said that,' agreed Mr. Hoy. It was an
assent which committed him to nothing. As Miss
Nicol had through the years looked forward to matrimony
as the reward of her devotion to Mr. McCul-
laugh, so, deep in the depths of his heart, Mr. Koy
still cherished a hope that one day the Scotch merchant
might take him by the hand, and say, ' Ye
shall come into the business ; ye're worked hard,
and ye're worked honest, and it's only fair now ye
should taste the sweets of your long labour.'

No, I never will take a partner,' repeated Mr.
McCuUagh, unconscious of the air castle he was
demolishing with a word, ' so it's useless for me to
cast about and think who there is solid enough, and
able and clever enough, to join me ; but I have been
considering that I'll make a change  a great change
not sudden, ye know, or all in a hurry, but just
by degrees, as seems fit. By what I can see there's

money to be made in that new place of ours if it was
properly seen to ; and what I have it in my mind todo,
is work the most of the trade from there instead
of Basinghall-street. Now what I've got to say to
ye in a word is this : I have arranged for my sons
not to be in Crutched Friars much longer ; and if ye
think ye could, with the help of some decent lad
under ye, do the books and take the chief o' the
management there, I'd make it worth your while.'

Mr. Roy said, and truthfully, that he would be
very glad to do anything that lay in his power ; and
that he thought, what with the shippers, and what
with the home connection that lay in that part of
London, there was a ' heap' more to be done than
ever had been.

And I've this to say,' he added, ' if I were you,
Mr. McCullagh, I'd try to work the West-end a bit
more nor has ever been attempted. I could name
many a house where I am positive if ye would only
call yourself once, the custom might be secured.
These are times when everybody's have to look alive ;
and ye know I'll help ye to the best of my ability.'

I'll no be worsted in my own trade by my own
sons,' considered Mr. McCullagh as he walked home ;
and there's no tellin' what they've got in their
minds.'

Pacing back to Basingliall-street he felt iu a
most agreeable humour. He knew at last he had
adopted the proper course. Ever since David's advent
he had felt on the verge of a volcano. ' Now
he considered, ' I shall have everything again in mv
own hands ; and I don't care a straw about the
opposition. Nobody will take one of my best customers,
I'm certain.' Which, as matters had turned
out, was a very safe statement. Only the reader
may remember that Mr. McCullagh's views once
were different.

Is that you ?' said Miss Nicol, putting her head
over the balusters and looking down into the hall,
where her kinsman was taking off his hat and coat,
and anticipating an hour's quiet in the company of
his newspaper and a tumbler. ' Is that you ?'

Who else would it be "?' answered Mr. McCul-
laugh.

Could you step up a minute ?'

Certainly, if I'm wanted.'

I've a word to say to ye.'

Well, what is it ?' asked Mr. McCullagh, ascending
the stairs.

'I've got a letter from John.'

That's nothing to make a song about.'

Ay, but ye don't know what's in it.'

How can I know what's in it till ye tell me ?'

We've maybe have heard your mother speak of
Sandal McDonald.'

By this time they were in the room where Mr.
McCullagh was first presented to the reader. It
looked barer even than at that period ; and there
was but a spark of fire burning in the grate, for the
master of the house preferred boiling up the kettle
in his own apartment, and taking his toddy where
he was quite secure from the incursions of his sons.

I've heard her talk of a Sandal that went out to
America when she was a girl,' he said, taking a
chair in order to survey at his leisure the extraordinary
spectacle of Miss Xicol in a state of tremulous
excitement ; ' he must have been dead this
many a day.'

No such thing,' she answered. ' He only died
last August, and he has left legacies to all the Nicols.
I don't know how much he wasn't worth, but at any
rate me and Effie are to have three thousand pounds
apiece.'

That'll be good news for Effie,' observed Mr.
McCullagh coldly. He was not so delighted to hear
of this piece of fortune as he might have been ;
indeed Mr. McCullagh was not, as a rule, ecstatic
over such pieces of luck as fell to his acquaintances.

Without being exactly jealous, he had a notion
people got sometimes too ' much uplifted.'

'And it's good news for me, I'm thinking,' said
Miss Nicol.

'No doubt, Janet, no doubt. Ye'll have to invest
it prudently ; well managed it ought to yield a hundred
and fifty a year.'

'And that'll be a comfortable competence.'

And something for ye to depend upon, for ye're
no getting younger, Janet.'

'I'm getting wiser, though,' she retorted.

That's a fine hearing ; she'll need to keep your
wits about ye now.'

Why should I stand so much in need of sense
all in a minute "?' she inquired.

Because ye'll have all the young men running
after ye.'

Then they may run,' said Miss Xicol indignantly.
' And that,' she added after a pause, ' is all
the congratulation ye're to give me ?'

Ye'll have plenty from other folk now ye're got
such a fortune,' he answered.

MISS NICOL IS DISAPPOINTED.

Over the waves of success the new barque Pousnett
& Co. (Limited) floated gaily.

David McCullagh had not overshot the mark
when he said the shares were being snapped up
eagerly. Pousnetts' was about the first house with
a great reputation to take the initiative of ' allowing
the general public to participate in its profits,' and
the general public proved itself grateful for the
chance afforded.

Before the City had got over its surprise at the
march Mr. Pousnett seemed to have stolen on everyone,
not a single share remained subscribed, and
at the end of the first twelvemonth the twenty-pound
shares were quoted at thirty-five.

Everything went on smilingly in Leadenhall-street.
Mr. Herrion Pousnett was blander and more
gracious than ever. He sometimes bought goods
from Mr. McCullagh, which he took very excellent

care to have invoiced to him at the same price as he
could purchase in the Minories ; and on such occasions
he quite overpowered Mr. Roy with his condescension,
balancing himself on an office-stool, and
talking business over with the bookkeeper, just, said
Mr. Roy, ' as if he were no more nor myself.'

Even Mr. McCullagh could not always resist the
charm of his manners, though he declared he'd
never be able to abide him now he had given that
daughter of his in marriage to the old lord, who
might be her grandfather or great-grandfather, for
that matter.'

Captain Crawford, left completely out in the cold,
found a ready sympathiser in Mr. McCullagh.

'It's just awful to think of,' said his friend.
V\'hy, I'm quite a young man  a boy  in comparison
!'

The second daughter is going to marry Stoddard
after all,' observed the officer; 'but then, he's as
rich as Croesus. Ah, they threw me over when the
relation, whose property I expected to inherit, married
a governess.'

Captain Crawford was so well satisfied with the
amount Mr. McCullagh had added to his store that
he begged him still to take charge of it.

At some future day I may feel glad to know I

am a comparatively rich man he said, with a smile
he tried to make bright, but which bore traces of
the trouble he had battled with.

There is no state of life or mind,' answered Mr.
McCullagh, ' that's possible to man. where worldly
gear doesn't prove a comfort.'

Whatever Captain Crawford's sentiments might
be, he did not feel inclined to discuss them, although
the conversation took place at a friendly dinner provided
by Mr. McCullagh, not, however, in .


During the course of the year which had elapsed
since the senior partner retired modestly from that
exalted position, and 'consented' to take the management
of a million of money, David and Archibald
McCullagh had over in the Borough started a great
Scotch warehouse on their own account, with a
branch at Liverpool in which Kenneth had an interest,
and another at Glasgow that was managed by
a clerk under the direction and supervision of old
Mr. Johnston.

There was not a thing likely or unlikely those
young men had not in stock. Their lists were of an
appalling length. *At ten minutes' notice,' said
David, ' I'd victual a man-of-war.' They did not
stand nice about bribing when a few pounds would

secure a good order. They were ahva3's about.
There seemed no one they failed to make acquaintance
with. They lived together in Trinity-square,
on what was then usually, and often still is, called
the ' wrong side of the water.'

So far Mr. McCullagh in Crutched Friars was
skimming the cream of the trade. His old connection
and his established character for selling none
save the best goods to be had in the market still kept
him ahead of the new-comers ; but he had sense
enough to see this could not last  that more dangerous
competitors than his sons or cousins would
eventually arise, and that he could not, to use his
somewhat melancholy phrase, ' hope to keep a grip of
the market for ever.'

But enough custom will bide wi' me, Mr. Ro',
I'm thinking', to serve my time,' he said. ' Young
blood working upon my own pattern, but keeping
foot wi' the times, might have kept the old business
well thither, but it wasn't to be. It's strange that
out o' four sons there's not one o' the lot I'd care to
see carrying on this business after me.'

I've long had a notion,' answered Mr. Roy, ' that
ye made too much money to be happy for yourself orwell
for your family.'

 I'm hfippy enough,' retorted Mr. McCullagh;

and as for my money, I made it by pinching myself,
which is more nor ever a child I had will do.'

That's just what I say ; they know je/ye lived
before them.'

It would make small odds to Robert if I'd never
lived,' observed Mr. McCullagh. ' He wants nothing
from me. The way Pousnetts' is flourishing is, I am
given to understand, just beyond belief.'

'I met Mr. Robert the other day,' hazarded the
clerk.

'Ay, indeed.'

He stopped me, and was most affable ; asked
particularly after your health.'

Much obliged to him, I'm sure.'

He's looking well ; the company agrees with
him better apparently nor ever the partnership did.
He's got his old colour back and his jaunty ways
again, that, indeed, I used to be sorry to see were
gone. They're moving from Islington, he tells me,
to Brunswick-square.'

I wonder that's grand enough,' sneered Mr.
McCullagh. ' If he'd said he was flitting to Grosvenor
or Cavendish-square, now, that would have
been nearer the mark.'

"We might live to see him in one or the other
yet,' ventured Mr. Ro} on whom Robert's great

prosperity and Robert's extraordinary politeness had
made a deep impression.

We might live to see him in Buckingham
Palace, for the matter o' that," replied Mr. McCul-
laugh.

If he had but realised the fact, the Scotch merchant
would have known he was deadly jealous of
the ' uplift' his son had got in the world. That
notwithstanding he had, after a fashion, excommunicated
his ' double-faced first-born,' Robert
should go on and prosper seemed to him some sort
of a mistake on the part of Providence. It was the
more crazing because Mr. McCullagh felt he had
been hasty in ordering husband and wife off his
premises. There was an expression in Robert's
eyes as he looked in his father's face which 'minded'
that father of something wistful and pitiful he had
seen in his wife's expression when she lay dying.

He could not forget the look ; it haunted him ;
it was the appeal of a weak character to a strong, of
a feeble nature to a harsh stern judge. He had not
patience to think of Jauey. ' Her well got-up'
glance of innocence and indignation maddened him
to remember. 'As if it was *ny fault,' he added, to
strengthen his resolution, ' that Robert lied to me !'

An exchange of letters had taken place between

father and son, in which the latter remarked he had
not told a falsehood; he had merely suppressed a
truth which concerned himself only. In reply Mr.
McCullagh took highly moral ground, asserting a
prevarication was worse than a lie, because it was a
coward thing;' and that the matter concerned all
Robert's friends, who had made fools of themselves
through being led to believe Mr. Pousnett had taken
into partnership a man without sixpence, and whose
brains ' couldn't even by the most partial be deemed
an equivalent for the want of capital.'

When Mr. McCullagh laid himself out to be disagreeable,
it is but simple justice to say he succeeded
in his endeavour ; and so many nasty remarks did
he contrive to squeeze into a not very lengthy epistle
that Robert, tearing the paper into shreds, angrily
declared he would never write nor speak to his father
again.

But Robert's was not the nature to bear malice
long, and even had it been, the peacemaker Janeyy
must ultimately have brought better feeling into the
question. After the birth of their first child, a girl,
both mother and father, moved by some curious
sympathy, wrote to Mr. McCullagh, but without
mentioning to each other what they had done.

Janeyy simply sent a few lines, saying she had a

little daughter, and that, now she was a mother, it
grieved her more than ever to feel Robert was separated
from his father. It vas a sweet tender note,
and touched Mr. McCullagh more than he cared to
confess. Most unhappily on the top of it came
Robert's epistle, which, causing Mr. McCullagh to
consider 'how keen they were to make it up with
him,' hardened his heart to a greater degree than
ever. After trusting his father would come to the
christening, and let 'bygones be bygones,' Robert
said, ' We think of naming our child Annie, if you
have no objection.'

Call your child what you like,' answered plain
auld Rab ; ' it's no affair of mine. It is very good,
I am sure, of you to invite me to the christening,
but I must decline being one of the party ;' while to
Janeyy he wrote not a single word, good, bad, or indifferent
; and Robert, too much mortified by the
slap in the face he had received to mention the correspondence
to his wife, maintained an utter silence
on the subject.

Pousnett & Co. (Limited) had proved, as the
young man considered, a matter of little less than
temporal salvation to him. For his portion of the
spoil he received such a pocketful of shares as en-vol.

III. I

able him, with the help of Mr. Snow's skilful
manipulation, to pays that gentleman off ere the
company was eighteen months old.

Now or never,' thought the genial Snow ; and
it is unnecessary to say he decided on the first alternative.
If it be true, as is cynically asserted,
that an undertaker should get his bill settled while
the mourners' eyes are still wet,' it is surely equally
wise to have any matter depending upon Limited
Liability put on a proper footing while the concern
is in the full swing of its first success.

You had better get rid of me,' suggested Mr.
Snow, with a quiet smile. ' You will feel far happier
when you are relieved from this millstone of
debt.'

As there chanced to be nothing Robert more
ardently desired than to be out of Mr. Snow's books,
the little affair was so judiciously managed that one
happy night he was able to tell his wife,

I have paid off the last instalment of that seven
thousand pounds.'

Then you are quite clear, Robert ?'

Yes, quite. I don't owe any man a shilling.'
Under the circumstances it was perhaps the most

natural thing in the world for a person so situated
at once to place himself in a position where he would

have the chance of owing many men shillings. He
had stinted and saved to pay Mr. Snow ; he had discerned
no chance of ' enjoying life,' as the phrase
goes ; he had felt vexed at being obliged to ' doom
Janeyy to poverty ;' and then all in a moment relief
came. He saw his way to enjoying life, and ' allowing
Janeyy to take her proper place in society.' It
was like a transformation scene  so like, Robert, ashe
walked about the City streets a rich and prosperous
man, could scarcely believe the fortune which
had come to him as real : he almost imagined he
should wake some morning and find it had been aU
a dream.

The way Mr. Snow managed to get a sufficient
number of the shares in Pousnett & Co. (Limited) off
his hands to recoup himself, and yet draw no attention
to the transaction, would have seemed extraordinarily
clever if other shares in the same company
had not been changing owners in a like stealthy an(J
secret manner. There never were any shares going
about begging. Generally it was supposed shares in
Pousnetts' could not be had for love or money.
Nevertheless, here and there a few were to be picked
up at a long price under extraordinary circumstances.
Some one was going abroad, or died, or was bankrupt,
or went mad, and then the word went round

that if any one desired to avail himself of such a
chance, why, there it was, and he ought to take
advantage of it.

At that early period of its life, Limited Liability
was considered an innocent sort of baby, calculated
to give pleasure to many persons, and incapable of
inflicting injury on man, woman, or child. That it
should ever grow up into the hardened rascal we have
seen figuring before magistrates, judges, and vice-chancellors,
lying, scheming, thieving, cheating,
robbing the widow and orphan, picking the pockets
of governesses and clergymen, none, save a very,
very few, had foresight enough to conceive  indeed,
it may be doubted whether any one could have
imagined Limited Liability capable of producing the
wide-spread misery, wickedness, and swindling it
has done. For the last five-and-twenty years, it
would seem truly as though every law, no matter how
apparently beneficent in its intentions, had been
passed solely in the interests of cheats and schemers
and adventurers. Somehow the poor sheep is always
shorn ; somehow it is always the person that ought
not to have the fleece who gets it.

Pousnetts' was the very first private business
which formed itself into a company under the new
Act, and the result proved abundantly the wisdom of

the senior partner in so soon taking that fallible
bull, the public, by its horns.

As has been said, the shares increased immensely
in value, the business throve and prospered, great
men added their names to the direction. Each
dividend meeting proved better than the last. Always
a great and notable house, Pousnetts' grew greater
and more notable still. Bankers, merchants, mayors,
aldermen, citizens, and country gentlemen, all knelt
down and did homage to Pousnetts' ; there were
times when, in the secret recesses of his heart, Mr.
McCullagh, wise and prudent and cautious as he
was, almost wished ' he had not been just so ready
to say no about that matter of joining the Board.'

Mr. Pousnett had wanted him once, though he
did not want him now, and if he only could have
reconciled it to his conscience to become one of the
new fraternity, he might have made his appearance
in the character of director in excellent company !

He had not even so much to do with Pousnetts'
(Limited) as might have been the case. That unlucky
quarrel with Robert, which need never have
taken place if the news had come upon him in a
different fashion, or if Piobert would have eaten a
piece of humble-pie, and not 'threaded' upon his
father that Janeyy knew nothing whatever about his

business or money matters, or the details of the
partnership, or Mr. Snow's loan, must prevent him
for ever from taking the smallest pride out of the
great house his son was connected with.

Of course he never could  make up' matters with
Robert again. If he did it would look as if the
riches and the grandeur of Pousnetts' had wrought a
change in his opinions. ' Everybody was getting
rich and grand,' thought poor Mr. McCullagh, who,
having till quite lately been the greatest and wealthiest
luminary his narrow circle of acquaintances
boasted, could not reconcile himself in a minute to
the fact that, while he was plodding along the old
track, other quite new persons were shooting on
ahead.

Business ways were all turned upside down ;
everybody now wanted to be master, servants were
never content till they could call themselves principals,
and principals had no other aim or object in
view than to merge their identity in limited companies.'


It was hard on a man who had always regarded
Fortune as a height to be scaled very cautiously to
see men rush at the citadel and carry it by storm.
He had, in the course of j-ears, carefully and painfully
sowed, and reaped, and garnered his store, and

now he saw harvests apparently larger planted and
gathered, so to speak, within a day.

There was Snow, for example : he had nothing
to say against Mr. Snow, who, he daresay, was, for a
man of his trade, honest enough; bat he, Mr.
McCullagh, could remember a time, and that not so
long agone, when a common money-lender, a man
who professedly advanced cash on usury, could not
have leapt all in a minute from a couple of petty
offices in Bush-lane to great premises in King ,
where he had at least a dozen young
men clerks, and shining mahogany counters, and
brass rails you could see your face in, and desks of
the very best, and a couple of waiting-rooms newly-carpeted
and handsomely fitted up, and a grand
private office for himself; where when he wanted
anything he struck a bell, just as in the old Eastern
tales great folks clapped their hands and a slave
appeared. And then to see the way even big bankers
got on with him was ' something beyond Mr. McCul-
laugh.'

I don't know what we are coming to, Mr. Roy,'
he often observed sadly; and with a considerable
amount of truth Mr. Roy answered that neither
did he.

And still Pousnetts' Company prospered, and Mr.

Snow in his new capacity did a business wliicli filled
many a man besides Mr. McCullagh with wonder and
envy. Pousnetts' triumph was, after all, not extraordinary;
but it did seem wonderful that Snow
should carry everything before him as he did. How
were outsiders to understand the length of time that
gentleman had been silently cutting for himself the
steps by which he meant to climb ? He could have
told them of weeks, months, years, during which he
had been pushing forward to his present goal. He
had watched the signs of the times, and prophesied
to himself exactly how money was to be made out of
the turn commercial affairs were taking. He had
been working up one connection and working out of
another ; he had been feeling the pulse of bankers
till he understood pretty well the temper of those
City potentates ; he had been making friends of the
mammon of unrighteousness ; running, what Mr.
Alty considered, risks, yet coming out in the long-run
victorious; giving a helping hand up difficult
ladders, and waiting patiently for the day to come
when he could demand his recompense with a certainty
almost of getting it.

Altogether, in Mr. McCullagh's opinion, things
within the domain of the Dragon and the Grasshopper
were being turned upside down. If he did

not say they were going to the deuce, it was only
because people seemed to be making enormous sums
of money with very little trouble ; and though it was
a state of commercial society which did not recommend
itself to the mind of the cautious Scotchman,
still he did not feel 'just prepared to say' that the
rapidity with which a man who had his wits about
him could make a fortune was an unmixed evil.
That depended, he considered, upon the care the
man with his wits about him took of the fortune
after he had made it. Upon the whole, Mr. 
felt inclined to fear it would be lightly come,
lightly gone ; and, perhaps, with that fear there
mixed a certain feeling of Christian satisfaction at
the thought that when a good many tremendous
profits were scattered to the four winds of heaven, the
store ' laid past' by the wise merchant of Basinghall-street
would be returning as good interest as it had
ever done.

Nevertheless, spite of the money he knew was so
well invested, nothing short of a revolution could
reduce him to beggary. Mr. McCullagh felt that in
many respects life had of late gone very ' contrary'
with him.

There was Janet, for instance  Janet Xicol,
whom he had ' fed and lodged for years beyond

count,' and who was, as one might say, mistress of
his house ; for 'I am sure I never interfered with
her,' observed Mr. McCiillagh  there was Janet, who
had been privileged to look after cheeseparings and
save the candle-ends, and economise the coals and
see nothing was wasted ; whose position in 
could not be considered other than that of
'just the lady;' who was free to go and free to
come ; who could have her own visitors, and who had
them ; who could go out to tea, or dinner, or supper,
whenever she pleased, and never a wry word spoken ;
who engaged the servants, and discharged each unsatisfactory
lass at her own good-will ; who, as long
as she kept within certain bounds, was never asked
to account for her ' spending ;' whose bed had been
one of roses ; whose waking moments ought to have
proved, in the opinion of her relations, one long delights
 there was Janet going to leave him; Janet
able to say, without a tear on her cheek or break in
her voice, it was time they parted company.

'What's put that notion in your head?' asked
Mr. McCullagh, when the lady mooted this idea.

Miss Nicol went on with her needlework, and did
not immediately reply.

If there's any secret in the matter, I don't want

to intrude,' said her kinsman, who really was devoured
by curiosity.

'It's not exactly a secret,' replied Miss Nicol,
evidently anxious to be pressed to an explanation.

Then we'd best tell me your reason  that is,
if ye're got one.'

The long and the short of it is,' began Miss
Nice] ; and then she paused, and deliberately threaded
her needle  ' I've made up my mind to get married.'

Weel,' answered Mr. McCullagh, who was taken
completely aback, but who felt he would have died
rather than evince his astonishment, ' better late nor
never, ye know, Janet.'

That's just what I think myself,' agreed the
lady, calmly indifferent to anything in the remark
which may have struck her as uncomplimentary.

And ye'll have looked out a good man for yourself,
I'll warrant,' suggested Mr. McCullagh, by way
of gently leading up to further explanation.

A good enough man has looked out me,' amended
Miss Nicol.

That's the way I should have worded my remark,'
said her kinsman deprecatingly. 'As ye'll
have made it up between yourselves, I suppose there's
no offence in asking his name.'

No offence at all. I am very sure, Mr. ,

it's not through any goodwill of mine I
want to leave ye.'

And I can honestly say it is not through any
goodwill of mine ye are going to leave me.'

I'd far and away rather stay with ye.'

Then why don't ye ?'

I'll stay if ye ask me.'

0, if that's all, I'll ask ye fast enough,' Mr. 
began, when, a look in Miss Nicol's face
warning him he had got on ticklish ground, he leapt
the morass, and added hurriedly  ' that is, I would
ask ye to stop on as ye are, if I did not mind me of
what I said just now about it being better for ye to
get married late nor never ; so if ye're found somebody
wants ye and not your money, it would be
foolish and wrong of me to say a word to stop ye
taking him.'

That was about the last chance she would ever
have, and Miss Nicol recognised the urgency' of her
position. She was not a forward woman, or the
same roof would not have covered her and Mr.
McCullagh for so many years ; but yet at that
supreme moment she felt if she nothing ventured,
she would nothing get. When it came to actual
reality, or the ' bit, ' as she mentally expressed it,
he could never part her  never.'

Don't ye think yourself,' she commenced diplomatically,
at the same time tracing an invisible
pattern on the table-cover with the point of her
needle, ' that people are happier married than
single ?'

*It all depends, Janet,' he answered; *and I
really could not take it upon myself to advise ye for
or against.'

But if ye had a wife, wouldn't ye be more comfortable
and content ?'

'I had a wife once, if ye mind,' he replied, using
the last word in the sense of remember.

Ay, but I don't mean that ! If ye had a suitable
wife now, near your own age, and of your own
way of thinking.'

It's not me that is going to be married ; and
there is no good, therefore, in considering the question,
so far as I am concerned,' observed Mr.
McCullagh, who was now trebly on his guard. ' Ye
haven't told me yet the name of the lucky man yere
chosen.'

Before I do that I'd fain know if you're no like
ever to think of taking a second wife yourself. One
suitable, as I said before, and who wouldn't come to
ye empty-handed either ;' and Miss Nicol blushed,

actually blushed, and the busy needle traced another
invisible pattern more rapidly than before.

Clearly there was no evading the question, and
Mr. McCullagh perceiving this grappled it like a
man.

*I'll be plain ''i' ye, Janet,' he said, 'and I'll
try no to vex ye if I can help it. I've aye seen we'd
a fancy for me.' Had any one been there to observe
Mr. McCullagh as he made this confession  his
sheepish look of gratified vanity, his firm resolution
not to be caught napping, the twinkle in his small
keen eyes, the half smile playing over his sharp
shrewd face, the alert uprightness of his mean figure,
the look of delight in himself and pity for a woman
whose devotion he could never reward  the whole
scene would have proved too grotesque for risible
nerves even under the strictest control, and an outbreak
of laughter must have broken up the proceedings.


As, however, Janet and plain auld Kab had the
field all to themselves, he continued gravely, ' And I
can truthfully say I'm greatly beholden to ye for it.
But I've no thought of that sort at all. If it had
ever been in my mind I'd have told ye so, long and
long ago. Your money can make no difference tome
; for your own sake I'm glad ye have it, and hope

ye won't throw it and yourself away on anybody maybe
not just worthy ; but I'm no for taking a wife,
and if I stay in the notion I'm in at present I never
shall be. So now that we understand one another,
tel me who it is wants ye.'

I'm sure I'd never have thought of him, if  '
began Miss Nicol, and then she stopped, bashfully
deferring the evil moment.

If ye could have gotten me,' finished Mr.
McCuUagh, feeling for the moment his own manifold
attractions were to be regretted, seeing the ' heartbreak
' they had caused. ' Weel, Janet, ye're no the
first as has picked out the one man it was no sort of
good for any woman to set her cap at, from among
the lave ; and it's no use, as ye're aware, crying over
spilt milk, or, what's much the same, milk ye can't
get. As ye think ye'll be best married ye're done a
wise thing to look about ye. Who is it ye're made
up your mind to go to church with ?'

My cousin, John Nicol.'

Ay, ay,' said Mr. McCullagh, and volumes
seemed contained in the twice-repeated monosyllable.

He's never to say lost a sneaking fondness forme,'
pursued Miss Nicol.

That's all right,' answered her relation, feeling
the remark committed him to nothing.

And as other folks think so little of me, I ought
to be the more obliged to him.'

No doubt, no doubt.'

*I know ye never liked him, Mr. McCullagh.'

What would ail me liking him ?'

We've spoke about his temper.'

Have I ? It's possible ; but it's not I who'll
have to put up with it.'

'And I don't deny,' went on Miss Nicol, who, as
she could not rush at Mr. McCullagh and tear out a
handful of his sandy hair, meant to vent a portion of
her disappointment in some of those ' side wipes' in
the administration of which she was an adept, ' he is
a thought '' near ;" but I've had to be careful enough
here, careful enough, the Lord knows, with plenty
and to spare in your pocket for a man who never
said " thank ye ;" and it'll come second nature tome
to save for myself and my husband.'

There's a deal of sense in ye, Janet, when ye
express it.'

I'm glad ye think so. What I said to myself
was, " What's the use of saving and pinching to add
pounds to thousands I'll never have share of?" All
the years I've lived in this house ye never gave mea
present, but that French cashmere dress when
sour wife died.'

*Ye needn't stand for presents now,' observed
Mr. McCullagh, who felt the conversation was taking
a turn he did not like at all. ' John '11 be emptying
the shops for ye.'

He'll be doing no such thing,' answered Miss
Nicol. ' What I want I'll have money to buy for
myself, and he knows it ; but I'll be in my own
house and over my own servants, and studying my
own interests, and saving in one thing to pay for
another ; that's just how the matter stands ;' and
the irritated Janet recommenced her sewing with
such vehemence that she instantly snapped the
needle in two.

We've done it now,' said Mr. McCullagh dryly;
but whether his utterance referred to the accident or
the happy state of existence indicated, he did not
explain, and Miss Nicol did not inquire.

I'd advise ye,' he went on, as she sought in her
workbox for another needle, ' to have your money
settled snug and fast on yourself. Whatever way
things turn ye'll no repent that being made sure.
It would be a sore pity for ye to go and do the day's
work Efl&e got through when she married young
Hunt.'

If ye can say an ill word against Effie, ye'll not
keep silent, I'm aware.'

VOL. in. K

I'm not saying anything against Effie. I suppose
ye'll not deny he has got the whole of her money
in his own hand.'

*I know nothing about it,' snapped Miss Nicol
viciously.

*Weel, weel, if you don't, I do,' replied Mr.
McCullagh, with which successful utterance he retired
from the discussion.

What he stated was perfectly true. Deep as she
was, EjQfie had met with some one deeper. When
the neAvs of her good fortune came, her first intention
most undoubtedly was to throw over Mr. Hunt. Effie
Nicol with three thousand pounds was a very different
person, even in her own eyes, from Effie without a
shilling. She could do better, she felt, than marry a
clerk, and a clerk too out of a situation.

Mrs. Olfradine, who knew a great deal more about
human nature than she had ever done about music,
and who understood Effie as women do not often
understand each other, soon saw how the land lay,
and without loss of time gave her nephew a hint to
discontinue his visits.

Now it is one matter to determine to turn a cold
shoulder towards an impecunious lover, and another
to be totally deserted by the lover himself. Effie did
not know what to make of this defection  for she and

Hunt were actually engaged. Days passed, a month
elapsed, and still no sign or word from the young
man.

*Is William ill?' she asked Mrs. Olfradine at
last.

Not that I have heard of,' was the reply. ' What
made you think he was ill ?'

He has not been near us for so long.'

You would not have him coming about the house
now, would you ?'

Why not ?'

And have people saying he was after your
money.'

He was not after my money when I hadn't
any.'

Yes, but 5-0U have got it now, and nobody would
remember you were as poor as himself when he first
asked you.'

I think he might have waited till I told him to
stay away.'

I don't think that would have shown much spirit,*
observed Mrs. Olfradine ; ' and another thing is, he's
no doubt busy, for he has got a place where I am told
the hours are very long.'

What place has he got ?' Effie inquired ; but
Mrs. Olfradine did not, or would not, know. The

extent of her information appeared to be the young
man was idle no longer. * And a good thing too,'
she added ; * poor people can't afford to lie out of
situations.'

It was not long ere Else heard quite casually from
an acquaintance of the Hunts that William had got
into a right good berth at last. Two hundred and
fifty pounds a year was the salary mentioned ; his
abilities, unappreciated at Mr. Snow's, having met
from his new employers with proper recognition.
Effie said nothing, but she thought a great deal, and
when, at the end of another month, she met Mr. Hunt,
she greeted him with a graciousness to which he responded
by a sad humility, which in mournful depression
might have matched Effie's own manner in the
old days at Basinghall-street.

It was not easy for Effie to be playful, but she
tried her best to assume that character, as she observed,
in the words of a homely if not elegant proverb,
* that a sight of him was good for sore eyes.'
Ye have made yourself quite a stranger,' she
added.

Only since strange things have happened,' he
answered. ' I did not care to presume on old acquaintance,
and put you to the trouble of saying you
would rather have my room than my company.'

On both sides the conversation was long and
diplomatic, and Yhen at last they separated Mr.
Hunt contrived to leave on Effie's mind the impression
that he wished to terminate the engagement.

He's doing first-rate, I'm sure,' considered Effie,
an idea the young man's reticence confirmed rather
than dispelled. He would not tell her the name of
the firm he was with, or what he was doing, or how
he got his situation.

I lost one through you, Effie,' he said, ' or
rather through trying to please you, and I won't
jeopardise my means of living a second time.'

It would be a pity and you getting such a
salary,' answered Effie. ' Two hundred and fifty
pounds a year  no less. Times have changed.'

Whoever told you I was getting that amount
didn't stand nice about speaking the truth,' he observed.


'Well, maybe your pay isn't far short,' she insinuated.


Whatever it is can't matter to you now,' said
Mr. William Hunt. ' With your fortune, what's two
or even three hundred a year ?'

Ye had only fifty-five when I first knew ye.'
'And you had nothing at all,' he retorted.

It was a curious way of wooing, but apparently

Mr. Hunt understood how to please his mistress, for
one morning, without * by your leave or with your
leave,' without bridesmaids, best man, carriages,
settlements, friends, favours, or bouquets, Efi&e Nicol
and "William Hunt were made one at the parish
church of St. John's, Hertford.

Nobody except the bride and bridegroom were
supposed to know anything about the matter. Immediately
after the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Hunt took
possession of lodgings previously prepared for their
reception, where they lived for a short time economically,
as befitted persons of their condition just
starting in the race matrimonial.

It was not long, however, before Effie, aspiring to
a * house of her own,' broached the question to her
lord and master, who informed her, with an utter
absence of circumlocution, that they could not afford
such nonsense.

Not afibrd it !' repeated Effie, wondering ; ' with
my money, and you getting so big a salary ?'

Mr. Hunt laughed bitterly.

*Ian getting no salary, Effie,' he said ; ' and it
seems to me I never shall in this country.'

Have je lost your situation ?' she asked.

Yes, that I have.'

And not got another ?'

*No; I've enemies here will prevent me ever
getting on; old Snow, and that precious Alfred
Mostin, and a whole lot of them.'

Effie did not answer ; the news seemed to her too
awful for comment. She had given herself and
her money freely ; but when she did so she believed
she was getting a substantial enough gacZ for her !.
The idea of her husband losing situation after situation
was a notion which had never occurred to her.
At Mr. McCullagh's the same faces greeted customers
year in, year out. Except to better themselves his
clerks did not leave him, and very seldom indeed
even to do that. She did not know what to make of
her position. She had to take refuge in her usual
resort, and without confidant or comforter think over
her husband's emphatic words in silence.

BY THE SAD SEA WAVES.

Mr. Alfred Mostin sat alone in his old office
in North street. He had not ' worked himself out
of the Robert McCuUagh & Co. house in the
Minories ; quite the contrary. Messrs. Robert 
& Co. were persuaded he was the sharpest
and most energetic fellow in England ; he took orders
from under the very nose of his relation in ;
he literally paved his morning rounds
with falsehoods ; he could outline even Mr. David
McCullagh, and burrow quicker after information than
Archie. If the trade had then been capable of the
amount of extension that has since been compassed ;
had tinned meats from Australia, fruits from America,
salmon from Newfoundland, milk from Norway, soups
from Heaven knows "where, tongues, rabbits, hares,
pheasants, ox-cheek, fish, flesh, fowl, red herrings,
lobsters, and crabs, formed at that period, as they do
now, an integral part of the ' Scotch' trade, it is

difficult to conjecture to what heights Mr. Alfred
Mostin might not have carried his employers' business;
but such things were at that time only in
their infancy, if actually born. Even Mr. McCullagh,
who was in many things in advance of his age, would
have scoffed the idea to scorn of offering a two-pound
tin of mutton across the counter retail for a shilling,
at which price elegant economists can now regale
themselves upon that article ; the battle of tinned
meat cooked to rags had still to be fought and won ;
in a word, the business first started in Basinghall-street,
and which for so many prosperous years Mr.
McCullaghhad all to himself, was still circumscribed.
It and the millions were not yet en rapport. It
seemed incapable of supporting so many firms, more
especially as in preserves, jellies, sauces, and confectionery
many powerful opponents had arisen in
England.

Hang the trade !' thought Alfred Mostin ; ' there
must be some way of pushing it if one only could
come at it.' As yet he had not been able to ' come
at it,' and the only idea he found himself in a position
to advance for the benefit of his principals was
that if they allowed him to establish a  branch' in
North-street, Finsbury, and supply him with goodly
something might eventually be done in the way of

replenishing an exchequer which had a nasty habit
of running short.

Accordingly the hoard which had once borne the
announcement of the Schlaxenbergen Seidlitz Company
and the Anglo-Irish Lace Association now
informed all whom it might concern that ' McGregor,
Chalmers, & Holderstein' occupied the second floor.
McGregor and Chalmers were supposed to be Glasgow
manufacturers, Holderstein a foreign capitalist.
Mr. Alfred Mostin was known to be manager of this
firm, and to have authority to indorse cheques, draw
and accept bills, do everything, in fact, except, as it
seemed, pay money. For that simple operation he
always required to consult somebody in the background,
who appeared to have an insuperable objection
to parting with even ten shillings. The way
settlements with creditors were staved off was simply
marvellous, and the manner in which they bore the
treatment they received more extraordinary still.

Mr. Mostin, then, was sitting quite alone in his
front office when a gentle tap sounded at the door.

Come in, whoever you are !' roared Mr. Mostin,
who was balancing his person on one leg of the office
stool, and beating time to some wordless tune with
the office ruler.

As the door slowly opened, and a head timidly

appeared looking into the room, Als Mostin brought
his stool down on its four legs at once, and, involuntarily
hitting the desk a tremendous bang with the
ruler, exclaimed,

Effie, by all that's wonderful !'

Ay, it's me,' said Effie meekly.

My dear soul, you do me too much honour,'
observed Mr. Mostin. * Why, in all the time we
have known each other, 3'ou have never come to seeme
before.'

No,' she agreed, glancing nervously around her.

Perhaps you would rather come into the other
room,' suggested Mr. Mostin, who read signs of
feminine distress both in her look and manner.
 Nobody will disturb us there. What's wrong?' he
added, as he ushered her into the apartment where
Mr. Robert McCullagh found his relation frying
bacon on the morning when he first heard Mr. Snow's
name.

0, there's not much wrong,' answered Effie.

He inducted her into the arm-chair, and waited.
He knew Effie of old, and was not aware of the
causes which had conspired to render her less self-contained.
To get anything out of her had ever been
a work of time; and Mr. Mostin having at that
moment abundant leisure decided to let it wait on

lier inclination. She did not try this patience long,
however. Finding he did not ask any further question,
but stood silently contemplating her in his
favourite attitude, she herself broke cover.

I've just been round to your friend Mr. Snow,"
she began.

To beg Hunt on again ?' conjectured Mr. Mostin.

Nothing of the sort ; though Mr. Snow might
do worse nor take him.'

He might,' agreed Als ; and then apparently fell
into a reverie as to the nature of the ' worse' suggested.


It's no use your speaking against him, ye know,'
said Effie viciously, ' because everybody is aware he
can work, and work well.'

I have said nothing against Mr. Hunt,' remarked
the North-street hermit mildly. ' I have no
doubt he can work, and work well, if he chooses.'

And of course he would choose if he had half a
chance.'

For a moment Mr. Mostin looked puzzled, then
he said,

My dear Miss Effie, it will save us both a great
deal of trouble if you tell me the errand which brought
you here. Now what is it  in a sentence ?' added
Als, seeing that his visitor once again hesitated.

'In a sentence, then,' repeated Effie, 'I want to
ask ye not to hinder William making his bread. He
has got a right to make it as well as you.'

I have not hindered him making bread, or
anything else.'

0, yes, ye have,' with a little scornful curl of
her thin lips.

In the name of all that's marvellous, how ?'

By, when he does light on a good chance, going
to his employers and getting them to turn him
adrift.'

Mr. Mostin looked at his visitor in amazement ;
then solemnly raising his eyes to the ceiling, he
said, addressing an invisible audience,

Am I mad, or is this lady ? When have I gone
to this young man's employers since he left Snow ?
When had he any employer, since Snow turned him
out of his office, to turn him adrift '? At what period
did he '' light on"  I quote Miss Effie  a good
chance since he and the dear Snow parted company?'


'It is of no use trying to fool me,' observed
Effie impatiently.

*And, my dear creature, although you have
dropped into three thousand pounds, it is of no use
trying to fool me. Hunt has never had a situation,

or the chance of a situation, since he was (figuratively)
kicked out of Bush-lane. He has had nothing
to do, except for about a month, when he took the
place of a friend who was ill in an estate agent's at
the West-end. Snow won't give him a character,
and the friends he thought he was making, by babbling
about Snow's concerns have thrown him over
too. By this time Mr. Hunt may perhaps have
found that honesty is the best policy,' added Mr.
Mostin, with the virtuous serenity of a man who has
never been guilty of a doubtful action in the whole
course of his life.

'Are ye tellin' me the truth?' asked Effie, for
once surprised out of her self-possession.

Why on earth should I tell you a lie ?' asked
Mr. Mostin. ' Are you fond of the chap still, Effie ?'
he added, with a little softening of voice and manner.
I am very sorry ; for, upon my soul, he is not worth
being fond of.'

'Don't say that,' entreated Effie, with a ring
of trouble in her voice, which was not counterfeited.


Why shouldn't I ?' asked Alfred Mostin. ' To
use your own country expression, he's a "cause
loon," and you and your money are well out of his
clutches.'

*Ay, but we're man and wife said Effie
solemnly.

You are what V cried Als, genuinely amazed.

We're married ;' and Effie fell a-sobbing.

Mr. Mostin took a short turn or two up and
down the room.

'Well he said at last, 'to quote Mr. McCullagh,
'* this dings a'." How came tou to be so left to
yourself, Effie ?'

She didn't know, she told him ; she couldn't
make it rightly off ; she believed he was earning a
mint of money, that he had a good situation, and
was in the receipt of good wages. She did not know
what to do or to think  on the face of the wide earth,
she did not know what to do.

*I never liked ye, Mr. Mostiu,' she said, with
simple candour : * but ye might have had a sister
placed as I am. Advise me as we'd advise
her.'

'Faith, I will,' answered Als Mostin heartily.
To reciprocate your compliment, Effie, I never liked
you  as, indeed. I never liked one of the Basinghall-street
lot ; but if you think my best advice worth
the having, you are more than welcome to all I have
to give. Male the best of it, my dear. The whole
bench of bishops, and all the archbishops into the

bargain, can't inimarry you. I suppose you were
fond of Hunt once,' be broke off abruptly to say.

 0, I liked bim well enough,' answered Effie
irritably.

Then you bad best try and get fond of bim
again. He must bave liked you, Effie  tbougb I
honestly tell you I can't imagine why  or be wouldn't
bave asked you to marry bim when you bad not sixpence,
or told you what lost bim bis place, when a
guinea a week must bave seemed a fortune to bim.
Ab ! Della, Della !' said Mr. Mostin solemnly,
shaking bis bead at limp and colourless Effie, till
the absurdity of the comparison caused bim to break
into a peal of laughter.

Ye're merry, Mr. Ailfred,' said Mrs. Hunt, tears
of anger dimming ber pale-blue eyes.

*That am I not,' be answered. * I suppose you
can't understand a man laughing when be feels as
little merry as ever be did in bis life. It was only
a contrast struck my fancy. However, to return. I
repeat in different words what I said just now. Make
the best of Hunt and your marriage. He's no simpleton.
Tbougb be bas got your money, I think
you may trust bim with it. Don't call bim names,
as is the habit of your charming sex. Don't let
your dearest friend know be took you in. Make

the best of it, Effie ; your secret is safe enough with
me. Only, if I were you, I'd never tell him you
confided in a man he has such admirable reason to
hate as he has your humble servant.'

What have ye done to him ?' asked Effie in
wonder.

Well, my child (I mention this just as a warning,
you know), when, on a certain night. Miss Nicol
put bad blood between a father and son who were
getting to understand each other a little, it seemed
to me necessary to trace the matter to its fountainhead.
Tracking the stream to its source gave me a
lot of trouble  a deuce of a lot, if you will excuse
forcible language. But I did track it to your husband
; and it was I who told Snow of his doings, and
consequently I who got him dismissed from his light
and easy post of spy.'

And it is you, I suppose, who are tracking him
now, and preventing him stopping in any situation ?

'Fair and softly, my dear Effie. I like your
ebullition of temper, as it proves that already you
feel your interests and those of your husband identical
; but it is quite uncalled for, I assure you. I
have my faults ; but to go out of my way to injure
a fellow is not one of them. Your husband, as I
told you before, has never had any situation to stop

VOL. III. L

in since Snow's office, otherwise he might have stayed
in it till Doomsday for me.'

Do ye mean to say that he can't get a situation
?'

 There is nothing impossible. If any previous
employer likes to recommend him, or he is able to
make a quite new start, he may still do well even in
London ; but Snow couldn't give him a character.
Duplicate keys, and blabbing an employer's business,
are offences no business man can condone. Supposing
you found a housemaid out at the same game,
eh, Effie ?'

I wonder if my uncle could find him a place ?'
said Effie, ignoring the parallel Mr. Mostin had
suggested.

*If he could he wouldn't, I am very certain.'

Why not ?'

Because I told him who it was had informed
you, and consequently Miss Xicol, about the sum of
money Robert paid to be admitted into Pousnetts'.'

Well, it was true, at any rate,' hissed out Effie.
Quite true, Mrs. Hunt ; but when you have

lived as long as I  in fact, when you have lived
another year or two  you will understand that upon
the face of this earth there is, as a rule, nothing so
objectionable as truth in the way people tell it. I

have always noticed that truth, like a curse, comes
home to roost. If I were you I would quite give up
the practice of speaking it.'

Provoked beyond endurance, Effie rose and folded
her shawl around her.

Good-bye,' she remarked. 'Nobody can say ye
preach what ye don't practise.'

Good-bye, Effie,' he answered briskly; 'if you
had followed my practice, you would not have stood
in need of a sermon from me to-day.'

"What has been the text, please ?' she asked
scornfully.

'It was divided into many heads,' he answered;
but if you remember one, it will prove sufficient for
the purpose : '' Love your husband." '

When she was gone  in the excess of his politeness
he escorted her down the dark staircase, and
saw her safely out of the door  Mr. Alfred Mostin
returned to his stool, and wondered how a good
many things would end. The extraordinary part of
the business was, that he never wondered how he
would end ; his own probable future did not trouble
him in the least. To this present hour he is quite
undecided whether he may not eventually drop into
a fortune, or finish his days in the workhouse. The
prescience of some persons as regards their fellows is

scarcely less remarkable than their total blindness
concerning themselves.

No gift of prophecy, no power of calculating
chances, could possibly have foreseen those changes
in the McCullagh household which, by the middle of
the year 1858, left Mr. McCullagh more lonely than
he was before his marriage. In the ordinary sense
of the word he had never known a happy home ; but,
at least, he could not consider it desolate till novv,
when he found he must face domestic existence with
one old woman in the kitchen to provide such sunshine
as was possible over an at best dreary house.

No, no, no, no,' said plain auld Kab to Mrs.
Koy ; * no more of your lady housekeepers, thank ye,
for me. We'll just have something homely if there
is such an article left in the world ; a woman likely
to be thankful for an easy master and a quiet place.'

Wouldn't it be cosy and couthie, James,' said
Mrs. Roy to her husband, ' if he would take you into
partnership and let us all live together ? I could
manage that he'd be comfortable, and not at the
mercy of servants.'

It seemed a pleasant speculation, but Mr. Roy
shook his head. ' There's nothing further from his
mind than anything of the sort,' he observed ; and
Mr. Roy was right.

There are persons who can do that sort of thing
make mutual homes, take others under then* roof,
become members of a common family  but Mr.
McCullagh was differently constituted. Though no
one more enjoyed a ' sociable evening,' yet he liked
to ' keep a good oak door' between himself and the
outer world. There were those he could have ' taken
up wi;' but 'as they did not seem for him,' all he
could do was turn his attention to business with a
keener interest than ever.

Yet even on that dear accustomed ground Mr.
McCullagh found things were not 'just as they had
been.' True he was holding his own  that is to say
his sales were little less than they had always been 
but as a set-off his expenses were far heavier. And,
further, how could a man who had been used to
sleep beside his trade' reconcile himself to the
division between home and counting-house which he
had rashly caused ? The business once was company
to him, and now he had to walk down to
Crutched Friars to enjoy the society formerly but
across the hall. He could not satisfy himself either
the change was good for Mr. Eoy. As manager in
the absence of the principal he began to ' take on
him a bit,' and Mr. McCullagh was forced sometimes
to ' say a word ;' and then Mr. Eoy seemed vexed.

and remarked what he did was done for the best.
David moreover delighted in telling his father of
'orders that had been lost' in Crutched Friars
through no responsible person being in the way ;
and though Mr. McCullagh knew where Mr. Eoy
had been on such occasions, and felt pretty well satisfied
no order worth having had ever been lost, still
such warnings annoyed him greatly ; and besides, he
knew the arrangement was one which 'left it in the
power of people' to say he was not 'done by properly,'
a reflection which vexed him greatly, as he had
believed, and rightly, the service rendered for his
fair wage was honest and true.

The more Mr. McCullagh saw of the working of
that warehouse, which he had opened ' for spite,' ashe
confessed to his own soul with remorse and bitterness,
the less he believed in the prudence of the step.
He said nothing on the subject, however, to any one,
but took such measures as were calculated to bring
back the bulk of the trade to Basinghall-street,
dating all letters from that address, remaining there
himself almost constantly, and ignoring so far as
practicable the premises in Crutched Friars.

Then he bided his time till he could get rid of
those premises, and at a profit, to some firm in quite
another line of trade. When that last feat was successfully

accomplished, he put a dozen advertisements
in the second column of the Times, and sent
out circulars intimating that on and after a certain
date the old-established and tcell-knoicn business of
Robert McCuUagh would be carried on solely from
Basinghall-street, where friends and customers were
requested to call and orders should be addressed.

'He's mad  clean mad,' observed Mr. David
McCuUagh, when his eye caught the advertisement ;
and he went straight off to Crutched Friars, thinking""
to secure the vacated premises. When he arrived he
found a score of men at work  painting, hammering,
whitewashing, knocking down partitions, and carrying
in planks. All over the front were stretched
great posters announcing that on the 1st of the next
month, No.  Crutched Friars would be opened by
Messrs. Ephraim & Aaron, clothiers and outsiders,
as an East-end branch of their great emporium in
Lowborn.

Returning by way of Basinghall-street, and 'looking
in as he passed,' David beheld his father in the
old familiar corner ; Mr. Roy seated at his former
desk, as if he had never left it for a day ; Alick appearing
from the cellars, whither he had been despatched
to ascertain the amount of biscuit available
that afternoon for a ' bi]: order ;' and the warehouse

SO crowded with customers, Mr. McCullagli could
only give him a nod, while speech of Mr. Koy
except on business was not to be had.

For a person who was *mad' Mr. McCullagh had
laid his plans with singular discretion. Even the
second-born was fain to say to his brother that after
all the ' old man ' knew what he was about. ' He
wouldn't let us have a ghost of a chance, ye see.'

So far, then, Mr. McCullagh had no great cause
for complaining of fortune. He was adding to that
store laid by for those who should come after him.
His investments were, as usual paying good interest ;
he had a sufficiency of pecuniary ventures on hand
to interest and occupy him. The woman who looked
after his household gave little cause for complaint.
If she was somewhat lavish in the use of coals, she
cost him little or nothing for house-flannel, and
other oilman's goods. She cooked his rasher of
bacon in the morning, and his chop or steak for
dinner. At the proper hour she had the water
boiling for toddy ; and if a friend ' dropped in ' she
would run out and get half a pound of salt beef,
or a crab, or a lobster if cheap, and set forth the
table with such delicacies in addition, as bread,
cheese, oatcake, and a jug of ale from the nearest
public.

For a long time past beer had not been taken
in the four and a half gallon measure the establishment
once regaled itself upon. There was no one to
consume so large a quantity. The housekeeper was
allowed her shilling a week, and could buy ale if she
liked, or let it alone; while as for the master, he
preferred a ' grapple ' of whisky-and-water cold with
his dinner. To live after such a fashion it scarcely
seemed worth while to have toiled and pinched and
saved and added pound to pound ; but chain a son
gout, and upon the whole there can be little doubt
that as money is power, Mr. McCullagh's system
was not a bad one.

One thing, at all events, is certain : had he lived
differently he could never have been so rich a man.
Company is not merely costly in a pecuniary point,
but of necessity it is wasteful as regards time. It is
not often the man that makes who can afford to
spend. As a rule one generation gathers and the
next scatters ; the spendthrift succeeds the miser ;
those who have worked are followed by those who
play.

If there were one thing Mr. McCullagh found it
harder to bear than another it was a fondness for
society, which seemed more and more to develop in
his sons. They appeared to find no difficulty in

combining business and pleasure. When Kenneth
and his wife came to London  and they came often
they were always * on the gad,' while David and
Archie looked upon the theatre as the natural place
in which to spend their evening hours of freedom.
From the Mostin blood he felt no doubt this evil
proceeded; and yet the Bread-street-hill McCullaghs,
who were no kin to that objectionable family, were
wonderful people for parties and concerts, and all
the rest of those entertainments invented for luring
honest traders to perdition. To be sure, however,
their mother was a fly-away madam, who had not
worn her widow's weeds two years before she married
some ' sprig of gentility.'

Ay, it's from the women they get it,' thought
poor McCullagh ; the same as Robert's children will
learn all manner of evil from their mother.'

That was the bitterest drop in his cup. Robert
whom he had bid leave his house; who was the
softest ' of all his children, and yet had done far
the best ; who was keeping company with grandees,
and greatly thought of in the City ; who had two
pretty children, a boy and a girl; who could afford
to hold out the olive-branch to his father and have
it flung back in his face ; who was so rich he
wanted nothing from him ; whose wife had not gone

mad, but who instead made friends * with folks who
kept carriages and drove her about with them, and
set her up more than ever, as though from the first
she had not been enough of the fine lady.'

This was extremely ungrateful and ungracious
on the part of Mr. McCullagh, for Janeyy's soul, while
driving in her friend's carriage, yearned after her
father-in-law trudging along on foot. She had seen
him one day when she was seated opposite Courts's,
and impulsively and involuntarily she uttered a little
pleased ' !' and stretched out her hand to greet
him. All in vain ; Mr. McCullagh shot swiftly past,
eluding the touch of that pale-gray glove.

There was another time, too, when he met her
in Guildford street with her little girl. It was the
height of summer, and while ' wee Annie ' was
dressed all in white, the mother wore a lilac muslin
(muslin was in fashion then), and a ' gauzy sort
of bonnet with, flowers that looked like real, and a
beautiful lace shawl ; and she carried a parasol with
fringe a foot deep.'

Mr. McCullagh stepping smartly along the pavement
presented a somewhat unfashionable figure,
in an old brown coat, a black and yellow straw hat,
a green barred neck-tie, stout shoes, white stockings,
and gray trousers. He was the more easily

recognised, however, and Janeyy stopped and accosted
him.

Do speak to me, Mr. McCullagh,' she entreated;
but her entreaty was in vain. He looked her straight
in the face, as indeed it was impossible, as she stood,
for him to help doing, and cut her dead.

Annie's mother drew the child a little closer to
her side, and went on her way with a sad heart.

Mr. McCullagh, eschewing the main thoroughfares,
walked back to the City, seeing nothing but
the ' glint' of a lilac dress, hearing nothing save a
woman's voice pleading, 'Do speak to me.' 'It was
out of the question,' he decided, the way his son's
wife refused to believe he wanted nothing to do with
her, nothing at all. ' Why can't she content herself
with her grand friends ? Why must she pester mein
the street, and make me look like a fool to the
folks going by ?'

Hurrying, hurrying on along Warner and Ayant
Turnmill and Cowcross streets with rapid feet
that were acquainted with every devious inch of the
City portion of the metropolis, Mr. McCullagh made
his way across Smithfield, and was entering Long-lane,
when some one calling out, ' Whither away, so
fast ?' he looked round, and saw he had passed Mr.
Pousnett without recognition.

I thought you meant to cut me,' remarked that
gentleman, with the genial smile of one who feels he
has suggested an impossible pleasantry.

Mr. McCullagh winced. If he did not intend to
cut Mr. Pousnett, he knew on whom he had performed
a similar operation. 'I was deep in thought,'
he said, excusing himself, ' and I never expected to
meet you in Long-lane.'

Why not ?' asked Mr. Pousnett.

It's out of your beat entirely.'

No place is out of my beat,' answered the great
man affably, 'where money is to be made.'

*I believe ye,' replied Mr. McCullagh, quickly
responding to a sentiment so entirely his own ; ' I
do, indeed.'

'And indeed you may,' said Mr. Pousnett, with
the simplicity of truth.

Lovely weather, isn't it ?' said Mr. Pousnett,
after they had talked for a couple of minutes according
to the fashion wherewith City men entertain each
other  exchanged a word about politics, and made a
few original observations concerning the state of the
money-market. ' I am going to run down this afternoon
to Norman's Bay to get a whiff of sea air. You
ought to come with me, Mr. McCullagh ; it would
do you all the good in the world.'

'I don't mind if I do,' was Mr. McCullagh's
unexpected answer.

Nothing was farther from Mr. Pousnett's mind
and wishes than the thought that his invitation
would be accepted ; but no one, not even the wife of
his bosom, could have told, from his countenance,
the surprise, not to say dismay, with which Mr.
McCullagh's reply filled him.

'That's right,' he exclaimed, in the heartiest
manner possible. ' It's the very day for a dash out
of town. Will you meet me at Waterloo a little
before four ? Or stay, better still, I will call round
for you, and we can drive over together.'

In for a penny, in for a pound !* No human
being understood better than Mr. Pousnett the policy,
if he thought well to be cordial at all, of being cordial
exceedingly.

'I wonder what there's about me,' considered
Mr. McCullagh modestly, the while he wended his
way homeward, ' that makes everybody so fain for
my company? Beside a man Hke Pousnett, now,
I'm not so much to look at, and I've never laid myself
out to have high ways or grand talk, or tried to
be seductive in my manners. I am, as I've always
said I was, just plain auld Eab, with a something of
sense in my head, and a pound or two laid by, and

no flattering on my tongue or falsehood in my heart ;
and yet only to consider how I am run after ! To
make no mention of old friends, who are aye wanting
to know when I'll come round and take a bite of
dinner and have a glass of toddy  familiars as I ca'
them  strangers, as one may say, seem greedy for
my society. There's Mr. Pousnett, he could do no
more for his brother than go about with him, travelling
backwards and forwards. And then there's
Janeyyyy  a weary Janeyyyy she is, too  can't content
herself without me, though she has all the pomps
and vanities of this world about her. Look, too, at
Kenneth's wife, a daft sort o' body no doubt; but
still she makes more of her father-in-law than of her
own father. There's Snow, also, always dropping
in and out, and " What's your opinion, Mr. McCul-
laugh ? I was passing, and couldn't resist coming into
have a word with you ;" and his friend Alty is
keener still for knowing me. And Janet would have
liked well if I'd made her Mistress McCullagh No. 2;
and it seems to me if I'd time I might go on with
the list till tomorrow,' finished Mr. McCullagh,
prudently ending his self-gratulations, when he found
the tale of those who delighted in his conversation
drawing to a conclusion.

He had but leisure to write a few letters, and

give various instructions to the faithful Eoy  who
told every one that afternoon the information did and
did not concern, ' Mr. McCullagh was gone down to
the shore with Mr. Pousnett'  to pack a few necessary
articles, and exchange his  everyday clothes for
his Sunday garments,' when Mr. Pousnett came down
the court, and, entering the counting-house, cried
out cheerily,

'I hope you are ready, Mr. McCullagh, for we
have no time to lose.'

*Not a visage' amongst those true and leal sons
of Scotia changed or moved at sight of the great man
who stood on the threshold, and yet, as Mr. McCul-
laugh, with a faint streak of colour in his sallow
cheeks, skipped nimbly down from his office-stool,
dressed in his Sabbath-day clothes, he was conscious
of a thrill of exultation which ran through the breasts

o

of his retainers.

The journey proved delightful. A lovely afternoon,
a beautiful country, an express train, a most
conversable' companion; what could a man like Mr.
McCullagh desire more ? Time sped as fast as the
engine, the talk changed and varied as much as the
aspect of the landscape. Hitherto Mr. McCullagh's
longer travels had been performed third class parliamentary,
as third class was then, or else on board a

steamboat slowly crawling up the east coast. Now
he sat in a cushioned compartment of a mad express,
that never drew rein till it got to Guildford, where it
only' stopped for a minute ere tearing off again through
the tunnel and out again into the wild country lying
beyond, as if a thousand demons were spurring
along the metals in pursuit.

They had to leave the main line at last, and avail
themselves of a branch which landed passengers
within about a mile of Norman's Bay; but when
they arrived at their destination the sun still wanted
two hours of setting, and the sea lay before them
smooth and unruffled, reflecting a thousand exquisite
tints from the summer sky, while white-winged vessels
made their way slowly down the Channel, seeming
to be carrying English sunshine away with them on
their sails as they receded from the familiar shore.

Eh, but it's beautiful,' cried Mr. McCuUagh,
who brought the keenest zest to the scene stretching
before him. ' It's years since I beheld anything to
compare to this. Why, it's worth the whole journey
if a man went back by the next train.'

Mr. Pousnett was not  so he explained to his
companion as they travelled down  stopping at Norman
Castle, which he had temporarily delivered over
to that autocrat, the British workman.

VOL. III. M

'lam having some decent rooms built,' he added,
and the place made a little habitable. We will go
over tomorrow and see how things are getting on ;
but for to-night, after we have had dinner, I vote we
moon on the beach. You cannot imagine how I love
walking up and down on the sea-shore.'

Mr. McCullagh, however, intimated that he
thought he could, adding it was an exercise to which
he himself had a particular partiality.

They dined, and then they sauntered out together,
sitting for a long time upon some large
stones that lay bedded in the shingle.

Afterwards Mr. McCullagh declared he did not
mind confessing ' the grasp o' mind of that man was
something fearsome'  it minded him of one who is
just * no canny.'

There is not a question,' said Mr. McCullagh,
warming to his subject, ' Pousnett has not studied.
You won't catch him tripping, I'll warrant. If he
had spent the whole of his life shut close up in a
study reading, instead of conducting a big business
in the City, he could not be better acquainted with
every subject on which ye like to touch. The mass
of general information he has at his fingers' ends is
inconceivable. Whatever he's talking about ye

might think had been his one occupation in existence.'


Seated beside the sea, which came rippling in
with a sweet sad murmur, looking at the sun setting
in a pomp of golden and purple glory, lingering in
the tender summer twilight, and watching a still
young moon struggling through a bank of clouds,
and at last gazing wistfully down at the calm fair
scene revealed by her light, Mr. Pousnett, leaving
those general topics, concerning which he really knew
very little, though able to converse upon them so
well, dropped into graver talk, and discoursed concerning
the vanity of all worldly possessions and
worldly triumphs in a manner which astounded Mr.
McCullagh beyond measure.

Perhaps the man was really tired  he said he
was ; perhaps the hour, the place, the sound of the
sea's mournful unrest as the waves fretted nearer
and nearer to where they sat, the solemnity of night
in that lonely bay, the mighty expanse of water darkling
beyond, affected with a terrible melancholy the
heart which for years had thought of nothing, cared
for nothing, save temporal success  money he should
one day be forced to leave behind him, friends by
whom he would be forgotten ere his body was laid in
the ground.

Whatever the cause, one thing is certain. Solomon
himself, when he was in his lowest spirits, and
when remorse for all his foolish wickedness lay heavy
on his conscience, could have said no more concerning
vanity than did the man who was now managing
director of the great business in which he had as
senior partner achieved such success.

Either Mr. McCullagh's state of mind and body
may have been more healthy, or he had not yet arrived
at that period when even the most fortunate
man occasionally begins to ask himself, ' Why have I
thus slaved and laboured ?' ' To what end did I rise
up early and so late take rest ?' but Mr. Pousnett's
dissertation failed to awaken any answering echo in
his breast. It only filled him with a strange wonder
and a vague discontent. It was so unlike anything
he ever expected to hear ' come out of Pousnett's
mouth.'

I am afraid ye don't feel yourself very well,' he
said after some time, when the damp sea air, in addition
to Mr. Pousnett's depreciation of money, ' even
honestly come by,' began to strike a chill to his
bones.

I have not been very well lately,* answered Mr.
Pousnett.

'Do ye think it's wise of ye to be sitting on a
cold stone by the water?' asked Mr. McCullagh.

Well, perhaps it is not very wise,' answered Mr.
Pousnett. * Shall we go further, or return to the
hotel ?'

Fond of Nature as he might be, Mr. McCullagh
thought upon the whole a comfortable chair and a
roof over his head and gaslights and a glass of toddy
would be preferable to the shingle and the lap-lap-lap
of the sea. Accordingly he intimated his belief that
for townsfolk, who were 'not used to the salt-water,'
it was ' not prudent to stay out of doors too long at
a time.'

'Ye ought to take more care of yourself, Mr.
Pousnett,' he added, noticing that gentleman shiver
as they walked homeward along the beach.

'I do take as much care of myself as I can,' answered
Mr. Pousnett ; and it seemed to his guest,
when he remarked shortly after they reached the inn
that he thought if Mr. McCullagh would excuse him
he should like to go up to his room, he was only
following good advice.

Never mind me,' observed the Scotchman, feeling
that even without Mr. Pousnett enough remained
to enable him to pass an hour or two very comfortably.
' I'll do well, I warrant ye. It's yourself, Mr.

Pousnett, I'm thinking of,' he said; 'do not try to
burn the candle at both ends.'

'Capital counsel returned Mr. Pousnett; 'I
only wish I could follow it.'

Hoots, man !' cried Mr. McCullagh, with homely
friendliness, ' what's money wanting health ?'

What's health wanting money ?' amended Mr.
Pousnett, laughing.

Next morning, in answer to his guest's anxious
inquiries as to how he found himself, Mr. Pousnett
relieved Mr. McCullagh's mind by stating he felt
very much better.

'I always do,' he added, 'when I can leave the
office even for a short time.'

Then why don't ye take a good spell right
away *?' asked Mr. McCullagh.

'Because,' replied Mr. Pousnett, 'I have a
notion, which may be very foolish, that the office
can't do without me.'

But there's your son, ye know,' suggested Mr.
McCullagh.

And there is yours,' added Mr. Pousnett ; ' and
there are all the directors, and the manager and
bookkeeper and clerks and messengers, and yet  I
mention this to show the ridiculous fancies a man

may take  I have a notion I am of more use than
the whole of them put together.'

I make no doubt but ye are,' agreed Mr.
McCullagh, who held precisely the same opinion
about himself.

And that's why I don't go away. If I went I
should only be wondering how everything was getting
on. It was bad enough in the old days, when,
after a fashion, I had no one to please or consider
save myself; but it is far worse now. The interests
of all the shareholders seem hanging upon me. Do
you know there are times when even with our splendidly
prosperous business I feel the strain more than
I can bear.'

It did not occur to Mr. McCullagh as strange that
the man who found one business too much for him
should be thinking of embarking in another. Mr.
Pousnett's temperament struck him as one of those
which find it impossible to remain still. Forming a
company for the due development of Norman's Bay
appeared the most natural thing in the world for
him to take to in that glorious summer-time which
was upon them. Just then, as he explained, while
they were wending their way to Norman Castle, he
had a great chance. He could get the new company
favourably mentioned in the Times. The man who

did the money article had by accident been stranded
at Norman's Bay, and was so delighted with the
place, with the scenery, with the sands, with the
bathing, with the roads, with the old castle and the
older church, that he asked, ' Why will people go to
Brighton ? why don't they come here ? why has nobody
discovered Norman's Bay and converted it into
a health resort ?' When told Mr. Pousnett, the great
Mr. Pousnett of Pousnett & Co. (Limited), intended
to ' make' Norman's Bay, he expressed himself delighted,
and said he himself would take the very first
new house which was built if it fronted the sea and
were within his limit.'

So,' finished Mr. Pousnett, ' what I intend todo
is knock up a company as soon as possible. I
shall only reserve about fifty acres for myself, just
enough to keep the house private, and give that end
of the esplanade a "tone." Lord Cresham has
bought ten acres from me (and given a fancy price
for his purchase too,' added Mr. Pousnett in parenthesis
; * so, one way or another, I think the thing
is sure to go. I expect the surveyor and lawyer over
to-day from the Isle of Wight, where they both
chance to be stopping. I am so glad 3'ou are down
here, because you will be able to hear their opinion.'

Mr. McCullagh felt very much obliged, but he

could not stop to meet the gentlemen referred to.
He must be getting back to town after they bad
been over Norman Castle.

That's nonsense,' answered Mr. Pousnett ;
now I have got you I shall keep you. Send a telegraph
message to Basinghall-street that they need
not expect you to-day ;' which suggestion, meeting
all the requirements of the case, was in due time
acted upon.

Having, during the course of the previous evening,
disburdened his mind concerning the importance
of matters relating to the next world, Mr. Pousnett
ere long took occasion to declare his sentiments regarding
this. He did not shirk the matrimonial
question in the least. He talked of his eldest
daughter, now Viscountess Cresham, of Captain
Crawford, of his second daughter and Mr. Stoddard,
to whom she was married, of Miss Vanderton's
curate who had taken her off to Herefordshire.

In each case he maintained he bad secured the
happiness of the parties interested. He spoke most
sensibly and with thorough conviction. He was
almost confidential in his utterances. He mentioned
his daughter's weaknesses and his son's faults;
told what trouble he had gone through himself,
and, indeed, sent Mr. McCullagb home on the following

day with quite a different opinion of the
senior partner from any he had ever previously entertained.


He's just killing himself with work,' said Mr.
McCullagh to Mr. Snow. The worthy pair had met
in King William-street, and in answer to a remark
that he looked as if he had been in the country, the
Scotchman observed, in a careless sort of way, he
had only been down with Mr. Pousnett to that place
of his on the coast.

Norman's Bay !' exclaimed Mr. Snow. ' There
is going to be a company formed to make it a second
Brighton, isn't there ? Do come into my office ; I
want to know all about it. A friend of mine I know
will take shares. Everything Pousnett touches is
lucky.'

By no means loth to meet with an appreciative
listener, Mr. McCullagh acceded to this request, and
unburdened himself amongst other items of news of
the fact he believed if Pousnett went on at the rate
he was doing he wouldn't last many years.

And that would be a pity ; for we have not
many such men, and we can't spare one of them,'
observed Mr. Snow sympathetically.

We'll have to spare one if he does not take some
rest soon,' answered Mr. McCullagh, mentally revert-into

Mr. Pousnett's opinions concerning the worthlessness
of earthly success.

Let us hope he will be warned in time,' said
Mr. Snow.

After a little while Mr. McCullagh departed ; and
then Mr. Snow took up a sheet of paper and wrote
these words to Mr. Alty :

The first forenoon you are passing, please give
me a call.'

Next morning Mr. Alty obeyed this summons.

Anything very good for me ?' he asked, putting
his ascetic face inside the door.

Important, at any rate,' returned Mr. Snow.
Don't stand there. Come in. I sent for you,' he
went on, 'to tell you to get ofi" the direction of
Pousnetts'. He's beginning to complain of his
health, and it does not require a conjurer to know
what that means.'

But why should I get off the direction ?' asked
Mr. Alty plaintively.

0, that is just as you please, of course. Only
never say hereafter I did not give you a hint intime.'


MR. M'CULLAGH triumphant.

Still over the waves of success bounded that gallant
bark, Pousnett & Co. (Limited) ; and if it were
possible for a greater success to have been compassed
than was achieved by the senior partner, when he
generously allowed the general public to participate
in the profits of his business, it was when he consented
to dispose of the barren tract of waste land
adjoining Norman Tower, and was good enough to
sell his interest in it for fifty thousand pounds in
solid cash, and five hundred paid-up shares, value ten
pounds each. Previously having manipulated sales of
portions of the property to a considerable extent,
Mr. Snow calculated he could not have netted less
than a hundred and thirty thousand pounds on the
transaction, to say nothing of Norman Castle,
where he meant for the future, when not in London,
to reside.

His house on the Thames was already let for a
hydropathic establishment, and the land surrounding

it, except a portion of the grounds and gardens, cut
up into plots for the erection of villa residences. Sofar
as worldly success can make a man happy, Mr.
Pousnett ought to have been esteemed fortunate ;
but there is always a fox gnawing somewhere. The
senior partner's fox being the state of his health,
he did not conceal the fact so sedulously as might
have been the case otherwise  if, for example, his
purse instead of himself had been sick. Ere long,
therefore, Mr. Pousnett's ' good friends' in the City
knew the ' strain had been too much for him ;' and
with wonderful unanimity they all began to regret
he could not be induced to consider himself in time.

When pressed by anxious inquirers, who buttonholed
him to get an explicit answer, Mr. Pousnett
confessed with a laugh that all the doctors his ' better-half
insisted on his consulting' were agreed he had
overworked himself, and declared nothing but complete
rest could do him any good. ' So I must remain
bad,' finished Mr. Pousnett; ' for if those wise
men know how I am to get away, I am sure I do not.'

In spite of this assertion, however, he fell into
the habit of running out of town often on Saturdays,
and not returning till Tuesday in the following week ;
then he tried the effect of a short tour on the Continent;
then he went with Sir Somebody Somebody

for a trip in his yacht, which did more for his health
than anything he had yet tried ; then in the year '59,
he suddenly experienced a relapse ; and, at the beginning
of 1860, just after the tremendous frost
which ushered in that January, it was formally
announced Mr. Pousnett felt himself ' unable longer
to hold the responsible post, the duties of which he
had hitherto fulfilled, and which, for the future,
would be discharged by Mr. Robert McCullagh,
whose thorough knowledge of the business,' &c.

Great sympathy was expressed for Mr. Pousnett,
great confidence declared in Mr. Robert McCullagh ;
the votes of condolence, the votes of thanks, the
votes of regret because Mr. Pousnett was leaving the
board, the votes of pleasure because Robert McCullagh
was coming more prominently forward, were all duly
proposed, seconded, passed, and recorded in the
newspapers. A large dividend was declared, a satisfactory
statement of affairs published ; the auditors
vouched they had examined the accounts, and found
them correct. So much was placed to the reserve
fund, so much allotted to the shareholders. Everyone
was pleased  unless, indeed, it might be Mr.
Pousnett, who uttered his thanks for the kindly
feeling manifested in a few broken, but well-chosen,
words ; and who, after the meeting, walked away

with Lord Gresham, looking very sad and downcast,
but yet a mere boy in comparison with his son-in-law.

Thus exit Mr. Pousnett, en route to the Continent.
He was going to the south of France for his health.
Long before this incident, however, Mr. Alty had
retired from the direction also. Like his great prototype,
he did not do so till all his affairs were set in
order, his shares sold, everything which it seemed
necessary to do finished.

It was as well ; for all unconsciously Mr. Alty's
departure from the board-room of Pousnett (Limited)
meant the commencement of a longer journey than
that contemplated by Mr. Pousnett.

He was taken ill very suddenly and seriously ;
and before Mr. Snow, who had been sent for in hot
haste, could arrive, the work begun by Time was
finished by Death, and the only thing which remained
in the old dingy house with the shabby furniture at
Bow of the man who had been master of it was a
quiet silent figure covered with a white sheet, that
would never trouble itself any more about the state
of the money market, or the defalcations of tenants,
or the shortcomings of borrowers, or find delight in
pheasants and good wines, and the freshest of fresh
country butter, and the plumpest turkey that ever
graced a Christmas dinner.

Mr. Snow followed him to his last home in that
sorrowful cemetery at Ilford, which produces so weird
an effect on the mind when one comes upon it suddenly
and unexpectedly from the breeze-laden Flats
of Wan stead.

It was impossible to lay him with his father at
Limehouse ; and years before he had, with his usual
foresight and prudence, invested in a vault at Ilford,
where a brother and sister, buried at their own
proper and individual expense, were affectionately
awaiting his arrival.

Both as he went and returned Mr. Snow wondered
whether Mr. Alty had left him anything, and if so,
how much. Such thoughts will intrude even on
mournful occasions ; and the drive to and from
Ilford, through Stratford and along the Komford-
road, is of a description to require something pleasant
to enliven it.

The matter was soon set at rest. With commendable
promptitude the will was produced and
read. Some nephews and nieces and cousins, and
persons who called themselves old friends, were present
; but they might as well have stayed away, for
Jacob Alty, who during his lifetime had never given
one farthing he could help to the widow or the orphan,
who hated the poor and made no secret of his

antipathy, left everything of which he died possessed
except the house at Bow and two hundred a year
for the use of his sister, and fifty pounds apiece to
his executors  to found and endow a Charity to be
called 'The Jacob Alty Almshouses;' to fit up and
maintain a ward in the London Hospital, he directed
should be named ' The Jacob Alty Ward ;' to furnishing
an annual Christmas dinner, to be designated
The Jacob Alty Christmas Dinner,' for fifty poor
persons, not under sixty years of age, residents in
the parish of Limehouse, and fifty not under sixty
from the parish of Bow ; and a legacy of a hundred
pounds each to ten religious and medical societies,
the names of which it would be as tedious for anyone
not a lawyer, and paid for his time, to read, as
it certainly would prove to write.

Well, Mr. Snow,' said Miss Alty, in commentary,
when they were left alone.

Well, Miss Alty,' answered Mr. Snow.

Of course I can live on two hundred a year.'

I am greatly afraid you will have to try.'
I can't imagine why he left you nothing.'

I certainly thought he would have remembered
me, more especially as I helped him to make large
sums of money.'

VOL. III. N

You think it would be of no use disputing the
will ?'

Not the slightest.'

And you see it is only for my life.'

Yes, or else we might have made your income
much larger.'

0, I have some money saved,' confessed Miss
Alty.

Much ?'

Not much, but enough, I think, to make more
of. Will you come one day and talk it over ?'

Certainly.'

Only to think of those old men and women !'

Well, it was his own, and he had a right to do
what he liked with it.'

But I can't get the thought of you out of my
mind.'

0, never mind me. Miss Alty; if I helped your
brother to make money, his money helped me to
my present position.'

It is very good and nice of you to say so.'

It is the truth,' answered Mr. Snow.

Well, at any rate,' said one of the nephews, who
insisted on fastening himself to Mr. Snow, as that
gentleman walked back to London, 'you have got
fifty pounds, and that is more than any one of us has.'

Yes, your uncle left me fifty,' agreed Mr. Snow,
feeling the admission bound him to nothing.

And as you are executor there will surely be a
lot of pickings.'

Mr. Snow shrugged his shoulders in dissent ; but
at the time he was thinking, if there were not, he
would know the reason why.

If Mr. Alty thought his will would produce a
public sensation he was disappointed. The time has
completely gone by when, save in the columns of
a local paper, almshouses, Christmas dinners, and
suchlike are regarded with the smallest interest.

His kindred anathematised his memory ; after a
very short time the old men and women came to
consider the almshouses and the December feast as
their due ; the patients in the London Hospital
thought no more of Jacob Alty than of anybody
else. Miss Alty congratulated her foresight in
having saved all she could while her brother lived ;
and Mr. Snow and his colleague joined together to
make as much as possible out of the * pickings.'

For a time after the retirement of the senior
partner, as many people continued to call Mr. Pous-
nett, it was remarked by several persons  Mr. Alty's
executor amongst the number  that Robert McCuI-
laugh was a changed man. It seemed as though the

weight of some incubus had been removed ; as though
for the first time since he called himself one of the
firm he felt he was really a capable and responsible
individual.

The governor weighed us all down,' said Stanley
Pousnett, in friendly explanation. ' He is so clever
himself he believes everybody else is a fool, and
shows his belief, which sometimes proves trying.
He said he would soon come back to give us the
benefit of his advice ; but he has not done so yet 
and, you see, we are still managing to push along.'

Once again in those days Robert tried to reestablish
friendly relations with his father, and once again
he was repulsed. Mr. McCuUagh, plodding on in
his own old way, would have none of him.

Never more,' said Robert to his wife, * will I
hold out the right hand of fellowship ; never. Any
advance in the future must come from him.'

Don't say that,' entreated his wife ; ' you cannot
tell what may happen.'

I can tell that I do not mean to put myself in
the way of being rudely rebuffed.'

'But yet he is your father, Robert.'

Yes, and I am his son, Janeyy;' which answer
silenced Janeyy, who had never told her husband that
twice, having essayed to speak to him and so close

the breach, Mr, McCullagh elected to pass her by ashe
might a stranger.

As years passed on, however, people began again
to make remarks in connection with Pousnetts': one,
that Robert McCullagh was growing stout, as is curiously
and unhappily the fashion of City men ; and
another, that he and Mr. Stanley Pousnett were
getting to look as if the ' strain ' of so great a business
were even worse for them than it had proved
for Mr. Pousuett.

With Mr. Stanley this was particularly noticeable.
He was living now in the Portman-square
house with his wife, the beautiful heiress who had
excited such admiration on the occasion of that memorable
party on New Year's night. He was constantly
complaining of his head ; and once when
recommended by a friend to follow his father's example,
and retire from business altogether, he said
in a tone which removed from his expression all suspicion
of irreverence,

a wish to God I could!'

Wisely the world began to whisper, * Such gigantic
concerns were too much for any one ;' that, * after
all, capital did not mean everything;' that * no organisation
could prevent the work being tremendous
for the principals.'

In confidence, Mr. Stanley Pousnett said to this
wife, ' I'd rather carry a hod ;' while Robert remarked
gloomily to Janeyy, * I wish I were a day labourer.'

When the same persons who had spoken to Mr.
McCullagh concerning his son's improved looks and
spirits commented upon the worn expression of
Robert's face, the man who had made his money
by such different means merely observed,

Folk who must needs be grand have to pay
for it.'

Robert's house in Brunswick-square, his wife's
pretty dress, the apparel of his children, his ' carriage
friends,' his servants, the flowers in the balcony,
the long white curtains that shaded his windows,
were all so many sins in the mind of a father
who refused to speak to the prodigal, whose worst
fault, perhaps, was that he reminded him of his dead
wife.

He truly believed Robert inherited all his mother's
faults ; whereas the young man had only
taken the most amiable traits from both parents,
conjoined, indeed, with a fatal weakness of character
which even Janeyy understood.

My poor darling !' she thought  for Robert
could be a hero to her nevermore for ever  ' my
poor, poor dear I'

0, how she loved him ! Never perhaps before
did any woman who so thoroughly comprehended
the feebleness of a husband's nature love one so
utterly.

And the love was mutual. Never did man so
idolise a wife as Robert did Janeyy.

The years slipped by. When there is little to
mark the passage of Time, it is marvellous to consider
how noiseless and stealthy are its swift sure
footsteps. With most persons trade was very good
indeed : a time of plenty had come to England (alas,
that no Joseph then lifted his voice to warn his
countrymen of the mournful miserable time of dearth
which has since followed I). People thought the sun
of prosperity was going to shine on them for ever.
Bankers were complaisant, wholesale houses accommodating,
retail shops anxious only to open up a
connection. Business, in a word, was, so everybody
said, in the healthiest state imaginable ; when one
morning, in the late autumn of 1864, Alick, now
grown to manhood, announced to Mr. McCullagh, on
his return from a call on one of the large shipping
houses, that a lady had been * twice after him,'
and seemed put out to think she could not see
him.

She'll be back again after a bit,' finished Alick.

What like was she ?' asked Mr. McCuUagh ;
didn't she leave any name ?'

She wouldn't leave her name, and I couldn't
say just what she was in the face, as she had a thick
veil on her.'

I can't think what any lady can be wanting
coming after me,' observed Mr. McCullagh thoughtfully.
' If it's any of those Sisters, mind, I won't
see her, Alick. It's just dreadful the way females
come into a man's office nowadays, and refuse to
stir a step till they have got his money. I am
sure there was one last week I'd like to have been
obliged to get the police to. I met her in the hall,
and she wouldn't go, till at last I gave her a shilling,
and then she stood on the doorstep upbraiding me
for my meanness.'

'This is no a Sister,' said Alick; 'she was a
well-dressed woman, and a civil-spoken sort of body.'

It was not long, only a few minutes in fact, ere
the stranger appeared once again in Mr. McCullagh's
hall, begging so earnestly for a private interview,
that, with many misgivings as to his wisdom intrusting
himself alone with an importunate person of
the other sex, she was duly escorted into Mr. 's
own room, where he did not lose one
second in asking her business.

You do not remember me ?' she began, raising
her veil.

I never set eyes on ye in all my life before,' be
answered.

yes, you did,' she said. ' Once, when you
first came to London.'

Why, surely ye're no  '

I am indeed ; and the most wretched woman on
earth ;' and she burst into tears.

Mr. McCullagh made no comment on the position
as thus broadly indicated. In a dumb sort of
wonder he waited for what was to come next. Why,
how long was it since he had seen her ? He was
then a raw lad from the country, and she a good-looking
young widow, with her mourning fal-lals
fresh about her ; and his uncle only just laid in the
grave, and her heart as cold as steel, for all he had
been a kind husband and a true. ind here she was,
after the long, long years that had come and gone,
her hair gray, her face haggard, ' greeting' like a hurt
child ;' but Mr. McCullagh offered no sympathy.

What the deil brought her to me ?' he marvelled.


I have come to you on a matter of life and
death, Mr. McCullagh,' she said, as soon as she
could speak audibly.

That's serious,' observed her relative cautiously.
You may be sure nothing which was not serious
could have brought me here.'

Weel, I'll confess I do feel a wee surprised.
Won't ye be seated, mem ?'

No, thank you, I can't sit. What I came about
is this. To-day there will be a bill presented at your
bank.'

Whose bill ?' he asked.

Yours ; and, Mr. McCullagh, what I've come
here to entreat is that  '

Stop a moment,' interrupted Mr. McCullagh.
What ye say is an impossibility, for I never signed
a bill in my life.'

I know that.' She was now bold with desperation.
' Nevertheless, there will be one presented
there to-day, and unless it is paid ruin and disgrace
and misery will come upon us.'

Do ye mean it's a forgery, woman ?'

She stretched out her hands to him with a mute
appeal, while her lips formed the word she could not
speak.

My conscience !' and Mr. McCullagh in his
extremity took a few short steps backwards and forwards
over the worn carpet.

Then somehow she managed to tell him all :

how her son had done this thing, how they had
moved heaven and earth to raise the money to meet
the bill, how they had tried to get it returned without
presentation, and how they failed. ' And now 
now I've come to you as my last hope on earth ;' and
to Mr. McCullagh's horror she fell ou her knees
before him, and tried to clasp his knees.

Get up  get up I' he cried, with more vehemence
than politeness. ' What do ye kneel to me for ? If
ye had knelt oftener to your Maker, it's like this
chastisement would never have fallen ou ye. Get up
out of that, do. I wouldn't for a five-pound note
anybody came in and found ye.'

I'll stay on my knees till you say you will help
me in this extremity.'

Well, then, I'll never say it. For any sake do
get up on your feet. It's not seemly ; a woman of
your age ought to have more sense. Why, ye must
be close on threescore year and ten if ye're a
day.'

It might not be a courteous way of inducing the
lady to assume an erect position, but it was effectual.
Somehow she rose  it was not with Mr. McCullagh's
help  and, standing before him with streaming eyes
and hands working convulsively, she asked that
gentleman to bring the case home to himself: what

would he say if his own son were in a similar
trouble ?

What would I say ?' repeated Mr. McCullagh ;
not much, but to the purpose. I'd say as he had
sinned he must suffer.'

'0, you are cruel!' she exclaimed; * and you
would not lose one sixpence, and you would save us
from such misery as I am afraid even to think of.'

Your son ought to have thought of that before
he took pen in hand to sign another man's name.'

That's true enough ; but still I entreat you to
have mercy.'

How can I have mercy when there's not a banker
in London but knows I have never done such a thing
as accept a bill in my life ?'

You need not say, though, that you have not
signed this. If it was your own son you could not
be hard as this, and what is mine might be your
case ; we none of us can tell what we may come to.'

 One of my own sons once told me a lie, or at
least what I suppose ye would call prevaricated tome.
He led me to believe a thing was true I found
out was different, and I've never spoke to him since.
So what's the use,' added Mr. McCullagh, with
sudden fierceness, * coming to me to pick your son
out of the mire, when, for a small fault, in comparison,

I haven't let mine cross my threshold for eight
long years ?'

My God !' she said, ' and he has a wife and
family !'

sand my son has a wife and family,' retorted
Mr. McCullagh, positively revelling in his Spartan-like
fortitude.

'Ah, you prophesied I might some day meet
you when I would rather not. I always heard you
were a hard man, hut I did not think you would
prove harder than the nether millstone. As nothing
will move you, I will go to the bank-manager. He
may be flesh and flood.'

If ye mean that he may condone the forgery, he
aren't,' answered Mr. McCullagh ; 'it would be as
much as his place is worth, and his liberty too.
It's just an awful position for every one of us ;
when I mind me of your first husband, I wonder
how he came to have such a son.'

He was a good just man,' she sobbed.

Ay, and a lot of respect ye showed to his
memory, marrying again.'

If he could speak he would ask you to have pity
on his son.'

And it's only because he is not here to speak
is the one thin*? that makes me hesitate for a

minute. He was a true man, none better, and it's a
sore consideration to think of a son of bis being
trailed to gaol all because he hadn't a mother fit to
bring him up in the way he should go.'

It is too dreadful ! If you won't lift your finger
to help us out of our trouble I'll go to him this
minute, and bid him fly the country while there's
still time.'

And what if I don't let ye leave this room ?
Bide a bit,' he added, as she rushed to the door,
don't be in such a hurry ;' and he pushed her aside
while he turned the key in the lock, and coolly put
it in his pocket. ' As I tell ye, I can't just makeup
my mind to refuse to help my uncle's son ; but I
must think it out. Sit down, can't ye ? there's a
chair.'

From that minute she knew he would so manage
as to keep the affair quiet ; but he had let her feel
his iron hand, so that the terms on which he insisted
caused no surprise.

The sinner was to go abroad ; the business in the
Minories was to be handed over to Mr. McCullagh,
who, on his side, said he would do all he could to
save something out of the wreck.

I conclude the trade's no worth a groat,' he
grumbled, ' or they'd never have sunk so low as this;

but I'll not be opposed by my own kin, and I'll have
no more paper accidents, thank ye. And so now, if
ye'll please to dry your eyes, we'll go down together
to see your son. Who wants me ?' Mr. McCullagh
broke off to say, as there came a smart tapping at
the door. ' A note from the bank, is it ?' he remarked,
when, having given admittance to Alick, that
young man placed an envelope in Mr. McCullagh's
hands, and remarked the messenger was waiting.

Tell him I know what he wants, and will be
round in half an hour. Now, mem, iiyoiCre ready;'
and the lady drawing down her veil, Mr. McCullagh
took his hat, and they walked out of the court together
and into Basinghall-street, where the sun was
shining brightly.

In the Minories there proved no difficulty in dealing
with the unfortunate owners of that opposition
which was to have ruined the older business.

So far as Mr. McCullagh could glean, affairs had
for many years been going surely and steadily to the
dogs. No shift for raising money but had been
adopted ; the Bread-street-hill concern was theirs butin
name. Another person really owned the whole of
that, merely paying a small sum a year to the family
of the founder.

Folk that will be grand must pay the penalty,'

again observed Mr. McCullagh sententiously. It
was a favourite expression of his, and there was
no one there in a position to contradict his statement.


Mr. Alfred Mostin had been called in as a possibly
useful ally, certainly as a sympathetic friend. Alfred
would not have forged a name himself, but he could
feel for a man who had ; particularly when that man
was so placed as to become a mark for the exercise
of Mr. McCullagh's tongue.

Upon the whole, however, that gentleman, having
decided to do a generous thing for ' the sake of one
who was dead and gone,' let them all off much easier
than they could have expected.

He was having everything his own way ; he was
about to stamp out the only opposition that had ever
really given him anxiety ; he was triumphant over
the foolish senseless bit o' pride his uncle threw
himself away on ; he was able to remark, without
any one feeling courageous enough to dispute the
point, that birds of a feather flocked together; which
was a sneer at Alfred Mostin that luckless individual
thought very uncalled for.

Nevertheless, though Mr. McCullagh carried all
before him for a space, Alfred Mostin's hour came at
last. It was after matters had been arranged at the

bank, and when the Scotchman came down to have
another ' keep ' at the books.

There's one thing,' he said to his cousin, when,
with a contemptuous snort, he closed the balance-sheet
which showed so disastrous a result, ' I'd like
weel if we'd tell me. Who was Upperton & Co. ?
for Moorhall, I take it, was put forward by somebody
in the background.'

I can't inform you,' was the answer, ' for I never
could get at that myself; but I think Mr. Mostin
knows. Don't you ?'

Thus directly appealed to, Als replied shortly,

yes, I know ; I have always known.'

If ye mind, Ailfred,' observed Mr. McCullagh.

I told ye my mind misgave me ye were telling mea
lee.'

Well, I was," said Mr. Mostin.

And what call had ye to do that, and me offering
ye good money for the information ?'

I did not want to make mischief or cause bad
blood. I am not so fond of tale-bearing as some of
your family.'

Have ye any objection to speak out now, or is it
still a secret ?'

It can't do any harm to speak out, that I know
of. It was Pousnett.'

VOL. III. O

Pousnett ! Ye're joking, man.'

'No, I am not. It was your dear friend the
senior partner started Upperton to try and ruin your
trade ; and he'd have done it too, if he could have
found anybody who understood the business.'

Bless and save us !' ejaculated Mr. McCullagh.

And send you more wit and me more money,'
added Mr. Mostin, as he lounged out of the office.

THE Cease.

It was the heart of summer ; down upon the City-streets
the sun poured fiercely. In such cool grots
as the court where Mr. McCullagh resided the heat
was not so intense ; but it was great enough anywhere
to cause men wildly minded and wickedly indifferent
to money matters to plunge into various
places where cooling drinks in the shape of champagne
and claret cup, iced ginger-beer and gin, S.
and B., and even the tankard of modest Bass were to
be procured.

Sauntering easily up Nicholas-lane, which was
far cooler than the wider thoroughfare he had left a
moment before, Mr. Snow, dressed in a white waistcoat
and wearing a very light pair of trousers, his
feet encased in easy shoes, and a white hat pushed as
far back as possible off his forehead, chanced to meet
a friend, with whom he stopped to exchange such
remarks as the state of the thermometer and the
general condition of the money market suggested.

They decided it was very hot; two degrees hotter
than it had been at some previous period of the
world's history; further, they agreed things were
flat ; indeed, that there was so little doing, it would
not be a bad time to choose for running out of town ;
then having abundant leisure, and the shade of the
high houses over the narrow lane proving grateful
after the blaze and glare of Cornwall and King
William-street, they fell to making a comparative
analysis of the merits and demerits of the various
watering-places they could at the moment recall to
mind. After that they had u chat about their respective
gardens, but at last made a move as if to
separate. It was then Mr. Snow, looking vaguely
across the lane at nothing in particular, said, in an
indifferent sort of sva,j,

By the bye, have you still got any shares in
Pousnetts' ?'

A few. Why, do you want any?'

no, I don't want any, thank you ;' then, after
an instant's pause, * they are about as high now as
they ever will be, I think.'

You think so ?'

Yes, I do.'

Well, good-bye ; God bless you !'

It was remarkable how Mr. Snow knew, for full

three months elapsed, auri his friend-eras rather
beginning to believe that gentleman's rare intuition
had been for once at fault, and to regret having on so
slight a hint sold his shares, when two anxious men
ran down from London to Norman Castle to take
counsel with Mr. Pousnett.

The senior partner had attained to the dignity of
gout, and was sitting with his leg in bandages on a
rest, near a window which commanded a view of
Norman's Bay and the new town the company
formed for the purchase of,' &c., had evolved from
the sands of the seashore.

Well ?' said Mr. Pousnett, extending a couple
of fingers to each of his visitors, neither of whom, it
must be admitted, did he seem particularly charmed
to behold. ' Well ?'

Mr. Stanley answered this interrogative remark
only by a gloomy silence, and it therefore fell on
Robert McCuUagh to speak.

We have come, sir, to consult you as to what
is best to be done.'

Mr. Pousnett lifted his eyebrows in amazed surprise.


There is only one thing to do, I apprehend,' he
answered.

And that is'

Stop !'

The gloom deepened in his son's face, and that
gloom found an even darker reflection on Robert
MeCullagh's brow.

Mr. Pousnett continued with imperturbable
calmness,

It has been coming to this for a long time. I
have for a considerable period foreseen that it would
be necessary for you to avail yourselves of the first
opportunity which offered for closing a concern you
have proved yourselves perfectly incapable of managing.
You have got that opportunity now  seize it.'

What we came down to know,' said Robert, with
more boldness than might have been expected from
him, ' was whether you would not at this crisis step
forward with a sufficient sum to enable us to tide
over the present difficulty, and try whether we could
not manage so to work the business as to keep it
alive.'

Quite impossible,' replied Mr. Pousnett.

May I ask to which question you make that
answer ?' inquired his son ; ' to our carrying on the
business, or to your stepping forward with assistance
?'

To both,' declared the wise man, who had done
so well for himself. ' And now, Stanley, once for

all, understand I am not going to discuss or argue
this matter with you. My health is not in a state
to permit me to engage in controversy. I left you
with a splendid going concern, a large capital, the
prestige of an old and honoured name, and  '

You left us, sir,' broke in Robert McCullagh,
hopelessly insolvent.'

Mr. Pousnett turned upon his former partner
with a look of contemptuous displeasure.

Ah, well,' he said, 'you had better tell that to
your shareholders, and see how they will receive the
intelligence.'

They will have to be told the truth, I suppose,'
persisted Robert doggedly.

Then try the experiment. Of course I shall
have to make my statement, and in your own interests
I must remark it seems to me a pity the two
should not be identical. I really am at a loss to
know what has procured me the pleasure of this visit.
Situated as you are, I cannot imagine why you did
not remain in town and see your solicitor.'

Father,' began Stanley Pousnett, 'it may be all
very well to take this tone with the world, but why
do you adopt it with us '? We know now the thing
has been done, and we know also we shall have to
suffer. What is the use of talking as though we

had brought misfortune on ourselves, when for years
we have been fighting as two men, I suppose, never
fought before to save our shareholders from loss and
our creditors from ruin ?'

I have told you before, I am not going to argue
this matter. By bitter experience, I know how incompetent
you both are to deal with the simplest
commercial difficulty. I left you with the ball at
your feet ; if you were unequal to the game it is no
fault of mine. Besides, I do not know of what you
complain. You have lived in good style, Stanley ;
you have enjoyed every luxury a man could desire ;
your wife has a fine fortune settled on herself, which
no indignant creditor can touch. And as for you,
Mr. McCullagh,' proceeded Mr. Pousnett, ' you came
to me with nothing, and if you leave the concern in
the same destitute condition, you have but yourself
to thank for it. Any man might have made his
fortune out of the amount you have permitted to
slip through your fingers. But even you have lived,
and lived well, on the money of your shareholders.'

I would rather have lived on bread and water  '
Robert was beginning, when Mr. Pousnett interrupted
him.

*Pray spare me all that,' he said, with a contemptuous
smile. ' Any such remarks had much

better be addressed to the general public. I assure
you it is perfect waste of time talking the matter
over with me. Long ago I saw you would never be
able to stand your ground. I knew this result was a
mere question of time.'

Then, in a word, you will do nothing ?' said his
son impatiently.

In a word, I am not going to throw good money
after bad, if that is what you mean. Hereafter you
will thank me for my firmness. And now I think
you had better get back to town as soon as possible.
Will you have luncheon ?'

They both said they could not eat anything ; and
then, being after a fashion turned civilly out of the
house, they went down to the seashore, and walked
about and sat on the shingle for a time, and talked
miserably, and tried to reconcile themselves to the
disgrace and the trouble they foresaw in store.

Your father led us into this mess, and he ought
to have helped us out of it,' said Robert McCullagh
bitterly.

Stanley Pousnett did not speak in reply. He
felt he could not say all he had in his mind about
his father.

That India business must have been shaky all
along,' observed Robert drearily.

If we talk for ever we can't rend matters, I'm
afraid said Stanley Pousnett; and then they did
talk at length, as men do in such extremity, travelling
the same ground over and over and over
again.

In the afternoon they got a train which took
them back to London from their fruitless journey,
and the next day it was known that Pousnett & Co.
(Limited) had sent out letters stating, owing to the
stopping of their Madras Branch, they were obliged
temporarily to suspend payment.

So that card castle has collapsed at last,' remarked
Mr. Snow.

And Bob is the only one of the lot who will
save nothing out of the wreck,' returned Alfred
Mostin.

And I'U be bound the whole fault will be laid at
his door.'

Though the concern was hopelessly rotten eleven
years ago.'

Yes, but how is anybody to prove that ?'
Nobody can. The things which are most certain
are those generally utterly impossible of proof.'

Well, I made something out of Pousnetts','
muttered Mr. Snow, with some natural self-congratulation.


The news that Pousnetts' house had stopped was
received almost with incredulity. To the very last
confidence in the concern remained unshaken. On
the day before the circular was issued their acceptances
were duly met, their cheques duly honoured ;
no writs were out, or actions threatened or executions
pending. The whole affair seemed so entirely
that of a vessel going down in a calm sea, without a
breath of wind stirring or the slightest apparent
reason for the calamity, that people generally believed
it was only a temporary hitch which had
occurred; they thought the leak which sprang so
suddenly could surely be stopped, and that the ship
bearing the fortunes of Pousnett (Limited) would
still make many a good voyage.

It was rumoured Mr. Pousnett was expected in
town immediately, and then people felt everything
would be explained and put right. It seemed too
monstrous to believe such an enormous concern
should break to pieces in a moment, so large an
amount of capital have been spent ! At that period
men's minds had not become habituated to the spectacle
of huge businesses heeling over and going down
head foremost in the summary fashion to which they
since have grown accustomed. There might be, and
no doubt was, some temporary difficulty ; but if once

the former senior partner brought his experience to
bear on the difficulty, however it had arisen, things
would soon be set in order. The solicitors made
light of the matter ; the statement before the commissioner
was of the airiest and most agreeable
description. There are gentlemen who understand
the importance of letting the public down easily, and
though Mr. Pousnett did not appear in the transaction,
there could be no doubt he was really stage-manager
and wire-puller at this period of the
affair.

After a time there was a talk  it never was anything
but talk, yet it served to amuse the shareholders
 of reconstructing the company and going on
with it the same as ever, only with Mr. Pousnett as
chief and Mr. Robert McCullagh nowhere. Tacitly it
seemed agreed amongst the high contracting parties,
except the scapegoat himself, that all the sins of all
the persons connected with Pousnett & Co. (Limited),
in the way of extravagance, folly, short-sightedness,
bad management, lack of ordinary prudence, and an
utter absence of economy, were to be laid on Piobert,
who, bearing this burden, was to be thrust out into
the wilderness.

In vain he remonstrated, explained, argued, lamented
 nobody believed a word he said ; not a

creditor but anathematised him, not a soul but marvelled
how he could have had the presumption to
imagine he could fill Pousnett's shoes. Stanley
Pousnett took to his bed, not in emulation of his
father's tactics, but because the long anxiety and
the heavy ultimate blow had really been too much
for him. As for Robert, though he felt ill enough
and wretched enough, he still walked about the City.
Somebody, it was quite clear, must remain to answer
the questions, to which replies were daily required.
The other directors simply brazened the matter out,
or else took refuge in an inconceivable ignorance.
By degrees the truth leaked out. Pousnetts' was
going to be a very bad business indeed ; there would
be no reconstruction of the company, no dividend,
no anything except with the la-veers and the bankruptcy
people, who would continue to realise and
swallow. Nobody meant to refund a penny ; those
who had lost, seeing they were supposed to stand
an equal chance of winning, must put up with the
result.

The lease of the house in Portman-square belonged
to Mr. Pousnett; but the new and costly
furniture having been ordered and paid for by Mr.
Stanley  who, in conjunction with Mr. Robert ,
had re Pousnett & Co. (Limited) incurred

various debts, for which they could and were held
personally liable  was sold ; the proceeds being kept
by the lawyers for their own benefit.

There won't be a bit of carrion left for anybody
but the crows,' remarked Mr. Snow to Als Mostin,
who was the only man to whom he spoke freely
about the Pousnett trouble.

Trust the crows for leaving a bit of carrion for
anybody else,' amended Mr. Mostin.

They will make it a ten years' business,' observed
Mr. Snow ; and his words were within the
mark, for Pousnetts' estate is not wound up yet.
There is some trifle of money left, and while it remains
the lawyers are too conscientious to write
Finis' on the last page of the dreary record.

No description could convey any adequate idea of
the effect produced on Mr. McCullagh by the crushing
downfall of the great house with which it had
once given him such pride to say his son was connected.


He was a man who felt debt a bitter dishonour,
the slightest deflection from the straight path of
fair trading a terrible disgrace ; and the awful things
which were revealed in the course of those bankruptcy
proceedings, things which made him fear to
read his Times by reason of what he might clan ceto

find there, would almost require another book to
chronicle.

Every day something fresh came out about Pous-
nets' : some valuable asset discovered to be worth
about the value of the paper that had made pompous
mention of it; some firm tottering to bankruptcy
whose bills had been taken by the company ; some
security found utterly unavailable.

It was with shame Mr. McCullagh read these
explanations' and * disclosures.' He did not like
walking the City streets ; he feared to meet his acquaintances.
Pousnetts' was his last thought before
he sought his bed, where sleep refused to descend
and refresh him, and his first consideration when
the morning sun ' glinted' in through the windowpane.


Very resolutely he refused to discuss the business
with any one. He said 'he would prefer not speaking
about it ;' and he was so explicit and determined
on this point people began to think that, spite of his
experience, he had been, in City parlance, ' bitten to
the bone.'

Only Mr. Snow was able to extract a word from
him, and that of the briefest. In answer to an
expression of pity for Robert, the Spartan father
sternly answered, ' As he has sown he must reap.'

Mr. Snow shrugged his shoulders in reply, which

action so irritated Mr. McCullagh that he burst
out,

I know well enough what ye're thinking of, but
it makes matters no better. It is a mere matter of
choice. If ye like to consider Robert as taken in,
that means he's a fool ; if ye would rather believe
he was in the swim, that proves he's a rogue ; and
for my own part I don't think there's a hair to
choose between the two characters.'

Mr. Snow smiled incredulously.

'Except,' went on Mr. McCullagh, *that I'd
rather have to work with a rogue, because it would
be my own fault if I let him take me in ; but you
never know how to deal with a fool.'

I fancy I do,' was all Mr. Snow said ; and there
the conversation dropped, for Mr. McCullagh seemed
quite indifferent whether he did or not.

After all it was on Robert the worst of the trouble
fell. There is a great deal of truth in one of Mr.
Pousnett's favourite axioms, namely, that a man
with a full purse can bear reverses and even disgrace
with much greater equanimity than he who has to
face the world's scorn and anger without a halfpenny
in his pocket. Robert had to face the Pousnett
shareholders and general creditors, who looked upon

him as a mere adventurer, in the character of an
impecunious bankrupt.

He was totally ruined ; when the company foundered
nothing remained to him from the wreck except
his liabilities and Mrs. Lilands' annuity. All
the few possessions he owned in the world, simply
represented by his house and its contents, were totally
insufficient to satisfy the Pousnett creditors,
who, represented by able lawyers, came down upon
him like ravening wolves.

Perforce he, like Mr. Stanley Pousnett, had, following
the example of the illustrious company, to
go through the Court, but, differing from his employer's
son, he had nothing to fall back on. His
father's doors were shut against him. His wife had
no settlement. He had to borrow money to pay
the preliminary expenses. He was as destitute of
worldly wealth as the day his mother brought him
into the world ; and if he had gone on his knees
and prayed any merchant in the City to give him
employment, not a merchant but would have answered
he could not possibly comply with the request.
If it had not been for Janeyy he must have
lost hope and courage ; but in the poor lodgings
whither they had retreated she made him as happy
as a man so situated could be made, consoled him

VOL. III. p

for the world's neglect, and tried to give him strength
to bear the world's contumely.

What tried him most was the eternal questioning
on the subject of Pousnetts'. Over and over again
he was forced to repeat information which, to the
best of his ability, he had given honestly once. Explanations
had to be gone through many times.
The days passed, and so did the months ; and still the
legal and official ardour remained undiminished, and
still the ardour seemed likely to know no abatement.

The best thing you can do,' advised Mr. Snow,
is to go to America and see if any opening presents
itself. It is forty weeks now since the concern
smashed, and during the whole of that time these
people have kept you at their beck and call. If you
had any business you could not attend to it ; and
till some bigger failure takes the public mind off
Pousnetts', you will get no business here. You
have told everything there is to tell ; and should
you be wanted back again, why, you can come. I'll
find the funds. I have talked the matter over with
your wife, and she is willing  indeed, wishful  for
you to go.'

It was literally the truth. Janeyy saw the misery
and uncertainty of their position was eating her husband's
heart out.

*I can't leave mamma,' she said, when he spoke
to her on the subject. ' I will stay at home and take
care of her and the children, and you shall go away
for a little and make our fortunes.'

She tried to look bright and cheerful at the picture
herself had conjured up; but the attempt proved
somewhat of a failure.

If I can make even a little you will come to me ?'
he asked.

Ah, dear, don't let us talk of that !' she entreated.
She knew before she could join him her mother
must die ; she would never be able to take such
a journey, till the poor old lady, who was already
sorely missing the comforts with which it had been
her daughter's delight to surround her, was dead.

Love and money had kept her alive so long ; but
it was very certain that, now the money seemed
likely to run short, love could do very, very little.
Not that so far they had encroached on Mrs. Lilands'
annuity for their own wants. Janeyy's jewelry, her
personal possessions, the old lace, the rare shawls,
the things which her mother had kept hoarded away,
were each in turn produced and disposed of, so that
Mrs. Lilands might feel no stint ; that the wine, the
medicine, the generous diet, the constant attention,
should know no change. Nevertheless her daughter

already saw a change in the vacant face ; and she
was aware, without a miracle being wrought, she
could not continue to provide for the invalid as she
had done.

Robert started from Liverpool; and when the
husband and wife parted at Euston-square, it was on
each side apparently with a brave face and a stout
heart. Yet the man could not see the landscape
clearly for many a mile after the train passed Harrow
; and Janeyy, with veil drawn down and head bent,
actually brushed up against Mr. McCullagh without
perceiving him on her way home.

To that gentleman his son's ' flight,' as he mentally
termed the wise and necessary step Mr. Snow
had advised, seemed the last drop in a cup of iniquity
already filled to the brim.

He ought not to have run away across the Atlantic
as if he'd committed some crime punishable at
the law,' he decided. ' Why, even his namesake
went no further nor Holland, after I let him off far
too easy; and he's doing wtII there, I'm told. No
wonder Robert's wife was ashamed to look me in the
face, and made believe she didn't see the father
whose honest pride her husband has brought so low.'

If Janeyy had seen the father thus pathetically
referred to, she would net, in her altered circumstances,

have attempted to speak to him ; but, as has
been said, her want of perception was no affectation.
Blinded with tears, sad at heart, crushed in spirit,
she made her way back to the humble home, which
now seemed so desolate, utterly unconscious of having
passed friend or enemy by in silence.

When Mr. Snow spoke of some ' bigger failure
than Pousnetts' ' as likely to occur, which should
direct public attention from the collapse of that venture,
he had no special house in his mind's eye that
he considered ' shaky.' His utterance was only made
in a general spirit of prophecy. Ere long, somebody
or something was sure to *go,' and cause
even a greater sensation than the crash he had
foreseen to be inevitable from the first morning
Robert McCullagh told him of the various changes
contemplated by the senior partner and his coadjutors.


As regarded what really came to pass during the
course of the summer, when Robert, following his
advice, left the lawyers and trustees in bankruptcy to
swell their costs as well as they could without his
assistance, Mr. Snow had as little prevision as those
who paid in or remitted the day before the storm
broke.

It fell on London like a thunder-clap. News

that the Corner House had suspended was flashed
through the three kingdoms, across the Channel to
France, under the ocean to America. Everywhere
the telegraph went, people heard of the monetary
crisis which had come; of the terror and panic in
London that had seized all classes, resembling nothing
that had ever before occurred in the City,
except the bursting of the South Sea Bubble in
Threadneedlc-street.

That was a time to try the stoutest heart. How
many were ruined by and how many died of the
shock, will never be even approximately known. In
the memory of the oldest inhabitant, the Dragon and
the Grasshopper hoisted high aloft the Lord Mayor's
realm had never looked calmly down on such a scene,
had never listened to such a clamour.

Amongst the ruins of mighty firms, fair reputations,
old-established banks, the estates of country
gentlemen, the shops of struggling tradesmen, one
man stood serene. It was the once Senior Partner.
He lost nothing ; he had not a penny invested in
anything the failure of tha Corner House touched.
Looking from afar upon the wreck of falling houses,
which seemed to darken the air of the metropolis, he
actually smiled as he murmured to himself,

Ah, the good people in the City will now have

something else to think about than Pousnett Sz Co.
(Limited.'

This was a view of the catastrophe which did not
present itself to Mr. McCullagh. He was one of
those City people who just then had something else
to do than think of Pousnett & Co. (Limited) in
bankruptcy. Afterwards he felt himself ' free to
confess'  indeed, he was rather free of confessing  .
that what he went through at that time put a few
wi ankles on his face.

Why, ye couldn't tell,' he said, 'ye didn't know
what might happen from hour to hour, or even
minute to minute. Folk were afraid of their shadow.
Some of the managers never left their banks all
night ; but stayed on the premises with the wisest of
the directors, consulting what had best be done in
the position in which they found themselves. Every
morning's post brought news of some great house
gone in the country ; the like of it was never seen in
our time I don't mind saying now there were a
couple of big firms I propped up myself through
the worst of it. But for me they must have gone.
Why, even the heads of my own bank took fright,
and if I had not advised them to hold on, I do believe
they'd have closed their doors. It just blew through
the City like a whirlwind, taking first this one and

then that off his feet, and dashing him to pieces. It
was something to see ; it is something to say a man
has passed through ; but, my faith, I wouldn't be the
one to be out in such a storm again for all the money
I saved myself and other people by working night
and day while the worst of it lasted. End what it
would have been, and who it would have left standing,
if a lot of the London merchants, me amongst
the number, hadn't fought the violence of the tempest
shoulder to shoulder, the Lord alone knows ;
I'm very sure none of His creatures will ever be able
to give a guess.'

Eventually Mr. McCuUagh emerged from the dust
and rubbish of the business edifices which had fallen
all around him, untouched in purse, unscathed in
person save by those wrinkles before referred to.

I wouldn't say I'm the poorer by a halfpenny,'
he observed to Captain Crawford, with whom he was
having a final settlement of accounts, in view of that
gentleman's marriage to a ' well-tottered Scotch
lass.'

He who, Marius-like, had contemplated the ruins
of dynasties greater than his own, might have echoed
this remark ; but he could not add that he had
escaped untarnished in reputation. Not then, but a
few months later, the Norman's Bay Company, after

struggling madly to keep afloat a little longer, lead to
inform the public that it also was hopelessly insolvent.
Not Pousnett & Co. (Limited), not Alfred Mostiu in
his worst Whitecross-street experiences, could have
shown a longer list of liabilities and a more striking
deficiency of assets than the Norman's Bay directors
were able to display to an astounded world.

In this case there was no Robert McCullagh, no
imbecile junior partner endowed with few brains,
uplifted with a too sudden success, ' intoxicated by
the position to which Mr. Pousnett's fatal kindness
had raised him,' to act as scapegoat ; no Stanley
Pousnett, ' rash and extravagant,' to join the scapegoat
in the blame of having dissipated the ' splendid
capital the senior partner's exertions had placed at
the disposal of the company.' No, indeed ; on the
contrary, there were some very sharp rogues on the
direction ; a secretary who had understood all along
the whole enterprise was what he called a ' flam ;'
accountants who stated that *when they wanted to
know' they were told to mind their own business ;
while various adventurers cropped up in the course of
the investigation which ensued who seemed to have
got into the train of Mr. Pousnett's last venture, as
camp-followers hang about the rear of an invading
army.

All these people, and many others, when the time
came to speak, had small scruple about opening their
mouths. They told everything they had to tell, and
it turned out they knew a great deal more than Mr.
Pousnett imagined. Some of them were at the
trouble to rake up the Pousnett (Limited) affair,
which, it now began to be whispered, had likewise
been a complete swindle.

One man, indeed, went so far as to say Pousnetts',
for many a day before the company was floated, had
been kept up on accommodation paper, and that he
could prove it ; but he never appeared able to do so,
though he managed to retire from London with a nice
little independence, which some people said was paid
to him quarterly by a gentleman who had good reasons
fer such generosity.

There was a great scandal and a great hubbub fora
little time. Actions were threatened, shareholders
cursed the name of Pousnett, respectable people in
the City shook their heads when the senior partner
was mentioned ; but it all blew over. A great deal
of foreclosing went on for a time about Norman's Bay ;
but nothing happened to the Pousnett property either
there or elsewhere. Mr. Pousnett went abroad for
three months; and when he returned, everybody who

was anybody called upon and asked him to dinner,
and accepted his invitations in return.

It could not be denied, however, that after this
second collapse of a company formed under Mr.
Pousnett's auspices, and apparently solely for his
benefit, a reaction in favour of Robert McCullagh took
place.

People began to say he had not been so much to
blame, after all ; that no doubt Mr. Pousnett had kept
him well under his thumb ; that most likely he was
merely the cat's-paw used by Mr. Pousnett for getting
his chestnuts out of the fire ; that, upon the whole,
the man had been hardly dealt by ; that the Pous-
nets, who were all of them now living on the fat of
the land, had ruined his prospects and beggared him
into the bargain. ' There is he, poor wretch, in
America almost starving, I hear ; while his wife and
children are just able to keep soul and body together,
in a mean lodging near the Lower-road, upon the
mother-in-law's annuity,' said one man.

Well, they could not expect to eat their cake and
have it,' answered the friend to whom this observation
was made.

Faith, I think it was Pousnett who ate up everybody's
cake, and is now comfortably feeding on his
own.'

MR. MOSTIN's news.

though things were not so bad as had been represented
in the Robert McCullagh household, they
were, after his departure, bad enough. It is not just
at the first poverty seems so intolerable a burden.
People scarcely understand, and certainly do not fully
believe in, it.

During the earlier days, a reserve of strength,
spirit, and resource remains ; but as the weeks and
the months go by, strength, spirit, and resource become
exhausted.

Like the clothing bought in more prosperous
days, these good things eventually wear threadbare ;
and it is at that precise stage, reverse of fortune is
regarded as unendurable : people have lost the independence
of wealth without gaining the independence
of poverty; the habits, ideas, restrictions of a different
class press them to the ground. The uses of adversity
seem to them all bitter. They have been
forced to move in a hurry from one state of life to

another, and the excitement being over, the discomfort
begins. They cannot find a thing they have been
accustomed to regard as necessary. For the time
being, life seems a hopeless tangle, and the attempt
to make both ends meet an absurd impossibility.

Nevertheless, the struggle having to be made,
Janeyy set about it with such courage as she could
command ; and she was in the middle of a not totally
unsuccessful effort to contrive that her outgoings
should not exceed her incoming, when Mrs Lilands
became suddenly worse, and then in a moment all
her daughter's plans and good intentions were
scattered to the wind. Whatever the doctors ordered
was got; and Janeyy found herself sinking into a sea
of debt she feared must overwhelm her completely.

But this fresh illness did not last long ; and
without knowing what it was to lack one single
material comfort her child's unselfish love was able
to procure, Mrs. Lilands passed quietly away.

It was then Janeyy found what Alfred Mostin's
intervention had done for her. She was still to receive
the same amount of money. She and her children
were not left destitute. There were the debts,
but she could manage them ; by dint of the closest
economy she felt sure they might live, and yet pay
every one.

This was, then, the task that, in the poor lodging
near the Lower-road, she set herself to finish ;
and it seemed to her, as it has seemed since to many
a woman similarly situated, very hard she should be
compelled to commence her course of severe retrenchment
by putting herself and her four children
into mourning.

Nevertheless, she did it ; and with no visitors
save Alfred Mostin and the doctor's sister from Old
Ford, set herself patiently to do the best she could
in the way of paying off debts and living on what
remained, till such time as her husband should be
able to write for her and the children to join him.

If she sometimes found economy work hard
against the collar, Robert ere long discovered that
trying to make his fortune in America was a task
utterly beyond such powers as he possessed.

The very qualities which at Pousnett's had served
him to good purpose now proved impediments in his
way ; and surely though slowly he arrived at the
conviction the senior partner had not been mistaken
when he implied he lacked cleverness.

'And my father always thought so too,' considered
Robert bitterly, ' and I believe they where
both right.'

There is no harder reflection can occur to a man

than that others are possessed of a larger share of
brains than himself; but in Robert's case the knowledge,
late though it came, produced one good result.
He did not strive after impossibilities ; he tried to
think he was contented in a very poor situation.
By dint of industry and plodding he had risen before,
and he hoped by the same means he might rise
again. But the conditions of society are not the
same, even in the same countries, at different periods
of life, and Robert was forced to confess in his letters
home that the prospect did not seem encouraging.
He was able to live, and that appeared about
all he could do at the present ; after a time perhaps
things might mend.

It could not be considered very satisfactory, yet
still Janeyy did not despond. She taught her children
; she took them out to walk ; she visited her
stanch friend at Old Ford ; she delighted to hear
Alfred Mostin ask her for a cup of tea, the most
extravagant hospitality she was able to offer. Life
did not seem to be sad because she chanced to be
poor : it was only the separation from her husband
that troubled her; only the uncertainty of a future
which, though she had money enough to keep them
from actual want, he seemed afraid to ask her to
share.

Like Robert, however, she thought that perhaps
after a time things might mend ; and meantime the
work allotted her appeared to be to make the best of
matters as they were.

In the rush and hurry of London life, and in
view of the thousand events which had taken place
since Pousnett & Co. (Limited) came down with a
run, that once notorious failure had grown to be
regarded as quite an old story. People remembered,
of course, such a smash once took place, but it had
long ceased to be a nine days' wonder. Worse things
had happened since then ; more iniquitous swindles
exposed ; a greater number of innocent shareholders
let in ;' and cleverer men even than Pousnett found
to be perfectly safe, so far as their own incomes were
concerned.

In a word, the enormous capabilities of limited
liability were being discovered, and while one section
of society was blessing the Act, another was anathematising
the day they trusted their good money to
its tender mercies.

But then of course what benefits Thomas, proves
an evil to John ! Limited liability is only a practical
illustration of the truth of the old proverb
which declares ' one man's meat to be another man's
poison.'

Anyhow, Pousnetts' was an almost forgotten
episode in the City of London. At the West-end
he who had been the senior partner moved in better
society than ever. If people living beyond Charing
Cross once began to inquire too curiously as to how
some of their charming friends made their money
due east they would have enough to do, and as the
result could not fail to be other than disagreeable,
it is as well that a hard and fast rule seems to have
been laid down as to the undesirable nature of too
much research of this kind. Stories that had floated
round and about Capet-court and the Exchange
never reached those charmed circles where the Pous-
nets were considered ' delightful.' His daughter
held rank as a most amiable and fascinating woman,
whose devotion to a husband older than herself was
beyond all praise. There was a talk of Pousnett
himself standing as member for a borough where
Lord Cresham's interest was as paramount as the
interest of a lord can be anywhere nowadays in England.
Mr. Pousnett's receptions were always mentioned
in the Morning Post. Miss Vanderton's
husband had scaled successfully many of the heights
of clerical promotion. Stanley Pousnett, the only
one of the family who proved quite unequal to the
dignity of the name he bore, had hidden his dining

III. Q

ishecl head in a remote district of Wales, where
Mrs. Stanley owned a small estate. Another company
had taken up the Norman's Bay speculation,
and property there was now more valuable than
ever.

Mr. Pousnett had done very well for himself and
family, and if other persons had failed to do likewise,
the fault was theirs, not his. He could not be held
answerable for the non-success of incompetent nincompoops.
Every one connected with Pousnetts',
except the shareholders, might have acquired a fair
income ; if any one failed to do so, it was a mere
folly to blame the man who had put such a chance
in the way of those persons unable to take advantage
of it. That was all which could be said about the
matter. Meanwhile, the shareholders had lost every
penny they invested. Robert McCullagh was in
America, and Janeyy in narrow lodgings, turning her
own dresses and mending her children's clothes.

One evening Alfred Mostin entered those lodgings,
and, while divesting himself of coat and hat,
asked,

Have you heard anything lately about Mr.
McCullagh, Janeyy ?'

She looked up a little surprised. It was late ;
the children were in bed at that hour : she had not

expected a Visitor, and the tone of his question  told
he had some special reason for putting it.

What is the matter ?' she therefore inquired,
after the manner of a person who had grown accustomed
to bad news.

He is not expected to live.'

0, I am grieved !'

I don't see why you should be. What good
was his life to anybody ?'

This was one of the points on which she and
Mr. Mostin had never agreed, but she did not feel
disposed to enter upon a controversy concerning
Mr. McCullagh's merits or demerits then.

Has he been ill long ?' she asked.

No, not very ; it's fever. He either caught a
chill at the Docks, or  and this the doctor thinks
more probable  caught the infection from some one
down there. He came back, complained that he
thought he had taken a cold, went to bed, next
morning was delirious, and now is given over ; and
the whole family is wondering whether he has made
a will, and if so, how he has disposed of the 'gear." '

They are all with him, I suppose ?' said Janeyy,
who, though disappointed and hurt by the tenor of
Mr. Mostin's utterances, still did not care to take up
arms upon the old vexed subject.

With him !' repeated Alfred scornfully; * what
should they he with him for, when, whether the man
has made a will or not, the thing is past changing
now ? The doctors have given him over ; it's as
much as a fellow's life is worth to go into the sickroom,
for it is some uncommon and awful sort of
fever. So plain auld Rab, spite of all his money, is
left to die just as any pauper might ; and serve him
right too !' added Mr. Mostin under his breath.

But Janeyy heard what he said.

Don't, Alfred ! don't, don't, don't!' she cried;
you cannot think how you hurt me. 0, what a
dreadful thing for the poor old man !'

Why was he so hard with others, then ?' persisted
Mr. Mostin doggedly. ' Why did he set up
money as a god and worship it ? why was he so
unjust to Bob, and cruel to you \> why did he grudge
every other man the chance of getting a living? why
did he deny himself and everybody about him almost
the common necessaries of life ? It was all done
that he might add pound to pound and hundred to
hundred. He will never be sensible enough again
to know precisely what his much prized gold did for
him, and that is all I feel sorry about. Such men
ought to realise that if in their worst extremity they
call from morning until noon upon Mammon, as the

priests did at Carmel to Baal, they will receive no
answer.'

'Do you really mean to say,' began Janeyy, ignoring
the last expression of opinion, which, indeed, by
long experience she knew too well it was vain to
combat, ' that Mr. McCullagh has none of his sons
with him ?'

That is precisely what I do mean to say. He
has none of his sons or his sons' wives, or Mrs. Nicol,
or one of the lot. An old servant stuck to him, I
suppose, because she had no choice, and Mrs. Roy,
it seems, went in to help ; but she has had to give
up the attempt, and there is now only that hired
woman waiting to see him die.'

'It is too shocking,' murmured Janeyy.

'To do old Roy justice, he did seem sorry,' went
on Alfred Mostin ; ' but I suppose he will lose his
berth, so that even he was not quite disinterested.
He is just another of the same kidney. But look
here, Janeyy, don't you cry ; don't, dear. Why in
the world should you be troubled, no matter what
happens to him ?'

She did not answer; she only covered her face
and sobbed grievously. She had the strongest feeling
that, no matter what a father was, his children
should cling to and honour him ; and deep down in

her heart there lay a conviction that, but for adverse
circumstances, Mr. McCullagh would have turned
out a far different man. She had always been sorry
for him, always known that even in the full sunshine
of his prosperity he was a lonely man ; and now to
hear of him ill, dying, attended only by hirelings, his
sons merely anxious to hear how he had left his
money, without a loving hand to smooth his pillow,
and moisten his lips and soothe his death agony,
seemed to her so horrible an end of an honest and
laborious and unsatisfactory life, she could only tell
with her tears how deep was her sympathy.

I think Bob will be cut up,' said Mr. Mostin,
when Janeyy, having dried her eyes, was trying to
regain her composure. ' Though he and his father
never did stable their horses together, he was the
only dutiful member of the family, and I always
believed the old man felt proud of him. If he had
not been so like his mother, they might have hit it
off better ; but, as I have told you, she never missed
a chance of rubbing her husband the wrong way.
She was a fool, and she got a bad set round her.
Her father used to say if she had chosen to take the
right way with him, she might have led her husband
with a silken thread. There I do believe he
had good in him, if she had brought it out ; and if

it vexes you, I will never say another word against
old Scrooge.'

Ah, Alfred !' she softly expostulated ; and then
added, ' It does vex me, more than words can
express.'

All that livelong night Janeyy tossed restlessly.
She could not get any settled sleep. She had felt
very tired when Alfred Mostin came in ; but yet
after she lay down, the moment her eyes closed they
opened again, and she found herself wide awake,
thinking of what was going on in the old house just
off Basinghall-street.

Mr. McCallagh's face haunted her, his fate pursued
her into the dim slumber-land when she touched
its confines for a moment. She thought of Robert
far away ; of her mother dead ; of all the changes
which had come and gone since her marriage ; of
how earnestly she once hoped to reconcile father and
son. And now it was all over  the end had come.
Already those terrible footsteps, the sound of which
those who have once heard their stealthy tread can
never forget, seemed at the door ; and of poor Mr.
McCullagh and his imperfect and enjoyed life
there would remain but the money he could not
carry away with him, and his name carved on senseless
stone.

She rose early the next morning, dressed her
children, gave them their breakfast, tried to swallow
some herself, and then, asking the landlady to see
to her little ones till her return, hurried away City-ward.
It was not much after nine when she reached
Finsbury, but the streets were full of merchants hurrying
to their offices, of clerks bustling along. The
morning had broken dull and misty, and gave no
promise of brightening up. Janeyy's spirits were in
unison with the weather ; everything seemed to her
gloomy in the extreme.

Where are ye off to at this hour ?' asked someone
behind her, as she crossed over London Wall ;
and turning she beheld David McCuUagh.

0, I am so glad to meet jow. !' she answered.
I never heard of your father's illness till last night.
How is he ?'

There is not the slightest hope

I was just on my way to Basiughall-street to
inquire about him.'

Lucky I saw ye, then, unless 3'ou are tired of
your life. The fever is most catching ; we have all
been warned of the danger.'

*I suppose you are now coming from the
house ?'

I ?' he repeated. * What good could I do ? He

has two nurses, and the doctors, and everything of
course money can buy; but it would be madness forme
to be with him. I have my wife and children to
consider. Fanny at first did want to go, but I told
her I wouldn't hear of such nonsense. By the bye,
ye're never seen her, have ye ?'

No, I have never seen her.'

She is a '' sonsy wee thing," and we'd like her ;
when will ye come and take a cup of tea ?'

I don't know, I am sure, thank you ; I have a
great deal to do. And then, you know, we shall be
going to America, when Robert sends for us.'

Maybe it drill turn out my father has left him
something, though it is not very likely.'

No, it is not very likely,' repeated Janeyy
mechanically.

Well, I must bid ye good-morning. When allis
over I'll drop ye a line ; but be sure ye don't go
near the house, unless ye wish to give Robert a
chance of soon taking a second wife.'

After delivering himself of which jocular and
cheering remark, Mr. David McCullagh shook hands
with his sister-in-law, who had, he decided, ' gone off
terribly,' and walked away in the direction of the
Bank.

She stood for a minute when he left her, and then

all in a hurry, as if distrusting her noun resolution,
and desirous of putting it beyond recall, she turned
sharp along London Wall, and made her way straight
into Basinghall-street.

The front door of the old house stood wide as
usual, and business seemed being attended to in the
office, which Janeyy entered without ceremony.

Mr. Roy,' she said, walking up to the counting-house,
where Mr. McCullagh had been wont to sit.
As she spoke, the manager lifted his eyes and looked
at the person addressing him.

Preserve us !' he exclaimed; 'it's Mrs. Robert!

mem, and it's a changed and sorrowful house ye're
entered.'

I never heard a word of the illness till last
night, or I should have been here before; and now

1 have come to nurse him.*

Ye don't know what your saying, Mrs. Robert.'


Yes, I do,' she answered. ' I am going to stop
here till Mr. McCullagh is better or worse. He
won't know me, and if he did it would not matter
much.'

*But it's a deathly fever; the doctors say it is
most virulent.'

I can't help that ; my husband's father shan't

die without one belonging to him at his side while I
am near enough to take my place there.'

The children, though, Mrs. Robert  the children
?'

They will be seen to. Which is the room ?
Stay, before I go in I want to write a note to Mr.
Mostin. Will you send it round to him ?'

I will. But, dear mem, won't ye take a thought
first for yourself ?'

'I have,' she replied; ' I feel sure I am going todo
what I ought to do, and for the rest we are in the
hands of God.'

And may He bring ye safe through the ordeal !'
said Mr. Eoy solemnly.

Amen,' murmured Janeyy. Just for a moment
the thought of husband and children dimmed her
eyes ; but the next she was tracing a few lines to
Alfred Mostin, which Mr. Roy promise should be
despatched to North-street at once ; then, removing
her shawl and bonnet, and asking Alick to take them
up-stairs, she left the office, crossed the hall, turned
the handle of the left-hand door, and entered the
room where Mr. McCullagh lay.

It was done ! No use in any one attempting to
dissuade her now.

She crossed that portion of the apartment which

Mr. McCullagh had utilised for his private office,
and, passing behind the partition, which did not
reach to the ceiling, stood for a second looking at
the scene before her.

On a small table an elderly woman was arranging
some medicine-bottles, glasses, and so forth; while
beside the bed there stood two doctors looking attentively
at their patient, who lay apparently exhausted,
flushed, unshaven, almost unrecognisable.

The whole of the furniture was of the poorest
and oldest description, the bedclothes were tossed
and tumbled, while the hands and arms stretched
wearily out over the coverlet were thin and wasted to
a degree.

Involuntarily Janeyy moved a step forward, and as
she did so one of the medical men turned and beheld
her with surprise.

She did not hesitate then, but walked close up
beside the couch.

*I am the wife of Mr. McCullagh's eldest son,'
she said, in a low voice, ' and I have come to nurse
your patient. I know there is great danger, but I
am not afraid. Tell me what you wish done, and I
will try to do it.'

In a few words they told her exactly how the case
stood. They might call it hopeless ; but still while

life remained there was a chance, though a poor one.
They seemed glad she was come, indeed the elder
expressed some regret she had been unable to come
before.

I did not know anything of the illness till last
night,' she answered.

That poor creature is quite worn out,' said one
of the medical men, indicating the woman Janeyy soon
understood to be Mr. McCullagh's housekeeper.

Then she had better go and have a few hours'
sleep,' was the prompt reply ; ' I can see to everything
that is wanted.'

I hope to send in an experienced nurse this
afternoon.'

I am afraid we shall need her.'

It was like a dream : without the knowledge or
consent of one of Mr. McCullagh's family she had
taken the control in his sick-room, and even while
she talked in whispers was changing the aspect of
the apartment.

When her father-in-law moaned and moved his
head uneasily, with quick deft hand she moved the
pillow, so as to enable him to rest more comfortably.


With cool clean handkerchief she wiped the
cracked swollen lips, and then moistened them with

a refreshing liquid the doctor indicated. Noiselessly
she glided about the room, clearing useless
articles away  cloths, phials, jugs, plates, basins 
all the lumber illness seems ever to collect about it.
In ten minutes after the doctors were gone she had
everything taken from the apartment which was not
actually required ; already it seemed more airy.

I wish either that partition was down or that we
had the bed on the other side of it,' she sighed ; for
there was no fireplace in the part Mr. McCuUagh had
reserved to himself for a bedchamber.

She was alone with him now, she had sent the
weary housekeeper up-stairs ; she had borrowed a cap
and an apron, to identify herself more fully with the
character of a nurse ; she had sprinkled the floor
with some disinfectant ; she had bathed the palms
of his hands, and placed cold cloths upon his forehead
; she had made everything as neat and comfortable
and clean in the time as was possible, and had
just sat down to wait the next attack of delirium, when
a knock came to the door, and opening it cautiously,
she saw Alfred Mostin.

0, why have you come ? what are you doing
here ?' she asked.

I have come to look, after you,* he answered ; ' I
wish I had bitten my tongue out before I told you he

was ill. However, that can't be helped now : I shall
stop in the house, so as to take my turn in the
watching. No, you need not say one word. I promised
Bob to take care of you, and I shan't stir from
my post while you are likely to want assistance.'

But the children, Alfred! the children !' cried
Janeyy.

Mrs. Mostin, Bob's step-grandmother, if a
woman ever stood in such a relationship, is with
them. Don't be afraid ; she will see to them far
better than I could have done. And now what do
you think of him ?'

'He is very bad indeed,' she answered. Look !'
and she drew him where he could see the bed.

Poor old chap !' said Als Mostin, looking almost
pitifully at the recumbent figure, ' I am afraid it is
all up with him.'

ALL ME. MCULLAGH WANTED.

Those only who through the night-watches have all
alone kept vigil beside the sick are competent to
speak of the terrible solitude which broods over the
hours of darkness. The professional nurse, the paid
attendant, or gratuitous ' sister,' knows nothing of
that solemn desolation which enters into the very
soul of the woman who honestly remains awake;
who neither drops off nor nods, but sits with wide-open
ej'es, ready at any moment to moisten the
parched lips ; to smooth the crumpled pillow ; to
give needful medicine ; to touch with the assurance
of warm living help the hand flung wildly, restlessly
about in search of something it fails to reach ; to
wipe the clammy forehead and speak tender words,
which even if whispered in answer to the ravings of
delirium, soothe the restlessness of fever, and lessen
the fear and horror of a struggle man happily remembers
little concerning, when from the very valley
of the shadow he is brought back to life.

It was these watches Mr. McCullagh's faithful
nurse took upon herself. She had seen enough of
illness to be aware it is night which tries the sick
and those who are supposed to look after them ; that
the hardest part of a nurse's duty is compressed
into about six hours out of the twenty-four; that
although it may be comparatively easy to obtain good
help for the ailing or dying during three-fourths
of the day, it is next to impossible to find a person
who can be trusted to keep awake from midnight till
the world begins to stir.

Never, never afterwards could Janeyy bear to
speak of those nights when, all alone  for she would
have no companion  she listened to Mr. McCullagh's
ravings, and fought with death through the minutes
and the hours. There is no form of illness so trying
as that which produces delirium. Pain, restlessness,
irritability, weakness, are each bad enough to
contend against ; but when everything is said which
can be said, there is nothing so terrible as to listen
to a person talking who is not in his right mind ; to
sit beside one whose speech is wandering though his
body is still, who utters no connected sentence, who
can understand no sensible word, but who keeps on
groping and muttering through the treasure-house of
the past ; at each instant turning over some perfectly

VOL. III. R

worthless memory, toiling over roads long left behind,
recalling people dead and gone years and years
before, babbling concerning events that had better
have been permitted to lie at the very bottom of the
waters of oblivion.

In all the revelations Mr. McCullagh made, there
was no sin or shame. Amid all the useless rags he
turned over in the past, none he need have dreaded
being seen of men was exposed to view. Nevertheless,
the experiences Janeyy listened to were, as a rule,
petty; the objects unconsciously revealed seemed to
her mean and petty, the aims low, the motives sordid.
Nothing great, or lofty, or pathetic, or grand, broke
the terrible monotony of these dreadful nights. Now
he was a small boy wading in the ' tide ' at Greenock ;
again he was in Arran, walking with some ' lassie '
with ' lint white locks' he had much to say concerning
; sometimes the troubles of his married life came
uppermost ; but as a rule his worst and most constant
ravings were about Robert and Pousnett and
herself.

For the first time she really understood the
length and breadth of the dislike Mr. McCullagh
had conceived for her. Through all the broken sentences,
the almost incoherent talk, the wild ravings,
and the weak murmurs of prostration, that one

theme was clearly recognisable. She heard herself
derided, misjudged, calumniated; found how truly
the sufferer believed she ' had parted him and his
son,' who would ' have come to like his old father
some day.'

It was more than she had bargained for, this
frank exposition of her own shortcomings and
imaginary iniquities, this unreserved statement of a
hatred which it seemed to her nature impossible she
could feel towards any one ; and it would be idle to
deny that, worn and sorrowful as she was, the iron
entered into her very soul. Some day it might even
be Robert himself would come to think she had destroyed
his prospects ; for Mr. McCullagh talked at
intervals much about his money, and declared, till
she grew weary of the iteration, that not one penny
of it should go to Robert, or Robert's children.

Hour by hour her task seemed to grow heavier,
her burden more intolerable ; yet still it was with
the tenderest devotion, the sweetest patience, she
kept on at her post. If she had been his own
daughter she could not have done more to try to
lessen his sufferings. Nothing love could suggest,
or thoughtfulness supply, did she permit him to
lack; the thousand little luxuries those who have
money, or the command of money, can obtain to

soothe the agonies of bodily sickness, she begged
Mr. Roy to procure  each, perhaps, but a trifle, in
the aggregate not of much account, yet tending to
make that awful period when the body lay stretched
on the rack of pain, and the mind was wandering
hither and thither like a troubled spirit, restlessly
looking back over the events of time, while pacing
with trembling fear the shore of eternity, somewhat
more bearable.

He hung thus for days, growing weaker and
weaker ; but the fever did not increase, there seemed
a pause in the progress of the disease. It was as a
fire might be, stayed, though not quenched; but
still the doctors held out no hope, and it was the
fifth night Janeyy had kept watch.

One of the medical men, who came in late, warned
her that another crisis was at hand, and probably
the next morning would terminate the suspense. A
great chilliness had supervened upon the dull close
weather of the last fortnight. Already Death seemed
to have walked into the sick-chamber, bringing with
it a sensation of icy cold.

They had managed to get Mr. McCullagh into
the larger half of the room, preparing another bed,
and lifting his light weight in the sheets ; and now
she made up a good fire, and, screening the blaze

from his eyes, sat down beside him to wait for the
end.

He was not delirious now ; he lay still, deep sunk
in sleep or stupor. She could scarcely catch the
sound of his breathing ; occasionally she bent over
the bed, to make sure he had not died and made no
sign ; occasionally there was a little gasping moan, a
sort of strangled sobbing sound, as though breath
was failing him. The silence after the babble of
delirium seemed terrible : when it grew unendurable
she rose softly, and walking to the end of the room
where he formerly slept, lifted the blind and looked
out into the court. High above, the stars were shining
brightly ; the gaslight burned steadily ; the flagstones
looked dry and white, as though there were
frost in the air. It was the coldest time of all the
night  the hour before dawn, when it is said so
many die ; though this statement, like many others
in connection with illness, is open to question. An
indescribable sadness fell over her spirits : when
next she looked up at the sky, where would the man
she had perilled her own life to try to save have
gone? Personally she did not now hope that he
would recover; it seemed to her impossible any
human being should walk so far into the loneliness
of the darksome valley as he had done, and yet

return flora death. How could she write and tell
Robert that on earth he and his father would never
meet more ? that without a sign or message he had
passed into the vast eternity ? with what words should
she try to give him comfort, and say that, although
unconscious, the old man had not been left alone 
that she was with him when he died, that she touched
the rigid hand, and knelt by his bedside, and had
prayed for him, unable at that supreme moment to
utter prayer or supplication for himself ?

The weary time dragged on : day began to break,
there were streaks of light in the sky, the fire was
burning dimly, and once more she made it up, picking
out the coal with thin nervous fingers, that no
noise might break the stillness. She bent over him
again ; his breathing was lower than ever, but less
painful ; the moaning had ceased, that gasping sobbing
she did not hear. He lay quiet, as though
dead; in his coffin he would scarcely give less sign
of life. Yes, the end must be very near. For the
first time a great terror seemed to seize her. Should
she summon help ? It appeared awful to stand alone
face to face with death, to see depart into the dim
mysterious land, where human footsteps may not
follow, from out of which no voice can be heard, one
who had not at the supreme moment a single friend

near him save the woman he disliked, whose faults
had been ceaselessly on his lips during the whole of
his terrible illness, and whom she thought mournfully
he ' can now never, never understand.'

She moved to the door, and then paused irresolute ;
it would be cruel to awake the sleepers when they
could do no good. Time enough when it was allover,
when her part was finished, and the still heart
could no longer misjudge or the cold lips blame.
She returned to her post. He was still lying in the
same position ; she extinguished the night-lamp, and
opening the shutters, let in a gleam or two of the
glory of the coming day.

She had not seen the sun since she entered the
house ; but now, through the opening portals of
the dawn, appeared rays  golden, purple, crimson
bright heralds of his approaching advent.

She looked at the sky and marvelled where he,
who now lay so quiet, would be when another morning
broke. Slowly the minutes passed and the light
grew stronger, and the sun arose in his majesty and
shone down upon the awakening city. In the house
there were sounds as if some one were stirring.
Then, after all, when the end came, she need not
be quite alone ; and yet now it seemed to her she
would prefer hearing the last sigh, seeing the last

tremor, without the presence of another human
being breaking in upon the awful solitude.

She did not feel afraid then ; the wave of mortal
terror had swept by and left her calm. There came
a gentle tap on the panel of the door ; when she
turned the handle she found it was the housekeeper
with a cup of tea.

She went out into the hall and drank it eagerly.

How is he ?' asked the woman.

Very bad indeed, I am afraid,' was the answer ;
he has not uttered a sound for a long time  just
lain like one already dead.'

 Poor dear!' said the housekeeper. Ah, it was
nigh upon sixty years since any one called Mr.
McCullagh a ' poor dear' before.

After a time one of the doctors came. He did
not speak, but looked inquiringly at Janeyy, who shook
her head. He crossed the room and stood beside
the bed, looking at the patient ; then he slipped his
hand underneath the sheet and felt the feeble flickering
pulse.

When did this change take place ?' he asked,
moving to the hearth and speaking in a whisper.

*He ceased moaning about three,' Janeyy replied,
'and has not stirred or moved since.'

'I will stop a little while,' said the doctor ; and

he laid down his hat and gloves, and cast himself
into the easy-chair Robert had bought for his father
when first admitted into Pousnetts'.

Do you think  ' she began, and stopped, afraid
to finish her question.

I think there is a chance for him  stay, stay,
don't break down now ;' but already she had left the
room, and in an upper chamber was on her knees,
thanking God for His great mercy vouchsafed, and
imploring Him to give her this life, for which she
had literally wrestled with death.

Back from the very valley' of darkness, as it
seemed to mortal eyes, the man came slowly, lingeringly.
If the illness had been bad, the recovery
seemed almost worse : with feeble halting steps he
returned so slowly, that hour by hour no progress
seemed to be made, and it was only by looking back
from the vantage-ground of days any real progress
could be noticed.

Once, however, he had got what Mr. Roy tersely
called ' the turn,' it was wonderful to see how anxious
his children grew concerning his recovery.

All fear of infection seemed forgotten, or else, in
the more burning question of whether he might not
think himself neglected, that fear became of secondary
importance.

First came David and Archie, then David's wife,
wife, and Archie's too ; fast as the express could
bring him Kenneth travelled to London after receiving
a telegram stating their father was 'on the mend,
and Robert's wife had been nursing him.'

This fact, of which, till David called at the house,
they were all in total ignorance, stirred the family as
with the sound of a trumpet. Janeyy in the very
citadel ; Janeyyyy by their father's bedside : Janeyyyy
giving him his medicine ; Janeyy feeding him like
an infant ; Janeyy and Alfred Mostin, the very two
most dangerous people in the whole wide world !
It was time indeed, Kenneth felt, he should take
train. He had never expected to have to do so
except for the funeral ; but this matter was more
pressing. Who knew what work had been on
hand ? who could ever give a guess as to how she
might have been poisoning the old man's mind,
maybe even making away with papers ?' thought
Mr. Johnston's son-in-law, in an agony of apprehension.


Upon this point, however, David speedily reassured
him.

'When the doctors said it was fever,' he explained,
' old Koy said he took it upon him to lock
up every receptacle, as what with one and another

being in and out, and having liberty through the
house, he could not tell what might happen.

There's no harm done yet,' finished David significantly.
' She's dressed like any other nurse ;
and if she wasn't, I think he is too bad and weak,
and has been too far through, to dwell much upon
one more nor another ; but some of us ought to be
there now. He should not be left ; it's dangerous.'

No lack of nurses then, whatever there might
have been in the earlier stages of that terrible fever.
Had the week held fourteen nights, Mr. McCullagh
would not have lacked a watcher for one of them.
In the opinion of his sons, no beef-tea could be too
strong, or eggs too new laid, or grapes too dear, or
luxury too expensive for their father. One vied with
another as to which should think of fresh delicacies
likely to give him strength. Mrs. David, and Mrs.
Archie, and Mrs. Kenneth were all on the spot 
even Mrs. Nicol's services came into request ; and if
Mr. McCullagh had wanted his position changed
sixty times in the hour, there would have been willing
hands ready to serve his whim.

But Mr. McCullagh wanted nothing of the sort ;
the things he desired were precisely those he could
not get  peace and quietness and the sight of a face
which had vanished from out the house. At first he

made two or three Feeble efforts to compass this
wishes ; he professed often and often that he
thought he could 'drop over,' when nothing was
further from his feelings than sleep ; and he tried
to get back his former attendant by asking,

Where's the woman used to sit wi' me in the
night ?'

But it was all of no use. With one accord the
household professed a total inability to imagine what
woman he meant. ' Was it the servant, or Mrs.
Eoy, or the nurse the doctor recommended ?' ' No,
he was sure it was none of them.'

Well, ye mind ye were delirious most part of
your time,' said Kenneth ; while as for Mrs. Kenneth,
' all the arts of man,' as poor Mr. McCuUagh
said subsequently, would not have kept her out of
his room.

If I can't get better soon I'll go mad,' he observed
to Mr. Roy; and, acting on this conviction,
he set himself to work to regain his health with
something of the old persistency that had won his
fortune.

When he was able at last to sit up, and after a
little while longer walk about his room, he said one
day to Kenneth,

If ye think it needful ye can stay a while longer

with me yourself, but I wish we'd send your wife
home. She means well, I've no doubt, and I'll be
glad to see her when I am strong and hearty ; but
I tell ye plainly I find her a bit too much for me
now.'

I told you how it would be,' remarked Kenneth
to the gushing lady, when he repeated this observation.
' Why can't you keep quiet, and not make a
fool of yourself ? Ye might have been of use at such
a time if you had owned any sense.'

Which was extremely disagreeable on the part
of Kenneth, since he himself had encouraged those
silly ways' Mr. McCullagh's soul abhorred.

Kenneth had not been long on guard alone, a
proud distinction which wearied him to death, before
Mr. McCullagh began to show very palpably that his
presence also could be dispensed with.

He made Mr. Eoy bring the books into his private
room, once more transformed into an office;
and they had long confabulations, to which Kenneth
was not admitted, and consultations in which
he had no share.

If you can do without me, father,' he said one
day, ' I'd like to take a run down home to see how
things are going on. I'll come up again almost immediately.'


I can do without ye well enough,' agreed Mr.
McCullagh readily  far, far too readily.

David '11 look round often while I'm away.'

I am very sure he will. Don't make yourself
uneasy about me.'

Whether Kenneth followed this excellent advice
or not is doubtful; but, at all events, he went.
And he had not been what Mr. McCullagh styled
off the premises' two hours before that gentleman
sent a note to Alfred Mostin's chambers, asking
him to come round and see him.

To which Mr. Alfred Mostin returned a verbal
answer that he could not come.

Mr. McCullagh then wrote another note, signifying
that he must. Mr. Mostin returned a second
verbal message which was exceedingly plain and
simple in its brevity :

Tell him that I won't.'

In high dudgeon, Mr. McCullagh sent for a cab,
and, accompanied by Alick, set out for North-street.

There he found Mr. Mostin gloomily seated behind
his desk.

There wasn't one of them would tell me what
I wanted to know,' began Mr. McCullagh, ' so I've
come to ye. It was Robert's wife nursed me, wasn't
it?'

'Yes.'

And I saw you too, didn't I ?'

Yes.'

*I want ye to bring her to me.'

I can't.'

Why can't ye ?'

She wouldn't come if I asked her.'

Then will ye take me to her ?'

I don't think you are strong enough '
I am well as ever I was.'

And you won't blame me, if you see what you
don't Hke ?'

No, man ; I won't blame ye, whatever it is.'

Why, you are shaking in anticipation. Shall I
send out for some wine, or you will take a drop of
whisky ?'

'I'll take nothing,' answered Mr. McCullagh
decidedly. ' All I need is to see Robert's wife.'

Then come along,' said Mr. Mostin ; and he
took his hat.

Robert's wife.

When they entered, she was sitting on a low chair
before the fire. For a moment she looked round
listlessly ; then, without speaking, she turned her
gaze from them towards the smouldering embers
once more.

Her features were pinched and drawn ; her
cheeks white and sunken ; her black dress literally
hung upon her wasted figure. Mr. McCullagh
glanced at Alfred Mostin in despairing interrogation,
but meeting with no response, drew a chair close beside
his daughter-in-law, and would have taken her
hand had she not drawn it slowly away.

I'm sorry to see ye not looking very well, Jean,'
he began. ' Have ye been ill ?'

No, I have not been ill.'

What's the matter ? have ye heard bad news of
Robert ?'

She shook her head.

What is it, then ? Tell me ; maybe I can
help ye.'

She did not answer; she only covered her face
with her hands and rocked herself backwards and
forwards.

'Janeyy,' broke in Mr. Mostin at this juncture,
shall I let him know what has happened ?'

Mr. McCullagh waited breathlessly, and then
through the room there rang out an exceeding bitter
cry:

0, my child, my child, my child !'

Her child was buried yesterday,' explained Mr.
Mostin, and he turned his head aside.

Which o' them ? for the Lord's sake, which ?'

Annie, Annie ; my little Annie !' and as if some
barrier had suddenly been broken down, the bereaved
mother burst into passionate and uncontrollable
weeping.

That is better,' said Alfred Mostin huskily. * I
have been wanting her to cry. Ever since the little
one died she has not shed a tear till now.'

There ensued a silence broken only by Janeyy's
convulsive sobbing. Twice Mr. McCullagh timidly
stretched out his hand to lay it on her shoulder, and
twice he drew it back, appalled by the extremity of
her grief. He opened his mouth to speak, but closed

VOL. III. s

it again for lack of any word that should seem other
than a mockery of her anguish.

You have seen what you asked to see ; you
have heard what you wanted to know'  it was Alfred
Mostin who said this, addressing Mr. McCullagh :
as there is nothing you can do here, don't you think
you had better go back to Basinghall-street ?'

'If I could be any comfort,' hesitated Robert's
father.

That is precisely what you cannot be. Come,
Mr. McCullagh, you had better let well alone. The
sight of you has broken the ice, and that is more
than I expected. Leave her to mourn her child as
she was left to bear other burdens  alone.'

Mr. Alfred Mostin had not a pleasant way of
putting things, but there was such an undeniable
amount of sense in his suggestion that Mr. McCul-
laugh rose, and saying, ' Good-bye just now, Jean ;
111 soon be seeing ye again,' rose and left the room.

When he reached the foot of the stairs he turned
to Mr. Mostin, and asked if there was any place
where he could speak to him. For answer, that
gentleman unceremoniously pushed open the door of
a small parlour, which chanced at that moment to
be empty, and, thrusting his hands deep into his
pockets, said gloomily.

Now, what is it '?'

Mr. McCullagh looked up at him with an air
both of surprise and doubt, but, making no comment
upon the strangeness of his manner, asked,

Will ye tell me what it was wee Annie died of?'

'Fever,' was the laconic answer.

You don't mean  '

Yes, I do ; the mother came back too soon, and
the child caught it. She got better of the fever, but
she had not strength to live. She lingered a while,
and died on Sunday.'

TVTiy wasn't I told ?'

Why should you have been told, when, in a
civil sort of way, your sons showed Robert's wife the
sooner she left your house the better ; when night
and day your own tongue never ceased reviling the
woman who was spending her health, jeopardising
her life for you / This minute you would not be
standing opposite to me, if she had not gone to you
when no relation or friend but fled from your side in
terror. Long before now your sons would have been
wrangling over the money they implied she wanted,
if Robert's wife had not nursed and tended you as a
mother might her infant.'

Like one suddenly stricken Mr. McCullagh stood
dumb.

She has been cruelly, mercilessly used among
you,' went on Alfred Mostin, in his passion careless of
how hard he hit. 'It was a black day for her that on
which she first saw your son, and a blacker when she
married into a family that, having neither nobility of
nature nor generosity of heart, cannot understand
the possession of such traits in anybody else. It has
all fallen out as I expected. I advised her to have
nothing to do with any one of you ; and now you
have broken her heart and killed her child, and  '

Stop !' said Mr. McCullagh, and there was
pathos and even dignity in his trembling voice and
uplifted right hand. * If I have been wrong, I am
not answerable to you ; if I have erred, it is not to
you I must humble myself. Wait here for me a
minute; don't come between us till I have said my
say.'

All right,' agreed ]mr. Mostin : ' if you can say
anything to undo what you have done, I'll wait here
for a week.'

With his noiseless gliding step Mr. McCullagh
walked to the door : when he reached it he turned,
and, looking steadily at his enemy, said, ' I'm obliged
to ye,' and walked straight up-stairs.

His daughter-in-law was still seated before the
fire, but, in the abandonment of her o-nef, she had

flung one arm over the back of her chah-, and with
weary, weary head resting against her shoulder was
sobbing as though her very heart would break.

There was no hesitation or incertitude about Mr.
McCullagh now. Crossing the room, he took up his
position beside the chimne373iece, and began,

Jean, lift up your face for a minute.'

She did not answer verbally, only shook her head
in dissent.

'I want to speak to ye; I have something I
must say.'

She made a dumb gesture, signifying she could
hear, though she was unable to check her sobs.

Do ye mind when your mother was taken ill T

Her head moved slightly.

She was a good mother, and a kind, I make
small doubt ; anyhow she was fond of ye.'

As the wind brings sometimes a torrent of rain,
so this appeal to a fresh emotion produced a gust of
fiercer weeping.

And I want to ask ye, as a reasonable woman,
which I don't think ye are in a state to be considered
at this minute, if, after  after she  that is,
I mean when she wasn't altogether what she once
had been  she had said things ye thought a trifle
unfair and cruel, would ye have judged them the

utterances of her natural mind, or thought to yourself,
"It is the disease as is talking, not my mother" ?'

There was a lull for an instant; then Janeyy,
burying her face more resolutely, wept tears that
seemed wrung from the very depths of her soul.

Well, and though I am not your mother,' proceeded
Mr. McCullagh after a slight pause, ' I ask
ye to judge me no harder than ye would her. If,
when I was sick, I said hitter things about ye  and
I'm told I did  it was not me, hut the fever. I
don't believe any of the poor creatures mentioned in
the Scriptures were ever possessed by worse devils
than those that tore and tortured me. It was they
spoke Jeanie, not your husband's father, that ye
watched beside like an angel from heaven ; on my
soul and conscience it was they ! Look up, Jeanie,
look up ; and for the Lord's sake say ye know I am
not telling ye a lee.'

She did look up ; she lifted a face changed with
weeping, stained with tears, and she said something,
in a broken gasping whisper, he made oat to be he
had always hated her, and it was hard, hard, for she
had from the very first wanted to be friends with
him.

And if I was wrong once, ay, if I was wrong for
years  and I freely confess I was  is that any reason

I should go on being wrong for ever ? If ye'll let me
be your friend now, I'll try to make atonement;
there's my hand on it. What, ye won't take it ?
and yet many's the night, when I lay swinging out
into eternity, I felt your hand laid on mine, and
knew there was virtue in it.'

*But you would not speak to  her! Do you
remember that morning in Guildford-street, when
she had on her pretty new bonnet, and  '

She could not go on ; again she hid her face, and
her tears flowed like water.

I do mind,' he said, and he also kept silence.

'Jean'  it was a few seconds before he spoke
again, and then a suspicious tremor shook his voice
' Jean, did she want for any single thing ?'

*No ; I'd have gone out and begged sooner.'

If I'd known  if I had but known ! Woman,
woman, why didn't ye send to me ? money might
have saved her.'

Nothing could have saved her, after  once I 
had  brought  home  death  to her  as I might
a toy.'

God help ye, Jean ! God help us both, for that
matter !'

There ensued a long pause, during which Janeyy
wept quietly, and Mr. McCullagh stood looking

mournfully' upon a sorrow he was impotent to
soothe.

Ye'll do yourself a hurt, I am much afraid,' he
said at last. ' Try not to take on as you're doing.
Think of jour husband  of Robert, ye mind.'

He could net have offered any suggestion less
likely to comfort her. In a torrent her grief again
broke bounds ; in an agony she moaned and rocked
herself backwards and forwards.

And 0,' this was the burden of that wailing
lament, ' when he comes back and asks me for his
little Annie, what am I to tell him ?'

Tell him,' answered Mr. McCullagh, ' that she
is gone to One who will take better care of her than
ever we could. Don't greet like that; it just rends
my heart. Is there nothing will comfort ye ? Ailfred,
Ailfred,' he cried, running out on the landing,
come up and see if ye can do anything with her.
Can't ye think of some word to ease her grief ?'

Yes,' said Mr. Mostin, ' I know now what to
say. If you go, I will talk to her.'

Ye'll no try to set her against me, Ailfred,'
pleaded Mr. McCullagh, standing at the ' stairhead.'


I will not try to set her against you,' answered
Mr. Mostin. To judge from the expression of his

face, he was going to add some disagreeable reason
for this promised abstinence, but he refrained.

'I think I'll Avait below till I hear how she is,'
suggested Mr. McCullagh.

No, don't do that ; if you like, I will call round
this evening and let you know.'

'I would take it very kind of ye,' said Mr.
McCullagh meekly; and he added subsequently,
though not then, he had also taken it very kind of
Ailfred to run down the stair after him and call the
cabman, who was waiting a little distance off, and
help him into the vehicle and bang the door, telling
him at the same time not to be fretting about Janeyy.

She will do now,' finished the ne'er-do-weel.
I'll see to her.'

As the cab rattled down the City-road, deep and
bitter were the thoughts which coursed through the
mind of the man who had stood, not two months
previously, knocking at the very door of death.

The loss of the child, his son's only daughter ;
the memory of that sunny morning in Guildford-street,
when, framed in the ' pretty new bonnet,' he
saw the ' bonnie wee face' and passed it by ; the
mother's wild grief, ' the like of which he had never
witnessed before ;' the ' lady way she had with her'
even in the midst of her trouble ; the words Alfred

Mostin had spoken  each one of these things, and
fifty more that came crowding upon his memory,
pierced his heart like the stab of a dagger. His
sons and his sons' wives, and even Mr. and Mrs.
Nicol, had seemed right glad to welcome him back
to life and health. He could not think  it would be
wicked for him to think  anybody in the wide world
would have been wishful for him to die ; but still, if
he had died  if he had  they would have got over it
by now, as he himself might the death of another ;
and they would have been parting his money and
considering about carrying on the business ; and
rich as he was, well as he stood in the City, highly
as he knew himself to be respected, the waters of
oblivion would have closed over him long before they
lay still and waveless above the memory of a ' bit
child whose father was a bankrupt, and whose grandmother
had been little better nor a madwoman.'

And not one of them would have " let on" to me
about Jean, if they could have helped it. They pretended
not to know who I was talking about when I
spoke of the woman with the quiet ways and the soft
kind hands ; and if it had not been for my own
forbye power o' memory, and Mr. Roy, whom they
cautioned not to say a word about her, for fear I
might be vexed, I'd have gone to my grave the next

time without even a chance of thanking her for
saving me from it this. I'll no say there altogether
to blame, for it's their nature ; but where do they
get it ? The mother was just one separate in the
way of thinking of herself, to be sure ; but the old
man, though he couldn't keep two sixpences in his
pocket, had kind ways with him. And Robert
wasn't so bad-hearted either; and Ailfred, if he
did not drink and could see the beauty and holiness
of commercial honesty, is a man something might
be made of; he has been good to Robert's wife, and
he was not bad to me. I never thought to be beholden
to him for lifting me about on a sick bed.
Where do they get it ?' reverting to the question of
the mercenary disposition of his other children. ' I
wonder if it's from me '? Maybe they've inherited
the hard bit without the soft tender spot auld Rab
knows is in him.'

As delicately as he could, the same evening he
insinuated this question to Alfred Mostin, over a
'tumbler;' but Mr. Mostin, though drinking at his
host's expense the very best ' Scotch' that ever came
across the Border, was in no mood for complimentary
or diplomatic utterances. He felt very
angry about the way Robert's wife had been treated,
and his grief for the death of the child was keen and

new. He refused utter to say a good word for anyone
of the Basinghall-street faction.

If you want that,' he said, ' you must go to the
woman they sent out to carry the infection of your
illness home. I have not the gifts of charity and
forgiveness, but she has. She could find some
merit even in Kenneth, I've no doubt.'

I have been considering,' ventured Mr. McCul-
laugh, after the pause which succeeded this utterance,
that I'd like her weel to come and stop here with
the children  altogether, ye understand. D'ye think
she'd do it ?'

Not just now. Give her time, and she might.'

Would ye sound her on the matter ?'

No ; you had better speak yourself.'

Ye wouldn't stop her, would ye, Ailfred ? I
can see she sets great store by what ye say.'

You may be sure I won't stop her doing anyone
thing that is for her good.'

And ye think what I propose would be ?'
I am sure of it.'

 When would ye have me ask her ?'
I will tell you after a while.'
Don't let it be too long first.'
No longer than seems wise ;' spite of which
assurance, weeks passed and he made no sign. To

all Mr. McCullagh's remonstrances be returned short
and evasive answers, and that gentleman was thinking
seriously" of taking the matter into his own
hands, and relying solely on his own judgment, as ' I
ought to have done from the first,' when one day
Alfred met him at the door of Janeyy's lodgings, and
said,

You can ask her now, if you like.'

An opportunity soon presented itself. Janeyy,
calm and restored to something vaguely resembling
the woman who had that morning, which seemed so
long and long before, met David McCuUagh at the
corner of London Wall, was saying next time Mr.
McCullagh came he would most probably see the
boys.

I mean to have them home at last,' she added.
I am sure I shall never know how to thank Mrs.
Mostin sufficiently for having taken charge of them
at her house for such a time.'

But ye're never surely going to bring them
back here !' exclaimed Mr. McCullagh.

*Why not?' she asked. 'There is not the
slightest danger now ; and I could not get such a
cheap place, perhaps, anywhere else. Besides  '

Besides what ?' inquired Mr. McCullagh.

The mistress of the house was always so good
to Annie, and so kind to me when  I lost her.'

Then outspoke Mr. McCullagh :

I tell ye, Jean, what I've had in my mind for
weeks past, only Ailfred there told me it was no use
asking ye till the first of the fret was over. Come
to me. There's a big house standing empty ; there's
fine playroom there for the children, and they'll not
be in anybody's way. I'll be real glad to have
ye all. Will ye come ? Will ye forgive and forget,
and be friends with an old man, who isn't too proud
to own he was wrong ? She's looking at you,
Ailfred ; for once speak up in my favour.'

Janeyy turned to Mr. McCullagh as he uttered
the last sentence, and then again to Alfred, wistfully.


What do you say ?' she asked.

That you ought to accept Mr. McCullagh's offer,
as freely as it is made. While Robert is away, the
best place for you and the children is his father's
house.'

Weel said, Ailfred; that's right weel spoken!'
cried Mr. McCullagh, with exultation.

She put out her hand shyly, yet trustfully, as
she said,

If I go to your house, you won't misunderstand

me again ?'

Never, Jean, never; ye may rely on that ;' and
he pressed her hand between both of his.
She stooped down and kissed his left, which lay
uppermost.

'Hoots, girl!' exclaimed Mr. McCullagh, scandalised,
' don't kiss my hand ! It is a perfect waste
of a good thing.'

Alfred Mostin burst out laughing. If his life
had depended upon his gravity, he could not have
done otherwise. That laugh settled the matter ; it
was like sunshine after rain, brightness after gloom.

In five minutes everything was arranged, and by
him. The boys should not return to the Lower-road.
He himself would bring them to Basinghall-street.
If Mr. McCullagh liked, he could fetch
Janeyy.

Mr. McCullagh thought he would like to fetch
her very much, and anxiously inquired when he
might do so. There ensued a little talk and hesitation
; but finally the day but one following was
decided on.'

'I would rather not come till the evening,' said
Janeyy ; ' and then I can get the children soon off
to bed.'

Well, SO long as ye come, have it your own way,'
agreed Mr. McCullagli. 'Name the time, and I'll
be here punctual.'

Six, then,' she answered promptly ; and accordingly
at six on the day appointed she bade her land-
lady good-bye, stepped into a cab, and, accompanied
by her father-in-law, drove off to her new home.

Ye know where everything is in the house,
Jean, I think,' said Mr. McCullagh ; ' and if ye find
aught wanting, ask for it.' Then, to be ' out of the
road,' he bade her good-night ; and, walking into his
own room, left her with Alfred Mostin and the boys.

CONCLUSION.

It was not without some misgivings that the next
morning Mr. McCullagh ascended to the common
sitting-room. He had done what he considered a
mere act of right and justice. To Janeyy he knew
he owed his life, and he was quite prepared to do
what he could for her in return. Nevertheless it
would be idle to deny that he looked forward with
dread to the presence at meals of three well-grown
healthy lads. By bitter experience he knew what
the breakfast-table at Mrs. Kenneth's resembled :
and felt little doubt that, though a ' beyond the
common' sensible woman, Mrs. Robert would be as
great a fool' about her young ones as the wife oi
his second son.

To his amazement, however, he found no 'young
ones' present; and his glance wandering to the table,
he saw the cloth was laid only for two.

Where are the children ?' he asked, not even
answering his daughter-in-law's 'good-morning.'

VOL. in. T

They had their breakfast au hour ago she
answered. ' Your life she went on, smiling, * shall
not be made a weariness by them. If they often tire
me out, who am their mother, what would their constant
presence be to you *?'

0, they wouldn't hurt me,' answered Mr.
McCullagh ; but still he sat down to table relieved.
Never had his rasher tasted better, or his tea been
more to his mind.' Things were beginning well,
he thought. If only Janeyy had not been dressed in
black, and her face white and peaky ! But she tried
her best, poor soul ; she strove hard to remember
that though little Annie was with her mother no
longer on earth, she had gone to a Father in heaven,
who, though all Mystery, is all Love ; and in work,
hard constant work, she soon began to find that
comfort, God intended it should bring to the loneliest
man or woman, He ever saw fit to visit with all
His storms.

In the telling, all this may seem a poor and pitiful
record, yet it is really the story of a grand and
beautiful life. Small things added up make a great
total. At the end even of one short week, looking
round upon the changes effected in his life, Mr.
McCullagh wondered he had been able to live so long

without a woman who, spite of her sad face, seemed
to bring sunshine with her.

From out her boxes she produced first one thing
and then another, which changed utterly, yet by
almost imperceptible degrees, the aspect of that
dreary sitting-room. She did not trouble Mr.
McCullagh as to what he liked or disliked ; yet by
some curious chance, as he at first thought it, each
day saw upon his table the special dish for which he
had a fancy. His linen was laid out, a delicate
attention which even Janet had not affected ; his
slippers were put to warm ; there was a hole in the
pocket of his office-coat he had meant to ask her to
get mended, but when he next thrust his hands into
its depths it had been repaired ; the children were
kept out of his way ; the kettle and ' materials' each
evening were placed in his room.

In the midst of this silent consideration, Mr.
McCullagh stood like one dazed. He could not
quite understand it at first. Never in all his life
before had he been so treated. His wife had neglected
him altogether ; and Janet, when she did
attend to his wants, did so with a flourish of trumpets
which sometimes almost made him wish she
would leave him alone.

*I'm thinking I'll have to pay for it all, though.

and sharp thought Mr. McCullagh ; and he looked
forward to Monday morning with a feeling both of
curiosity and dread.

Since Janet's departure he had not catered much
for the house himself, little catering, indeed, being
required ; but at the end of each seven days the
books ' were brought to him for checking and settlement,
and woe betide the baker who was out a
farthing in his addition or the milkman who unrighteously
charged for an extra half pennyworth of
milk!

Now, however, he was prepared to see wonders,
and he did. The total of the housekeeping did not
exceed the usual moderate amount. * What the
deil!' exclaimed Mr. McCullagh to himself; but he
said nothing that week; he waited to see what would
happen next.

The same thing occurred again ; and then all ina
hurry he sought Janeyy, and asked her what she
was doing, how the children, to say nothing of herself,
were being fed.

Why,' she answered, with a swift colour mantling
in her cheeks, * as you were so very good as tolet
us stay in this dear old house  and, 0, you can't
think how pleasant it is for us to be here after those
close lodgings  I am not going to encroach on your

kindness. I am quite rich, now I have not to pay
each week for our rooms.'

Now, just mind this,' he said. ' Never you doa
thing like that again while the same roof covers
us. I'm no so within a pound or two that I need
grudge my grandchildren bite and sup. I didn't
ask ye here to let ye board yourselves, and I'm sore
vexed ye should have done it.'

They had a little talk and argument after this ;
but it ended in Mr. McCullagh having his own way.

Best take the house while ye're in it,' he said
recklessly, ' and do the best ye can with it ; I'm no
uneasy that ye'll ruin me. But three healthy children
can't be brought up for nothing ; though, indeed,
I do think it would be worth your while to try
and get them to eat porridge of a morning. It is
the finest food out for young ones to grow fat and
strong on.'

They have porridge,' answered Janeyy, ' every
morning of their lives.'

And so the days slipped by, and Mr. McCullagh,
watching that quiet figure flitting about the house,
careful, busy, thoughtful, could but wonder at his own
former blindness, and feel thankful the mists of prejudice
had at length cleared away, and he could see
his son's wife as she really was.

No woman who had not been genuinely and
utterly unselfish could have effected the total though
silent revolution Janeyy did within a very few months,
not only in Mr. McCullagh's house, but in Mr.
McCullagh himself.

The economy was as close as ever ; but it had
changed its character. No longer sordid and mean,
it merely told of some one at the head of affairs
anxious to do the strictest duty by the man who had
befriended her, who, even if she thought  and she
often did think  his ideas narrow and his mania for
saving unnecessary, still felt that in another person's
house she was bound to forget her own notions and
consider his.

With all his faults, Mr. McCullagh was a man
on whom consideration had never been thrown away,
and not to be behindhand with his daughter-in-law in
generosity, he would occasionally amaze her with,
If ye don't like the tea brewing so long, make it
your way, Jeanie ;' or * Ye haven't been used to such
poor fires, and your health is none of the best ; never
mind a lump or two. Wait, I'll do it to my own
notion. I daresay when the end of the year comes,
the extra cost won't break me.' ' I'm thinking I'll
no call ye Jean any more, but Brownie.'

Why Brownie ?' asked Janeyy.

Ye know what a brownie is ? Well, ye remember
they do everything about a house, and are
never seen doing it : that's your way. I'm sure I
never credited a woman could get through as much
and make as little work about it.'

That Mr. McCullagh's reconciliation to his eldest
son's wife should cause a great commotion amongst
the rest of the connection is a matter which goes
almost without saying.

She has got on the blind side of the old man at
last,' observed Kenneth bitterly.

She knows the length of his foot,' remarked
Mrs. Nicol. ' I'd never have believed he could have
let himself be taken in by such as she ; but it's no
concern of mine, thank goodness ! Maybe he'll find
her out, after all.'

So amongst the whole of the clan, chatter concerning
Janeyy ran round. If she had known what
was said, it might have cost her some tears ; but,
for the matter of that, if any one of us heard even
the one half of the evil our dearest friends speak
about us, life would scarce be bearable.

I wonder, I just do,' observed Mrs. Kenneth,
that you let papa call you Jean.'

Why should he not ?' asked Mrs. Robert, in
some surprise.

It's SO low : it sounds like as if you were some
poor girl out of a cabin.'

I love the name,' answered Janeyy quietly ; and,
indeed, she had cause to do so ; for it sounded like
sweet music in her ears to hear her father-in-law
calling * Jean, Jeanie,' over the house.

Where's Jean ?' ' I want a word wi' ye, Jeanie.'
He did not now remain shut up in his own room

in the evenings. He read his paper and drank his
toddy in the apartment that once looked so cold and
cheerless ; while Janeyy's busy fingers shaped some
garment for the children, or swiftly stitched away at
a piece of needful household work. It was a sort of
companionship grateful beyond belief to a man of Mr.
McCullagh's temperament. She was society yet he
need not talk to her if he did not feel inclined. He felt
free to speak or to remain silent ; and when he lifted
his eyes, and looked across at her, she met his gaze
with an ever-read smile, or some little word that, though
it broke the stillness, did not disturb the repose.

But still there were things about Robert's wife
that did not quite satisfy Robert's father. In his
own way, Mr. McCullagh was a martyr to a spirit of
insatiable curiosity ; and if ever he took what he
called * a conceit into his head,' he knew no rest till
by hook or by crook he got it out again.

Now when he asked Janeyy to bring the children
to Basinghall-street, he did it under the firm impression
she was ' next door to starving ;' that * whatever
amount of money Robert had managed to leave
behind him was running dry;' and that if he did not
take pity on her, she and hers would have to come
on the parish.

It may accordingly be imagined that when he
found she was 'no without a sixpence he felt greatly
exercised in his mind.

Robert must have had money laid by. Somehow
they had managed to make a purse. Of course she
might not, and would not, think him to blame for
considering her and the children ; but Mr. McCul-
laugh had his doubts that he ought not to have done
it. He would have thought better of them both
if they had done a 'bit of starving.' And then
another thing  where did Robert get what took him
to America ?

He pondered these questions till he worked himself
into a most uncomfortable frame of mind ; and
though he might at once have relieved himself by
putting the direct question to Janeyy, he preferred
beating about the bush, and produced in consequence
such an amount of mystification, that it was at
length only by the purest chance she came to understand

he happened to be unacquainted with the source
whence her income was derived.

I thought you knew,' she said, looking up at
him with the greatest surprise. *Mr. Lilands made
some arrangements with an insurance company, that
at poor mamma's death the amount of her annuity
should be continued to me. We had no other money
whatever, not a sixpence in the world.'

Upon this information, Mr. McCullagh for a
time rested content ; but as the months went by, he
began to ask himself why ' Jean, who had no pleasure
in saving for saving's sake,' never would buy
herself even a new pair of gloves if she could help it ?
why she was not a ' bit free' bringing the children
in toys and cakes ?

She had told him that Mr. Lilands' solicitor paid
the costs of her mother's last illness and funeral,
so they oughtn't to be in debt, because I settled
for poor little Annie's burying.' He could not make
it out. If Robert was sending home any money, he
never heard of it ; and yet it was not like him not
to think of his wife and children.

He pondered over the problem till he felt he
must solve it by some means ; and so one evening,
after Janeyy had been with him nearly a year, when
the children were in bed, and the servant too, he said,

I'm thinking, Jean, I'll have to buy ye a new
dress.'

Why ?' asked Janeyy.

Because it seems to me ye'll no buy one for
yourself. Ye're mighty stingy,' he went on, trjdng
to smile as if he were making some agreeable observation,
'about what most women will stretch a
pound or two concerning. How is it  I don't want
to be inquisitive, I'm sure, but still I wish you would
tell me  the way it comes about that ye can't make
your income, which is no so bad at all, go further *?'

She did not answer him for a minute, only
stitched on in silence. As he looked at her he saw
tears were falling on her work.

If it hurts ye  ' he was beginning, but she
interrupted him.

It is scarcely my own matter, but I do not see
why I should not tell you. When Robert went away
we had no money at all  not even enough to pay
his passage  and Mr. Snow lent him some ; and we
agreed that it should be paid back out of what I
could save ; and I am trying to get rid of that debt.
And then I want to hoard up a little more if possible,
so that when Robert sends for us I may not have to
ask him for what perhaps he might be ill able to
spare.'

0/ said Mr. McCullagh, ' that's your plan,
is it ?'

Yes ; when he went away I promised  or at
least he knew  that if my mother did not want meany
longer I and the children would go to America
when he could have us.'

'I see ; and so the minute the young man
whistles ye'll leave the old one.'

'I shall he very sorry to go, believe me  far
more sorry than I ever thought it possible I should
be  but Robert is my husband.'

I know that; ye needn't tell me;' after which
remark Mr. McCullagh resumed his newspaper with
the muttered comment, ' I daresay it's natural
enough.'

But a few minutes elapsed, however, before he
again spoke.

For all that, Jean, I think I must still buy you
a dress. Mrs. Kenneth is coming up next month,
and I don't just like she should say we're not able to
afford a few yards of stuff among us.'

Some few days later Mr. McCullagh came upstairs
before dinner, calling for his daughter-in-law,
who, as usual, was close at hand.

They sent the gown length in all right, did they
Jean ?'

Yes ; but I was truly grieved you should have
bought anything so expensive for me. I never
thought to have another silk dress, and  '

Hoots !' said Mr. McCullagh, cutting across her
sentence ; ' when I was doing the thing, I thought I
might as well get a good one. It'll last ye years.
0, and here's a bit of a present I brought in with me;
I'll be up again presently ; and he tossed her over a
piece of paper, which proved to be a receipt in full
from Mr. Snow for the money he had advanced to
Robert.

When, a little later, she tried to speak her
thanks, Mr. McCullagh stopped her quite summarily.

Ye'll be able now,' he said, with a queer twinkle
in his eyes, * to buy pins and needles and cottons
and laces : and when ye want the money to go out
to Robert, come to me; I'll manage somehow to
write ye a cheque.'

He must be going to die,' was Alfred Mostin's
conclusion when Janeyy told him what had happened.
It's an awful bad sign, you may depend. When a
man like plain auld Rab takes to shovelling out
guineas in this reckless manner, you may be sure he
feels he is going where they can't be of any use to
him.

She put her hand over the speaker's mouth, and
said,

If you could only imagine how kind he has been
to me !'

He'd have been a wretch if he had not,' was his
grudging answer.

You do not know how good he is,' she persisted.
'I fancy I do,' he replied, with a dubious smile.

However, I am glad he has given you this relief.'

Time went by, and still it seemed as though
Robert was as far from being able to send for his wife
as ever. He strove to write cheerfully, but to Janeyy
it was quite plain that he was doing no better in
America than in England.

He's no in such a hurry to write for ye as ye're
in to go to him,' Mr. McCullagh took a malicious
pleasure in observing ; whilst Janeyy sent out every
shilling she had been able to scrape together,
hoping and trusting this might help him to do some
good.

I am as happy as possible with your father,'
she wrote ; ' but I want you, dear. This separation
is dreadful.'

He had been away over two years, when one day
in the late autumn Mr. McCullagh said,

I wish we'd have a bit of supper ready to-night.

Jean  about eight. I'm expecting a friend to lookin.'


Somewhat listlessly she answered it should be
ready.

Ye're no feeling very well, are ye ?' asked her
father-in-law.

I am a little low,' was her reply. ' I cannot help
wondering what news will be in the next American
letters. The mail is due tomorrow, is it not ?'

Yes, tomorrow morning.'

It was ' between the lights,' and she sat without
candles beside the hearth, on which, for once, a good
fire blazed, marvelling if she should ever see her
husband again, looking at the flickering flame, and
recalling the happy days of their happy married life,
which, as in a dream, she beheld through tears, when
her reverie was broken by the noise of Mr. McCul-
laugh's latchkey turning in the lock of the hall-door.
She did not stir till she heard the steps of two persons
ascending the stairs, and then she knew the expected
guest had come before his time, and started up to
light the candles. Before she could do so, however,
they were in the room, and Mr. McCullagh's voice
was saying cheerfully,

Ay, here she is herself ! Now, Jean, who do
ye think I've brought to see ye ?'

For one second she hesitated, then the match
she was holding dropped out of her fingers.

Robert !' she cried  'Eohert!' and she was
clasped in her husband's arms.

Ye see, Jean,' observed Mr. McCullagh, a few
minutes later, when he had lit the candles and pulled
doT\Ti the blinds, ' I couldn't do without ye, so I was
forced to bring your husband back again ; and now,
that there may be no anxiety or misunderstanding, I
just want to say one word before ye give him his
supper. I always said I'd never take a partner, and
I never will ; but if Robert likes to turn his mind
to the business here, he'll have no reason to complain
that I am trying to screw him down. Mr.
Roy is not what he was, and I want somebody that'll
do what I want as I want. Your brothers are making
everything they sell out of something different
from what it should be, and I'll have none of that.
The old business has stuck to me, and I'll stick toit.
Mr. Snow and me are agreed we'd best not try
to start anything on your own account ; so if ye like
what I propose, there it is for ye, and ye may settle
your mind.'

I shall only be too thankful,' answered Robert ;
and I will try to serve you faithfully, sir.'

'But I am no going to part with Jean,' explained

Mr. McCallagh. ' Ye must live here and put up
with my ways as well as ye can ; and as for your
boys, I'll see they've the best education I can give
them. I heard a word dropped a while ago that
one of them might be asked for some day, when
they are looking out for the heir of Lilands' Abbey ;
but it is no use looking too far ahead. The first
thing ye shall both do is take a run out of town,
for, indeed, I want to see a streak of colour back
again in Jean's white cheeks ;' and so, during the
whole of supper, Mr. McCullagh talked on, while
the husband and wife, too happy for speech or food,
sat hand locked in hand,  just,' said Mr. McCullagh,
a perfect pair of babes in the wood.'

And we'll let all bygones be bygones, Robert,'
observed his father magnanimously, ' and we'll cast
no backward looks to the time when ye were so
proud to be junior to the senior partner, and to be
let into the Pousnett swindle.'

Robert smiled somewhat sadly. ' I hope I
shall never see Mr. Pousnett again,' he remarked.

But one Saturday, when Mr. McCullagh ran
down to them at Brighton, the very first person they
met on the Chain Pier was that gentleman.

Robert affected not to notice him, and passed on
with Janeyy; but Mr. Pousnett, swooping down on

VOL. III. u

Mr. McCullagh-wdtli the exclamation, * Ah, my old
friend !' bore him off to the Parade, where he told
him a great many things, true and false, winding up
with the statement, Mrs. Pousnett and his daughters
were stopping also at the Bedford, ' where you
had better come and dine with us,' he finished.

But Mr. McCullagh excused himself somewhat
stiffly. Perhaps he felt he had partaken of Mr.
Pousnett's hospitality often enough.

He spoke of this encounter afterwards to Captain
Crawford, who called upon him in Basinghall-street.

Yes,' said that gentleman, ' he is down therewith
Baron, the millionaire, who is going to
marry Lord Cresham's widow. I suppose you have
heard they are going to make Pousnett a baronet.'

Never !' exclaimed Mr. McCullagh.

They are, though.'

In the name of all that's wonderful, why would
they do that ?'

 He is a representative man,' answered Captain
Crawford drjdy.

