CHAPTER I.

Rightly gleams the morning sunshine,
this fourteenth of February,
186  , on the latticed casements
and the quaint old gables of Mervyn Court.
It peers through the dry framework of
creepers and rose-bushes, it gives the dingy
ivy a new and brighter sheen, and finally pours
in a warm triumphant flood over the face
and figure of a girl standing in the shabby
breakfast-room, with flushed cheeks and angry
eyes gazing at a mass of lace and flower-vol.

I. A

wreathed paper which she holds in her
hand  a valentine!

It has come by the morning post, in
company with various other envelopes and
boxes, all bearing missives from admirers and
friends of her own. But, of all the many,
this one only has a special attraction for her ;
to it alone does she give the thoughts of
her wilful capricious little heart, the look of
those lovely gleaming long-lashed eyes, that
have, even in the short space of seventeen
summers, done so much damage to mankind,
youthful and mature.

She is very lovely this girl. From the
warm rich gold of her hair to the tiny arched
feet which her dress just allows to be seen,
she is faultless  faultless in form and figure
and colouring, with a face wonderfully winning
in its changes of expression, in its
mobile, passionate, wilful beauty that never
seems quite the same, but varies with her
varying moods, as the sea takes its colours
from the changing sky.

It is a face too fair to escape notice, where -
ever it may be, a face like that of which the
poet sung 

*' Thine eyes are stars of morning,
Thy lips are crimson flowers."

But now the eyes, deep, dark, and purple,
like the heart of a violet, are positively flashing
with wrathful indignation, and the sweet
red lips are expressing all the disdain and
contempt that silent lips can.

The object of all this anger and indignation
is seemingly the lace-edged paper on which
are penned the following lines : 

*' I do confess thought young and fair,

And I might have been brought to love thee,
Had I not found the slightest pray'r

That breath could frame had pow'r to move thee.
But I can let thee now alone,
As worthy to be loved by none.

I do confess thought sweet, but find
Thee such an thrift of they sweets,

Thy favours are but like the wind
That kissed everything it meets."

*' Who could have sent it 1 " she says, as

she throws the luckless valentine furiously
down. ** What impudence ! Oh, if ever I
find out ! "

The speech is cut short by a noise and
bustle in the hall, followed immediately by
the appearance of two other girls and a tall
boy of that delightful hobbledehoy age which
is so trying to sisters and other feminine
members of a household.

** Holloa ! Why, here's Yolande making
free with all our valentines ! " shouts the
youth. " Enid, Vi, look out, or you won't
have a chance of seeing any ! "

*' Don't be so absurd, Arthur ! " says his
sister, sharply. " I never touch anything
that's not my own. In that respect I differ
strongly from you."

** But are there any for us, Yolande ? " the
other girls cry eagerly, as they press close to
their beautiful elder sister and peer over her
shoulder at the scattered Cupid-offerings which
lie on the breakfast-table.

They are by your own plates," she answers

impatiently, as she puts the paper she has
been reading into its outer cover and then
tries to slip it surreptitiously into her pocket.

This manoeuvre is speedily discovered by
Arthur, who in true brotherly fashion proceeds
to draw the attention of the others to it.

What's in that one you're hiding  a
secret ? " he asks quickly. " Why can't you
let us see it as well as these ? "

Because I don't choose," answers his sister,
with a rising flush on her cheeks and a vain
attempt to disguise her wrath at this discovery
on his part. *' It's no business of yours what
I get!"

Hoity-toity ! " says Arthur, with an aggravating
expression of intense amazement.
** Girls, what has happened to our fair Yolande?
Who has dared to ruffle her sweet serenity,
and barbed a Cupid's missive with a shaft
that stings her gentle breast ! "

*' Arthur, how can you be so ridiculous ? "
exclaims his sister, half laughing even in her
most natural desire to inflict upon the sharp-eyed

youth that condign punishment popularly
known as " a box on the ears." '* Come, girls,
let me see yours," she adds hurriedly, in the
vain hope of turning attention from herself.

No ; don't you do anything of the sort,"
interposes the incorrigible Arthur. " Make
her confess what she's concealing from her
affectionate and sympathising relatives first.
Confidence deserves confidence, Yo."

Don't call me that ! You know I hate
it ! " cries Yolande hastily.

** Ever since  ahem  "

*' Will you be quiet, you torment ? "

Ever since Signor Rodrigo Brabant mistook
it for a boy's name  eh, sis % " persists
the unabashed youth.

"Oh, Yolande, is not this lovely? Who
can it be from ? " comes now from the clear
treble of the twin-sisters, who are poring over
their treasures with the delight and excitement
of bashful fifteen.

Yolande turns to them relieved, and bends
down unnecessarily low in the attempt to

cool the hot cheeks, the sudden flame of
colour of which is to be attributed only to
some hidden meaning beneath Arthur's joking
allusion to Signor Rodrigo.

Very pretty ! '* she says. *' I wonder
who sent them ? "

*' And I have nothing ! " exclaims Arthur
ruefully. "Well, considering how I danced
with that fat Judith Hargreaves the whole
of last evening, and how I devoted myself
to her amusement, I must say I did expect
a  a something. I am disappointed in that
young lady ; I really am."

*' Perhaps she heard of your flattering remarks
afterwards," suggests Yolande. " You
are so indiscreet in your confidences, you
know, Arthur."

My sweet sister, I stand rebuked. Very
likely it has come to her ears that I likened
her to a keg of butter, or a sack of flour, or
something equally suitable. By Jove ! how I
could have stood it I don't know ! The very
memory of those waltzes makes my arms ache."

*' Better your arms than your heart," says
Yolande softly ; and then, as if fearful of
retort, she turns away to the breakfast-table
and begins with nervous haste to rattle the
teacups and arrange the plates.

Papa is late," she says. " Vi, you had
better go and tell him breakfast is ready."

Vi, otherwise Vivien, puts down her valentines
reluctantly, and leaves the room to do
her sister's bidding.

Enid and Arthur seat themselves at the
table, and with the healthy appetite of youth
proceed to attack the pile of bread-and-butter.
With well-assumed indifference Yolande sweeps
away the heap of missives from her plate, and
devotes herself to the task of pouring out coffee.

'' I believe somebody has sent Yo a rude
valentine," asserts her brother presently ; he
has far too much of the talent of teasing to
drop a subject which he has found to be
unwelcome. '' Come, Yo, confess, there's a
good girl, and then I'll call him out and
have satisfaction, even at the pistol's mouth."

The best satisfaction you could give would
be to hold your tongue," says Yolande sharply.

'* It's a moral as well as a physician impossibility
to do that, especially when employing
one's gastronomic organs, as I am at present
doing," answers Arthur, with his mouth full
of bread-and-butter.

** I wish you were back at school again ! "
exclaims his sister sharply. ** There has
been no such thing as peace or quietness in
the house since you came home."

"" So much for sisterly affection ! " cries
Arthur theatrically. " Leaving gratitude out
of the question, this is the return I get for
my hours of self-denial, my incessant care
for your amusement and entertainment, my  "

Oh, do be quiet, you tiresome boy ! "
exclaims Yolande, losing all patience at last.
Thank goodness, here's papa ! "

Looking at her face now as she rises to
welcome the white-haired bent old man who
enters the room, no one could have helped
being struck by its perfection. Such tenderness,

such welcome, such perfect protecting
love, shine in the deep humid eyes that even
her lips are hardly more eloquent as she
utters her morning greeting.

Her fathers glance is equally loving.
Very precious indeed to his heart is this
lovely first-born, born to him late in life, as
all his children were, and then left from very
early childhood to his sole care and love.
The pretty delicate young wife had gladdened
his home but a very few years, when death
claimed her for himself, and the three girls
and Arthur have been brought up almost
entirely at home.

Hence perhaps the perfect confidence, the
entire absence of fear and restraint that reigns
between them and their father, and gives rise
to many taunts and objections on the part
of other heads of families in the neighbourhood.
The young Mervin are usually looked
upon as spoilt, useless, and self-indulged.
The girls  Yolande especially  are pronounced
conceited, frivolous, and far too fond

of admiration. Notwithstanding, they are
more admired and more popular than any
other of the female members of society in
Ashbourne ; and Yolande has all the youth
of the county at her dainty feet.

Poor Yolande ! With her warm heart, her
passionate fancies, her marvellous loveliness,
her indulged caprices, it is a wonder she is
not even more spoiled than she is. Of control
she knows nothing. Her father always
allows her to do just as she pleases ; and,
as much as lies in his power, ministers to
her wants and desires.

They are not very numerous luckily ; for
the Mervin are by no means a wealthy
family, and the old court is generally looked
upon as dilapidated and shabby in the extreme.
Yet many among the nouveaux riches,
the wealthy proprietors of new-bought estates
and lordly mansions abounding in Ashbourne,
would have gladly sacrificed their pretentious
abodes for the antique grandeur and nobility
of Mervyn Court. Yolande loves it dearly.

Every ivy-crowned gable, every quaint old
lattice, every nook of the old shadowy hall,
the carved oak staircase, the great dreary
drawing-rooms, so seldom used now, the ,
with its host of dead and gone
Mervin, are precious and beautiful exceedingly
in her eyes. They have histories of
their own that have charmed her childish
fancy and coloured her gay bright youth.
They have fostered in her some pardonable
pride in and love for those bygone ancestors
who had been noble and true and "faithful
unto death " to those they served and those
they loved. They have told her of brave
deeds, of sacrifices rendered, of chivalrous
actions, of tender thoughts, of grave duties ;
and, despite the lightheartedness and coquetry
and superficial brilliance of her character,
there lies beneath it a true and steadfast
nobility, fostered by such associations, and
built upon such records as these.

The breakfast goes on cheerfully now. none
of the young Mervin being at all afflicted

with bashfulness in the presence of their
respected progenitor, but employing their
tongues as freely before him as they are
accustomed to do when by themselves.

'father," remarks Arthur presently, "you
will be losing some of your lambs if you don't
look out. Are you. aware how many suitors
are at hand already ? Look there ! "

Mr Mervyn glances amusedly at the pile of
valentines on the side table, and then looks
at Yolande.

** All yours, my dear ? " he asks.

'' Oh, no ! Some are Enid's and Yi's,"
answers Yolande hurriedly. " Stupid things !
I wonder how people can trouble to send such
rubbish ! "

** It occurs to my memory that not so very
long ago Miss Mervyn took a considerable
interest in those same stupid things," remarks
Arthur. " I have a distinct remembrance of
her waylaying the postman on St Valentine's
morn with a zeal that was highly creditable.
By Jove, how girls do change ! Only two or

three years ago you were up to anything,
Yolande, and could climb a tree and play a
game at cricket almost as well as if you were
a boy, and now  "

Arthur's face is expressive of such intense
disgust that Yolande goes off into a peal of
delicious silvery laughter.

 Why don't you finish ? " she asks, when
her mirth has a little subsided.

'* Well, now," continues her brother indignantly,
'you think only of long tails to
your gowns and all the young fools you can
catch and bring philandering about you.
What they see in you I'm sure I don't know.
You were rather a jolly girl once ; but that
was ages ago, before your head was turned
with spooning and valentines."

*' I had valentines even in those ages ago,"
remarks Yolande.

Yes ; and even then you always had
three to our one," chimes in Enid.

Oh, but two were always from Lance and
Dick ; and they don't count ; " interrupts Vi.

Well, whatever fellows can see in girls to
waste their money on them in valentines
beats my comprehension ! " says Arthur energetically.
" I never should do it."

Wait a while, my boy, and you'll tell a
different story," his father puts in. " At your
age boys have a strong antagonism towards
the opposite sex  probably because a few
years later they are bound to pay for that
indifference whether they will or no."

I'm sure I never shall," asserts Arthur
vehemently. " When one has horses and
guns and lots of fun, and can see life and
travel about the world, what's the use of
tying yourself to a woman's apron-strings ?
Such bosh ! "

Don't talk of what you know nothing
about, Arty," says Vi, with dignity.

*' You go and learn grammar and mind
your own business ! " retorts her brother.
*' Hang it all, I'm not going to be lectured by
a parcel of girls ! Father, I must go to school
again. I'm sick of idleness."

What a laudable resolve ! " says Yolande.
** It is rather a pity that constant reiteration
has made it sound somewhat stale in our ears.
If your actions were only equal to your intentions,
Arty ! "

So they are, only  Well, you see, there's
always something turning up, and it seems a
pity to go away just then."

I think the rabbits are all shot now,"
remarks Mr Mervyn ; " and the broken arm is
mended  eh, Arthur % "

*' Oh, yes," says the boy shamefacedly,
that's all right ! But, you see, governor, I
had to look after the fences, and I wanted to
see the tennis-courts made ; and  "

"Don't trouble your brain for any more
excuses, my dear boy," says Yolande placidly.
We all know how far your intentions go, and
where they fall short."

In that respect we are alike," returns
Arthur, with a grin. "You also have been
known to have good intentions. Miss Flirt;
and  Why, positively you are blushing ! Was

the arrow drawn at a venture so well shot that
it hit the mark % "

You and Yolande are always nagging at
each other," remarks quiet Enid. *' I don't
think it's good taste to introduce your disputes
in the family circle so constantly."

Oh, of course you girls all stick up for one
another ! " says Arthur, rising and pushing
back his chair. ** Well, I'll relieve you of my
presence. Go to your gowns and frills and
fal-als. You little know what you lose by
such nonsense. Thank Heaven, I'm not a girl !
Bye, bye, Yo. Take care of that secret billets
in your pocket." And with this parting
shaft he leaves the room.

'' Yolande," says her father presently, 'you
won't forget that the Hargreaves dine here
to-night, and Mr and Mrs Adair and their
friends also ? "

*' No, I won't forget," answers the girl, stooping
low over her cup in order to hide the soft
rose-pink of her cheek and brow.

** And, my dear, please impress upon the

VOL. I. B

cook to be more careful with the soup. It
was quite spoilt on the last occasion."

Very well, papa."

'' Are Enid and I to come to dinner ? " asks
Vivien.

Yes, if Yolande thinks there will be room."

Oh, yes, plenty ! " says Yolande, still painfully
conscious of hot cheeks and uneven pulse.
Have you finished, girls ? "

** Yes ! " cry the twins simultaneously.

And then they rise in their turn, and,
collecting their valentines, retire from the
room with their arms clasped around each
other's waist, their normal way of moving
about.

Yolande rings the bell for the removal of
the breakfast equipage, and then, with a kiss
to her father and a remark that his morning
paper is cut and ready for his perusal, opens
the window and steps out upon the smooth
green lawn.

|T is a mild sweet morning, this fourteenth
of February, a morning
that brings visions of coming spring
in its bright glints of sunshine, its soft cool
winds, its intense blue sky, its tints of violets
from the hedgerows. But Yolande wanders
over the lawn and on to the quaint old garden
paths, taking but languid interest in all the
beautyaround her.

At other times the changing shadows, the
fragrant air, the breath of the spring-time on
her cheek, the dazzling green of the new-grown,
grass as the sun-rays fall over it in
warm and loving radiance would have touched
the poetic faculty within her heart, and stirred
her to that sympathy with all things bright

and beautiful in nature which was usual to
her. But now her mind is troubled ; a vague
unrest had stolen away the peaceful calm so
long her own ; and all the more, in that such
a feeling is inexplicable and strange, she rebels
at its pain and marvels at its pertinacity in
recurring.

'' If I only knew," she says impatiently, as
she gazes with perfect unconsciousness up at
the great wide boughs of a spreading yew-tree,
'' oh, how I would pay him out ! "

In what botanical researches are you
now employed % " suddenly demands a voice
behind her.

She starts and turns round angrily.

*' Arthur, you plague, why don't you find
something to do ? You are getting quite
unbearable about the house ! "

'* The house is as much mine as yours, Miss
Yolande," he retorts. '* What were you looking
at  birds' nests ? I'll just give you a
specimen of your appearance." And he
strikes an attitude, the exaggerated absurdity

of which makes Yolande laugh despite her
annoyance.

Then, unable to stand his teasing any-longer,
she hastens away to the house and
proceeds to interview the cook and give the
necessary instructions for the evening, not
forgetting that caution as to the soup which
her father had suggested.

Yolande has no great talent for housekeeping.
It seems but the other day that she
was running wild with Arthur, bird-nesting,
cricketing, fishing, doing all such things as
seemed good to her vagrant fancy, and enjoying
life fully and utterly as any young
unfettered creature can. But now things are
changed. A governess has been introduced
to teach the young lady various arts and
accomplishments, and, in company with Enid
and Vi, she has to read, study, and practise
for three or four hours daily. This same
directress has also insisted that Yolande shall
be instructed in the management of household
affairs, as befits the eldest daughter of the

family ; and, rebel as she may, at certain
times and seasons she has to give in to Miss
Skipton's decrees, and under her guidance and
direction interview cook and housekeeper.

In these employments the morning hours
speed away rapidly, and Yolande has no
leisure to re-peruse the missive in her pocket,
though its touch and the consciousness of its
proximity can flush her cheek and light her
eyes with remembered wrath. At intervals
her thoughts also seem wandering, for, when
cook suggests various side-dishes for the dinner,
she listens absently, and once murmurs,
Tomato sauce  oh, yes  and valentines ! "

*' My dear Miss Mervyn ! " says the governess,
shocked and amazed.

Yolande starts, colours, and then, with a
vigorous effort, returns to the subject in
question, and manages without further mistakes
to settle the debate. She gives a sigh of
intense relief as she re-enters the schoolroom.

'* Oh, dear, why must people eat % " she
exclaims wearily.

Miss Skipton, delighted at the opportunity
afforded for a display of learning, hereupon
launches forth into so many reasons, excellent
and needful, moral and argumentative, for the
necessity of human nature making use of
those gastronomic organs wherewith it is
supplied that poor Yolande is nearly driven
to distraction. She knows Miss Skipton's
proclivities only too well, and generally employs
her time in dodging warily around any
subject likely to produce such an array of
logic as that learned lady possesses. In this
instance however she has failed lamentably,
and submits with a very ill grace to the
deluge that follows.

In the schoolroom Vi and Enid are seated,
with books and papers before them, and a
look of such sweet placid innocence and unconsciousness
upon their faces as leads Yo-lance
to wonder what mischief they have just
been practising.

She is very distrait this morning. Her
thoughts go wandering off from French history

to various other incongruous subjects
that certainly have nothing to do with
the life of Bonaparte or the Court of
Charles le Douze. Her eyes are more constantly
occupied in gazing at the soft sweep
of sky stretching in blue and cloudless beauty
over the outer world than in perusing the
dry and instructive works lying open before
her. Very thankful indeed does she feel
when the clock strikes one, and at last they
are able to shut up books and do ** whatever
seemeth good unto them " for the remainder
of the day. She hurries off as swiftly as her
light feet can bear her to her own pretty
dainty room, and heaves a sigh of intense
relief as, with locked door, and a sense of
perfect security from intrusion, she sets herself
to study the unwelcome valentine once
more.

Am I such a flirt ? " she thinks, as her
soft starlike eyes look up from the hateful
words and meet their own lustrous reflection
in the opposite mirror. "I know I like

dancing and fun and  well, a little admiration
; but surely there's no great harm in
that ? Oh, I hope he did not send it ! And
yet it must have been he ! No one else
would mind what I did ; they are so used
to me and my ways. Well, I don't care, and
I won't care ! "  with a stamp of the little
foot. *' Who is he that I should mind his
opinion ? I have seen him only three times,
and"

Here she pauses. A tide of crimson sweeps
over her fair low brow, her lovely cheeks.
She flings the luckless valentine to the
farthest corner of the room.

I hate him ! " she cries, rising and pacing
up and down the soft-carpeted floor. " Oh,
if only I had not said that ! Perhaps he
thought it was a hint. A hint ! Just as if
Lance and Dick and young Tempests
and Jack Fortescue, and  and  heaps of
fellows weren't glad enough of the opportunity
of sending me valentines ! And to
think that I wanted one from him ! Oh,

how shall I meet him to-night ? If I could
only look perfectly cool and unconcerned it
would be all right ; but I am sure the moment
he looks at me it will be all over 
and  he will know ! "

Another abrupt pause. Then she goes
slowly over to the corner where the valentine
has fluttered and smoothes out the crumpled
paper, and once more peruses it.

* To my Lady Coquette,' " she reads.
Oh, Mr Denzil Charteris, if you mean that,
it will go hard with me if I don't make you
rue the day you wrote or said it ! No ; I
won't throw this away. It shall be kept
as a memento of this day and of my vow 
the vow I make over this senseless paper
that you have made so cruel a weapon 
if it lies in woman's power to bring you to
my feet, there you shall be brought  if it
lies in my power to pay you back in such
coin the insult and the shame you have given
me to bear, then assuredly I shall pay it 
every farthing ! I never did aught to you,



Denzil Charteris, that deserved such treatment
as this ; but now it shall be guerre d
outrance between us ; and, if I wait for my
vengeance, even twenty years, it shall be
mine at last ! "

Ah, poor passionate, foolish child, smarting
under the first bitterness of an undeserved
Wrong, could you but have looked forward
over half that space of twenty years, your
vow would surely have never been spoken,
or, being spoken, would have been cancelled
even in its first rash moment of utterance !

lOLANDE," exclaims Enid, as lie
and Vi enter their sister's room,
where she is putting the finishing
touches to her toilet for dinner, " What
do you think Skippy is going to appear in
this evening ? "

I'm sure I don't know," says Yolande
carelessly, as she fastens a white rose among
the lovely ripples of her golden hair. " Not
white muslin, I hope."

'* No ! " laughs Vi. *' Shall you ever forget
that occasion ? I thought I should have a
fit every time I looked at her ; and papa's
face of amazement too  wasn't it rich ? "

I wonder," remarks Yolande musingly,
"whether a very fat woman or a very thin
one looks worse in white."

"A thin one in my experience," says Enid.
Yolande, how nicely you have done your
hair to-night ! I wish I was old enough to
wear mine turned up. It must be jolly to
be grown up after all. Don't you think
so?"

" I haven't found it particularly agreeable
yet," answers Yolande, still scrutinising her
lovely little person in the glass. " But you
haven't told me what Skippy's dress is to
be."

"It is all red silk," chime in both girls
simultaneously ; and then Vi adds, "It is
an orange-red that makes one shudder to
behold ; and she's got a turban-cap to match
it, made by herself, Yolande. I know I shall
never be able to look at her without laughing.
And the dress is so straight and narrow
she looks just like a long bolster. How is
it some people never know what colours to
wear, or what will suit them ? "

You both look very nice," Yolande observes,
as she surveys her young sisters in

turn. 'mind you must go in together, as
there are so few gentlemen."

Who's going to take you in ? " asks Vi.

'* Mr Hargreaves, of course."

*' And Judith?"

*' Oh, Mr Charteris ! Papa will have to
take Mrs Adair," says Yolande hurriedly.

And Mr Adair will have to put up with
Mrs Hargreaves. Poor fellow ! " laughs Enid
merrily.

Fair, fat, and forty," comments Vi. '* Mr
Charteris is the best off after all. Judith is
very nice, and she knows how to dress herself.
She is rather fat, but  "

Oh, men like fat girls ! " asserts Yolande,
with the experience of her seventeen years.
They call them ' crumbs.' "

Gracious ! " exclaims Vi, looking ruefully
at her slender proportions and the angularity
of undeveloped girlhood so plainly apparent
in the figures of herself and Enid. "There
is not much hope for us then ! "

You surely are not thinking of conquests

already ? " laughs Yolande. ''Or is it the
valentines that have set you to consider your
respective charms ? "

'* You had plenty of sweethearts at our
age," retorts Vi indignantly ; " and in two
years we shall be as old as you are
now."

Was that the bell % " exclaims Yolande,
with a nervous start that sends all the blood
to her face.

** Yes ; and you ought to be down, oughtn't
you ? You're quite ready, Yolande. Why
do you stand fidgeting there ? "

*' Do I look  I mean  am I all right ? "
asks Yolande hurriedly, as she glances from
one bright face to the other.

I should have worn a red rose with all
that white," remarks Vi. *' What do you
say, Enid ? "

** I should have done the same," agrees
Enid. " But then, Vi, we're not Yolande ;
and somehow  "

Both pause and look critically at their

lovely elder sister, who does indeed look
*' faultily faultless " to-night.

Somehow," agrees Vi, continuing the
parable for her other self, as Enid is always
called, *' Yolande never looks like us ; and
what we would wear oughtn't suit her."

'' Well, I suppose that's all the satisfaction
I am likely to get from you," says Yolande.
*' Let us therefore take the light of our
countenances to the drawing-room." And,
with one bashful reluctant glance at the mirror,
she floats away, followed by the girls.

The great dim drawing-room is lighted by
the soft glow of lamps, and a bright wood-fire
burns in the old tiled fireplace. The perfume
of hot-house flowers, of which Yolande
has that morning robbed the conservatories,
throws a faint subtle fragrance around. It
is a beautiful old room  a room where all is
harmonious, and no modern upholstery and
incongruous colouring are to be found.

Mr Mervyn is standing by the fireplace

talking to a gentleman who is portly and
elderly, and lias a loud voice and good-humoured
face. A lady, also portly, but with,
brown hair instead of grey, and fewer wrinkles
in her good-humoured face than her spouse
possesses, is holding an apparently interesting
conversation with Miss Skipton, whose radiant
orange tints make a bright spot of colour in
the dim surrounding hues. A pretty fair-haired
girl, with a marked resemblance to the
obesity and good-humour of her elders, which
proclaims their relationship unmistakably, sits
by a small table turning over the leaves of an
album. She advances with alacrity as she sees
Yolande, and greets her most affectionately.

** What a love you look ! " she whispers, with
a good-natured appreciation that does her
infinite credit, considering that all her hard-won
admirers have been deserting her of late
for Yolande 's superior attractions.

Yolande gives her a smile of thanks, and
then hastens to greet her father and mother.
In the midst of the questions and answers that

VOL. I. C

follow, the door opens and some more guests
are announced.

Now ! " says Yolande inwardly, and draws
her breath sharply and sets her lovely mobile
face into stern composure.

No one can see beneath the surface  no
one can tell how fast and painfully her heart
throbs, or what a superhuman effort is required
before she can utter naturally the
commonplace formula, 

Good evening, Mr Charteris."
The man to whom this greeting is given
is not very different from the ordinary run of
men. He is handsome certainly ; but so are
dozens of his sex. He is very tall and well-made
; but his face is too stern and grave to
find favour with most of the fair sex. It is
the face of a man who has known life and
lived and suffered ; there are lines of care on
the grave brow and round the firm-set mouth,
which the thick moustache shades, yet does
not quite conceal. The eyes are the best
features in the whole rugged youthful face ;

they are large and soft, of darkest brown in
colour, and shaded by long lashes that give
them a certain look of languor and pathos
strangely at variance with the stern expression
of brow and lip.

He does not look stern now, though, as he
glances down at the slim flower-faced maiden
before him ; there is a faint quizzical amusement
in the depths of his splendid eyes, a
quiver of a smile round the corners of the
grave lips. But Yolande sees neither. Her
own orbs are veiled from sight by the white
blue-veined lids. She withdraws her hand as
soon as possible, and enters at once into conversation
with pretty little Mrs Adair, and
continues it until the announcement of dinner.

Then they pair off" as Yolande has arranged,
and she tries her best to listen and to appear
interested in her own companion's conversation.

The dining-room is pleasantly warm, dim
with wax-lights and perfumed with flowers.
The dinner is satisfactory, and Mr Hargreaves
is far too devoted a gourmand to waste time

on an unappreciative companion. Yolande,
who is too young and too engrossed to care
very much for the pleasures of the table,
makes use of her eyes and ears instead.

She is separated by Arthur and Vi from Mr
Charteris and Judith ; but she can see his
dark stately head bending towards Judith's
fair one, and every now and then catches a
word or two of his deep mellow voice.
Judith is flirting as lightly and brilliantly as
she can ; for the admiration of any man or
youth seems good unto her ; and it is a rare
chance that has given Denzil Charteris over
to her fascinations to-night. She is seldom
critical, and, as a rule, knows how to be
thankful for

"Any gifts the gods may send."

But she knows full well that Mr Charteris is
accounted one of the handsomest and richest
men in the county, and that his estate, the
Priory, is a prize which many a maiden would
be glad to win, even were its master far less

fascinating than he is. She does her best,
therefore, '* according to her lights," to make
herself bewitching, and fails lamentably in
her endeavour ; but of this she is ignorant.

Yolande, however, does not know this ;
she sees only the bright smiles, the appealing
glances, the hundred little arts that a
feminine armoury supplies as weapons, and
she cannot perceive that, though on one
side the admiration is open and revealed,
on the other it is forced and unnatural.

What a pity Judith makes herself so conspicuous
! " she thinks. *rand how hot and
vulgar she looks with all that colour ! Whenever
she eats soup her face gets scarlet. I
wonder if she knows it ? I am sure he cannot
admire her. I remember he told me once  "

The thought is cut short abruptly by a
word that falls clearly and distinctly on her
ear, and makes her start and crimson from
brow to throat  " Valentines."

Oh, I had so many valentines ! " says
Judith ; and the lull of the voices around

8 My Lady Coquette.

makes her clear tones doubly distinct. " I
suppose you never get anything so frivolous,
or send them either, Mr Charteris ? "

Oh, how Yolande strains her ears to catch
the answer ! But, alas, all the silent voices
break into sudden eager speech, and, try how
she may, she cannot hear the longed-for words !

'what a poor dinner you are making,
Yolande ! " says Mr Hargreaves at this juncture.
'' Do try some vol-augment ; won't
you ? "

Yolande acquiesces, though she knows that
to eat it is impossible. Will dinner never be
over ? she thinks. Slowly course succeeds
course ; at last she is able to draw on her
gloves, catch the glance of the ladies at table,
and rise.

You know we are going to have a dance
presently when the others look in ? " she says
to Arthur as she passes behind his chair.

All right," answers the hopeful youth.
If we don't come soon enough, hop by
yourselves."

" I shall not forget," says Denzil Charteris
softly, as lie glances up at the fair young
face.

She does not deign a word or glance in
answer, but with all the dignity she can
summon, sweeps on and out of the room.

*' Perhaps he will think that a hint too,"
she mutters angrily. " Why does that man
always misunderstand and annoy me so ? "

In the great 'drawing-room the ladies all
settle themselves down in various attitudes
of comfort, ease, and nonchalance. Yolande
has coffee brought in ; and then the staid
butler and a pretty housemaid are directed
to clear the lower half of the room for the
prospective dance.

Presently a few more arrivals drop in 
three or four young men, a couple of pretty
girls, neighbours of the Mervin, and much
given to social gatherings of this description.

Yolande is speedily surrounded. When the
gentlemen enter from the dining-room, she
is the centre of a little court ; and a dark

frown rests on Mr Charteris's brow as he
notes the devoted attentions and ardent
glances of her special admirer, Lance Stapleton.
Now comes Yolande's long-looked for
opportunity.

'* If he thinks that odious thing has made
the slightest impression upon me, he shall
see his mistake," she says, and forthwith
gives such smiles and looks and attentions
to her devoted swains as might indeed have
turned the heads and bewildered the brains
of far more susceptible youths than the elite
of Ashbourne.

Miss Skipton, in her radiant orange-hued
garments, advances presently to the piano.
The elder members of the company settle
down to cards at the firelight end of the long
room ; the younger make bows and *' request
the pleasure," and finally form without more
ado into sets for the Lancers. Yolande and
Lancelot Stapleton are vis-davis to Judith and
Mr Charteris ; and Yolande puts forth all
her witcheries, indulges in such pretty coquetry

of glance and manner, that her partner
becomes utterly oblivious to the figures of
the dance, and calls down upon himself the
anger and rebuke of the other more rational
members of the set.

While threading the intricacies of the
'* grand chain " Yolande and Denzil meet,
and their fingers touch ; involuntarily his
hand clasps her own more closely and
warmly than is needful.

She snatches it away, and flashes such a
look of burning indignation upon the offender
as might well have punished a graver offence.
When next they meet, she osiers only one
finger for his touch. He notes the change,
and, with a cool proud bow, declines the
proffered favour.

When the dance is over Yolande is speedily
besought for others, and with true feminine
arrogance laughs and teases her little court.
But Denzil Charteris never once approaches
nor seeks to claim a waltz out of the many
that follow. It is true he dances with no

My Lady Coquette.

one else, if that is any consolation ; but poor,
proud, hurt Yolande is conscious that this
evening is the most miserable one her glad
young life has yet known.

Alt after waltz goes merrily on.
If no one else is happy in that
circle of dancers, at least Lance
Stapleton is in the seventh heaven of bliss.
Never has his lady-love smiled so sweetly
on him, never has she been so gracious of
word and kind of look as she is to-night ;
and Lance, who has worshipped her secretly
and openly since ever he can remember,
begins to cherish wild and ambitious hopes,
built upon her unusual kindness.

Oftener she laughs at him than at anything
else  laughs at, and mocks at and
teases him in a gay capricious fashion all her
own ; but to-night she is different. If he
only knew why !

Yolande,"- whispers Lance, as in a pause
of the waltz they stand side by side, a
wonderfully handsome pair in their youth
and grace, *' did you like my valentine ? "

The words bring back a memory so sharp
and pain-fraught that for the life of her
Yolande cannot help the nervous flush, the
sudden quiver of lip that follows the questions.


Lance sees the signs of agitation, and interprets
them in his own way. Denzil
Charteris, who is standing opposite, with his
eyes fixed on the bright girlish face, sees
them also, and is conscious of a sudden pang,
feeling of hot anger and indignation.

'ris it real or make-believe ? " he asks
himself. " If the latter, she is indeed a born
coquette'!

Oh, yes," Yolande answers at last, though
she is quite unaware which of her many
valentines she owes to Lance, " it was very
pretty ! "

'' And the poetry ? Did you find that ? "

asks Lance, emboldened by his inamorataJs
graciousness.

Yolande crimsons ; her eyes flash angrily.

''No," she says sharply; '' and if I had I
should have torn it up ! You know I hate
poetry ! "

'' Oh, Yolande  and only the other day
you told me you loved it ! "

Did I ? " she says absently, as she bends
her head over the buttons of her glove and
fastens them with trembling fingers. '' Well, I
have changed my mind since ' the other day.' "

This is so like a speech of the old Yolande,
the capricious, hard-displease damsel of Lances
long worship, that he is abashed and silent.

Had you very many ? " he asks hesitatingly.


"Heaps! More than I could, count!"
returns his partner, warming into vivacity
again. '' I'm sure I don't know why people
trouble themselves to send me so many. T
don't care a fig for one of them ! "

Oh, Yolande," sighs poor Lance lugubriously

 *' and I did so hope mine might
please you a little ! "

Well, it didn't  not one of them was upto
much," answers his lady-love with candid
cruelty. '' Shall we go on with our waltz ? "

*' I would much rather talk. It is so
seldom I get a chance of having a talk to
you now, Yolande."

I don't want to talk. I want to dance,"
says Yolande quickly. ** If you are tired I
daresay I shall find some one else."

Oh, no, no ! " cries Lance imploringly.
'' I will waltz till midnight if you wish it.
I only thought  "

** Never mind the thought," rejoins Yolande
hastily ; " that will do at any time  dancing
wont.

They float off again and round the room
to the strains of the plaintive German waltz
which Miss Skipton is playing. Yolande
dances exquisitely, and long practice has
tutored Lance Stapleton into her step and
style, so that it is quite a pleasure to watch

the " poetry of motion " as exemplified by
both. They pass Denzil Charteris ; and, as
Yolande glides by with the slow, swinging
movement so peculiar to herself, she raises
her little head and looks full at him.

There is something so proud and defiant
in the glance that it seems to bewilder him
as he meets it. Half puzzled, half admiring,
yet strangely reluctant, is the look with which
he answers. Then the white lids droop, the
fair face is turned away. She floats on and
away up the long dim lamp-lit room with
her young lover's arm around her slender
waist, and his dark-blue eyes resting adoring
on the crown of her golden head, which
barely reaches his shoulder.

Denzil Charteris bites his lip hard, and
turns away with a smothered sigh.

I wish I had never seen her ! " he says.

This is the last dance. The card-party
break up. The elderly ladies remark that
it is very late, and the young ones are beginning

to be shawled and cloaked by attendant
cavaliers, whose duty it is to escort them
homewards now. A chorus of good-byes and
kisses resounds. Yolande is conscious of
promising to meet and walk with three
different individuals at the same time on
the morrow, and knows in her own heart
that she has no intention of meeting any.
Then she watches them defile away down
the long avenue, exclaiming on the wonderful
mildness and beauty of the night.

It is indeed very lovely, thinks Yolande.
The grass sward, all turned to silver by the
moon-rays, slopes invitingly before her. Nota
breath of air is stirring. The stars are
thickly studded in the dim deep blue of
the sky, like jewels strewn and scattered by
a royal hand. The girl looks and longs 
looks again, and then snatches up a white
thick fleecy shawl from a stand close by
and steps forth, alone and unseen, into the
calm, still, moon-lit grounds.

Her fevered pulse grows calm, her heart

throbs less fitfully and painfully, a great
peace and softness comes over her, and her
eyes lose the hard passionate glitter they have
hitherto held. She cannot quite analyse the
reasons for the change ; but she feels it and
rejoices in it. Slowly she moves over the
dewy grass, with the pale light on her white
figure, and so on till she finds herself in the
dark dim avenue where the branches stretch
ghostlike overhead.

Miss Mervyn ! " a voice suddenly says,
in close proximity to herself.

Yolande starts and cries out in faint alarm.

Don't be frightened ; it is only I ; " and,
glancing up, she sees Denzil Charteris beside
her.

Have you come for a moonlight walk % "
he asks.

At sight of his face, at sound of his
voice, all the hardness and coldness come
back to Yolande. She draws her slight
figure up to its full height, her eyes look
straight before her.

VOL. I. D

Yes," she says curtly.

It is a beautiful night, wonderfully mild for
this time of the year," resumes her companion.

I suppose so."

He looks at her with keen scrutiny. He
knows full well how unusual it is for her to
frame such curt cold sentences as these.

** You enjoyed yourself very much to-night,
I suppose ? " he says next.

Very much indeed," answers Yolande,
with aggressive heartiness.

'* I suppose you think there is nothing so
delightful as dancing ? "

Yes ; I think there are many other things
I like as well," returns Yolande.

Flirting, I suppose ? "

Solitude, when I have a disagreeable
companion," she retorts.

'' I beg your pardon," he says haughtily.
*' I suppose I am to take that as a hint.
Unfortunately our paths lie together if you
are going to the lodge gates, as seems to be
your intention."

*' Yes, I am," says Yolande, a little ashamed
of her rudeness.

Then how shall we manage ? Shall I go
first, or will you ? "

'' Don't be so ridiculous," answers the girl,
with an involuntary smile. " I wonder," she
continues rapidly, as she looks up at the
dark gloomy face beside her  '* I wonder, Mr
Charteris, why you and I always disagree ? "

*' I am singularly unfortunate," he says,
with chill politeness. " I suppose you never
quarrel with other people ? "

'' Never ! " affirms Yolande heartily. " I
hate quarrelling ! "

Can we not make a compact of amity
then ? " he asks, his voice softening involuntarily
as he looks down at the lovely face
with the soft fleecy wool framing the ruffled
golden hair.

Her eyes look up quickly, a little wilfulness
and animosity flashing in their glance.

"We should never keep it," she says. ''I don't
think you and I could ever agree  for long."

vi ,

And why ? "

Because  oh, well, it is difficult to say ! 
because we have been antagonistic from the
very first, I suppose."

'* And whose fault was that ? " he asks very
softly.

** Certainly not mine," is the hasty answer
; and the little wilful beauty flashes
new defiance at her companion's questioning
eyes.

Nor mine," he says coldly. *' I certainly
took upon myself to give you a piece of advice
for which you asked, remember  and, it
not being quite sugared enough for your taste,
you forthwith said some of the very rudest
things it has ever been my lot to hear."

** You annoyed me so," pouts Yolande. " I
I hate being lectured."

He smiles faintly.

I should not think of taking it upon myself
to lecture you. Miss Yolande ; I merely
gave you  "

** Yes, yes, I know ! " exclaims Yolande

hurriedly, wondering in lier heart all the
time how it is that her name never sounded
so sweet before as it did just now when his
lips uttered it. " We won't go over the old
ground again, please. Of course I know you
despise all girls, and think us a frivolous, silly
set of beings ; but all the same  "

'* Why don't you finish your very untrue
remarks ? "

'' All the same there are other people who
hold different views," Yolande continues
angrily, '' and don't expect to find old heads
on young shoulders."

* That is an anomaly of which I have not
the faintest expectation," he says, smiling.
I am afraid the combination would be
lamentable in its results. Are not you ? "

I  I  know I am not clever," persists
Yolande, with a dangerous break in her
clear young voice, ** or accomplished, or anything
of that sort ; but still no one ever
appeared to think I was quite so hateful
and useless a being before."

"And who thinks anything so improbable
now ? "

Why you ! " she cries, forgetful of dignity
and composure and everything else. " You
know you do  at least you manage to convey
such sentiments with tolerable clearness."

Good Heaven, child ! " he exclaims in unfeigned
astonishment, *' what do you mean ? "

His voice and look bring Yolande back to
her senses. She struggles hard for composure,
inwardly furious that she has so far forgotten
herself as to let him see that his opinions are
of any value.

'* Not that I care the least bit in the world
what you think," she adds with slight emphasis.
" We are not likely to be anything
more than ordinary acquaintances ; and it is
only my friends' opinions for which I care."

Indeed ! "

The sarcastic tone cuts her to the quick.
Her face turns very white.

I must be going back now," she says
quietly. " We are almost at the gates."

He stops and confronts her, looking down
at her face with a strange and wistful expression
on his own.

I suppose you are right," he says quietly.
We could never be  friends ! "

Then he takes her reluctant hand, presses
it for a second's space between his own, and
turns away abruptly.

Yolande stands quite still where he has
left her. All the colour has gone out of her
sweet face and trembling lips. She clasps
her small hands tightly together, as if in
sudden pain.

What is it ? " she murmurs unconsciously.
Whenever we meet we cannot agree for a
moment ; yet, when he leaves me, something
the best part of myself, I think  goes with
him."

And she too turns away and is lost in the
shadows.

she Mervin are not a very remarkable
family. They are certainly
possessed of a name ancient and
worthy of honour, and Mervyn Court is considered
a fine old place by all admirers of
Elizabethan architecture. Its present possessor,
however, is not overburdened with
means, and finds it no easy matter to keep
up the Court and its surroundings, as tradition
has decreed they ought to be kept up.
The stables have fewer horses than of yore ;
the carriages have been reduced to one old-fashioned
barouche. The staff of men-servants
have fallen to the butler, gardener,
and coachman.

Money-troubles are not unknown to the

venerable owner of Mervyn Court, though he
keeps them to himself, and never seeks to
deny any of his children one single desire of
their hearts in consequence.

** Yolande will marry well," he thinks often,
as he looks at the brilliant beauty of his
cherished first-born, '' and for the others
I can manage."

He thinks it again one bright spring morning
as the three girls are standing on the steps
leading to the terrace, awaiting the arrival of
a waggonette in which Mr Hargreaves and
Judith have promised to convey them to a
pic-nic in Beechhampton Woods.

They are all in high spirits. Miss Skipton
is not required to chaperon them, as Mrs
Hargreaves has promised to do all that is
needful in that line. Enid and Vivien are
brimful of excitement, as this is the first
"grown-up" gaiety in which they have yet
participated, and they expect great things
from it. Yolande is quieter, but even she
is conscious of a pleasurable thrill at the

thought of long lovely hours in wood and
field  even she feels her cheeks flush, her
eyes brighten, as she stands drinking in
the warm scented air and revelling in the
bounteous wealth of sunshine.

Spring has come early this year, following
close on those mild soft February days. It is
April now, but April rich in tints and colours,
lavish in leaf and blossom, full-handed with
floral treasures and fragrant scents. Every
bank is starred with purple-hearted violets
and dainty hyacinths, trees are bursting into
leaf, delicate blossoms sway in the soft warm
air. All the young leaves wave and the
young birds sing, and the pulse of life beats
Strom? and rich in the veins of the blossoming
earth as well as in those of human life.

Yolande and her father are pacing, arm
in arm, over the smooth green sward. She
looks like an embodiment of spring herself,
for her dress is of white muslin over the
palest most delicate shade of green, and her
hat is wreathed with daisies, while a bunch

of the same flowers are fastened at her throat.
The faint misty hues of her robe contrast to
perfection with her delicate face, her bright
hair, her sweet crimson lips. No wonder is
it that her father's eyes rest so admiringly
on her, as they move side by side in the
warm rich flood of sunshine that is poured
so lavishly over earth and sky to-day.

There is the waggonette at last," he says,
as the sound of wheels comes up the drive.
*' I hope you will enjoy yourself, my darling.
Take care that the girls don't get into mischief."


Oh, yes," smiles Yolande, as she glances
up towards the two restless blue-gowned
maidens who are eagerly watching the approach
of the looked-for vehicle, '' I will take
care of them, papa ! I see you are beginning
to look upon me as a staid elderly sister. Not
so very long ago you would have asked someone
to look after me."

"You used to be so very wild in those
days," he answers, looking tenderly at the

bright face. " You have grown much quieter
of late, Yolande. Do you know that ? "

I am sure you ought to be thankful," she
says, turning slightly away from the anxious,
questioning eyes that are bent upon her face.
I believe you thought I should always bea
perfect hoyden, papa."

No, my dear ; I judged you better than
that. Your faults were only those of exuberant
youth and perfect health and buoyant
spirits. You will be never the worse woman,
Yolande, though you were once so wild and
mischievous a girl ! "

She is silent. Deep down in her young
untutored heart is a well of intense feeling.
When strongly moved her glib and heedless
tongue is slow to find words ; and she is so
moved now.

She clasps her father's arm with a sudden
closer pressure.

Darling," she says softly, *' you are always
much too good to me."

Then the waggonette stops close beside

them, and Mrs Hargreaves's hearty voice
rings cheerily out in welcome.

After much talking, laughing, and advising,
the party settle down. The luncheon-basket,
which the Court party contribute to the
festive gathering, is handed in. The girls
kiss their hands, the old white-haired man
waves his in response ; then they are off,
whirling away through the delicious sunshine,
over smooth white roads, through shady lanes,
where primroses bloom in grassy tufts, and
tender fronds of young green ferns uncoil
themselves, past cottages where rose-thorns
bud and trailing creepers are stirred by the
wings of nesting birds  on and on, with the
blue sky overhead and the loveliness of nature
strewn broadcast over wood and lane and
hedgerow  on and on, till the road grows
narrower and the shade denser, and they
pause at length by the appointed rendezvous,
where the other members of the pic-nic party
are awaiting them.

They are rather a large party, and there is

a goodly sprinkling of the eligible youth of
the neighbourhood, and also a small complement
of the military from the adjacent
town of Colston. Plenty of pretty girls are
scattered about, anxious dowagers are giving
longing glances at the provision-basket, a few
elderly gentlemen discuss the weather, with
that proverbial disbelief in its fair promises
born of many pic-nics. Then an excursion to
the ruins of Beechhampton Castle is agreed
upon, and the pleasure-seekers are forthwith
marshalled into pairs or parties, as seems
most desirable to all concerned ; and, having
agreed upon a place and hour for luncheon,
they depart.

Yolande is attended by her faithful adorer
Lance Stapleton, but she foils his intention
of securing a tete-astute by a glance of invitation
at a certain Captain Deringham, who has
been recently introduced to her, and who is
by no means backward in responding to her
unspoken command for his society. In his
private opinion she is by far the loveliest girl

there ; and he is not a little pleased and
flattered that she should favour him.

He is a little man, with an abnormally
large opinion of himself and his fascinating
qualities. It does not therefore surprise him
when Yolande appears to enjoy his frivolous
conversation and vapid compliments. It adds
only one more feather to his cap, one more
laurel to his already plentiful assortment.

Poor Lance has a bad time of it ! Yolande
is employing her mischievous wits in what
is popularly known as 'trotting out" herby
no-means backward admirer, and fools him
so exquisitely that even Lance grows disgusted
with his conceit and affectation, and
feels half angered at Yolande's wicked enjoyment
of it all. It is with a sigh of intense
relief that he at last hails the sioht of the
ruins, and sees the other members of the
party exploring them in every direction.

He waits for a moment to disentangle some
forlorn damsel's train from the embraces of a
wild rose-bush near by, and then hastens to

rejoin his former companions. They are nowhere
to be seen. Vexed and impatient at
losing Yolande  for he had made up his
mind to be her guide through the deserted
chambers of the old castle  he hurries on,
looking right and left for the radiant figure
of his enchantress  but in vain. Nowhere
can he see her ; and with a hopeless sigh he
resigns himself to his fate and pilots Enid
and Yi in her stead. After all it is something
to have the scent of the rose, if not
the rose itself.

Meanwhile Yolande has, by an ingenious
stratagem, got rid of her enamoured captain ;
and, light as a laird on the wing, she flits in
solitary delight through the ruined hall, the
moss - grown corridors and gloomy broken
stairways of the castle.

It is an eerie place  a place of which
many a legend ghastly and terrible has been
told. Yolande knows little enough about it,
save that in by-gone years it had belonged
to the Charteris family, and had been wrested

from their possession by foul and treacherous
means. From one tower can be seen the
more modern dwelling-place of its whilom
owners  a lofty, stately pile, built on the
west side of the park, and now belonging
to Denzil Charteris, the last of his line.
It may be for these reasons that Yolande
wishes to make her investigations in solitude
; in any case she feels that the vapid
commonplace talk and endless love-making
which always seem to be her lot would
here be out of place.

'' I should like to have gone over it all
with  him," she says softly, as she flits
with light steps up the moss-grown stairway
leading to the tower. " I wonder where he
is. I have not seen him for so long. Not
that I care for his absence, but  "

The thought is checked abruptly. She
finds herself in a narrow gloomy turret with
loop-holes of windows that give a bird's-eye
view of all the country round. So striking
and beautiful does the scene look that the
VOL. I. E

girl stands in breathless admiration, gazing
before her with tireless eyes.

Presently she glances round. The turret
is quite bare and desolate enough to chill any
venturesome spirit that has wandered hither in
search of adventure.

'' Just a place for ghosts," thinks Yolande,
and laughs aloud.

As the pretty silvery sound echoes through
the silent space, she starts at the incongruousness
of it in contrast with the nature of her
surroundings. The echo has scarcely died away
when she hears a strange noise behind her.
She starts and turns swiftly. Her cheeks
blanch, her blood seems curdling, a fearful
numbing horror seizes her. She sees a small
door opened in the wall, which reveals a tiny
room, furnished more like a prison cell than
aught else. But it is not the room or the
unexpected discovery of its existence that
holds her spell-bound and powerless in her
terrible fear. It is the sight of a face looking
at her through the doorway  a face bloodless,

ghastly, with nothing human or lifelike about
it  a face with fierce, dark gleaming eyes that
hold her own in a fascinated horrible gaze 
a face with matted hair hanging in loose unkempt
locks over a haggard brow and around
ghastly cheeks.

Yolande stands silent, still, powerless. In
that one moment all the horror and agony of
a lifetime seem pent up. If she could only
scream, or move, or speak ! But she cannot.

Suddenly the awful figure advances  the
long: claw-like hands are outstretched as if to
seize her. The sight gives her back some
faint strength amid this fearful paralysis of
horror. She makes one frantic spring, pursued
by the awful being behind her ; a shriek wild
and agonising bursts from her lips ; then she
is clutched as in a vice, and a horrible gibing,
mocking voice grates on her ear. She feels
herself falling, falling, she knows not whither.
Then all is blank.

HEN Yolande recovers consciousness
she finds herself still in the turret.
Her brow is wet, her hair is unloosed,
and ripples over her shoulders and
half way to her feet, like a shower of molten
gold.

She starts and shivers. Her frightened
eyes gaze wildly round, and finally rest on
the grave, anxious face that is bent so tenderly
over her. It is the face of Denzil Charteris.

Swiftly she withdraws herself from his supporting
arm and springs to her feet.

You here ? " she exclaims in amazement.

I am afraid you've been frightened,"
he says, eagerly. " How imprudent of you to
leave the others and come here by yourself ! "

Her wild eyes glance round, with still the
awful fear in their depths.

What was it ? " she asks timidly. " What
awful thing did I see ? Oh, take me away
from here ! I shall die with terror if it
comes again ! "

He turns very pale at the words.

** You  what did you see % " he stammers.

Yolande shudders.

See ? " she exclaims. " Oh, it was horrible
! Is this tower inhabited, Mr Charteris,
or  haunted ? "

Try to compose yourself," he says soothingly.
** There is nothing to fear now. Perhaps
it was the bats you heard, or the mice
the walls are full of them."

Bats ! " cries Yolande indignantly. ** Do
you think I am a baby, to be frightened by
mere sounds ? No, Mr Charteris ; bats haven't
faces and hands like claws, and  Oh, take
me away, take me away ! " she breaks off
imploringly. ** I wish I had never come
here ! "

Without a word lie draws her trembling
hand through his arm and leads her away,
speaking only soothing words to win her
back to calmness once more.

At the foot of the staircase he pauses.

** Pardon me," he says, '' but do you not
think it would be better to be silent as
regards your  your alarm  to the others ?
I should not like the ruins to be turned
into a show for idle curiosity, or form food
for the tales of gaping rustics. It would be
doing me a great favour if you would not
mention this to any one else."

Yolande looks at him in undisguised amazement.


I don't know why I should do you a
favour," she says slowly and defiantly. *' You
have but little right to ask it. Besides, if I
am questioned as to what I saw in the
turret"

You are quite sure you did see something
then ? " he asks, nervously.

"Mr Charteris, what do you take me for ?"

demands the girl indignantly  " a fool or an
idiot % Of course I saw something ! I was
frightened out of my senses ! What is the
mystery about that horrible place ? I am
sure there is something, or you would not be
so anxious for me to conceal it."

He draws a long breath ; his dark face
grows strangely white and stern.

'' You are right," he says  " there is a
mystery ; but it is hardly fair, I suppose, to
expect one of your sex to keep silent respecting
it, merely because I ask it as a
favour to myself. I cannot give any reasons.
I can only trust to your generosity  if you
have any," he adds bitterly.

The momentary softness dies out of Yo-lance's
face ; her eyes glow darkly and defiantly
once more.

As you have such a bad opinion of me,
I wonder you condescend to make such a
request," she says coldly.

A bad opinion of you ! " he echoes,
looking with burning, passionate eyes down

at the white proud beauty of her face. ** If
I had, I should be a happier man than I
am to-day ! "

The words are so startling that Yolande
is speechless. Her eyes droop, the colour
comes and goes with nervous speed in her
downcast face. Suddenly she remembers her
hair, and with crimson cheeks begins to plait
up the shimmering fleece that enfolds her
like a mantle. Her trembling fingers can
scarcely hold its weight ; but at last she
manages to twist it round and round her
little head.

Denzil Charteris looks on silently, with
eyes in which reluctant admiration lingers.
He does not say a word in praise of its
beauty, and Yolande is "conscious of being
disappointed that he is thus reticent.

*' Do I look like a reasonable being again ? "
she asks, as she fastens her hat and glances
shyly up at her companion.

Quite," he says coldly. " I hope you
are ready to face your party again ? "

Oh, yes ! " answers the girl hurriedly. " I
am sure they must wonder what has become
of me all this long time."

'* Shall we go ? " he asks ; but he does
not offer his arm or hand now, and the fire
and warmth have all died out of his face;
leaving it sterner, colder, harder than ever.

Yolande merely gives a nod of acquiescence
; and they emerge together into the
radiant sunshine and hear the voices and
laughter of their fellow-beings around them
once more.

I feel as if I had been in some ogre's
castle ! " laughs Yolande, looking back at the
frowning walls and mildewed steps and broken
windows behind them. ** By-the-way, Mr
Charteris, I quite forgot to ask how you
came here, and  "

*' How I found you % I will tell you later
on," he says hurriedly.

Yolande looks up with a mischievous smile.
All her spirits and gaiety have returned again;
her alarm is almost forgotten.

Don't forget," she says. '' And now,
good-bye. I am going to retail my adventures
in the turret to everybody."

She flashes one provoking brilliant glance
at his offended face, and then hurries off to
join her sisters.

Does she mean it ? " mutters Denzil
Charteris to himself. " Oh, Heaven, to think
that she, of all persons, should have seen
that ! "

His eyes grow dark with pain ; a heavy
sigh leaves his tight-pressed lips.

'' How lovely she is ! " he thinks, as his
unwilling gaze follows the beautiful little
figure. ** Will a day ever come when I shall
be to you what you have all unwittingly
become to me  my Lady Coquette % "

Did he think I was in earnest ? " says
Yolande to herself, an hour after her adventure.


The whole party are sitting at luncheon.
It is spread on the cool green sward, under

the shade of a group of beech-trees. Yolande
leans against the trunk of one, her hat tossed
negligently beside her, her eyes fixed on a
tiny glade that opens on the opposite side
of the wood, all thickly powdered now with
dainty forest flowers, and gay with falling
bars of sunshine that play at hide-and-seek
among the pale green leaves.

Coming up this glade are Denzil Charteris
and a lady  a lady whom Yolande never
remembers to have seen before, but who
looks as beautiful a vision as the eye
could desire to rest upon, so stately is she
and so fair.

Who is that ? " inquires Yolande sharply
of her neighbour, Doctor Deane.

Who ? What ? " exclaims the gentleman
addressed, with a nervous start that sends
the spoonful of lobster salad to which he is
helping himself on to the dish instead of
his plate.

*' That lady over there in the white dress,
walking with Mr Charteris ? "

Doctor Deane puts up his eyeglass and
looks in the direction indicated.

'* That lady ? '' he says. *' Don't you know ?
She is Mrs Eay. She is on a visit at the
Priory. She is a cousin of Mr Charteris."

Oh, married ! " remarks Yolande, relieved,
she scarcely knows why, by the information.


** She is a widow now," says her companion.
** She was a very beautiful girl. Every one
said Charteris and she were to make a match
of it. ' However, they never did. Can I give
you some pigeon-pie, Miss Mervyn ? "

Thanks," says Yolande languidly, as she
toys with the contents of her plate, and fora
moment relapses into silence.

I suppose she is his ideal," she thinks
half angrily  " calm, cold, stately ; there is
no fear of his ever calling her a coquette."

Do you know all the history of the
Charteris family, Doctor Deane ? " she says
aloud presently.

** Oh, yes, my dear, yes ! " answers the

good-humoured old doctor, who has lived at
Ashbourne for the greater part of his life,
and attended the little Mervin in every
illness that it has been their lot to suffer.

*' Was the Priory really theirs once ? "

'' Certainly it was. It belonged to a Sir
Hubert Charteris, who was a Royalist, and
fell in the battle of Worcester. Then Cromwell
took it and gave it to one of his
followers ; and it never came back again to
the Charteris line for nearly two centuries."

'' How is it that the title is extinct ? "
inquires Yolande.

It is a long story. The last owner of it,
Sir Denzil Charteris  you start !  yes, it is
the same name. Well, he was a great man
in his day, and fought loyally for king and
country. He had wedded a lady of great
rank and wonderful beauty. He loved her
very fondly. That love cost him dear ; for
her family held opposite sides to his own.
They were troublous times those, and often
a man's foes were the members of his own

household. This was a case. The Lady
Scythe had a lover, and for his sake she
won a great State secret from her husband
and betrayed it. He was flung into the
Tower, and languished there for long. While
he was there his wife fled to a foreign land
with the villain, whose treachery was doubled
by the fact of kinship. Sir Denzil had a
son, a little lad of seven years ; and his one
prayer was that the child might be given
him to cheer his last moments of solitude
and durance. They " granted him the request
; and the boy came, and for many
dreary months was the solace of his bitter
hours and hopeless insertion. Meanwhile his
trial went on. Those w4iom he had served
and honoured, those in whose cause his blood
had been shed, his whole possessions given,
were now only too ready to disbelieve and
speak ill of him. At last his sentence was
pronounced  the scaffold ! One day he loosed
his child's arms from around his neck and
told him, as best he could, his bitter history.

A time will come he said, ' when my
honour will be cleared, when those who
condemn so readily now will know who is
traitor and who not. Of this, my son, be
sure  that the titles we lose to-day and the
possessions we forfeit, will yet be pressed
back upon our race as atonement for the
wrongs I have suffered. Take this, my last
charge. What is ours by right you may
claim and keep ; but not one title they have
withdrawn, not one rood of land they have
confiscated, shall heir of mine accept from
his fathers murderers.' And no Charteris
has ever done so. The little child lived to
see justice rendered to the name he had
loved and honoured ; but no entreaty would
induce him to accept compensation for the
undeserved wrong. All the lands and titles
that had been added to their original possessions
were declined thenceforward. The
Priory fell to ruins, as you see, and the
lands that the Charteris's now hold are not
one-tenth of their original possessions."

Yolande had listened with intense eagerness
to the story.

How sad ! " she says at last ; and the
old doctor wonders why her face is so pale
now. He does not know what strong and
touching interest that recital of by-gone
wrongs possessed, invested as it was with
the name that held so singular a charm for
her, despite all efforts at rebellion.

With an unwonted softness in their depths
her eyes turned towards Denzil Charteris.
Looking up at that moment he catches the
musing glance, with all its silent, eloquent
appeal. But now no answering softness
speaks back from his own.

*' It is only another art," he says, and
sighs, and devotes himself more assiduously
than ever to his companion.



|T is by no means the most comfortable
thing in the world to eat one's
food on the grass. Picturesque
and unusual it may be, and therefore possessing
charms for youth and inexperience 
certainly not for age and reason. The picnic
party are fairly gay; the usual contretemps
are perpetrated and laughed over ;
the champagne is exhilarating, and makes
amends for other drawbacks. The sun still
continues to warm with benignant bounty
the old, who rejoice in its comforting beams,
and the young, who let its rays flicker unguardedly
over uncovered heads and bright
cheeks and delicate complexions.

Luncheon is over at last; and the party
VOL. I. p

get up and stroll about, or linger under the
trees, or stray off in couples, as suits best
their respective ideas of comfort and enjoyment.


Yolande sits thoughtfully in her place,
declining all offers and invitations to exchange
it, or walk off with an attendant
swain, as most of the Dulcinea and Chloe
are doing.

I want to be alone," she says, pettishly ;
and at last she gets her wish.

She leans back with half-closed eyes ; the
sunbeams play on her bright hair ; a butterfly,
tempted by the warmth to make an early
debut in life, flutters idly up and down before
her, now poised on a leaf, now revelling in
the sunlight, or mounting high into mid-air
on some golden ladder formed by the slanting
rays. It is all so bright and fair and still
that Yolande hardly wonders at the somniferous
tendencies of the elder members of
the party, and even closes her own white
lids  " only to think," she says.

The thought must have been a long one,
for at last she opens them with a start.
Voices in the rear are talking eagerly.

** Is it really true ? It seems too horrible ! "
says one.

"It is perfectly true. I had it on the
best authority," answers another. " The two
brothers were very fond of each other, and
they both lived together always. Denzil was
the younger, as you know. But when Hubert
brought his wife home to the Priory, all the
old love and friendship was broken up. She
and Denzil fell in love. How far things had
gone no one knew ; but at last Hubert
discovered it, and the shock was so awful
that he killed himself  was found, with the
pistol in his hand, lying dead one summer
morning."

And the wife ? " interrogates the first
voice eagerly.

"That is the mysterious part of it, my
dear. She disappeared from that moment.
No one ever knew what became of her. It

was a terrible scandal, of course, and the
Priory was shut up and Denzil went away for
years and years. He has been quite changed
ever since. They say he will never marry.
He hates women."

Yolande rises to her feet weak and faint.

The story she has unwittingly heard seems
horrible. She longs to get away from human
voices and' human eyes, and all the cruel
necessary conventionalities of life. She longs
for solitude as she never has longed for it
before. Blindly she rushes on through the
woodland glades, her heart throbbing wildly
her pulses quivering. Her light skirts brush
the tapestry of delicate flowers and emerald
moss, her hair catches the sunbeams and reflects
their brightness, the birds twitter and
call from bough to bough  but she is heedless
of every sight and sound.

Suddenly she pauses in her headlong career,
as if turned to stone. Not half-a-dozen yards
ahead she sees the figure of a man lying face
downwards on the cold screen sward  a man

whose frame is shaken by voiceless sobs, whose
whole attitude betokens a tearless, terrible
despair. She knows only too well who he is.

Awed and trembling and abashed, the girl
stands and looks through the parted boughs.
Her face pales, her lips quiver. Never in her
life has she seen grief like this borne or
suffered by living man.

Then she draws back and goes away with
noiseless steps and dry and burning eyes.

"Is it for her he grieves  even now 1 " she
says.

'' Yolande ! Where is Yolande ? " asks Enid
impatiently.

The stragglers are being collected, and the
various conveyances are in waiting to bear
their respective freights homewards in the
cool evening hour. Vi and Enid stand by
Mrs Hargreaves's side, waiting somewhat impatiently
for their truant sister.

*really Yolande has behaved very badly
to-day," says the fair plump Judith, as she

stands drawing on her gloves. *' She has been
constantly disappearing at odd moments, and
just when she's most wanted."

Perhaps she is going home with some one
else ? " suggests Mrs Hargreaves, who is tired
and a little cross, and beginning to long for
her comfortable chair and customary cup of
tea. "Do you think we ought to wait, my
dears ? Everyone else is going, you see."

'* Oh, but we cannot leave without Yo-lance
! " cry the twins simultaneously.

Still it is very tiresome," adds Vi. "I
can't think where she can be. She knew we
were all to leave at six o'clock."

** There is some one coming now," exclaims
Enid.

*sit is only Mr Charteris," says Judith,
quietly. '* Perhaps he will go and look for
her. I will ask him."

*' Oh, no ! There she is at last ! " cries Vi,
eagerly. " I can see her dress in the opening
of that glade opposite."

They are close upon each other's heels at

all events," says Judith, a little ill-naturedly,
for Denzil Charteris has not bestowed on her
to-day any of the attentions which her soul
loveth, and she is inclined to resent the absence
of those 'petits soins to which he has
accustomed her of late.

And here comes Mrs Eay, too," interposes
Enid. ** I suppose Mr Charteris will drive
her back. I wonder why her mother did
not come with her to-day. She is also at
the Priory."

Because she was a sensible woman, I
suppose," answers Mrs Hargreaves, a little
bitterly.

Now don't be cross, mamma," interposes
her daughter ; ''I am sure you have had a
very pleasant day, and no single cause for
complaint. Well, Yolande," she adds loudly,
as that young lady comes up, " so here you
are at last 1 "

I hope I have not kept you waiting
long," says Yolande, apologetically. ** I am
sorry. I forgot all about the time."

*' You are only half-an-hour late," remarks
Judith composedly.

*' I really am very sorry," begins Yolande,
blushing and confused.

Oh, never mind ! We all know time is
apt to play strange tricks when one is pleasantly
occupied ! " Judith interrupts with a
meaning glance at Denzil Charteris, who is
standing close beside them now.

I was quite alone," says Yolande, indignantly.


** Oh, indeed ! " answers Judith, with polite
incredulity. '' Well, suppose you get in,
instead of arguing the reasons of your late
arrival. We are to go home as we came, I
suppose % " she adds interrogatively.

** Yolande," says an eager voice at this
juncture, " I have been looking everywhere
for you ! Do let me drive you
back!"

Oh, no ! " cries Yolande, shrinking away
from the touch and voice of her fervent
admirer Lance, with instinctive dislike of

his suggestion. *' I would much rather go
with Mrs Hargreaves."

At this moment Denzil Charteris approaches,
his beautiful cousin by his side.

Mrs Hargreaves," he says, *' I am going
to ask a great favour of you. The wheel of
my trap is loose, and I am obliged to ride
home. Have you a spare seat in your waggonette
for Mrs Eay ? You would oblige us
exceedingly if you would drop her at the
Priory."

Oh, certainly ! " acquiesces Mrs Hargreaves,
only too eager to oblige so important
a personage as Mr Charteris. " Yolande can
go with Lance Stapleton, and your cousin is
welcome to her seat."

** I hope it will not inconvenience Miss
Mervyn," begins Denzil Charteris hesitatingly;
'' if so"

Oh, not in the least ! " exclaims Yolande,
with feigned cheerfulness. *' I shall be delighted
to go with Mr Stapleton."

'' Of that I have no doubt," returns Denzil

haughtily ; but a keen pang runs through
his heart as he sees the girl turn away with
a careless nod to the surrounding group and
disappear, under the delighted escort of her
youthful adorer.

Lance possesses a gig with a high-stepping
horse, and into this vehicle he helps Yolande
with a speed and alacrity which look as if he
feared she would change her mind. Then he
springs in beside her.

Crack goes the whip,
Round go the wheels,"

and they are off. They pass the waggonette
where beautiful Mrs Ray is occupying Yo-lance'
s place ; they pass Denzil Charteris
astride on his black hack Eblis. Lance whips
up his steed, and off they fly at a sharp trot
over the white stretching road, while the cool
evening air sweeps by, fanning Yolande's hot
cheeks and rustling the young leaves overhead.


She likes the rapid motion, and with a

little satisfied sigh leans back on her high
perch.

'rare you comfortable?" asks Lance presently.


** Oh, yes  quite ! " answers his companion.
** Why are you slackening speed ? "

I am afraid we shall be home too soon,"
he says tenderly.

*' We can't be home too soon to please me,"
rejoins Yolande. " I am so tired'*

*' Tired ! I never heard you complain of
that before, whatever you have gone through.
Did you not enjoy yourself ? "

** Oh, yes," answers the girl, with forced
cheerfulness, ** very much ! But pic-nics are
rather a bore, don't you think % "

Once you said they were the most delightful
form of enjoyment. How fickle you
are, Yolande ! Do you ever hold the same
opinion for two days together ? "

I am afraid not. I can't help it. I get
tired of everything and everybody."

Oh, Yolande ! "

One of her little hands lies unloved on
the leather apron of the gig. Lance suddenly
shifts the reins to his right hand and seizes it
in his left. An angry light flashes into the
girl's face. She hurriedly snatches it away.

Don't ! " she says sharply.

'* Do you grudge me even so small a favour
as that ? " he asks sadly, looking down at
her with a pained, humble look in his grey
eyes. ''Yolande, why are you so changed
from what you were a year ago ? "

Am I changed ? " she says wearily.

Indeed, yes. You were so kind and true ;
and, though you did tease me sometimes  "

** Oh, for goodness' sake, Lance, don't talk
such nonsense ! " cries Yolande impatiently.
'' A year ago ! Why, I was a child then ! "

Were you ? " he says sadly. '' I don't
know. I suppose you were ; but I loved you
just as dearly as I do now, Yolande."

I am sure I wish you wouldn't," the girl
returns nervously. "You know I have told
you again and again it is of no use. I look

upon you as a brother, Lance ; you have
seemed to me just like one ever since we
played cricket together in the meadows at
Mervyn. Why can't you be satisfied with
things as they are, and not want to change
them ? "

You know very well  why. If you cared
for me as I do for you, Yolande, you would
not be able to let things remain as they are."

** I can't help my feelings. Liking and
loving are not in one's own hands," answers
Yolande pettishly.

And you don't like me at all ? "
*' Oh, yes, I do  better than anyone else
I know ! " she says cheerfully.

But not as I mean  not as I love you,
Yolande ? "

It is quite impossible for me to gauge
the depth and extent of your feelings, Lance,"
she says lightly. " I certainly never think
of you when you are out of sight ; neither
do I care very much whether you are with
me or not. But I know yoa are very good

and kind, and I know too' she adds, with
sudden bitterness, " that it would be a hundred
times better for me if I could care for
you than  "

'than what?" he asks fiercely. 'not
anyone else, Yolande ? Oh, don't say there
is anyone else ! "

That is so very likely ! " exclaims Yo-lance
sarcastically. "Ashbourne abounds with
eligible swains, men for whom one could care
even if one tried. Pshaw, Lance, don't suppose
anything so utterly impossible ! "

I am glad it is impossible," answers the
unfortunate wooer, with intense relief  " glad,
because as long as you care for no one else,
Yolande, I shall never quite despair. It
seems impossible that all the love I bear for
you should have no return. And I can be
very patient, dear."

You poor boy ! " exclaims Yolande pityingly.
" I wish I could give you some hope ;
but I am sure I shall never alter."

But you are so young, Yolande ; and to

some natures love does not come all at once ;
its approach is gradual and imperceptible."

Is it \ " says Yolande, with, a strange
bitter little laugh. " Well, with me love is
decidedly in the imperceptible stage just

now."

I wonder if I could do anything to make
you care for me ? " says Lance, musingly.

I think if you were to go away and
never bother me it would be best," suggests
Yolande ; " or perhaps you could be very unkind,
or fickle, or  make me jealous even.
But you see it is rather wearying, this onesided
courtship, and you have always been
so absurdly fond of me ! "

Heaven knows, Yolande, I would alter
if I could ! It is cruel of you to mock at
a man's honest lifelong devotion. Perhaps
a day may come when you will value a true
heart as it deserves, and then  "

*' Then shall I come to you, Lance ? " she
says softly.

"Oh, my darling, my darling," he cries

rapturously, "if you only would, if you only
would ! "

He has checked the horse suddenly, and
the gig stands motionless on the moonlit
road. He bends towards Yolande in the
impulse of the moment ; his eyes gaze passionately
on the lovely flower-like face ; then
he snatches the little white unloved hands
and kisses them with swift tremulous kisses
not once or twice, but many times. Ere
Yolande can recover from the surprise and
suddenness of such behaviour, the sharp
quick trot of a horse's hoofs sounds in their
rear. An instant afterwards Mr Charteris
passes the waiting vehicle, having been an
evident witness of the little scene enacted
therein.

Yolande's face grows crimson with vexation
and annoyance. She snatches her hands
away from her lover's grasp, and her soft
eyes flash bitter wrath at his pleading face.

How dare you make such an exhibition of
me out here in the open road ? " she cries

furiously. " I wish I had never come with
you at all I "

Poor Lance draws back, white and hurt and
penitent.

'* I beg your pardon," he says humbly. " I
really could not help it. You looked so  so
lovely ! "

** Will you be kind enough to leave my
looks alone and drive on ? " says Yolande
icily. " I think your conduct is most impertinent."


The young man gnaws his fair moustache
in silent vexation. He fears he must indeed
have given dire offence to his lady-love before
she could speak in those cold measured tones
to him. He drives on in silence ; and Yolande
is too angry and indignant at the thought of
what has occurred to take the slightest notice
of his presence for the rest of the drive.

"What must he think? What must he
think ? " she says to herself over and over
again.

And the '' he " alluded to is certainly not
VOL. I. G

the man in such close proximity to her own
fair self.

The vexed question is still far from settled
when they reach the lodge gates and she finds
herself at home once more. She scarcely
deigns to touch Lance's proffered hand as he
assists her down, and with a curt '* Goodnight
" she passes into the house.

** I have never spent such a miserable day
in my life ! " she says, as, with hot cheeks and
shaking hand, she divests herself of her hat
and jacket in the welcome solitude of her
own room.

OE a week after the pic-nic Yolande
sees nothing of Denzil Charteris.
Matters go on quietly and uneventfully
at the Court. Miss Skipton still perseveringly
endeavours to initiate Yolande into
the mysteries of housekeeping. Vi and Enid
still persist in playing tricks and ingeniously
tormenting their faithful monitress. Arthur
has gone back to school, and peace and quiet
reign in his stead.

One morning Yolande is employed in what
she terms " practising," but it is nothing
better than an idle occasional touch of the
keys, while her thoughts are busy dreaming
over far different subjects from those that the
music presents.

Quite suddenly the door is opened, and Mr
Charteris is announced. With sudden haste,
a haste that sends the warm blood to her
cheeks, she rises from the piano. Her voice
takes the cold, almost aggressive tone it so
invariably assumes when she speaks to him.

I am rather an early visitor, I fear," he
says apologetically ; *' but I am the bearer of
a letter from my aunt, and that must be my
excuse."

With a stately little bow Yolande receives
the missive he hands her. She sees it is
addressed to herself, and lays it down quietly.

'* Won't you open it ? " asks Denzil. " I
believe I am to take back your answer. Weare
going to have a ball at the Priory, and
I have come specially to beg the favour of
your presence."

Did you suppose your request would be
more powerful than Mrs Eay's invitation ? "
asks Yolande scornfully, as she takes up the
missive with its elaborate crest, and opens
it with slow and careless fingers.

I was not so conceited," he answers,
looking keenly, almost sadly, at the beautiful
face bent now over the open letter in
her hand, a face where the fluctuating colour
comes and goes, a face at which he has
gazed so often, yet never found less beautiful
or less provocative of the admiration it
so universally meets.

*' You will come ? " he asks, as she lays
down the letter and looks up at his earnest
eyes.

A ball always has an attraction for me
beyond all other forms of enjoyment or 
occupation," she remarks ; " but I must ask
permission before this special one is graced
by my presence."

"Just as if you don't always get what
you desire ! " he says, laughing at her grave
tone, the very gravity of which only makes
the saucy lips and mirthful eyes more irresistibly
attractive.

*' That shows how little you know of me,"
she answers, meeting his quizzical glance

now with a fearlessness that her beating
heart and flushing cheeks belie.

Do I know so little of you ?" he says
tenderly. * I think  not."

"It is only at rare moments* Yolande
remarks, rising and ringing the bell as she
speaks, '' that even our best friends can
have a glimpse of our real characters. We
but move about masked and cloaked  morally
-  now-a-days."

** There is not much concealment about
you, at all events," he says gravely. " It
is easy to know when you are vexed or
pleased, glad or grieved, sad or gay. I don't
think you could ever be deceitful."

*' Is that a very great virtue ? " she asks
coolly. ** Yes, James, I rang,"  as the door
opens and the servant stands within. "Ask
papa to come in. Tell him Mr Charteris
would be glad to see him."

I told you I came to see you ! " he says,
a little vexed at this abrupt termination to
their tete-tete.

And I believe you can do so still if you
use your eyes," she rejoins. " Papa is not
an extinguisher, I suppose ? "

*' No ; of course I am glad to see him 
always ; but I wanted to ask you  "

How I enjoyed the pic-nic ? Very much
indeed," she says, as he hesitates, unwilling
or unable to frame the question he
wishes.

'' I don't doubt that. I suppose the drive
home was equally felicitous ? "

'* If such a word can be applied to the
shaky motion of a vehicle, where one's back
is in imminent risk of being broken at any
moment, owing to the horse and driver
being unable to come to terms, it certainly
was," agrees Yolande.

Perhaps the driver and some one else
found it more easy to come to terms than
the steed did," he says, with a sudden flash
of jealous light in his eyes which Yolande
is quick to notice.

Perhaps so," she says calmly, her glance

turning restlessly to the door, in the hope of
seeing her father enter.

*you need not be in such a great hurry
to terminate our interview surely," he remarks,
gnawing angrily at the thick moustache
which shades his upper lip. 'you
look so longingly at the door ; it is not
polite."

No ? " questions Yolande, raising her
pretty brows in assumed surprise. '' Had
you not better tell Miss Skipton that she
has neglected one most important branch in
my education  how to entertain gentlemen
politely ? "

I scarcely think you need much instruction
in that art," he says angrily. *you seem
very well up in it, as a rule."

Then this is the exception, I suppose ? "

You certainly take very little trouble to
entertain me," he says ; *' and yet you are
agreeable enough to  to others."

Instance and example, please ? " she says
demurely.

Oh, there are plenty, but I won't instance
them just now ! I will wait  "

Till you are one of them ? I-do hope
your politeness won't be too severely tried.
I am not usually considered disagreeable;
but some people try my temper more than
others."

*'So I should suppose," he says, laughing
involuntarily at the quaint impertinence of
the girl's tone. *' I need not look very far
for instance and example in that case. Ah,
here is your father ! "

Papa," says Yolande, leaning lightly over
her father's chair when the usual greetings
have been exchanged, " Mr Charteris has
come to ask me to a ball."

'' Well, my dear," answers Mr Mervyn,
looking lovingly at the bright face, *' of course
you said you would be delighted to go  "

She referred me to you for permission ? "
interrupts Denzil Charteris.

** Which of course was a mere matter of
form," answers the old gentleman, laughing.

'' Yolande knows very well that she accepts
what she likes and goes where she likes. She
is a sad tyrant, Mr Charteris."

** There are some tyrannies  " begins
Denzil hastily.

Exactly," interposes Yolande, with ready
mischief. That is such an opening for a
compliment, that Mr Charteris would be more
than mortal could he withstand the temptation.
" I know just what you are going to
say, Mr Charteris, so I shall save you the
trouble. Now, please entertain papa ; for I
am going to write my note."

'* Can you not write it here ? " asks Denzil,
with a strange longing for further sight of
the beautiful figure that imparts so sweet a
charm to the quaint old room.

*' No ; it is impossible," she says, shaking
her head gravely ; '' I should be sure to doit
wrong. I must seek Miss Skipton's advice
and assistance."

*' He looked vexed," the girl says to herself
as she closes the door and goes slowly on to

the schoolroom. "Is he beginning to feel
already ? Something tells me I shall not
have to wait so very long  now."

But the expression on the fair young face
is not good to see ; and Denzil Charteris
would have been strangely perplexed had
he caught sight of the girl's look of triumph.

The ball-room at the Priory is a splendid
room  wide, cool, and lofty. It is brilliant
on this night, with the delicate tasteful beauty
of flowers and plants, the lustre of lights,
and dazzle of women's faces and women's
toilets.

The musicians are playing in a hidden
gallery ; a few early couples are boldly joining
in the opening quadrille. Old Mrs Kay,
a stately dowager in rich grey satin and
point-lace, is receiving her guests, and Denzil
Charteris stands beside her, looking handsomer,
nobler than ever ; so many a romantic
damsel thinks as she meets the bow and
smile of her host to-night.

*' Where is Pauline \ She is late," he
says to his aunt.

Mrs Ray murmurs some hasty apology ;
she knows full well that her lovely daughter
has no intention of putting in an appearance
until the company is assembled, and there
are enough admiring eyes to be dazzled and
made envious by her presence and her  dress.

You will keep some waltzes for me,
Miss Mervyn ? " Denzil whispers eagerly as
Yolande enters at last, chaperoned by the
orange-clad Miss Skipton, who is indeed
fearful and wonderful to behold.

** Certainly," says Yolande graciously.

"Let me enter them down now," he entreats.
" If you once go away I shall not
have a chance, I know."

With a laugh Yolande hands him her
programme.

" Not too many," she says, as she watches
the pencil move from place to place.

** Only three," he answers. " I am very
self-denying. But then these will be all

I shall have to look forward to. I am
marked out for nothing but duty-dances
for the rest of the evening."

Yolande makes no answer, unless the
sudden sweet glance she gives him is one.
Then she moves off, and is speedily surrounded
and beset by importunate partners.

It is a very pleasant ball. There are
plenty of nice people, a great number of
pretty girls, a few lovely ones  first and
foremost is Yolande  and a superabundance
of men  young, old, handsome, or ugly, as
the case may be. Pauline Eay and Yolande
Mervyn share the honours of the evening.
Both are lovely in their respective styles 
the one graceful, haughty, languid, the other
daintily beautiful, fresh and sweet, wonderfully
fascinating in look and gesture.

It is not till after supper that Denzil
Charteris comes to claim the three waltzes
he has asked for ; and Yolande acknowledges
to herself, as they float away over the
polished floor, that none of her partners has

in any degree approached him in perfection
of dancing.

"You have enjoyed yourself, I hope?"
he asks presently, as they pause and stand
looking at the other couples gliding, shuffling,
or labouring through the mazy dance in
their respective styles. '

< Very much," she says gaily.

*' Are you not tired % You have danced so
much."

Oh, no, not in the least ! "

Whom are you looking at so admiringly ?"
he asks abruptly.

'" Mrs Eay. How exquisitely lovely she looks
to-night ! " says Yolande enthusiastically.

Her dress is very pretty," remarks Denzil
Charteris.

*' Pretty ! Oh, Mr Charteris ! " cries Yo-lance
in horror. '' Why, there is not such
a dress in the room ! It is absolutely perfection
! "

How much you ladies think of dress ! "
he says, laughing. *' I believe you would

rather be well dressed than good-looking if
you had the choice."

Happily it is possible to combine the two
sometimes," Yolande remarks demurely.

"So I see," he answers with a meaning
glance. '* An instance  "

Is Mrs Eay," she says quickly.

*' True ! " he laughs. " But I was not
thinking then of  Mrs Eay."

You are a lazy partner, Mr Charteris.
Are you not going to finish this waltz ? "

'' If you particularly wish it," he answers.
But I have had no time to speak a word
to you this evening, and  well, I have had
many waltzes."

We had much better dance than talk," says
Yolande readily. " We can't quarrel then."

'' And is quarrelling a necessary result of
our talking ? " he asks gravely.

Cast your memory back, and then answer
that question yourself," laughs Yolande, a
little nervously.

Well, as I don't wish to quarrel tonight,

I must take refuge in dancing," he
answers.

And once more his arm is around the
slender supple waist, and they sweep of and
round the room in perfect unison of step and
motion.

I am sorry that is over," says Denzil
Charteris, as the music stops and he gives
Yolande his arm. " But I shall live in hope
of the next."

Hope is an inestimable blessing," remarks
Yolande coolly. " Are you going to give
another ball soon ? "

No. Why do you ask V he answers,
puzzled by her tone and look.

*' Simply because you must live on the hope
you speak of till then. I am going now."

'' Going ! And my two waltzes not
granted ! Miss Mervyn, you are joking ! "

I never joke," she says seriously. " In
that respect I differ from the elderly naval man
in the Boh Ballads. He at least had one."

'' You are always trying to elude my meaning,"

he tells her, with a dangerous softening
in his voice. '' But to-night I will not
be angry with you. I am determined you
shall not vex me."

'' You are very kind," she says ironically.

*' I would say the same of you if only it
would induce you to give me the two waltzes."

Even that inducement," remarks Yolande
placidly, ** is not sufficient to make me break
a resolution."

You wish to annoy me, I see," he answers,
in a tone of visible impatience, " or  to make
your favours doubly precious by not cheapening
them."

*' My favours," laughs the girl mischievously,
** are usually sued for as a boon, not demanded
as a right, Mr Charteris."

*' Would it be of any use for me to sue for
the privilege you have refused ? "

" I fear not ; because  well, it would be no
privilege to you  and I have made up my
mind to go home now."

*' You are, without exception, the most

VOL. I. H

provoking little lady I have ever met," he
says, with a vexed laugh. '' But you know
how to make yourself of value, I must say."

I am glad to hear that," the girl answers,
her eyes wandering idly from group to group
of the hurrying crowd. *' It is always best to
put a good price on oneself, I have been told."

I wonder what your price is," he says, his
voice softening, his eyes looking into hers
with passionate intensity.

It is too high for any man to pay," she
replies, with a forced laugh, but with mounting
colour that flushes and fades away on
her beautiful face.

''I think not," he says gently. *' Perhaps
some day  I will ask it again."

*' You may ask," the girl rejoins, wondering
why the momentary rapture that fills her
heart should change and fade away into a
new and passionate sorrow, '' but I shall
never answer such a question from you, Mr
Charteris."

He only smiles, and his hand closes tenderly

on the little fingers that rest so lightly on
his arm.

I will wait," he whispers softly. "It is
a lesson I learnt long ago, and I do not fear
failure when I apply it."

Faith is a beautiful virtue," rejoins Yo-lance,
keeping her eyes still averted from the
eyes whose searching glance she dares not
meet. " I should always practise it were I a
man, with but one exception in the objects
practised upon."

And that is"

Woman ! "

*' Have you such a poor opinion of their
deserts?" he asks gravely. '* I have not.
Yolande, you kept the promise I asked once,
although you would not give it at the time.
Why?"

I never analysed my motives," she says
coolly. " I suppose I did not speak of my
adventure because I did not want a fuss
made about it. Certainly it was not from
any consideration for you, Mr Charteris."

'' You are pleasantly frank, Miss Mervyn,"
he returns angrily. " I wonder why I am
specially singled out for all your harsh and
disdainful speeches ? "

"Is there not a couplet about 'many a
shaft at random sent ' ? " queries the girl
laughingly. " I am not to blame if you
set yourself up for a target, Mr Charteris.
Now here we are at the cloak-room. If you
will be kind enough to bring Miss Skipton
here, I shall be much obliged. I will wait
till she comes."

If you knew how disappointed I am ! "  he
begins, gazing longingly at the lovely face
that looks strangely white and weary now.

'' I can imagine it in your absence," she
says lightly, " when I picture you making
just such speeches and dancing just such
dances with  Pauline Eay."

** You think so lightly of me as that ? "
he questions, with sudden passion. " You
believe I am in no way different from the
butterfly idlers who whisper the same vapid

compliments in the ears of every girl they
meet ? "

'' I find very little difference in men," she
answers, her eyes fixed on the buttons of her
glove, which she is nervously unfastening ;
and I am sure it would be too much to
expect that they should tax their brains
afresh to flatter the vanity or further the entertainment
of every new partner they seek."

'* And I am to you only an ordinary partner
in a ball-room ? "

' What more should you be," she asks
lightly  " except an unusually good one. I
give you your due as a dancer, Mr Chart eris."

I wish you would give me my due as
something else," he says earnestly  " something
that your words and smiles have made
me, despite all struggles on my own part to
resist the fascination you wield. Yolande  "

Oh, please go and find Miss Skipton ! "
she cries entreatingly. "You have no idea
how tired I am of  talking."

He draws back suddenly. The blood

rushes in a fierce hot torrent to his brow,
then, receding, leaves him pale as herself.
He makes no answer ; he only bows low
and leaves her there.

In the ball-room he searches among the
poor nodding patient wall-flowers until he
finds Miss Skipton and gives her Yolande's
message. Then at the cloak-room door he

o

leaves her, and with a cold farewell bow to
Yolande, he turns and saunters away into the
cool grounds, leaving the noise and brilliance
of the ball-room behind him

As he stands under the shadow of the trees,
his eyes unheeding thebeauty of the night,
his heart full of bitter thoughts and anxious
doubts, a figure glides towards him all robed
in shining costly satin, the face and form and
robe bathed in a flood of pure silvery light.

** Pauline ! " he says with a start. *' Why
have you left the ball-room ? "

Perhaps for the same reason as yourself,"
she says,  " a desire for solitude."

That is rather an unusual desire on your

part. What will your court yonder do without
their queen ? "

Denzil," she says earnestly, '* I have not
come here for empty compliments. I have
had a surfeit of them, as you might know."

*' Can a woman ever have a surfeit of food
so desirable ? "

Denzil," she says, with a strange pleading
softness in her voice, *' do not be cold
and harsh to me to-night. Do you remember
what night this is  what anniversary it
represents ? "

Perfectly well  the anniversary of the
day Pauline Eay found there were more
desirable things-*:!' life than love, faith,
or honour."

Oh, hush ! Don't be so hard on me
now, Denzil. Remember how young I was,
how beset on all sides by temptation ; and
then  my mother  "

** Your mother ? Oh, yes ! " he says, with
a bitterer sarcasm in his voice than before.
' How wise she was for you ! "

"But, though I wedded my cousin," she
says tremulously, '' you know I never loved
him, you know that only one man has ever
had my heart. Oh, Denzil, on just such
a night as this, five summers ago, we
stood here betrothed lovers ; and now  "

'* Now," he says, looking at her with a
face in which scorn, hate, longing, loathing,
seem all mingled in a moment's passionate
remembrance  " now, Pauline, you are nothing
to me, nor am I anything to you."

For a moment she turns very white, as
she meets his scornful gaze and hears his
bitter words.

He looks at her standing before him, a
living picture, all white and gold, like a tall
sweet garden-lily, a woman whose sensuous
beauty might win any man's heart, and yet
who is to him no more than the grass is
to the feet of the reader, than the passing
of yesterday is to to-day.

What I am to you," she answers, at last
lifting her down-bent face and gazing at him

with eyes a world too eloquent, " I cannot
help ; but what you were to me once you
have always been  you are  still."

Despite himself, the anger in his face dies
out, the hardness softens. After all, this
woman was once dear to him, and he had
cared for her very fondly ; but his heart was
cast aside for her caprice, and he learnt the
bitter lesson that has made him distrustful,
almost cruel, to women ever since.

"Your words are flattering," he says at
last ; " but they come too late. Between us
lies for ever now the gulf of your perjury. I
can never forget that, even if you have found
it possible."

'' You are so hard upon me," she returns,
with a passion of tears in her broken voice
and pleading eyes. " Any other man would
have forgiven me, because  because I have
so sorely repented  because even now I have
humbled myself, as few women could have
borne to do, only to show you I was anxious
to make amends for the past. And on this

night you might surely have some softer feeling
towards me ; for, oh, Denzil, the past is
only as a dream  I am the same Pauline still!"

The same Pauline ! " he says slowly,
almost harshly, as he lays his hands upon
her shoulders and gazes with calm searching
eyes at the loveliness of face and form that
was once so nearly his. *' Yes, you have the
same eyes  blue and sweet and beguiling 
the same soft colouring, the same curves,
dimples, smiles, glances, which once drove
me mad with longing and with love. Yes,
you are the same  fairer, perhaps, than of old ;
but it is all nothing to me  now ; so the
change must be in me, not in you, Pauline."

*' Then you care for me no more ? " she
falters, her lips quivering, her eyes sinking
slowly, as though the heavy tears that glisten
on their lashes weighed them down.

I care for you," he says, with a heavy
sigh, releasing her from his clasp, "just so
much as a man can care for the woman who
once won his love and then  betrayed ito



The calm, cold speech causes her to shiver
as with sudden cold; her clasped hands are
wrung together with a passionate gesture of
despair.

I wish I could hate you," she says slowly.
What right have you to stab me with your
cruel words  me, who have loved you so well
so well ? "

And I loved you too  once," he answers,
with a heavy sigh. *' Once ? Oh, yes, but
long ago, Pauline  long ago ! I am a man
now, with new hopes, new feelings, new
ambitions. I could not count the world well
lost for your love now."

But for  another's ? " she says, and then
stops and looks with keen scrutiny at his
troubled face, noting how her words have
altered all its cold serenity.

"There can be no discussion between us,"
he answers coldly, ** about any future actor
intention of mine. And now shall we
go in 1 "

I will remain here," she says, turning

away so that he cannot see the deadly pallor
of her face, the wild agony in her eyes.

'' As you please," he returns calmly. '' But
the night air is chill, and you are but thinly
clad."

"It is my concern," she says haughtily.
You have no right to interfere with my
actions or myself ! Leave me ! "

He bows and obeys. As his footsteps die
away, as the tall figure and its stately height
are lost to her watching gaze, she suddenly
draws herself up and lifts one white arm
towards the glittering sky above her head.

Let him beware I ' she says. " He loves
that little coquette  now. Well, her turn
shall come. She shall know the humiliation
I have known, and drink of the cup that I
have drunk of I will visit his scorn on her
head, and live to make him rue the day he
gave my place to her. Since I have lost his
love I will work out his misery, as surely as
Heaven hears me to-nioht ! "

When Yolande reaches home she finds the
household in wild distress. Lights flash to
and fro, anxious faces greet her on every side.

Oh, Yolande," cries Enid tearfully, *' how-glad
I am that you have come ? We have
just sent for you. Papa is so ill ! Doctor
Deane has been with him for the last hour.
He has had a fit."

'* Good Heaven ! " gasps Yolande.

Hush ! Calm yourself, dear Miss Yolande ! "
entreats the voice of the kind old doctor.
'your father is better now. The danger is
over for the present. Now, be a brave girl,
and do your best. A cheerful face and good
nursing are all he needs. I leave him in
your hands."

E Mervin is indeed very ill. For
long weeks after the eventful ball
does Yolande watch and nurse and
tend him with a love and devotion that few
would have credited her with possessing 
few at least who had judged her as Denzil
Charteris had  from the frivolous gay exterior
she usually showed to the outer world.

It is the middle of June before the old
man is pronounced convalescent at last,
and, leaning on Yolande's arm, is able to
totter feebly round the flower-bordered garden
walks of the Court.

One afternoon Yolande leaves him sitting
on the lawn in his easy-chair, a pile of
newspapers beside him, and the faithful

Skipton hovering within call. She is going
for a walk  a walk through the shady lanes
and past the ripe gold corn-fields  a walk
which she has longed for many days, and
is at last able to accomplish. The long confinement
to the house, and her many sleepless
nights and long watching and anxiety
have made the fair brillant face far thinner
and paler than it used to be ; but yet that
very shadow on its brightness serves only
to add a rarer charm and make it infinitely
more lovable than of old.

She saunters slowly along, keeping close
under the shadows of the boughs. She is
bound for a favourite nook of her own  a
cool, fragrant, shady place, shut in by oak
and beech, with a brook running through it
merrily, over clear stones and silvery sands
on its way to a far-ofi" river. The very
thought of its babble is delicious on this
hot June day. And, when Yolande at length
reaches it, she gives one long deep sigh of
relief, and throws herself down upon the

cool mossy carpet by the side of the
water.

It is all so tranquil, and lovely, and still,
that a sense of deep restful delight enfolds
the girl, who is sole occupant of the retreat.
With half-closed eyes she leans against the
trunk of a beech-tree, her hands clasped
above her head, her whole attitude expressive
of thorough indolence and enjoyment.

A full half-hour passes and she neither
moves nor stirs. She is busy solving, or
trying to solve, a problem in her own mind,
and is still only conscious that her efforts
are a failure.

All at once she opens her eyes and looks
up, to meet the fierce reluctant admiration
of another pair, that are taking in every
line of the beautiful figure in its indolent
grace, every tint of the sweet fair face that
now is flushed to crimson as she springs to
her feet and confronts the intruder.

** How ever did you come here ? " is the
not very polite greeting he receives.

'* Do you mean have I walked, or ridden,
or been transported ? " is the answer, as
Danzil Charteris advances and proffers his
hand. " I lost my way in the woods, and
came quite suddenly on this delectable little
spot. I thought for a moment that you
were the nymph of the stream  you looked
so picturesque and so in keeping nth your
surroundings."

'' I thought you never paid compliments,
Mr Charters'' remarks Yolande, as she gives
him her hand in cold greeting.

"No more I do. I hope you don't consider
that a compliment ? It was meant for
sober earnest."

'' I can hardly believe that," says Yolande,
growing scarlet beneath his earnest scrutiny.
I have not seen you for a long time," she
adds, as he makes no answer to her observation.

I have been away  travelling in Italy,"
he answers curtly.

"Indeed! And how is Mrs Ray?" inquires
Yolande, with composure.

VOL. 1. I

She is quite well," he says, in surprise.
What makes you take an interest in her,
may I ask ? "

Oh, she was very kind, and called so
often when papa was ill," the girl answers
readily. " I  I liked her very much."

I am glad to hear it," says Denzil
Charteris, a little confused. ** She is a
general favourite. I hope your father is
better at last, Miss Mervyn ? "

Thank you  yes. He is stronger, and
is able to walk about in the garden. But
his illness has altered him terribly."

You are altered too," he says, looking
wistfully at the pallor of cheek and lip,
which shows plainly now under the agitation
she is trying so bravely to control.

'' I  I have not been quite well lately,"
answers Yolande, flushing hotly again under
the fire of his searching eyes.

*' And I am keeping you standing," he
says, apologetically. *' Do, pray, sit down
again. I am so sorry to have disturbed you."

Are you going ? " falters Yolande in
surprise, as be extends his hand.

Have I your permission to stay ? This
little retreat seems to be a secret resort of
your own, and I have all unwittingly stumbled
upon it."

*' The woods are free to all," says Yolande.
** Don't hurry away for me, pray."

Then will you sit down again and make
yourself comfortable, as you were before ? "

Oh, certainly ! " she says, with a faint
laugh, that is neither so mirthful nor so
natural as she could have desired.

For a few moments they are both silent ;
but the silence is full of uncomfortable
thoughts to Yolande, and she is longing to
break it.

** I suppose you enjoyed yourself very much
when you were away ? " she says at last.

Not so very much," he answers, with a
faint smile. " I fear I am beyond the age
for keen enjoyment of anything  even travel
and strange lands."

You have seen so many,? "

'' Yes ; you are right. I have gone over
a good deal of ground in my time."

What a cold-blooded way to speak of
the delights of travelling ! " laughs Yolande.
** To me it seems the most enviable thing
in the world to be able to go from place to
place and country to country. For that
reason I often wish I was a man. Women
are so helpless. They are obliged to stay
at home and stagnate, while you  "

'rit is quite possible that your wish maybe
attained without the drawback a change
of sex might prove," interrupts Denzil.

How ? " questions Yolande, lifting her
eyes to his.

'' The moment after she would have given
anything to recall that question ; something
in his glance answers it so plainly, and
makes her flush with shame from head to
foot.

I should think Mr Stapleton could answer
that," he says quietly.

I don't understand you," returns Yolande
haughtily, moved to fierce unreasonable anger
by the insinuation his words convey.

No ? " he questions, raising his eyes
with pretended surprise. ** Shall I put my
meaning into plainer words ? I thought your
conduct on the last occasions that I saw you
together left little doubt of the terms on
which you stood."

** You are rather premature in your conclusions
then," retorts Yolande, with visible
annoyance. *' I  I can't help Lance making
himself ridiculous  he always does."

** Ridiculous ! " echoes Denzil bitterly.
Well, I suppose there is something ridiculous
in a man's utter subjugation to a
woman's charms. The fact of security
lessens your sex's appreciation directly. But
I thought  I understood that you and Mr
Staple ton were engaged."

'* Not to my knowledge certainly," says
Yolande, an angry spot glowing in her
cheeks at this confused explanation.

"He is very fond of you," persists Mr
Chart eris ; " and you have given him plenty
of encouragement."

I don't know what right you have to
interfere with or question my actions," says
Yolande, angrily.

True," he answers calmly ; " I have no
right, as you say. I even remember how
once you said it would be impossible for us
to be  friends."

'* It was you who said that ! " exclaims
Yolande.

"But you who forced me to come to the
conclusion."

ire you going to favour me with
another lecture ? " she asks, half perplexed,
half angry at the turn the conversation is
taking.

No ; " and he looks full at the pouting,
defiant face  looks with eyes that hold her
own and force them to answer the question
in his gaze  a question that makes her heart
throb wildly and painfully, and brings the

tell-tale colour to cheek and brow in a swift
and lovely tide.

'you think me very intrusive and disagreeable,
do you not ? " he says softly.

I don't know what you are like to  to
other people," stammers Yolande ; " but I
am quite sure you have never tried to make
yourself agreeable to me ! "

'' Perhaps I had a reason," he says, still in
that soft low voice that thrills to her heart
like some sweet strain of music. " Perhaps
I thought that making myself agreeable to
you might have consequences the very reverse
to  me ! "

Yolande is silent. Her colour comes
and goes. Her heart beats so fast and
loud that she thinks he must almost hear
it.

'' You know," he goes on presently, not
looking at her now, but away through the
green woodland vista stretching into dim
shadow far beyond  "you know that there
are some people one must either cling to or

avoid  either love or hate I saw you first
at that ball at Colston  you remember, I
suppose ? You were the admired of all
beholders. You lavished smiles and glances
on scores of devoted swains. You  to use
a familiar phrase  ' turned the heads ' of half
the men in the room ! The women of course
called you an unscrupulous flirt. I was introduced.
I thought to myself, ' I will see if she
is the same to me as to all others.' You
were  just the same. It pained me to discover
it. I did not care for smiles that were
cheapened by being free to all  for looks and
words that were showered on every fool who
flattered your vanity and paid you vapid compliments.
' Still,' I said to myself, * she is
very young ; it is her first ball. I will not
judge her to-night.' We met again  many
times. The last  shall I speak of that ? No,
not now  not now ! It can be no pleasant
memory for either of us  it has been a very
painful one to me ! "

*'Mr Charteris," interrupts Yolande, trembling

with passionate indignation at these
rebukes, *' how dare you  "

Hush  hear me out ! " he says sternly ;
and something on his face forces back the
angry words on the girl's proud parted lips.
After to-day you shall never say I have
lectured or found fault with you. I know you
are indignant that I dare to question your
conduct  that I alone see faults where others
extol virtues. But, oh child, if you only
knew ! Can you not see it is because I would
have you so perfect that I lament the imperfections
that mar your dangerous fascination ?
Men often go mad for a woman's loveliness. I
think I have ; but, in spite of the madness,
there is something in you better worth winning
than even your peerless beauty  and it
is that which I have tried so hard to discover.
No mere empty beauty could satisfy me ; I
have set my ideal higher. But I think that
with me you are oftener playing a part than
showing your real self. And, present or absent,
I cannot forget you. Yet  Oh, Yolande,

you have made me suffer cruelly often and
often!"

She turns and looks at him, the colour all
gone out of her face  a great wonder and a
fierce joy lighting it with triumph.

'* I ? " she says.

*' Yes, you ! You could not guess  how
should I suppose it possible, when only
absence and silence taught me the painful
truth at last. Only after long struggles and
weary days did love conquer pride, and
bring me back to you again ; for, Yolande,
I love you ! "

The words are spoken at last  the words
for which she has craved and longed so
often, and at last despaired of ever winning.
Even now she scarcely believes her ears. She
fears this is but some dream that mocks
her sleeping senses.

Stupefied and bewildered she gazes at him
as he kneels at her feet and draws both her
hands within his own and looks with longing,
questioning eyes into the face which has

haunted every hour of his existence since first
he saw its loveliness.

Now it is white as the lilies floating upon
the stream's quiet breast ; the hands in his
eager clasp are cold as ice. Suddenly she
springs to her feet and confronts him, withall
the softness and beauty gone from her
flashing eyes.

** As you have judged me," she says, " so
I am ! You believe I care only for triumphs,
for conquests ? You are right. I am sorry,
Mr Charteris, that you should at last have
formed an opinion so opposite to that with
which you first favoured me ; for I believe
I have to thank you alone for teaching me
to play the part of ' My Lady Coquette ' ! "

He rises and confronts her, pale even
through the sun-bronzed darkness of his
face ; in his eyes a great wonder and a
great dread have gathered.

"What do you mean ? " he asks hoarsely.

Mean ? "  and Yolande's scornful laugh
rings through the stillness, clear and cruel

as death. " I scarcely thought you would
play the hypocrite, Mr Charteris. Have you
forgotten the insult of the fourteenth of
February ? If so, I have not. I vowed
then to bring you to my feet sooner or
later, and give back to you the humiliation
you dealt me. Of late I did not think it
possible I should ever do so, for you have
treated me with scant courtesy ; and, to
your credit, I must confess I never dreamed
you would declare yourself a lover of mine.
Doubtless you think you have done me a
great honour  and I suppose you have ; but
it is one I cannot appreciate. I was but a
thoughtless child when you first saw me.
My faults were only the faults of youth and
lightheartedness. When you let me see your
opinion of these and of myself on that 
that morning, I grew hardened. I almost
hated you then. No one had ever said
such things to me before. Oh, why do I
speak of it ? " she goes on passionately, as
she looks at the stern, cold face before her.

No one ever dared find fault with me
before, not even those who had the right.
And I am not a flirt, whatever you may
please to think ! If people like me and
care for my society, that is their look-out.
I have never tried to catch any one yet.
How can I help it if they make fools of
themselves ? "

*' As I have done," he interposes quietly.
One half of what you have said, Miss
Mervyn, I do not understand ; the other
half is the unreasonable utterance of an
angry child. In any case I ought to thank
you for opening my eyes to your real opinion
of me. I feel flattered to think your vow
whatever it was  has been at last accomplished
through my instrumentality. I
suppose there is nothing more to be said
between us now % "

*' Nothing," says Yolande, feeling so miserably
small and crushed beneath those cold
icy words that she has hard work to keep
the tears back from her eyes.

He looks at her standing there, the gold
of the sunlight on the richer gold of her
hair, the quivering lips pale, the lovely-face
lovely still, even in the pride and
anger that mar its soft childlike beauty.
Involuntarily his own softens, his voice
grows less hard and firm.

Nothing," he repeats slowly. '' No ; it
is all over and done with. I suppose I shall
forget in time the bitter pain you have
given me to-day. I have never loved any
woman, I have never wanted any woman,
as I have loved and wanted you. I may
have seemed harsh and cold often, and so
you misjudged me. And this is my punishment.
Well, I will not complain. You
will be happy some day. For me it does
not matter. I have always been an unfortunate
man. Fate has been very bitter
against me."

He sighs and looks again at the troubled,
downcast face of the girl who has wronged
him so cruelly, misjudged him so basely.

Perhaps it is as well," he goes on, ina
strange dreamy voice, as of one who talks
in his sleep. *' We should never have been
happy, even  even if you had loved me.
I do not think you could be constant, even
if you tried."

Your opinions of me are always flattering,"
says Yolande, scornfully.

He smiles faintly.

You have been fed on sugar so long
that all honest food is distasteful'' he remarks.
" I wish I could feel more angry
with you than I do ; for Heaven knows
your little hand has stabbed me deep
enough to-day ! How deep you will never
know, unless you toro learn what it is to
lay your whole life down at the foot of
one being in the world, and see the folly
and uselessness of such an action."

Yolande shivers, as if the breath of
winter were upon her instead of the warm
luxuriance of summer. Does she not feel
even now in her heart's depths the truth of

his words ? Does she not know that even
at this very moment their truth is being
painfully realised in the bitter agony that
fills her proud and wilful heart ?

There is one question I should like to
ask you," he continues. " What did you
mean by the fourteenth of February ? I am
not aware that I even saw you on that day."

'* There is little use to explain now,"
Yolande says icily, pressing her cold locked
fingers tightly together, as if to nerve her
for the struggle still before her. '' I only
wonder that, having through all our intercourse
treated me as a heartless coquette,
you should suddenly seem to expect I am
anything else. You told me my character
plainly enough once. You have only yourself
to blame if I verify it."

You are right," he answers calmly. " I

have but added one more name to your

list of triumphs. I should have remembered

how incapable you must be of appreciating

a true man's true love."



Then he moves away, with no other
word, or look at the motionless figure and
lovely face that in all his days, be they
long or short, he knows he can never
forget.

VOL. T.

OLANDE stands where Denzil Charteris
has left her, listening to the
last echo of his footsteps as they
die away in the distance. A curious faint
smile comes over her face  a smile that
has no mirth, and looks strangely out of
place on those sweet red lips.

''So I have won my triumph and kept
my vow after all ! " she says, in a slow,
harsh voice, all unlike her own. " But I
seem to understand now what people mean
by Dead-Sea fruit."

A shamed streak of red tinges her pale
cheeks. Her eyes wander aimlessly over the
green moss, the bubbling water, the sun-cast
shadows. A strange dull pain fills

her heart and racks her with an agony she
has never before known.

What have I done  oh, what have 1
done ? " she moans, and straightway throws
herself down upon the cool soft grass and
buries her face in her hands.

She does not weep now ; only long shivering
sighs shake her from head to foot. She
knows that to the latest moment of her life
she will never be able to recall the joy she
has thrown away, the love she has scorned,
the peace she has lost.

I am only seventeen," she says wearily,
*' and all my life seems ended to-day. No
other man can ever be to me what he has
been. And I must live and smile and pretend,
and all the time I shall think of him ;
every hour I shall know I have spoilt my own
future and his. Oh, why did I do it  why ? "

Only her own heart can give the answer
to that question, the heart to whose promptings
she has even the lie for the sake of a
foolish vengeance, a passionate vow.

The evening shadows are falling softly
across the woodland as Yolande at last
takes her way home. The leaves rustle
overhead, the birds' songs are silent.
Through the interstices of the closely-woven
boughs the sky looks darkly down, overshadowed
by heavy clouds, the portents of
a storm. A low heavy roll of distant thunder
comes pealing across the stillness. Yolande
starts and shivers as she hears it, and hurries
on with quicker steps.

The darkness grows deeper, the thunder
peals out more distinctly. In her haste
she strikes into a side-path, thinking it a
shorter way to the main road beyond. The
path gets narrower and narrower; frightened,
she pauses and looks around. She
has no knowledge of this place ; never
before has she seen it. A belt of trees
hem in a dark pool, all set with noxious
weeds and thick with slime, and full of
loathsome, sluggish creeping things that

crawl and wriggle about the noisome
depths.

Yolande turns pale with terror. A tongue
of lightning suddenly leaps from the black
heavy clouds and plays in ghastly brilliance
over the dark water at her feet. Involuntarily
she starts back. At the same moment
the boughs part on the opposite side of the
pool, and a face looks at her through the
screen of leaves  the same awful face, with
wild eyes and unkempt locks that once
before met her terrified gaze in the turret
of the ruined castle. For a moment she
stands spell-bound  paralysed. Then, with
a wild fearful shriek that echoes over the
silent woods and is drowned by the crashing
thunder, she turns and flies in maddening
terror along the path she has just trodden.

How long she has run, how much ground
she has traversed, she does not know. Terror
lends wings to her steps  a terror greater even
than that which the peals of thunder or the
flashes of lightning carry in their train. Gasping,

trembling, quivering like a hunted deer,
she flies on and on, taking no heed of where
she goes, blind with fear of the awful thing
that she fancies is on her track, never daring
to look behind for dread of its pursuit.

Flying in headlong speed she comes full
tilt against the figure of a man advancing
to meet her. Recoiling, she cries aloud. Her
nerves are all unstrung, her face is white, her
eyes are wild.

Yolande !  good Heaven ! Yolande, what
is it % " exclaims a familiar voice.

The girl looks up ; her lips quiver, her
cheeks flush.

Oh, Lance, dear Lance," she cries, as she
clings like a frightened child to his strong
young arm, " save me, for Heaven's sake !
It is coming  I know it is ! "

What is coming % " he exclaims in bewilderment,
looking from the girl's terrified
face to the path up which she points.

'* That thing  that face ! " she cries, hiding
her eyes on his shoulder, and shuddering

from head to foot. ** Oh, Lance, I have been
so terrified ! "

Poor child, poor Yolande ! " he says pityingly,
'' My dear, come with me ; there is
nothing to frighten you now."

He places his arm round her and half-carries,
half-leads her away, marvelling in
his own mind what can have occurred to
alarm her so much.

I came to look for you," he says gently
at last. " They were all so alarmed at the
Court about your long absence especially
when the storm threatened. Dear, how you
tremble ! Lean more on me. We are not
very far from home now."

He is too sensible to ask any questions ;
in her overwrought hysterical state he sees
it would be dangerous. With quiet soothing
words he leads her on until they are out of
the wood and close to the lodge.

The rain begins to fall now, and there is
still a long distance to traverse before they
can reach the house.

*' I tell you what we must do," says Lance
gently  " wait here at the lodge till the storm
is over. You will be drenched to the skin in
that light dress if you attempt to go any
farther. I will send a message up to the
house to say you are safe."

Yolande acquiesces silently. She is too
spent and exhausted to speak, and it is
pleasant to have some one who will take
all trouble of her hands. They go into the
pretty tidy little house, and Lance begs the
woman to make some tea for the wearied
girl, while he pencils a hasty missive which
one of her boys bear to the Court.

This done, he comes back to Yolande once
more, and bends tenderly over her as she
leans back in her chair.

'for all the world just like a lover,"
thinks cheery Mrs Hailing, as she busies
herself over the preparation of tea.

** You are better now, are you not ? " he
says gently.

** Oh, yes ! " answers Yolande, keeping her

eyes closed, and thoroughly enjoying the
rest and quiet of the pretty flower-scented
parlour. " Lance, how glad I am I met
you!

'' I am glad too," he says quietly. " No ;
don't try to tell me about It yet. Wait till
you have had your tea."

*' I know you think me very foolish," she
remarks, with a strange wistfulness in the
pretty trembling voice ; '' but I really saw
something, and I got so frightened. I don't
know where I should have run to if you
had not met me."

You ought not to go for long, solitary
rambles in the woods," declares Lance, almost
sternly. " It is not safe. I shall tell
your father."

'* No ; please don't," she says pleadingly,
unclosing her eyes and looking up into his
face. ** He would be so distressed. Promise
me, Lance, that you won't say anything
about this to  to anybody."

But, Yolande," begins Lance, sorely

puzzled by such an unexpected desire, *' you
forget"

** No," she says hurriedly ; '' I don't forget.
I  well, perhaps I was nervous, and  and
fancied I saw it. The storm frightened me
so."

No mere fancy could have thrown you
into such a state of nervous terror as that
in which I found you," rejoins Lance sternly.
*' Why do you wish to conceal what has
happened ? "

'' Ah, why ? " the girl asks herself wearily.
Only from some dim foolish sense of loyalty
to the man she has wronged, remembering
how once before he had prayed her to be
silent respecting the mystery of the ruined
turret.

"There is nothing to conceal," she says,
looking up at Lance with brave shrinking
eyes. '* But to please me, Lance, don t say
anything about this until  I  give you leave."

'' To please you," he returns softly, *' you
know I would do anything."

** Then do this," she entreats eagerly 
*' promise me."

He looks at her once more, puzzled by
this persistence, puzzled still more by the
fear and anxiety on her white face and in
her wide sorrowful eyes.

** Very well," he says ; " I promise."

And, in a sudden abandonment of gratitude
and relief, Yolande seizes his hand and
presses it to her lips.

He flushes and trembles like a girl.

Such thanks would repay any service,
my sweet," he says passionately.

" Ahem ! I have brought the tea, miss,"
interrupts the voice of Mrs Hailing apologetically.


Yolande drinks the tea in a leisurely
fashion, growing quieter and graver as the
time goes on ; and Lance waits on her and
hovers about her in a way that makes the
lodge-keeper smile, so plainly does it bespeak
the state of affairs on one side at
least.

*' Does it still rain ? " the girl asks at
length, as she places the empty cup upon
the table.

Yes ; but I don't think it will last much
longer," answers Lance, going over to the
window and looking out at the rapidly-clearing
sky.

I hope papa has not been frightened
about me," continues Yolande, as she leaves
her chair and also walks over to where Lance
stands  walks with slow and languid steps,
he notices with sudden pain.

'' How tired you must be, dear ! " he says
involuntarily. " Oh, Yolande, I wish I had
been with you this afternoon ! I am sure
something has upset you ; your face is so
white, and you look quite different from
what you usually do ! "

Yes ; if you had been with me," confesses
Yolande, in quick pained accents, *' it
would have been all different now."

** What do you mean ? " he says quickly.

I think I hardly know myself," answers

the girl, as she moves restlessly away from
his side. " I suppose there are times in
every one's experience when even a little
thing may turn the scale of fate, when
half-an-hour in a day may affect a whole
future, when the swerving aside from a
path, or the choice of one particular road,
may alter life entirely. Heaven, what a
mockery of human wisdom is the little
commonplace thing men call chance ! "

What odd things you have said to-day,
Yolande, " says Lance, looking more and
more puzzled by her strange ways. " Dear,
I wish you would trust me, and tell me
what happened in the woods. You know
surely by this time, Yolande, how staunch a
friend I am to you and yours."

Hush ! "  and the girl turns suddenly
towards him, her face blanched to the very
lips. ** Lance, what was that ? Did you
not hear something  a cry ? "

Nonsense, dear ; it is only your fancy,"
he says soothingly, as he comes to her side

once more. " Why, how you tremble !
What frightens you now ? "

I thought I  heard  But no ; it could
not be ! Don't look so alarmed, Lance," she
continues, trying to speak lightly. '' I am
full of fancies to-night. I suppose the
thunder is the cause. A storm always
unsettles me."

But Lance wonders how any fear could
so unnerve her as to give such a frightened,
hunted look to her eyes, and make her start
and quiver like a leaf at every sound and
step.

Something has happened," he says again
to himself, noting every change in the pale
young face, every tremor in the slight figure
" something. By Heaven, it shall go hard
with me if 1 don't find out what, before
another twelve hours are over my head ! '

The rain still falls in soft plashing drops ;
now and then a faint and far-ofi" echo of the
passing thunder rolls through the cool sweet
air. But the lurid gleam of the storm is

all gone, and the earth smiles, refreshed
and gladdened for its rough and rude
caresses.

Yolande stands by the open window, her
face still bearing the deadly pallor, her
eyes still dark and troubled with the unforgotten
dread. Somehow, in all the years
Lance has known her, he has never seen
her look as she does to-night. He marvels
at it more and more. This is not the bright

o

changeful Yolande who has laughed at and
coquetted with and teased him so often ; it
is a sorrowful, wan-faced girl, over whom
the shadow of some heavy trouble seems to
have fallen.

As he stands watching her in pained perplexity,
she turns suddenly and meets his
eyes. The tender look, the yearning pity
move her as no words could have done. A
mist of tears springs suddenly to her eyes ;
her lips quiver like the lips of a grieving
child.

'don't Lance," she cries; "I  I cannot

bear it ! " And straightway she leans her
head upon her clasped fingers and sobs as
if her heart would break.

Yolande," he says  and his voice trembles
pitifully  '' what is it, dear ? Can't I help
you ? "

** No," she answers wildly, as she shrinks
away from his touch  ' no one can help me !
Oh, Lance, don't waste your brave, strong
heart on me ! You little know what a vile,
guilty wretch I feel to-night ! "

The wild words scarcely bear any real
meaning to his heart ; he looks upon them
as the fevered utterance of an overwrought
brain. He little thinks that ere the twelve
hours he has spoken of are over they will
recur to him again and again, sharp and
stinging as serpents' fangs, full of a dread
too horrible for any lips to utter.

When the wild burst of weeping is over,
he brings her hat and tells her gently that it
is better to go home now. Yolande says
nothing. She takes the hat from his hand

and, with cold shaking fingers, fastens the
elastic ; and then, with a few words of thanks
to the lodge-keeper, they leave together.

Not one sentence of all the many her lips
frame does Yolande utter during the quiet
homeward walk. She feels dimly that some
great change has come to her, that never
aoain can she lauoh and talk and behave
herself in the free, lighthearted, foolish
fashion she has hitherto done.

Is it only a few hours, she wonders, since
she left home and wandered off in happy
idleness for that saunter through the woods 
only a few hours since she held her life's
happiness in her hands and threw it carelessly,
thanklessly away, as a child throws away a
toy he is wearied of  only a few hours, since
without word of pity or forgiveness, she said
farewell to the face whose very look haunts
her still, said it when it had passed from her
sight, said it amidst bitter weeping and
undying remorse ? It seems as if weeks,
months, had intervened since then  as if

VOL. I. L

their passage was marked on her own face
as well as in her aching heart, marked so
that all eyes might read it and smile at her

folly.

Alas, alas for the regrets that come too
late, for the remorse that can never bring
atonement in its train ! Like the trail of the
serpent it lies on every bright and joyous
gift of life, breathing its poison over human
souls and turning rejoicing into grief and
love into bitterness !

fND you were out in the woods
in all that storm, Yolande ?
Oh, how frightened you must
have been ! "

It is Enid who says this  Enid, who,
sitting by Yolande's bedside, has not yet
done wondering over her bright sister's
sudden indisposition and hasty retirement to
her own room. Still more bewildered is
she when, coming in with some wine a
little later, she finds Yolande in bed, her
face white as the pillows on which she is
lying back with such utter weariness, her
eyes circled by dark rims of pain.

'* What made you stay out so long ? "
persists Enid. ** I am sure any one could

have seen the storm coming on a full hour
before it burst."

Oh, Enid," Yolande says wearily, *' have
I not told you enough % If you only
knew how my head aches, you would be
quiet."

*' I'm sure I don't want to make it
worse ! " cries Enid, jumping up with an
alacrity that sets every nerve quivering in
Yolande's excited frame. '' But it must bea
very bad headache if you won't talk
yourself, and can't bear to be spoken to
either."

'' Don't be cross, dear," pleads her sister,
with a gentleness altogether rare in her soft
voice. " I know I am bad company tonight
; but I really cannot help it."

*' Papa was dreadfully anxious about you
this afternoon," remarks Enid, as she crosses
over to the toilet-table and begins fingering
the pretty knick-knacks scattered there ;
'* and then Lance Stapleton called and
went off to look for you. What do

you think Skippy told papa afterwards,
Yolande ? "

I'm sure I don't know' says the girl
wearily, longing  oh, so intensely !  for solitude
and peace, yet not liking to bid
her bright young sister leave her.

She said Lance was so much attached
to you that it was quite certain he would
propose, and what a good thing it would befor
you to marry him, as the properties were
so near, and he was so well off. You
should have seen how astonished papa
looked. I believe he thinks we are not
half grown up yet, and the bare idea of
lovers and suitors is a terrible bugbear."

*' He need not fear I shall leave him for
any lover or suitor in the world," answers
Yolande calmly, yet with a certain pain in
the clear tones that would have betrayed
itself to ears keener and more loving than
those of a sister.

*' Why ? I'm sure you're not in earnest,"
returns Enid quickly. ** The idea of your

being: honos at home  it's too absurd ! You're
like the Widow Malone, you know, Yolande,
that papa used to sing about, 

Of lovers she had a full score or more,
And all of them fortunes galore in store.' "

"But even the Widow Malone was a
long time making up her mind," says Yo-lance,
with a faint little smile breaking the
sad curves of her pretty mouth and lighting
its unusual gravity.

'* Yes ; and when she did give in, it was
to a very rough wooer, was it not % I'm
sure I should be very sorry for any man
to take consent for granted in the cool
fashion of ' Mr O'brien from Clare ! ' " and
Enid laughs merrily.

But then you are not a widow ; that
makes all the difference. Doesn't the moral
of the song point out that fact very plainly ? "

** Yes ; that's true," says Enid, removing
the stopper from a glass scent-bottle and
sniffing gratefully at its fragrant contents.

*' Yolande," she adds abruptly, '' Mr Charteris
lias come back."

How did you know ? " asks Yolande,
thankful that the engrossing nature of
scents and essences still keeps her sisters
back turned towards her.

'' Mrs Deane was calling and told us,"
returns Enid, replacing the bottles at last,
and sauntering slowly over to the broad
bay-window. '' I wonder if he will stay
long this time ? The way that man does
Hy about is most extraordinary. He sets
a very bad example to the county generally.
Mrs Deane says he ought to marry his
cousin, Mrs Eay. She is awfully in love
with him ! "

Yolande is silent. Her heart is throbbing
painfully. The hot blood rushes wildly
through her veins, and changes all the pallor
of her face to warmth and brilliance. Enid
does not look at her fortunately ; she is
busy speculating on the chances of the match
she has mentioned.

I'm sure it would be a very good thing
for them both," she goes on presently ; " and
it would be nice to have a mistress at the
Priory. A place like that ought to be presided
over by a lady. What jolly balls
they would give ! "

** Is  is Mrs Eay at the Priory now, did
Mrs Deane say ? " asks Yolande presently.

Yes ; she and her mother are still there.
I think Mr Charteris is an odd sort of man.
I can't say I like him. I hate those stern,
severe-looking men who always seem to be
rebuking more easily-contented people for
enjoying life and taking it easily. If I had
the choice, I should infinitely prefer Lance
Stapleton ; wouldn't you ? "

A bitter laugh is all Yolande' s answer.
The idea of contrasting good - humoured
boyish Lance with Denzil Charteris seems
too absurd even for consideration.

** But of course you would," chatters Enid
placidly. " You hate grave, stern people
even more than I do. Yolande, I don't

wish you to marry just yet a while ; but,
when you do, mind and pick out a nice jolly
fellow for a brother-in-law  some one up to
lots of fun, and who'll invite us to your
place  for of course he'll have a place,
Yolande  and let us do just what we like.
If he had a brother or two," she goes on
musingly, " it wouldn't be bad. It would
do to amuse me and Vi. But no sisters 
mind that ! A husband's sisters are a nuisance,
only a degree less than his mother."

How you do rattle on, dear ! " says
Yolande, with faint rebuke. *' No one would
think you were fifteen, to hear you talk."

I am nearly sixteen now," declares Enid,
with dignity ; " and many girls are married
at sixteen."

Married, married  how you do harp on
that string ! " exclaims Yolande pettishly.
I should recommend you to read the last
joke in Punch 

What was that ? " asks Enid curiously.

*' A little boy asks his mother if men

want to get married as much as women do.
Why do you ask ? ' she says. ' Because,
ma, the ladies who call on you are always
talking about getting married ; but the men
don't ! ' "

What a horrid child ! " laughs Enid. '' I
wonder if children ever do say those smart
things that are written about them, or if
they are only invented ? "

Oh, I daresay they say them ! " answers
Yolande, turning wearily on her pillows.
*' The enfant terrible is no myth, I assure
you.

*rare you going to sleep?" asks Enid,
turning away from the window and noticing
her sister's change of position.

Yes, if I can."

Well, I won't stand here chattering any
longer," returns Enid graciously. " Can I
do anything more for you ? "

No, thank you," answers Yolande, in
faint accents. " I only want quiet and rest."

Well, good night then," says the younger

girl, bending over the golden head and pressing
her lips to Yolande's hot brow. " Sleep
well, and wake up bright and merry tomorrow."


*' To-morrow ! " thinks Yolande, as the door
closes and the solitude she has longed for is
hers at last. '* Oh, what will any tomorrow
be to me now ? "

And the cool slow hours of the night pass
on, and the faint pale daybreak lights the sky
before that question is answered, or the aching
brain and heart find respite from the misery
of thought in the blessed oblivion of sleep.

The morning sun is flooding all the
dainty pink-and-white chamber when Yo-lance
awakes.

At first the pretty eyes look wistfully
round, then the languid lids close over them
once more.

"What has happened since yesterday?"
she asks herself. '' Why does my heart feel
so heavy, my spirit so sad ? "

Soon enough the answer comes. The waves
of sorrow roll back in freshly weighted numbers,
breaking over memory, and dashing
fiercely and swiftly against the self-erected
barriers of pride.

She springs up and goes over to the window.
A dim reflection in her toilet-glass catches
her eye as she passes  the image of a slim
white figure, with a face from which all the
blood has fled, and where a sudden pallid
shadow has fallen. She starts in fear.

''Oh, how ill I look!" she says wildly.
What will they think ? "

Without another glance at the face that
looks so strange and unfamiliar snow, she
draws up the blind and proceeds hurriedly
with her toilet. The fresh cool air comes in
through the window she has opened ; and
that and the cold water, which she dashes
over her face and shoulders, seem to revive
her a little.

I must try to be like my old self," she
says, as with trembling fingers she fastens

her cambric morning dress and knots the
pale-blue ribbon round her snowy slender
throat. " No one must see, no one must
know. It is my secret ; and I shall keep it
as long as I live."

As she turns away, and is about to leave the
room, a sound strikes upon her ear that seems
to transfix her with horror. It is the great
bell of Beechhampton ringing loud and clear
in the golden sunny beauty of the early day.

Floating over the dark green woods, echoing
over the quiet fields, the grassy meadows,
comes that strange mournful warning sound.
Yolande hears it, and shivers from head to
foot. Never does that bell ring except for
death or disaster to some member of the
Charteris household. Only once before in
her memory has that sound been heard, and
then death and woe lay heavy on their home.
Whiter than the folds of her gown, Yolande
stands and listens, a wild look of horror in
her fixed eyes, a sobbing sigh bursting from
her pale quivering lips.

** Is it for him ? " she gasps, and staggers to
a chair and kneels down in agony unutterable,
burying her face in her hands as if to
shut out the mournful note, which ever and
anon floats in through the open window like
an omen of ill.

In a moment the door is thrown open.
Enid and Yi rush in wildly.

Yolande, Yolande, do you hear the bell ?
Something must have happened at the Priory !
Yolande"

'' Hush ! " says Yi softly. *' Don't you see,
Enid, she is saying her prayers ? "

They stand quite still, hand locked in
hand, gazing at the kneeling figure so silent
and so still now. The stillness awes them.
They look at each other in pale wonder.

" Is she ill ? " whispers one softly.

Then Enid approaches and lays her hand
upon the shoulder of the kneeling girl. She
never moves. Frightened and bewildered,
she beckons to Yi, and they draw away the
hands from Yolande's face.

It is white and cold as death.

She has fainted ! '* cries Enid in terror.
And they lay her down with gentle hands
and dash water over her face ; and Vi runs
off in haste for assistance.

Chapter XII.

solander's trance of insensibility
lasts so long that the whole household
are filled with fear and anxiety.
Never before in the remembrance of any one
has she been known to faint. When she
at last recovers, they lay her back gently on
her pretty white bed ; and Enid promises
to bring up her breakfast, if she will only
lie still and rest and not attempt to comedown
stairs again. This Yolande promises
gladly enough. She feels thoroughly ill and
worn out. Her nerves are unstrung. Her
head throbs as if a hammer were beating
within her aching brain. A great dread
has seized her heart. She cares for nothing
now but to be left in peace, bearing her

misery as best she can, fearing to have her
fears realised.

For she never doubts but that ill of some
sort has chanced to Denzil Charteris. She
pictures him again and again as lying dead
and cold in his stately home  the last of
his race, the one man in all the world of
men around her for whom she could ever
feel love and longing and remorse.

Ere the day is many hours older, news
comes from Beechhampton Priory. Denzil
Charteris is missing. He had gone out after
luncheon on the previous day, and no one
has seen or heard of him since. There had
been a dinner-party at the Priory in the
evening, and the guests had waited for a
full hour in expectation of the arrival of
the master of the house. He had not come.
The whole night long had he been waited
for, and sought, yet still no tidings had
reached any one.

His aunt and cousin are frantic with fear.
Messages are sent in every direction to the

VOL. I. M

houses of all his friends and acquaintances,
in the faint though unlikely hope that he
may have forgotten the dinner-party, and
stayed at some house for the night.

The answer is always the same. No one
has seen him or heard anything of him
since noon of the day on which he so
unaccountably disappeared.

All this Yolande hears at intervals  hears
with a white set face, the agony of which
makes every one wonder  hears with the
dull throbs of her heart, making her sick
with an intolerable anguish as she lies still
and holds her peace.

For no word does she speak of the meeting
in the woods  it could do no good,
she tells herself wearily. It could not give
any clue to his fate, and she could not
face the questions and remarks that would
be showered upon her in consequence.

So through the long miserable hours of
that most miserable day she lies in her
darkened chamber, too worn and wretched for

speech ; and without, in the silent woods
and leafy glades, the searchers search for
track or trace of the missing man, and ever
and anon at stated times they meet with
still the same hopeless tale on every lip 
** No tidings yet."

The sunlight dies in the west, and still
far and near the news is spreading, and
excitement and wonder wax deeper and
more painful. All through the dusk, as
through the day, the woods echo to the
sound of hurrying feet, and the startled
birds flutter into denser shade. There come
a pause and stillness with the approach of
night, and the stars shine over anxious faces
still turned to one another for suggestion
or for hope, until sadly they separate and
go their way at last, saying, ** To-morrow
may bring tidings."

Alas, the next day and the next pass, and
still with no result ; and the only tongue
that could have given some faint clue to the
disheartened seekers is now locked in insensibility

by the delirium and exhaustion of
fever.

Yolande is very ill. Of time she has no
knowledge, of days she has no count. The
hours sweep by, and the shadows of anxiety
deepen with each, and her young sisters'
voices lose their gay ring, and her father's
face is lined with heavier care ; and her
young lover comes and departs like a restless
spirit, with all the light and gladness
gone out of his sad eyes and once cheery
face.

But at length she grows better. One
night, when the heat and stillness of the
summer air still brood over the outer world,
when a cool faint breeze rustles the roses
at her window with a soft rush of melancholy
music, when solitude and silence, star-lighted
and full of peace and rest as only a
summer night can be, brood ever earth and
sky, she opens her eyes and sees it all, and
smiles.

A great weakness is upon her still ; but

the fire and torture of fever have passed
from her throbbing brain, and lightened
some of its heavy burden. The sights and
sounds around grow familiar to her once
more, strength comes slowly back, but with
it are memory and pain.

For she remembers all  the lover she has
rejected, the anguish she has borne, the horror
of that hour when she heard his doom in
the clanging sound of the warning bell.
And then, at last, when courage comes to
her to ask the question that ever trembles
on her lips, she learns that the mystery of
his disappearance is still unsolved, that of
his fate no certain news has reached the
ears of any one since that fatal summer
day.

Then a doubt creeps into her heart and
blanches her cheeks to yet deeper pallor.

Should I have told ? " she thinks. " Was
I wrong in concealing it so long ? "

She wonders if she has courage and
strength to tell it still, knowing how the

memories that torture, the regrets that madden
her, must be bared to stern eyes and
spoken to strangers ears.

Oh, I cannot  I cannot ! " she sobs, and
buries her face in the cushions of her couch,
weeping as only women weep in the abandonment
of a great woe.

Yolande," says a kindly voice beside her
" dear Yolande, what is it ? "

The girl raises her tear-stained face, and
sees Lance Stapleton's sympathetic countenance
bending over her.

Lance," she says, in faint surprise, and
gives him her little thin hand in greeting.

It looks so white and tiny in his great
brown palm, so like a fragile snowdrop, he
thinks, that for the life of him he can give
her no greeting  he only stands beside her,
holding her wee white fingers, and looking
with sorrowful and most loving eyes at
the changed and saddened beauty of her
face.

'* It is good of you to come so soon,"

she says, gently. "And I am all alone
just now. Vi and Enid are out."

I know," he returns, quietly. *' Are you
getting better ? Do you feel stronger ? "

He seats himself by her side.

** Oh, yes ! " she answers, languidly. " I
suppose you see a great change in me,
Lance 1 "

He looks at her. A great ball seems to
rise in his throat, his eyes grow dim. No
words will come through his white lips,
strive how he may to form them.

Every one tells me how altered I am,"
she goes on presently, turning her eyes
from his sad face to the glowing splendour
of the summer's ripe luxuriance, as it rests
on wood and flower and leaf of the beautiful
grounds without. " Even Arty does
not tease me now. I must be altered if he
can find no heart to chaff and torment
me, mustn't I ? "

** After such an illness as yours," he says,
with slow and painful effort, " of course you

must be changed. It is only to be expected.
But you will be all right again by-and-by,
when you get away to the sea  which, of
course, you will do."

** The sea ? " interrogates Yolande, languidly.
*eyes, I should like that, I think. Do
you know, Lance," she goes on, passionately,
'' there are days when I positively hate this
place ; when the sight of the woods yonder,
and the songs of the birds by the windowpanes,
and all the old familiar scents and
sounds about us sicken me % And always
I hear that bell ; just as it rang on that
morning, just as it rang all through those
weary weeks when I was ill, so now it rings,
still."

You are over-excited, dear," he says,
soothingly. " Naturally it was a great shock
to you, as to us all ; but, for my own part,
I still think he will turn up. I am sure
he is not dead. There would have been
some trace found before this  if  if that had
been the case."

She lifts her head. A bright crimson
spot glows in either cheek. She puts one
little hand on his. He starts at the touch,
for it burns like a coal of fire, and but a
few moments ago it was so cold.

Lance," she says, excitedly, *' I must tell
you now. I have never told any one before.
I saw him  on  that  afternoon."

Slowly and falteringly the words leave
her white lips. Slowly and distinctly they
reach her listener's ear.

He turns and gazes at her, as if he doubted
her sanity.

*' You saw Charteris that day ! " he exclaims.
'' And you have said nothing all
this time ! Oh, Yolande ! "

What would have been the use % " she
cries, passionately. "If he be dead, as they
say, it could have proved nothing. If he
lives, why should I give myself the shame,
the misery of proclaiming my own mistake
to those who care nothing. for the suffering
I bear ? "

Yolande "  and Lance's voice grows stern,
while his face is colourless and cold as a
marble mask  " what is it you mean ? What
has been between you and  and Charteris ?
Why have you concealed it all this time ? "

Because I was a coward % " answers the
girl in a sad shaken voice. " Because I put
my own feelings before his ; because I dared
not let all the world know my poor pitiful
revenge on him ! And now  oh, Heaven, he
is dead and lost to me for ever ! "

For a moment there is a strange sudden
silence ; and then, 

*' You loved him ! " cries a fierce hoarse
voice. " All this time you cared for him !
Dear Heaven, have mercy on me ! " And
Lance falls by her side, with his head on the
folds of her soft white dress and his hands
clenched in agony above his bright brown curls.

Yolande looks at him in his bitter suffering,
and her heart goes out to him in pity.
Does she not know, only too well, too painfully,
what it is to bear torture like this ?

** I have loved you all this time," he
goes on, in a voice so strange that Yolande
can scarcely recognise it  ** loved you and
thought of you only ! And I never for one
moment imagined that  that there was anyone
else ! "

Did I hide it so well ? " she asks, with
a despair that echoes his own.

He is silent ; only a tremor shakes the
strong young form, and the sound of a
choking sob escapes his lips. Yolande bends
over the prostrate figure ; her tears fall like
rain upon the short crisp curls.

Lance," she says  " oh. Lance, don't
grieve! I  I am not worth it. You don't
know what a wicked girl I am ! "
[" If you were the vilest woman in the
world, it could make no difference to me ! "
he answers, hoarsely. " I have loved you all
my life. Can I change now ? "

Yolande is silent, shaken to her very
heart's core.

She looks at him with wide sorrowful

eyes, while the heavy tears run slowly
down her cheeks. At last he lifts his face,
all haggard and passion-marred, and sees
her own distress.

Don't fret," he says, bravely. " You will
make yourself ill again, Yolande."

The kind unselfish words stir the girl's
heart to passionate remorse.

* Oh, Lance, Lance," she sobs, " you are
so brave, so good ! Why did you waste
your heart on such a thankless, foolish girl
as I am ? "

** Love is not in any man's control," he
answers, sadly. ** I loved you because I
could not help it ; and you  you did the
same to him ! "

Yes," she says, simply. " And yet I
sent him from me with bitter words  I
refused his love 1 "

"Yolande!"

"You see," she goes on, trying to speak
steadily despite the piteous quiver of the
poor pale lips  "you see, Lance, I was

angry because he had offended me once ;
and I vowed to bring him to my feet and
repay him to the uttermost farthing. I did
it at last ; but at what a cost only Heaven
and my own heart know ! Lance, we bear
the same burden, you and I ! I don't know
which is the heavier ; mine is, I think, for,
when I remember how I sent him away that
afternoon with such bitter, scornful words, I
could not know that that act would bring
me a life's remorse. Oh, Lance, to think
that he is dead  dead, and lost for ever !
that never in all the years to come can I
see his face or hear his voice, or know he
has forgiven ! When I think of the future
of all the long blank years when, in
summer or winter, by day or night, I shall
never meet him, watch how I may  when,
in vain remorse, in heart-broken agony, I
shall hold out my arms, despairing, waiting,
and only shadows can fill them  when I call
and call and there comes no answer  oh.
Lance, how can I bear it ? Why did not

Heaven let me die when death was so
near ? "

The poor young lover hears these passionate
plaints, and his heart grows faint
within him. He has lost her so utterly
now  lost her as though indeed the death
for which she craves had folded her in icy
arms which no power on earth could ever
unloose again !

When the wild sobs cease, when the quivering
form lies back exhausted on the pillows,
he breaks the bitter silence that has held
them both so long.

'* Yolande," he says, slowly. " I shall
always be your friend. I shall always,
through good and evil, through joy and
sorrow, be true to you as ever I have been.
But of all dearer hope there can be no
question now. That is all  finished. If
your heart is given to another, even though
he be dead, there is no place in it for me.
I cannot say I will try to forget you 
that is impossible  but at least I will never

pain you by any recurrence to  this. Do
you believe me ? "

** Yes, Lance," she answers, softly, " I do.
You are so good and true, I would believe
you always  before any one. And will you
forgive me all the pain I have caused you,
Lance, to-day and other days ? "

He looks at her with yearning eyes. A
quiver of pain passes over the handsome
boyish face.

Would not you forgive  him ? " he says,
softly.

And Yolande sees how far nobler this
love is than her own.

One word more," he says at last, as he
prepares to leave her side. '' Yolande, I
must tell what you mentioned ; it is not fair
to conceal it any longer. Jdi course your
illness would be a good excuse for your not
speaking sooner. . "What time did  he  leave
you ? "

It must have been , or a little after,"
answers Yolande, turning her white face away.

And in what direction did he go ? "

"He took the path that leads from the
brook into the heart of the wood," she
answers, with painful effort at self-command.

That is all you know then," he interrogated
 "nothing that gave you any clue
to his intentions ? I do not want to pain
you, dear ; but, if I don't ask these questions,
others will. This mystery must be
solved, if possible."

I know you mean it for the best," she
says, mournfully, "but I can give you no
clue to his after-intentions. We quarrelled
and  parted. That is all."

But looking at the change in every line
of the lovely smiling face, at the havoc
which pain and suffering have wrought in
the fresh sweet beauty of this girl to whom
all his loving passionate heart is given,
Lance murmurs, with terrible foreboding, 

All ? Oh, Heaven, if it only was ? "

mmmm:

ANCE STAPLETON leaves the Court
with a heavier heart than he has
known for many a long day. All
hope of winning Yolande's love is over now.
Even though Denzil Charteris be no longer a
living rival, he feels that his place can never
be taken. It is not in the girl's nature to
love again as she has loved the man she
wronged. " And how that love has changed
her ! " thinks Lance, despairingly. ** She looks
as though earth would not hold her long.
Oh, my poor little darling, if only I could
suffer for you ! "

Lance walks on rapidly to the village. He
knows he has a distasteful duty to perform,
and he longs to get it over. As he walks

VOL. I. N

through the narrow streets many a hat is
touched, many a hearty greeting follows him,
for the young man is a favourite everywhere.
At the Mervyn Arms a group of men are
standing, among them the police inspector,
who, since the mystery of Denzil Charteris's
disappearance, has been burrowing for information
in every direction, likely and unlikely.

To him Lance addresses himself without
loss of time.

*' I have some news for you, Budd," he
says. ** Come into the inn parlour with
me."

The inspector touches his hat, and with no
expression of surprise follows the young man
as he has directed.

Once in the clean little parlour, which is
good Mrs Hobson's special pride, Lance
throws himself into a chair by the window
and bids his companion take another.

** Have you heard anything more since
yesterday ? " he asks.

"No, sir," answers the man, in the calm

oily voice peculiar to him. " Nothing of any
consequence, so to speak."

Inspector Budd is a middle-aged man,
with a serene, placid countenance, and an
habitual smile so full of goodwill and peace
to all mankind, that it is difficult to imagine
his undertaking any office not beneficial to
their interests and well-being. He looks as
if not only the milk, but the cream of human
kindness was overflowing in his cherubic
visage and rippling over his full and ever-smiling
lips. There are many people who
have an unconquerable prejudice against this
smooth and smiling individual, and declare
that his hypocritical face is a covering to a
mean and merciless nature, and a hard, unfeeling
heart. But by the short-sighted and
easy-going judges of character who never
look below the surface  of whom Lance
Stapleton is one  that placid visage is considered
both good-natured and intelligent ;
they look upon Budd as a man useful in
his sphere, far-seeing in his judgment, and

by no means unskilful in that branch of his
profession to which the ignoble word " spy "
is sometimes attached.

This individual listens with great attention
to Lance Stapleton's account of what
Yolande has told him  listens with a cruel
glitter in the downcast green eyes that
seldom look any one in the face, and with
a suspicion awakening and prejudicing his
mind which, if Lance had but known it,
would have insured the oily spy a sound
kicking from that impetuous young man.

*this is very important," he says at
last  " very important indeed, sir ! Why
has the young lady suppressed these facts
so long ? "

She has been ill, you know," answers
Lance.

Humph  ill ! The illness was rather
sudden, was it not ? " asks the inspector,
affably ; and forthwith he draws out a greasy
note-book, and proceeds to take down the
young man's reply.

Yes ; she was out in that dreadful
thunder-storm on that day in June, and the
fear and exposure upset her, and ended in a
serious indisposition."

'exactly, exactly!" says the gentle Budd,
more soothingly and silkily than ever.
** Young ladies have delicate nerves ; and,
even though perfectly healthy and strong
one day, a sudden alarm  such as a thunderstorm,
for instance  may render them quite
incapable of giving information even in an
important case for six  is it not six weeks ?
Yes, six weeks. What a pity! What a
pity ! "

"What do you mean?" asks Lance,
sharply, finding something in the words
and tone of the man not altogether
pleasant.

Mean ? Nothing I " replies Inspector
Budd, in a voice as innocent as a child's.
Just a few more questions, sir, if you
please,"  for Lance is preparing to leave.
"Did any one see the young lady after her

return from her walk  when she was so
nervous and excited, you know ? "

"How do you know she was nervous and
excited ? " asks Lance, suspiciously.

Oh, I merely conjecture, sir ! I naturally
suppose that the storm, which had such
serious consequences, must have left traces
of agitation at the time."

I met her in the wood," commences Lance,
and then he stops abruptly.

Before him rises the vision of the terrified
girl fleeing wildly through the dark glades.
He remembers her frightened face, her wild
eyes, her clinging arms. He remembers her
words too of the awful face she had seen, or
fancied she had seen, and then her strange
excitement, her entreaties to him to promise
silence on the subject. All these things flash
like lightning through his mind, and he turns
very pale. The sharp green eyes note the
sudden change in his face, the pallor of the
healthy young cheeks, the hesitancy in his
words. With pencil poised between forefinger

and thumb, with the benignant smile
on the thick lips more benignant still, Inspector
Budd says gently, 

*' Your answer, sir ? I am waiting."

*then you may wait," answers Lance,
brusquely. *' I have nothing more to tell."

** Nothing more ? " insinuates Mr Budd,
sweetly. *' You are quite sure, sir ? "

Yes," says Lance, rising and shaking
himself somewhat in the fashion of his own
favourite retriever Lion.

*ras you please, Mr Stapleton, as you
please," returns the inspector ; " but I fear,
if ever this matter comes before a court of
inquiry, you will have to use your tongue
a little more freely. No offence, sir, no
offence ! "  for Lance turns sharply on
him with a look on his fearless young face
that is not so expressive of Christian
charity as Mr Budd could have desired.

** If you give vent to any more of your
infernal insinuations, Budd," says young
Stapleton, hoarsely, " you'll have a taste of

my fist before you're many hours older. I'm
an easy-going enough fellow anyone knows ;
but, by Jove ! there are things that even I
can't stand, and your rascally suspicion is one
of them ! Now, remember that caution, or
you may regret it ! "

Mr Stapleton  sir," expostulates Budd
with remarkable forbearance, " in the cause
of duty we are sometimes obliged to make
ourselves unpleasant. I am very sorry that
anything I have said should hurt your feelings
very sorry indeed, sir. I hope you won't
bear malice, I'm sure. You see I hold a responsible
place here, and it's my duty to
find out all I can about this sad affair."

Yes, yes," interposes Lance, hurriedly. " I
know. I didn't mean to fiend you, Budd.
Of course you must do your duty. But your
words pointed suspicion at some one whose
honour is as dear to me as my own. I can't
stand that Budd ; so don't do it again."

I see, sir, I see," says Budd, with his most
iffable smile. '* That's the way the land lies.

Very well, sii- ; depend on me. I won't say
another word that'll hurt your feelings on
that point."

'* Where are you going now ? " asks Lance,
sharply, as the inspector replaces his greasy
pocket-book and takes up his hat.

"I am going to the wood' he answers,
urbanely. " I must follow up the clue the
young lady has given, and search in a new
direction."

'' Are you going alone % " inquires Lance,
uneasily.

Yes, sir  certainly. I have a special
object in searching this matter out for myself.
I mean to do it single-handed if
possible, Mr Stapleton."

With a strange fascination Lance watches
him. The smiling visage, the averted eyes,
the coarse fat hands that are rubbed so
silently and contentedly together, all give
him a curious feeling of repulsion and dislike
such as he has never before experienced.
He sees the inspector leave the inn and go

down the sunny village street, a seraphic
smile on his lips, a wonderful elation in his
step.

Suddenly an impulse seizes Lance, an impulse
which he will regret to his dying day,
yet which now he blindly obeys. He snatches
up his hat and rushes from the inn parlour,
past the groups of idlers still standing
about the door, past the good hostess
chatting with neighbourly familiarity at the
bar, past  no  not past, the sauntering figure
that is walking so leisurely down the quiet
street. He pauses, and halts by the inspector's
side.

'* Mr Budd," he says, with a voice that
he strives vainly to make cool and natural,
'' if you have no objection, I  I think I
will come too."

** De-lighted, I'm sure, Mr Stapleton ! ''
responds the worthy Budd. " Shall esteem
it an honour to have your society."

Lance makes no answer, and for some
moments they walk on in silence.

'why are you going this way?" asks
the young man abruptly, as they turn into
the road leading past his fathers grounds,
and he sees the old grey mansion gleaming
through the trees.

It is a shorter cut," answers the inspector,

*' I think it is much the longer way," says
Lance. " Beechhampton Woods lie there " 
pointing to the right.

True, sir ; but it all depends on which
part you're going to.'

Oh, have it your own way ! " exclaims
Lance, with growing impatience. " I suppose
you know what you're about ! "

'* I hope I do, sir," says smiling Budd, with
deep humility. " This road leads by the
stables, doesn't it, sir ? " he asks presently.

*' Yes," says Lance, in an absent tone of
voice  he is thinking out the perplexing
doubts that will persist in troubling him now.

I suppose you don't keep that fine dog
of yours anywhere about here ? " insinuates
Budd.

Oh, yes ; he's close to the stable-yard ! '
returns Lance, carelessly. " If I was to give
a" whistle, he'd be over the wall and here in
no time."

"Dear me !" exclaims the inspector. "You
don't say so, sir ! What a wonderful animal !
How I should like to see him do that ! "

Would you ? Well, it's soon done," says
unsuspecting Lance ; and he gives a long
shrill whistle as he speaks.

In another moment there is a rustle among
the herbage, the sound of hurrying feet, and
then a large black retriever appears in sight
and greets his master with noisy gratification.

There," says Lance" didn't I tell you ?
Down, Lion  down, good dog % " he goes on,
trying to calm the animal's exuberant overtures
of delight.

"He would like a walk evidently," suggests
the diplomatic Budd. " What a handsome
fellow he is, to be sure ! "

Come to heel, Lion! " says Lance, sharply.
Follow ! "

The inspector gives a quiet chuckle, and
bestows some more invisible soap on his
smooth fat hands.

*now, if I had told him why I wanted
that dog," he says to himself, " I should
never have had him following here at our
heels, for all the world like a blessed lamb.
Oh, how precious blind these outspoken,
honest young chaps like Mr Stapleton are !
You can lead 'em by the nose, and they
never see it  only think all the time as how
they're a-leading you."

Then they plunge into deeper shadow and
leave the sunlight and the brightness behind
them. Is it an omen of the dark mystery
slowly and surely weaving its evil web around
the future of both ? In the quiet woods allis
solitary and still. The shadows fall in
cool patches over the sward, the soft moss
looks green and fresh, the birds rustle the
branches as they flit from bough to bough.

Shut in from sight and sound by its close
belt of beech and tangled shoots of briar wood

lies the dark pool, rendered difficult of access
by the labyrinth of trees and underwood
around it. No one has yet come to that
lonely spot throughout these weeks of searching.
It is unknown to most of the villagers,
and in all the anxiety and wonder caused
by Denzil Charteris's disappearance, no one
has ever suggested looking for him here.

Even in the mid-day heat a strange coldness
and gloom rest on this spot. The
great trees ward off all the efforts that the
sunshine makes to pierce their depths  only
some stray glint, fiercer or bolder than its
sister rays, manages at times to dart through
the thick screen of branches in a triumphant
flash, and mingle with the fluttering shadows
of the leaves.

But over the black bosom of the pool no
glance or ray of sunlight ever falls. It seems
to lie apart, in its loathsomeness and corruption,
from even the gloom of its surroundings ;
it seems to hold some horror or some mystery
in its depths which the very sunlight dreads,

and no ray is bold enough to dawn on those
green and stagnant waters or irradiate their
gloomy depths.

Suddenly, in the hushed and unearthly
silence that reigns around the spot, there
comes a sound as of pattering feet, a hoarse
loud bay, and springing through the underwood,
and bringing a strange sense of life
into the I shadowy gloom, appears a large
black retriever.

Voices break on the air now  astonishment
in the one, disgust in the other.

'' The devil is in that dog of yours, Mr
Staple ton," says the voice of Inspector Budd,
not smooth and oily now, but hoarse and
angry, and with a ring almost of fear in its
tones. " Where is he taking us ? "

'i'm sure I don't know," answers Lance
Stapleton. *' I have never seen this place
in my life."

"Nor I," says the inspector, boldly; but,
even as the words pass his lips, he looks
through the space where Lance has parted

the branches, and a ghastly change comes
over his rubicund visage  a change scarcely
warranted even by the lonely gloom and
chilling darkness of this most gloomy
spot.

He draws back swiftly, his white lips
shaking, his eyes full of an awful horror
and loathing.

'* Here ! " he says  and his very voice
has now in it a terror beyond all words.

His companion does not notice his agitation.
He follows the dog into the open
space and stands looking down into the
dark waters of the pool.

** What an awful place ! " he says, with
an involuntary shudder. *' It looks just fit
for a murder ! '

*' Murder I  Ha, ha, ha ! " And, with a
sharp and jarring sound, the inspector's laugh
rings out in that haunted stillness. '' A good
joke, Mr Stapleton !  Ha, ha ! Yes, a good
joke ! "

*' Don't be a fool, Budd ! " cries young

Stapleton, angrily. " I don't see anything
to laugh at, if you do."

No, no ! Yes  exactly ! " stammers the
inspector. "You see, sir, your words came
in so appropriate that I  that you  "

'' Have you gone off your head entirely ? "
asks the young man, looking at him with
rising curiosity.

I beg your pardon, sir," answers the man,
recovering himself by a violent effort. ** I
well, as you say, this is an awful place.
It gives one the creeps to look at it."

"And yet you must have seen many such
places, or even more awful, in your time,
Budd," pursues Lance, as he leans negligently
against one of the trees.

*eyes, sir; you're right. I've seen many a
stranger place than this in my hunts after
criminals and  "

And crimes, Budd ? " puts in Lance, as he
hesitates.

And crimes, sir, as you say," echoes the
inspector, with a nervous glance at Lion, who

VOL. I. O

is rushing about in restless eagerness from
side to side of the thorny underwood.

** Lion ! " says his master. " Here ! '*

The dog turns back reluctantly and comes
to his side as if entreating permission to renew
his researches.

Lance regards him for a moment with great
perplexity ; then he says quietly, 

"Seek!"

The dog rushes off with a bark of delight,
and plunges into the thicket on the opposite
side of the pool.

"Follow him if you like," says Lance to
the inspector. " I'm too tired. I shall stay
here and have a smoke."

'' Stay here ? " questions the inspector, with
an apprehensive glance.

** Certainly ! Why not ? " is the cool rejoinder.


Oh, nothing, sir  nothing ! " says Budd,
cheerfully. '* It's a lonesome place ; but, if
you like  "

"I do like; and I mean to stay," persists

Lance. " I don't suppose the place is
haunted. At least, I'm not afraid of ghosts,
even if it is."

Ghosts ! Ha, ha ! " and the inspector's
laugh rings out so wildly and mercilessly that
even Lance starts as he hears its weird echoes.
Well, good morning, Mr Stapleton. I'm
going to see after Lion. I'll leave you to
the ghosts, sir."

But Lance's face has no such pallid shadow
on its grave thoughtfulness as the face of the
man who has left him, and, with white lips
and unsteady feet, is now making his way
through the tangled briars and over the thick
damp moss.

Lance lights his cigar, and seats himself on
the gnarled and knotted roots of a great
beech. His eyes look thoughtfully into the
waters round which the dank weeds and ugly
nightshade are so thickly set. Then his gaze
turns to the belt of trees and the heavy screen
of underwood that fence in this ill-omened
spot. What is it that, suddenly catching his

eye, turns him suddenly so pale and stiff,
that chains him to his seat with powerless
limbs, over which he seems to have lost all
control?

With a violent effort he staggers to his
feet, and then suddenly drops back again.

*' I won t look  I won't touch it ! " he says,
and straightway re-lights his cigar, and turns
away his eyes in the opposite direction.

In vain  in vain !

It seems as if some hideous fascination
draws them back  back slowly and surely 
back to that same object. Such a little thing
too  a piece of loose pale-coloured muslin,
caught and held by the tangled branches  a
fragment of some girl's dress may be  a little,
foolish, fluttering thing, blown thither by
some chance wind, caught and held perhaps
by the rude rough briars as the penalty of
some feminine intrusion into this desolate
place !

Of course that is all.

** What more can it, shall it be?" thinks

Lance, passionately, as he springs to his
feet and rushes towards the fatal bit of
muslin, and takes it from its place with
trembling fingers, and conceals it in the
pocket of his coat. Yet, even as he thrusts
the careless fragment in, a voice arrests him,
and holds him there mute, abased, as
though the simple action were criminal.

Excuse me, Mr Stapleton," says the
slow oily voice of the police spy; ** nothing
found here must be concealed. It will all
be wanted in evidence,"

What do you mean?" asks Lance, hoarsely,
as he confronts his smiling face.

'mean sir? Only this. Your dog has
found a hat with Mr Charteris's name inside
it ; and  pardon me, sir  I have grave
suspicions  very grave  that we are not
so far off from the scent as we were. I
think if this pool were searched it would
be as well, for 'tis my belief now that Mr
Charteris has been  murdered."

As the horrible word that so well suits

the horrible place hisses from the man's
pale lips and fall on Lance Stapleton's ear,
a sudden tongue of sunlight leaps through
the darkness and shines and quivers over
the silent pool.

At the same moment the dog looks down
into the loathsome depths, and then lifts
up his voice in one long melancholy howl
that fills the woods around with hideous
echoes.

11

ANCE STAPLETON stands with
his hand in his pocket, into
which he had thrust the torn
scrap of muslin that the briars had held
in their senseless grasp for six long weary
weeks. The veins in his temples stand out
like cords ; intense loathing of the smiling
smooth-faced watcher takes possession of
him. He feels as if a net of suspicion were
being slowly woven around the simplest
action he performs or word he utters.

With half-closed merciless eyes the inspector
remains quietly beside him, reading
all the doubt and anger of the frank young
face. He knows so well for whom that
rash action was just now performed, and,

rejoicing in its non-accomplishment, builds
up upon its basis a fabric the terrible
strength of which only time can prove or
falsify.

"You will be kind enough to tell me
what you have found, sir % " he says.

The slow soft words fire the young man's
brain with impotent rage. He swings round
fiercely and flashes an indignant glance at
the speaker.

Found ? " he repeats, scornfully. "" A
scrap of stuff like this ! That's all I've
found ! Make what you can of it ! " And
he flings it upon the ground. But, even
as he does so, a memory sharp as a winged
arrow darts through his mind, the memory
of a day when, while soothing a girl's fright
and striving to pacify her fears, he had
noted the fresh-made rent in her pretty
muslin dress, and she had told him it had
been torn in the woods.

With hasty fingers Inspector Budd picks
up the fluttering fragment, and examines it

with a close attention that is absolutely
maddening to Lance.

What mountain is there coming out of
that mole-hill ? " he asks, contemptuously.

Time will show, sir  time will show,"
answers the man, with that mild reiteration
of words that always irritates impatient
Lance. ** Now, sir, will you please look at
this ? "

He hands him the hat that all this time
he has been holding in his hands. It is a
broad felt hat of foreign manufacture, one
that Denzil Charteris has particularly affected
a hat the like of which no one else in
the neighbourhood round has ever been seen
to wear. But, even if this had not been
conclusive as to the ownership, it bears on
the white silk lining the initials " D. C."

Lance looks at it in a sort of stupor for
several moments.

This does not prove anything," he says,
in a low unsteady voice. " He  might have
lost it."

A faint smile wavers in sickly mirth over
the face of his companion.

'' Lost it ? " he repeats. '' Hardly possible,
sir. Gentlemen don't go about bare-headed
as a rule ; and even  "

The words are cut short by another prolonged
howl from the dog, who still moves restlessly
to and fro beside the pool  a howl which makes
them both start, it is so weird and ominous.

Lion ! " calls Lance ; but for once the
dog refuses to obey the summons. He only
utters a low whine and peers down into the
stagnant waters.

"Will you send him in, sir?" asks the
man ; and Lance does not notice how anxious
is the voice, how pale are the shaking lips
of his questioner.

In there % Faugh ! " And he turns with
a shudder of disgust away from the noisome
place. " No," he says, curtly ; *' if you wish
the place searched, send for drags and have
it done. I don't choose to have my dog
poisoned for your suspicions."

'' Very good, sir," answers Budd with
alacrity ; we will return and let them know
in the village what were found. Nothing
can happen here while we're away, I
suppose ? "

A curious fancy crosses Lance Stapleton's
mind as he hears these words  a fancy that
the man's voice sounded almost as though
he hoped something would happen in the
meantime ; but he says nothing  only in
his own mind he thinks, 

** After all, Budd is a coward ; in the
presence of real responsibility he loses all
self-control."

It is quite two hours before they both
return ; and with them come men with
cords and lanterns and drags, their faces
eager with excitement  an excitement that
changes to a dread and silent gravity as
they come into the still and mournful
place.

To Lance's great annoyance Arthur Mervyn
has insisted upon accompanying the

men in their ghastly journey. He had
been loitering in the village, and, hearing
of what had occurred, declared his intention
of seeing the mysterious spot where
these new discoveries had been made. In
vain Lance had entreated and besought him
to remain behind. He was determined to
see the thing out," as he termed it ; and
now first and foremost of the pale and
awestruck faces around appears the usually
jovial visage of the wild school-boy.

It is a weird scene. The gloom is so deep
that the lanterns are lit, although it is
bright afternoon beyond the thick dense
woods. The uncertain wavering lights fall
with strange gleams over the faces of the
men, and the hoarse hushed whispers that
from time to time accompany their labours
mingle mournfully with the loud bays or
plaintive howls of the restless dog.

Lance Stapleton stands a little aloof from
the group of searchers, his eyes with sickening
horror watching their exertions, his

strong young hands trembling like a
woman's as he holds them tightly clasped
behind his back.

Again and again the drag stirs the
noisome waters ; again and again the word
flies from lip to lip" Nothing ! " The
dread begins to leave the young man's mind,
the deadly faintness no longer numbs his
heart and creeps with death - like chill
through his glad young veins.

A false alarm ! Oh, thank Heaven, thank
Heaven ! " he says, and leans back against
the great beech by which he has stood so
long, closing his eyes in the momentary
faintness of this glad reaction.

As he opens them again a hoarse murmur
breaks upon his ear. The crowd sway and
move in one direction. Then a strange
whisper steals through the stranger silence
of the horror that holds them now. In an
agony of fear  a fear that must know the
worst at any cost  he rushes forward.

The men strain and pull at the laden drag.

How strangely, fearfully heavy, it has
become !

Slowly, slowly  each second of time seeming
hours long to those who watch and
wait for the revelation so near at hand now
the dreadful burden comes in sight.

Lance gives one look of shuddering horror,
and then falls face downwards upon the
turf, hearing nothing, seeing nothing  faint
and chilled to the bone, with a mist before
his eyes that shuts out everything except
that fleshless mass of corruption, which only
a few weeks before had been a loving,
breathing, living man.

Presently a hand touches him, a trembling
voice falls upon his ear.

'' Lance," says Arthur Mervyn, '' Lance,
old fellow, are you better % It was horrible,
I know. I never had such a turn in my
life as the sight gave me. Let us go home
now. We can do no good."

Lance looks up and staggers to his
feet.

"What do they  think  it is?" he asks,
faintly. " Accident or  " But his lips
cannot frame that other word. It is too
full of horror now.

No one says yet," answers Arthur, taking
his arm and hurrying him away from
the ghastly spot. *' I suppose the inquest
will have to decide that."

The inquest ! " cries Lance, in a voice
of horror.

** Of course there will have to be an inquiry,"
continues Arthur, as if proud of the
superior knowledge he is displaying. " But
how they're to prove anything goodness
knows ; for the man's past all recognition !
Even his clothes are rotted away."

Lance shudders. They are leaving the
glade now ; a path has been formed through
the tangled underwood by the tramp of the
numerous feet, the passage of many bodies.
Involuntarily the young man glances back
as he leaves the horrible spot. In that
glance he sees the pale triumphant face of

the inspector looking back at his own ; and 
something in the malice and cunning of that
smooth and smiling visage sends a thrill of
fear to the stout young heart. As plain as
speech could have told it, he reads the
man s intention, the plan of his future conduct
; and he curses his own blindness and
folly in having been the first to pave the
way for such suspicions, so deep a dread has
he of their future results.

** Oh, my darling, my darling," he murmurs,
passionately, " am I, who would lay my life
down to give you a moment's happiness 
am I the unfortunate wretch who has led
that vile spy's viler thoughts to you ? But
no  they shall not touch you ! If human
power can avert the storm, the approach of
which I can plainly read, that power shall
never rest till you are safe  I swear it ! "

What are you muttering there, Lance ? "
asks Arthur, in wonder.

Was I muttering ? " he says, with sudden
effort. *' Well, perhaps so ; Arthur, do you

know no one has so much cause to rejoice
over Denzil Charteris's death as I ? "

** What do you mean ? " asks the boy, in
perplexity, surveying his companion as though
he entertained grave doubts of his sanity.

"You see," goes on Lance, in a strange,
measured voice, " I have always cared for
your sister Yolande ever since I can remember.
Now of late Charteris has been
my rival. We  we had a fearful quarrel
about her lately. Now you see what I
mean, Arthur, don't you ? " he continues, in a
forced, feverish voice. '' Now  well, the coast
is clear for me !  Ha, ha ! A live dog, you
know, Arthur, is better than a dead lion ! "

*' Lance," says the boy, slowly and sternly,
as he pauses and surveys the white, strange
face before him, " always up to this time I
have looked upon you as a right good fellow
and a true gentleman ; but, by Jove ! if any
other man said such words to me as you
have said just now, I should tell him to his
face he was a cad ! "

VOL. I. p

The indignation in tone and features of
the boy who speaks so honestly and bravely
seems only to give Lane Stapleton a sense
of relief, not of shame.

*' I don't care," he says, doggedly ; " I have
spoken out what I feel. You are at liberty
to make what use you like of it."

Good Heaven ! Lance, are you mad % "
cries the boy, furiously. " Do you want
people to believe you have had a hand in
this black day's work ? You must be mighty
careless of your reputation all of a sudden ! "

Lance says nothing  he only passes on
through the narrow path, while the sunlight
slants through the parted boughs and lights
up his pale young face, stern and set now
in the martyrdom of a nobler sacrifice than
the seemingly careless words represented.
In mute perplexity Arthur follows. He
still thinks that the horror of the past hours
has affected Lance Stapleton's brain. How
otherwise can he account for such wild words
as those he has just heard ? "

I suppose I must tell them about this
at home, Lance," he says, hesitatingly ; for
silence is by no means Arthur s strong point,
and he prefers hearing his own voice to walking
along by his now speechless companion.

Lance starts, and by a vigorous effort
forces himself to pay attention.

On no account ! I mean, mention it
only to your father. For Heaven's sake,
don't tell Yolande ; it will kill her ! "

*' What, in Heaven's name, makes you
think Yolande cared for Charteris ? " asks
Arthur, impatiently. ''If you're spoons on
her, do you suppose every other fellow must
be the same ? "

'' I know he cared for her," answers Lance,
steadily ; " and I fear she is mourning for
him too."

But she must learn this sooner or later,"
persists Arthur ; " so, if one person doesn't
tell her, another will."

"Yes, I suppose so;" and poor faithful
Lance shudders and turns pale as he speaks.

Well, if some one must tell her, I will.
Keep silence till to-night, Arthur, and I will
come round and break it to her as carefully
as I can. If she was only not so ill ! "
he adds, mournfully.

Do you think fretting after Charteris has
been the cause of all this illness ? " asks
Arthur, curiously. " By Jove ! none of us
ever thought a jolly, flirting girl like Yolande
would care two pins about any man, least
of all a gloomy, stuck-up fellow like he was !
I gave her credit for better taste ; I did
indeed."

Every foolish word goes like a dagger to
Lance Stapleton's heart. How little this
rash boy knows of the agony his silent
companion is suffering !

All further attempts at conversation fail
now, and Arthur comes to the conclusion
that there is certainly a screw loose about
Lance, or that his quarrel with Denzil Charteris
has been more serious than any one
suspects.

At the cross-roads they part, Arthur to go
homewards in all the importance of possessing
such a terrible secret, Lance to bury
himself in solitude and loneliness, there to
think out some way of evading the complications
which fate is slowly and surely
weaving around his darling's path.

HE long hot day has come to a close
at last.

At Mervyn Court the windows
are all open. The roses are drenched with
dew, and their sweet scents come up on
the wings of every little breeze that faintly
breathes its languid sighs to the approaching
night. A great peace, a great stillness is
everywhere, falling as the light of the stars
falls on the leafage, the gleam of dew on the
flowers. Within, a faint glow of lamplight
shows the occupants of the room scattered
about in groups, or sitting alone, as they
prefer. Mr Mervyn is reading the newspaper ;
the faithful Skipton hovers in close proximity
to him. Arthur is bending over a solitaire

board, an uneasy expression on his handsome
boyish face. Vi and Enid are reading the
same book  a fashion they much affect. On
\h couch by the window Yolande is lying,
her white filmy dress floating around her, the
beautiful masses of her hair gleaming like
dusky gold in the faint lamplight, her eyes
looking out on the dark, still, fragrant night
with a wistful shadow in their violet depths.

Presently Arthur saunters up to the couch
and stands beside her, looking out as she
herself is looking  wistfully, waiting.

*rit is a lovely night," he says, presently.
"Don't you think, Yolande, you might take
a turn in the garden ? "

His sister looks at him in surprise. Such
an offer is indeed a novelty on Arthur s part.

"Yes, I think I should like it," she answers,
rising languidly from her couch, " if you won't
mind giving me your arm."

All right," says Arthur, chuckling quietly
over his own diplomacy. *' Here, put this
on," he adds, catching up a lace shawl and

wrapping it round the slender figure. " Now
let's be off."

Yolande, my dear Yolande," exclaims the
voice of Miss Skipton, '' you surely are not
going to venture out in the night air  in your
delicate state too ? "

'eyes, she is," answers Arthur, abruptly.
It won't do her any harm either. Fresh
air is a thousand times better for her than
molly-coddling and medicines ! "

It won't hurt me, Miss Skipton," says
Yolande, gently. " The night is so warm ;
and I will put something over my head."

"But your feet, my dear ! " persists the
anxious duenna. "Such thin shoes as those
are not fit for  "

But further remonstrance is drowned by a
fierce " Bother ! " from Arthur, and the summary
ejection of his sister through the open window
by a movement more forcible than polite ;
We won't go on the grass," he says ;
"just keep on the path. We'll stroll down
to the lodge gates."

Yolande acquiesces, and, leaning on his
strong young arm, she moves like a shadow
under the starlit leafage of the avenue.

They are not half way down the long
gravelled drive when the sound of an approaching
footstep falls on their ears  a quick
hasty footstep, as of some one speeding to
meet them. Yolande halts involuntarily.

'' Who can be coming % " she says.

Perhaps it's Lance," suggests Arthur, innocently.
" He often looks in about this time."

'* Lance ! " repeats-poland, in faint wonder.
He has been here once already to-day. I
scarcely think he would come again."

As she speaks she hears the great clock in
the tower strike slowly and distinctly. She
finds herself counting each stroke as it booms
heavily on the still sweet summer night 
One, two, three," and so on, up to nine.

Nine o'clock ! " she says. '' No ; Lance
never comes so late as that."

But, as the words pass her lips, she sees it
is Lance. He comes straight up the avenue

towards them, the starlight on his white haggard
face, a look in his eyes that Yolande has
never seen in them before through all the years
they have been playmates and companions.

He stands before her; he gives her no
greeting ; he only looks at her pale sweet
face with an infinite sorrow, a yearning tenderness
in his own.

Somehow  Yolande never quite knows how
she finds herself standing alone with him
under the elm shadows. Arthur has gone.
For a moment she looks at Lance in silent
wonder ; then her voice breaks the stillness,
all its music changed to pain and fear.

** You bring tidings ? " she says. " I see
it in your face."

Yes," he answers simply, and draws a
step nearer.

She waves him back.

*' No ; don t touch me ! " she cries, wildly.
I  I can bear it now. Tell me all ! "

Lance looks at her, half in fear, half in surprise
; yet, as he meets her eyes, he sees her

shrink, and all the horror that fills her heart
speaks out in those speaking orbs, and over
her face creeps the grey shadow of an indescribable
change.

** He is found ? " she whispers slowly ; and
Lance bows his head in faint assent.

Where ? " is the next question her white
lips form, but strive in vain to utter.

'' They found him in a lonely pool in a part
of the woods unknown to any one," Lance
continues  '' drowned. Oh, Yolande ! "  for
she sways towards him like a reed.

Hush ! " she says, holding up her hand
and looking at him with the pallor of death
on her own cheeks and brow. " Don't pity me.
I drove him to his death that day. Oh ! Heaven
be merciful ; for I am indeed his murderess ! "

Yolande ! " But the sharp cry in its
agonised dread is silenced and cut short by
another ; for through the dark close trunks of
the trees a figure glides, and a white face,
with a cruel smile on the parted lips, comes
between the girl and her lover.

** Excuse me, Mr Stapleton. Sorry to see
you here, sir, under such circumstances.
Again I must request you to bear in mind
the words you have just heard. The case
against Miss Mervyn was grave enough
before ; but her own words just now make it
doubly so."

You hound ! " shouts Lance Stapleton,
fiercely. " You infernal spy ! How dare you
come dogging my steps and listening behind
trees ! Get out of my sight, unless you
wish"

'' Take care  take care, Mr Stapleton ! '*
says the inspector, drawing back a few yards
from the infuriated young man. " Don't
make matters worse, sir, by assaulting me in
the exercise of duty. It'll only make things
all the blacker for you and the young lady
that you stand up for  of course that being
only natural, for all the countryside knows that
you're sweet on her ; but, if she's innocent  "

He never finishes that sentence ; for, with
a fiercer oath than ever his brave young lips

have uttered, Lance Stapleton thrusts his
fists into the bully's face, and knocks him
to the ground like a felled log.

*' Lance  oh, Lance ! "

That pitiful cry recalls him to his senses.
The frightened face, the clinging arms, unnerve
him as nothing else could have done.
He draws the girl away, and hurries her
homewards.

'* This is no place for you, Yolande," he
says. '' Oh, my dear, my dear, what possessed
you to say those wild rash words ? "

Because I felt them," she answers,
solemnly. *' If it had not been for me
this would never have happened."

Oh, hush  for Heaven's sake, hush ! " he
cries in agony. " Yolande, you little know
what a horrible network of suspicion that
wretch is weaving round your innocent head.
Oh, my dear, be careful ! Promise me this 
that you will not say to any one what you
have said to me. There are cases where even
innocence takes the semblance of guilt."

** Guilt ! " cries Yolande, amazed ; and then
she stops and confronts him. " Lance," she
says, " I remember now  that man's words ;
at first I could not understand. Now I see.
Oh, Lance, is it possible he suspects me  a
weak girl  of this ? "

He does, the foul-mouthed idiot ! The
idea of placing a fool like that at the head
of the county police ! Can they wonder if
everything's muddled by his addled brains ? "
vituperation Lance in red-hot fury. " Come,
Yolande, I must take you home, and then
see to that  ox. I suppose he'll lie bleeding
there till some one picks him up. Now
mind, dear, what I'm going to say. Keep
up a brave heart, and don't be alarmed, no
matter what rumours and stories get afloat.
All will come right in the end  it must.
There's the house. Now run in, there's a
dear! Don't forget what I've said, and
Heaven bless you ! "

He wrings her hand hard as he speaks,
and then suddenly a thought seems to come

to him. He turns and stops her trembling
steps.

'' Yolande," he whispers, hoarsely, *' if you
have still the dress you wore  that day 
destroy it ! " And, ere she can recover
from the amazement caused by his words,
he hurries away and returns to the avenue
where he has left his senseless foe.

He finds it vacant. Evidently Budd has
recovered more speedily than his assailant
deemed likely, for there is no trace of
him now. Lance hurries on, and comes in
contact with Arthur. They both stop.

What's the row now % " asks that hopeful
youth. " You look as if you were pursued
by Tam 0' Chanter's witches, Lance ! "

" Hush, Arthur ! I'm in no mood for
fooling," says the young man, sternly.
"Listen. Affairs are getting serious. That
idiot of an inspector, Budd, has taken it into
his addled head that because Yolande was
last with Chart eris she must know something
about  about his death. In any case, I

fear she will be called as a witness at the,
inquest tomorrow. It's to be at my father s,
luckily, as he's the nearest justice ; and
you may trust him to make matters as easy
as possible for her."

But, come, I say," interrupts Arthur,
it's a beastly shame to mix her up in the
affair ! And, if she was fond of Chart eris,
why, she'll faint, or make a scene, or something.
Confound that meddling old Budd !
ril punch his head for him ; see if I
don't ! "

*' I fear I've already complicated matters
by doing something of that kind myself,"
says Lance, ruefully. *you see he insulted
your sister to her face, and my blood was
up, and I forget all about his being a sacred
being, as I suppose a guardian of the peace
is. I therefore gave him a taste of my
fists that I don't think he'll soon forget. I
suppose he'll accuse me of assault tomorrow.
But I don't care."

Arthur looks admiringly at his companion's

face. This is a way of settling difficulties with
which he ardently sympathises ; and Lance
Stapleton goes up a good many degrees in
his estimation for the deed he has just
performed.

Where are you off to now ? " he asks.

'* Oh, I've lots to do ! " answers Lance,
evasively. "You go home now, Arthur,
like a good fellow, and break the news to
your governor as gently as you can ; and,
for Heaven's sake, don't let them worry
Yolande with questions ! She's got a hard
time before her, poor girl ; and she'll want
all the sympathy and encouragement she
can get."

"You're a right good fellow, Lance, upon
my honour ! " says Arthur, looking sympathisingly
at the face on the sunny brightness
of which so grave a shadow has lately
fallen. " It's a thousand pities Yolande didn't
care for you instead of Charteris. But then
girls have no sense. They don't seem to know
a good fellow when they see him."

VOL. I. Q.

"My dear boy, it's of no use crying over
spilt milk," answers Lance, with a poor
attempt at philosophy. "You see it wasn't
to be. Now I can't stand chattering here any
longer. You must be off. You'll remember
all I've told you, won't you ? "

"Yes," says Arthur, with unusual quietness
; and forthwith he takes his way up the
avenue, wondering what in the world fellows
could see in Yolande to go mad about, as
these two had done. " She's a pretty enough
girl ; I won't deny that," muses the young
philosopher ; " but so are dozens of other
girls. There's Judith Hargreaves now  a
nice jolly girl, full of fun and life, and
lots of her too ; and yet she never seems
to nail a sweetheart as Yolande does. Odd,
I must say ! However, I don't mind ; she
can wait for me, and I needn't have any
jealous twinges like  well like Lance and
Charteris and all those other young spooney
seem to suffer from."

When he reaches home he finds Yolande

has gone to bed, and the rest of the family-are
still in blissful ignorance of the day's
events. It is with a tremendous sense of
importance therefore that Arthur begins to
inform them of matters, dwelling very lightly
on Yolande's share in the tragedy, and
merely hinting that, as she had chanced to
meet Denzil Charteris in the woods on that
day, she might be asked to give evidence
at the inquest.

Amazement and horror are rife for the
space of the next hour ; and Arthur is overwhelmed
with questions.

Could it have been a suicide or an accident
? Who did he think could have murdered
Charteris ? "Was he robbed ? What
did they say at the Priory ? That poor
Mrs Eay  she would be broken-hearted !

Arthur parries these inquiries as best he
can, and launches forth into vague descriptions
of how he would trace the guilty
person, supposing the powers of justice were
in his experienced hands.

At last they have talked themselves out,
and, with a parting injunction to the excited
twins on no account to disturb Yolande anymore
that night, Arthur dismisses the subject
and takes himself off to bed.

Night and darkness fall slowly down upon
the grey old Court, bringing peace and sleep
to all save one of its inmates.

For her there are no sleep and no peace.
A strange fear creeps over her sad young
heart  a fear that deepens with the deepening
night and chills her with miserable forebodings.
The words of the cruel spy still
ring in her tortured ears ; the memory of
the horrible suspicion uncoiling itself like
a snake from amidst the doubts and terrors
of one evil mind recurs again and again.
She thinks of the shame, the suffering, the
horror that will fall on those she loves,
among whom the name her own folly has
tarnished has ever been an honoured and
a sacred thing. Was she to be the first to
bring discredit on its repute ? And all for



what ? A foolish vanity, a rash vow that
now all the remorse and anguish of a lifetime
can never unsay. She throws herself
upon her knees, the hot tears streaming
down her cheeks, her bosom racked and
tortured by bursting sobs.

'* Heaven have pity on me, have pity on
me ! '' she cries in her agony and despair.
This burden is greater than I can bear ! "

HE inquest is to be held at the
Mervyn Arms, and a jury have
been hastily summoned.

It is a notable fact, however, that both
coroner and jury are all on the friendliest of
terms with the affable Inspector Budd, and
that he has been flitting from one to the
other on the previous night, whispering his
doubts, murmuring his sad regrets, and altogether
leaving a track of strong prejudice
behind him.

Such a clever man, Budd ! " the farmers
and friendly tradesmen murmur over their
glasses at the bar. '' He's always got his eyes
in the right place. Trust Budd to ferret out
this mystery ; he's the man."

But they look graver and more doubtful as
the hours creep by, and a strange whisper
circulates, no one quite knows how, among
them.

A lovers' quarrel "  '' The last person who
saw anything of the unfortunate man " 
Fragments of dress found near the place
where the body was discovered "  ** Strange
silence all this long while  sudden illness,
when she'd been well and strong enough on
the day of the disappearance  better to call
it that just now." So the rumours run from
mouth to mouth, whispered with bated breath,
and as the night advances they increase and
grow wilder and stranger.

Some one trying to screen her  another
sweetheart in the case. Good Heaven ! what
wouldn't those hot-headed young fellows be
after?" "Who? The squire's son? Oh,
that's another matter ! Must be careful not
to offend him." " Taking the girl's part of
course  only natural he should  knows more
than any one suspects." "Well, it's a sad

affair altogether. No one likes to bring clis-
grace on a good old family ; and, after all  "

"After all, friends," says a rough, hardy
voice, " suppose it's only a mare's nest as
we've stumbled on ? Who can swear that the
body we've found is the body of Mr Charteris ?
Not his best friend, I'll warrant ! "

This bold and extraordinary assertion quite
takes away the breath of Farmer Dawson's
audience. No shadow of doubt as to the
identity of the discovered body with that of
the missing man has entered any one's mind
since the discovery of the morning.

'' Oh, but Budd says so ! " chorus the disciples
of that illustrious being.

*' True eno'  and Budd's sharp a fellow, and
he knows what's what."

Besides, if it's not Mr Charteris, who could
it be ? " asks another. " No one has been
missed from here but him."

"Ay, for certain, Budd knows. He bean t
inspector and head of all the other police for
nothing," interposes a fresh voice.

'well, we'll see tomorrow," says Farmer
Dawson, divini in to the decision of the
majority. " Perhaps coroner '11 be wiser nor
us and identify the body ; though how he's todo
it is a moral mystery to me."

"Bennet there the hat found close to the
pool \ And, if Mr Charteris wasn't drownded
there, where is Mr Charteris now ? That's
what I says," remarks a rubicund jolly-visaged
farmer, a noted friend and ally of the worthy
Budd.

True  true," acquiesces another. '' Where
he's he now % Gentlemen, don't go off all
in a moment with no notice to anybody
unless something's at the bottom of it.
And if this ain't Mr Charteris, why, where's
Mr Charteris that he don't come and show
himself ? He's got no cause for to be hiding
of himself all this time. The peelers ain't
after him, I suppose 1 "

Well, it's a queer affair altogether ; that's,
my opinion," says Farmer Dawson. " Anyhow,
I'm a-going home now. So good night,

friends, and don't be too ready to go a-
burrowing with your noses in the warren
that's set afore ye ; " and, with this ambiguous
caution, the sturdy farmer departs.

The next morning, however, when the jury
are assembled and the business commences, it
is remarked with some surprise that outspoken
Farmer Dawson is not one of the number.
Another juror has been called in his place.
The incident is so slight that few notice it
at the time amidst the graver duties that
crowd upon their attention ; but in after
days it is remembered, and goes to the
score of grave suspicions that point to a
criminal of whose guilt none know now.

The process of identification is well-nigh
impossible ; for not a feature of the body is
recognisable now. In that horrible pool the
work of corruption has been rapid ; and no
clue, even in clothing or linen, is forthcoming.
But then there is no doubt in the

o

mind of any one there that this body is
the body of the missing man, and the finding

of the hat near the pool, and the fact of
Mr Charteris having been seen in the neighbourhood
of the spot being clearly proved,
the coroner declares himself satisfied that this
is no other than the long-sought-for man.

Now come the depositions of witnesses.
First and foremost appears Budd himself,
whose pale face and swollen lips make his
benign physiognomy less pleasing than usual.
But his voice is as oily, his smile as sweet
as ever.

He relates the fact of tracing the missing
man to the almost-unknown spot by means of
Lance Stapleton's retriever, he  the inspector
having furnished the animal with a glove
belonging to the deceased ; then came the
finding of the hat, the persistence of the dog
in keeping to the pool, the dragging of the
water, and subsequent finding of the body.
These facts Lance Stapleton is called upon to
corroborate, which he does.

At the conclusion of his curtly-given evidence,
he observes that he has a remark to make 

namely, that Doctor Deane, who is well-known
in the village, and perfectly acquainted with
the missing man, has expressed an opinion
that the body found is of shorter stature than
that of Mr Charteris.

Upon this Doctor Deane is summoned. He
repeats the statement he has made to Lance,
and with it another to the effect that the
evidences of decomposition in the discovered
corpse are surprisingly great for the lapse of
time since Denzil Charteris has been missed.

It looks as if it had been six months,
instead of six weeks, in the water ? " he says,
in conclusion.

'' Could you swear that this body has been
in the water longer than six weeks ? " asks
the coroner.

The worthy doctor hesitates, fidgets, and
then says doubtfully, 

I could not swear to it ; but I give it as
my opinion. It is difficult to speak with
absolute certainty in a case of this kind."

** Taking into consideration the state of the

water and the abundance of vegetable and
animal substance contained in it, would you
give it as your opinion that this body could
not have been reduced to such an unrecognisable
condition in the space of six weeks ? "
persists the coroner.

"' I could not absolutely say it is impossible,"
answers Doctor Deane.

"Would you swear to that?" asks his
interrogator, triumphantly ; and again comes
the hesitating reply, 

I could not swear to it ; but I think so."

"Well, gentlemen," says the coroner,
blandly, " I really don't see that we have
any grounds to go upon in refusing to believe
that this is the body of Mr Charteris.
Of course we should be glad of more absolute
proof ; but, in its absence  Who
is that ? Oh, you, Budd ! "

*' I beg your pardon, sir," says the polite
inspector, *' but a fact has escaped my
memory that is very important indeed. You
spoke of proof. I think I can offer very

conclusive proof. In drawing the unfortunate
gentleman out of the water, I seized
one of the hands to help. As I took hold
of it something slipped from the fingers. I
looked at it, and found it was a ring. I put
it hastily into my waistcoat-pocket, intending,
of course, to produce it at the inquest.
Strange to say, it never occurred to me till
this moment."

Produce the ring," orders the coroner,
eagerly.

'rit is here, sir  in my pocket, just as I
put it ; " and Mr Budd hands it up as he
speaks.

The ring is in a filthy state ; it must be
cleaned," declares the coroner ; and this is
accordingly done.

With the stains and mildew washed ofi" its
broad surface, the ring is brought back and
handed to the court. It rests in the coroner's
hands a moment, and Budd's face grows
paler and his white lips twitch more nervously
as he awaits the forthcoming decision.

A momentary gleam of triumph flashes in the
coroner's face ; he hands the ring to the jury.

'gentlemen," he says, *you have heard
Inspector Budd's evidence. Are any of you acquainted
with the seal and motto on that ring?"

One or two declare they are ; the others
maintain a discreet silence.

Then it is my duty to inform you, Mr
Budd, that this is indeed the most important
evidence you could have supplied.
This ring' bears the seal and motto of the
Charteris family."

For a moment dead silence reigns in the
room ; then a unanimous murmur breaks
forth, half of pity, half of relief. In any case
it is pleasant to know there can no longer
be any doubt as to whom they have found ;
and the business of the inquiry proceeds.

Lance Stapleton draws a long quivering
breath, and his hands grasp tightly the rail
of the chair against which he leans. The
worst ordeal of all is at hand now ; and he
will need all his courage to undergo it.

The inspector whispers to the coroner.
There is a moment's silence, a hush of expectation,
and then the order echoes through
the court, 

Call Miss Mervyn."

A thrill of surprise, amazement, fear, runs
through the crowded room. Involuntarily all
eyes turn to where, with slow and languid
steps, still weak from recent illness, the slight
veiled figure of a girl appears. As she throws
back her veil, and faces the gazing throng, a
strange feeling of pity fills their hearts. The
girl looks so young, so fair ; and on her face is a
shadow of grief so intense, of agony so great, as,
in all the years they have known and admired
its brilliant beauty they have never seen.

Yet the clear sweet voice answers all the
questions unhesitatingly  questions so strange
that a vague uneasiness steals upon the listening
crowd, and makes them turn and look,
with wondering eyes, at each other's faces,
mutely asking what all this means, what new
horror is to be revealed.

For, led and blinded by Budd's artful hints
and cunningly-gathered evidence, a horrible
suspicion is directed against Yolande.

Her father's face grows grey with fear and
unspeakable wrath as he hears the base insinuations
levelled at his fair young daughter's
head. That anything so improbable, so unreasonable,
could have entered the minds of
mortal men  men in possession of reason and
common-sense  he cannot imagine possible.
Yet what is the meaning of all these questions
questions which the brave young voice
answers so unfalteringly, let them point to
what they will? What mean the pitying
looks, the averted glances, the mysterious
whispers, that he sees and hears on every side ?
Is he dreaming ? Are these people real ? Is
it Yolande who speaks  Yolande, his pretty
loving, laughing child, who has never before
looked or spoken as looks and speaks this pale
shrinking martyr, facing this terrible ordeal
for the sake of her dead lost love ?

The old man trembles in every limb ; his

VOL. I. R

eyes gaze beseechingly, blindly, at the strange
and awestruck faces around. Amidst them
all he sees but one  the face with his dead
wife's beauty on the beautiful features, but
with a look that never was worn by wife or
child in all his fond remembrances  the face
of a young, pale, resolute girl, with a halo of
suffering about her golden head, and at her
feet a sea of blood.

As that red stream flows before his sight
his brain suddenly reels, and a cord seems to
snap and break. He stretches out his arms
to the darkness that engulphs him ; then light
and sense and feeling are utterly gone.

Of all that happens and all that follows he
never has sight or knowledge again.

budd has forgotten one thing in the
blind animosity that has led him onto
persecute Yolande Mervyn, and
that is the fact that many of the jurors are
her father's tenants, born and bred on the
Mervyn property, loving and honouring the
Mervyn house with dogged and faithful attachment.


When the evidence has been all given,
when the Charteris household have deposed
as to Denzil's mysterious disappearance after
his arrival from the Continent, and his announced
declaration of staying at least a
month at the Priory, the coroner sums up the
case, and the jury retire to an adjoining room
to consider their verdict.

'Tis impossible it's a murder ! Far more
like it's an accident," says the foreman, decisively.


Yes, for sure ! Could a young weak
thing like that go for to throw a man i' the
water and drownd him ? There be no reason
o* the face o' it."

And she as kind and merry a young lady
as ever stepped. Haven't we known her since
she could toddle over the fields yonder, plain'
and peeping', and full of the sauciest wiles as
ever a little lass could be \ She hasn't had
no hand in this for certain."

But what about the quarrel ? " asks a
gloomy-faced man who holds strong religious
views and preaches at a chapel in the village,
and is universally supposed, to be working in
the good cause in season and out of season 
more often the latter.

The quarrel  ay ! Well, lots of young
ladies quarrel with their sweethearts ; but
that don't go to prove they'll be murdering'
them the next minnie."

In any case it's not for us to go making
enemies of the gentry at the Court," chimes
in the owner of one of Mr Mervyn's farms.
If so be as anything's wrong, let the Charteris
people take it up and prosecute. It'll
go to the 'sizes at Colston then, and we
needn't burn our fingers by thrusting them
into the fire. Mr Budd seems mighty hard
on the young lady ; and I repose that's only
natural, seen' as how he's got to ferret out all
he can and make the most of it. Let him
find out, I say ! We've got no reason for todo
it."

'* Shall we say * Accidental Death ' then ? "
asks the foreman. " I don't see what else we
can do. There's no marks of violence. Leastways,
they're not to be discovered, if there
are. It'll save a deal of trouble, and get
nobody into hot water."

'' How would it do to say, * Murder against
some person or persons unknown ? ' I should
reconcile it better to my conscience to bring
that verdict in," suggests the gloomy-faced one.

Or suicide ? He'd quarrelled with his
sweetheart, you know, and then perhaps just
went and throned himself into the water,"
adds another.

* Accidental Death ' be the safest ; and
we don't give offence to the parties concerned.
That's what I think," persists the
foreman.

Well, well, let it be as you will ! After
all, Mr Charteris ain't of much account to us.
A gloomy, strange sort of gentleman, that's
wot I always thought ; and never cabin' to
stop at home and do his hunting' and shooting'
like a Christian, but for ever rushing' off to
furrin parts, and coming' back no one knew
when or how."

** And what could he ha' gone to that lonesome
place for ? " chimes in another bright-witted
bumpkin. " No Christian would ha
thought of peering' and prin' about such a
spot as that. It's tempting' Providence, ses I.
You wouldn't catch me going' within half-a-mile
o' Dead Man's Pool, I know ! "

** Be's that the name o't ? "

*' 'Tis the fittings name. And I've christened
it so for my part," answers the loquacious
farmer.

"Well, well, time's getting on," interposes
the foreman. '' Have you decided on the
verdict?"

Ye-es," they murmur, doubtfully, looking
from one face to another.

And I'll say ' Accidental Death ' then ? "

"Ay, 'twere best," echo the bewildered
eleven, while the gloomy man shakes his
head and murmurs of " wrath and the day of
wrath," and other agreeable and suitable subjects
; and then they shuffle and elbow one
another back to the other room ; and, in
answer to the coroners question, the foreman
announces the verdict  " Accidental
Death, though how come by there is no evidence
to show."

A sense of intense relief runs through the
court. To so many there, it has seemed that
something far graver, more dreadful, would

have been said. To the pale girl leaning
so listlessly back in her chair the words come
as though they have been expected. What
other verdict was indeed possible ? Then a
hand touches her shoulder, and a voice, glad
and eager, whispers in her ear, 

Come away, dear, now. It is all over."

As one in a dream walks, so she rises and
walks through the crowd that part and shrink
away  why they scarcely know.

Her hands are idly linked together, her
pretty arched brows drawn close in a curious,
puzzled way, and the soft eyes underneath
look out in wistful appeal, in a sorrow mute
and yet so deep.

As she passes along something  is it a
whisper, a sigh ?  she can hardly tell what 
seems to sound in her ear, *' It is not allover
yet." That is what she hears, or seems
to hear ; but it brings no such shadow of
dread upon her face as falls over her life
thenceforward. One swift glance back she
gives  a glance that shows her, in one vivid

flash, the curious gaze and pitying looks bent
upon her retreating figure.

But, foremost among all the faces there
stands out the smiling, triumphant visage of
the police inspector. What is it in the
merciless eyes, the cruel smile, that sends a
thrill of sudden fear through the girl's heart ?

'' Why does he hate me so ? " she asks herself
in wonder, as she moves away.

Ah, why ? For in her frank young nature
no remembrance lives of a childish jest uttered
in the very presence of that smiling spy 
an opinion the candour of which was free from
all ulterior malice, but which the man's relentless
heart has treasured ever since.

** Come, Yolande," says Lance, impatiently.
Don't look back, dear. It's all over now ;
we've nothing to do but forget it."

She looks at him as though his words were
strange and unintelligible.

*' Nothing to do but forget it ! " she says.
Oh, Lance, if I only could  if I only
could ! "

'rand so you will, Yolande, in time," he
answers, soothingly. '' You have been so
brave. I can't tell you how I admired you 
you were so quiet and calm. My dear, what
is it ? "

'' I  I was looking for papa," she says, with
faltering lips.

"You forget, dear, that he was taken ill
in court. The  the heat and excitement
were too much for him. He is at home
now, Yolande, and resting. Come, dear, here
is the carriage. Let us get away from all
this crowd."

And Arthur ? " she says, still looking with
waiting, wistful gaze into his anxious face.

*' Arthur went home with your father.
Come."

He helps her into the carriage as he
speaks.

'this has been a sad time for you,
Yolande," he says, pityingly, as the carriage
rolls swiftly along in the hot bright sunshine.
You must get away from here as soon as

possible. This shock, coming just after your
long illness, must be doubly trying."

She sits quite silent, her eyes on the hot
white road, her hands still clasped in that
listless clasp which is so common a trick of
hers now.

Do you think papa is going to be ill
again % " she asks, irrelevantly.

Lance starts.

I hope not  I don't know," he says, with
vague uneasiness. " You must remember,
Yolande, that he has reached a great age,
and"

Don't," she says piteously, as she turns
her sad face to him once more  'please
don't say that. Lance ! It is all my doing
again  my foolish, mad, unwomanly action !
Oh, Lance, to recall one hour of that terrible
day, to stand before him free ard guiltless
once more, I would consent to die ! "

'* Hush oh, hush!" he entreats. "My
darling, don't be so hard on yourself. It was
not so much your fault after all."

"Yes," she says, sorrowfully; '* it was all
mine  all mine. Don't speak of it any more.
Lance. Nothing you can say will make it
seem less vile. I shall bear the brand of that
day's doings all my life."

Yolande, you must not look at it in that
morbid way. It is absurd. Heavens ! " he
cries, impatiently, '' how many girls quarrel
with men or refuse men without a tragedy
like this arising."

The brave young face is very earnest ; the
bright eyes dart wrath and defiance all in
one at a world of imaginary enemies. But
Yolande 's eyes are hopeless as ever, her face
is as sad.

For a few moments they are both silent.
There are trees by the road-side now, and
their grateful shadows shut out the blinding
sunshine and weave strange patterns on the
smooth white road.

The girl turns at last, and her eyes rest
with wistful, solemn gaze on Lance's earnest
face.

*' Do you think it is all over yet % " she
asks.

'' Of course," he says, speaking out with a
brave, steady voice that will not betray the
fear lying deep within his loving heart.
'* What more can there be ? "

** I don't know. I only thought  "

** Think of it no more, Yolande," he entreats.
*' Put it away as some bad dream, some horrible
nightmare."

*' If I could  if I only could ! " she wails.
Lance, was it very long ago that you said I
was too fond of laughing  I turned everything
to jest ? It seems years now since I
really laughed."

It has been such a sad time  such an
anxious, trying time," Lance answers, with a
voice that grows less steady with every word.
'' But it will all pass, Yolande, and then  "

*' Yes," she murmurs, softly, while some
faint shadow of the old sweet smile breaks
over her pale lips ; *' and then I do not think
I shall have to bear the burden very long.

Heaven is too kind. I shall be relieved in
some way, I feel sure."

Lance does not answer  he cannot ; a lump
in his throat chokes his words. A convulsive
sigh parts his lips. A hateful fear, sharp as a
serpent's tooth, gnaws at his heartstrings.
He knows what alone can release that heavy
burden, what alone can calm that suffering
soul ; and his whole nature seems to rise and
cry out in mute, intolerable anguish against
the meaning of her sorrowful words.

If I could only comfort you ! " he whispers,
passionately, as he takes the small white hands
in his loving clasp and presses them against
his throbbing heart.

'' You cannot," she says, gently. " No one
can ; for no one can give me back the old
time before  that day."

\mmm

HE night closes in, and silence broods
over the anxious, aching hearts at
Mervyn Court.

Its master is doomed  not to death, as was
at first feared, but to that life in death which
is so inexpressibly awful in its pitiful imbecility
and childish helplessness.

The shock to the old man's brain has been
too severe for recovery. He is dead now to
all the sorrows, sufferings, and anxieties which
may follow  dead to the sorrow and remorse,
the piteous prayers and beseeching of his
best-loved child. He is calm, placid, helpless;
and so he is doomed to remain  in mercy, so
many think, though Yolande is not of the
number. She has shed no tears  has given

way to no outward sign of anguish ; but there
is something in her face which no one has
seen there before through all the bright untroubled
years of her girlhood  years which
look so terribly far away now as she turns to
them in wondering retrospect.

It is late when Lance Stapleton leaves the
Court. As he hurries swiftly through the
avenue, his eyes glance to the right and left,
his brow is knit in gloomy, anxious thought.
Before he is quite out of sight of the house
he suddenly pauses and looks back ; then
cautiously screens himself behind one of the
tree-trunks near by, and keeps up the same
vigilant scrutiny for the space of some
moments. The bright moonlight floods all the
sloping lawn and the flower-bordered terraces,
leaving only one side of the grey old mansion
in shadow. It is towards that shadow that
Lance Stapleton's eyes are directed. Something
moves to and fro, keeping stealthy watch
on the house  something dim and indistinct,
yet which the keen young eyes, sharpened by

love and distrust, make out to be the figure
of a man. He breathes quickly. Involuntarily
his hand grasps the bough against which
he leans.

*' It is as I feared," he mutters. 'that
wretch is not satisfied yet. He means more
mischief. No time is to be lost now. I must
do as I resolved at first  see Herrick and ask
his advice."

He turns away abruptly, restraining, for
prudence' sake, a wild longing to return and
kick the cunning, malicious spy out of his
place of concealment.

** He cannot do any harm to-night, at all
events," the young man thinks ; ** and tomorrow
 well, at least I shall know her case
is in safe hands if the worst comes."

Within half-an-hour he reaches his own
house, and amazes the groom by a visit to
the stable-yard, and a request for the immediate
saddling of his favourite horse Devil-hoof.
Then, without a word of explanation,
he mounts and rides away, increasing his pace

VOL. I. S

to a furious gallop the moment he is out
on the high road.

The moonlight lies calm and silvery on tree
and leaf, on wood and field. Gradually the
country grows wilder and more sombre. Great
hills and bleak bare plains give place to deep
rocky glens, all thickly clothed with ash and
fir and elm ; and there, shut in by the thick
screen of woods, stands a solitary house.

It is all dark now, save for one window, out
of which gleams a single light. Lance sees it,
and utters an exclamation of pleasure. Hastily
dismounting, he throws the reins over an
adjacent railing and rings the bell.

A sleepy-looking man-servant answers tke
summons, and looks with mingled astonishment
and disgust at the late visitor.

Master's gone to bed," he announces in
answer to young Stapleton's questions.

But give him my card, and pray tell him my
business is of the utmost importance," urges
Lance, slipping half a sovereign into the man's
palm as a means of expediting his movements.

The man hurries off, well pleased at the unexpected
douceur and leaves Lance standing
in the hall to await the success of his message.

Before long he returns and conducts him
into a gloomy-looking study, announcing at
the same time that Mr Herrick will be
down immediately.

Now, what is it, Mr Stapleton ? " asks a
harsh cynical voice as, a few moments after,
Mr Herrick enters his study.

Lance starts, and comes forward eagerly.

Mr Herrick, pray excuse me," he says,
'' but this is a serious affair, and I want a
friend on whose advice I can rely with confidence.
I trust you will excuse my want of
ceremony in coming at such an hour as this
to see you ; but once before  "

*' Exactly," chimes in the gruff voice, which
certainly does not accord with the owners
kind and quizzical-looking face. '' Once before
I was fool enough to establish a precedent,
and now  "

'' But really, Mr Herrick, this is  "

Who is she ? " asks the old man, abruptly,
interrupting his explanation.

Lance stops, and colours all over his boyish
bashful face.

** I  I never said," he stammers.

No," interposes Mr Herrick, with a quiet
chuckle, " you never said ; but you forget you
are talking to an Old Bailey lawyer, my boy ;
and he can see just a little bit through a stonewall
still. Now sit down," he adds, pushing
the young man into an easy old-fashioned
arm-chair and taking one opposite to it for
himself, "and tell me all about it in as few
words as possible. I can't afford to sacrifice
beauty-sleep even on the shrine of friendship,
young fellow."

Well then," says Lance, plunging without
more ado into the midst of his subject, " ita
case of suspected murder ; and the most
blundering, addle-pated fool of a police inspector
ever known, has thought fit to fasten
his suspicions on the most unlikely personas
the guilty party ? "

She's a friend of yours naturally ? "

How do you know it's a * she ' ? " asks
Lance, colouring again, and with a curious
disregard of grammar.

Do you deny it ? "

** Oh, no  you're right enough! The young
lady is beautiful and highly connected  a
daughter of Mervyn of Mervyn Court, in fact.*

And the murdered person % " interrogates
Mr Herrick.

'' No other than Denzil Charteris of Beech-hampton.
He disappeared mysteriously, and
has been fished out of a pool in the loneliest
part of the woods. The coroner's jury brought
it in ' Accidental Death ' ; but Budd  "

*' Oh, this is one of Budd's cases, is it ? "
asks Mr Herrick, chuckling more than ever.

Yes. You know him, I suppose ? "

'' I have had dealings with him," says the
old lawyer, in a voice of sly enjoyment, his
eyes gleaming with the fire of old and well-remembered
frays. " What mare's nest has
he got hold of now % "

Lance repeats the case, and lays bare the
evidence accumulated by Budd, and made
the most of by that clever luminary of the
law at the inquest.

Humph ! " says the old lawyer, at the
conclusion of the statement. " So that's how
the land lies ! And you want my help, do
you ? Why, isn't the case over as far as the
girl's concerned ? "

*' No," answers Lance, sadly ; " that fool is
still spying and prying about the place. He
won't let the matter rest, I know. What I fear
is that he will apply for a warrant against her."

*' Pooh ! " ejaculates Mr Herrick, contemptuously.
*' On what grounds ! The case is
preposterous. How could a young weak girl
drown a strong man like Charteris ? And,
even if they did quarrel, as you say the
provocation was hers, not his, a girl would
not be likely to kill a lover unless from
jealousy, hatred, or rivalry. There is only
the evidence of the fragment of dress and
the quarrel, I suppose ? "

Yes. Of course Budd made the most of
the suppression of facts for so long, and Miss
Mervyn's strange and sudden illness directly
after that meeting in the wood with Charteris.
I could see that some of the jury were
inclined to look very doubtfully on her. In
any case," he adds bitterly, " he has effectually
damaged the girl's reputation in Ash-bourne.
Every one will look coldly and
hardly on her now."

Pooh, pooh ! She will live that down,"
answers Mr Herrick, cheerfully. '*No one
could credit such a preposterous story as
this for long. I wonder," he continues smilingly,
" that Budd did not try to fix upon
you as the guilty party. You and Charteris
were rivals ; consequently you had the
strongest motive to get rid of him. Then,
from all accounts, you were also in the wood
at the same time as the young lady herself."

'*I wish to Heaven he had!" ejaculates
Lance, earnestly. *' I would sooner a thousand
times have borne the weight of the

most horrible suspicions than have suffered
a breath to pass on her."

What a pity she won't marry you ! "
exclaims Mr Herrick, with gruff heartiness.
'you are a good young fellow, Lance Stapleton,
and deserve a better fate than you have
met with at her hands ! "

'* Things must be as they must," sighs
Lance, wearily. *' I am not the sort of man
she could ever care for ; I know that. But,
to return to our subject, Mr Herrick. What
I want to know is this  if the worst comes
to the worst, will you fight for her '? There
is no one I know to whom I could trust her
case with safety but yourself, and, if  "

But you know I have given up practising
! " exclaims the old lawyer, with surprise.

** Yes ; but in an extreme case like this ? "
urges Lance, beseechingly.

** Why don't you say, ' and for my sake, Mr
Herrick, because 1 once saved your life' ? "
asks the old man, good-humouredly. ** Ah,
my boy, you are too generous to urge that

plea, even for the sake of the woman you
love ! Well, well, don't trouble yourself. I'll
think about it."

To " think about it," in the old lawyer's
phraseology, is to do it ; so Lance gives a
deep sigh of satisfaction, and wrings Mr
Herrick's hand with a force that expresses
his feelings better than words.

It is curious that Budd should show such
animosity in this matter," remarks Mr Herrick
presently, after Lance has vainly tried
to put his gratitude into appropriate phraseology.
" I must watch him. He has either
a spite against the girl which he wishes to
gratify, or else  "

Well ? " asks Lance, as he pauses.

Or else he knows too much about the
murder himself," is the curt rejoinder.

With an exclamation of astonishment
Lance springs to his feet.

You don't surely think  " he begins.

I think  nothing  at present," says Mr
Herrick. " If there is one thing more than

another I like to consider as my own exclusive
property, it is an opinion."

I see," answers Lance, smiling, despite
his anxiety. ** Then I am to hear no more ? "

To-morrow," continues the lawyer, ** I will
see the young lady myself. I will also lookup
the worthy Budd ; he has recollections of
me not very gratifying to his professional
acumen ; " and a grim smile hovers over the
speaker's cynical old lips.

"Do you think he could procure a warrant
on the grounds I have stated ? " asks Lance,
anxiously.

"There is circumstantial evidence enough
for such a warrant to be granted, I fear ;
and country magistrates, as a rule, are thickheaded
blunderers. Budd would have no
difficulty in getting what he wants ; but, if
it ever came to a trial, no jury would hang
the girl, if that's what you're afraid of."

Oh, Heaven ! " groans the young man,
with sudden agony. " It is the shame, the
scandal, the exposure that I dread. She is

so young, so innocent ; and already she has
suffered so cruelly. It would kill her to go
through such torture again ! "

'then get her away," urges Mr Herrick 
get her away till suspicion has died out,
or  or I've caught the criminal. You look
astonished. Humph ! My blood's up. I
feel I shall like this case. It's a puzzler,
and has a deeper meaning than has yet come
to the surface. Leave all to me, my boy.
Not a hair of the girl's head shall be
touched. As for Budd  "

A low expressive chuckle foretells the destiny
in store for that luckless blunderer, as
Mr Herrick rises and bids Lance good-night,
declaring that he will not hear another word
on the subject.

When the door has closed on the young
man, shutting out the worn weary face with
the new look of anxious fear on its youthful
brightness, the lawyer returns once more to
his study, and, seating himself at the table,
proceeds to jot down with a rapid hand the

heads of the information gathered from Lance
Stapleton. Despite his avowed predilection
for " beauty-sleep," it is a full hour after his
visitor has left him before the old man retires
to his room ; and then his face bears a
complacent satisfaction that shows he is well
satisfied with his evening's work.

At an early hour next morning Lance Stapleton
and Mr Herrick find themselves at
Mervyn Court. All the village is astir as
they pass through it, for to-day the body of
the unfortunate owner of Beechhampton is to
be buried ; and from far and near the county
is flocking to swell the retinue of the mourning
train. Lance is to be among them later on ;
but for this half-hour he is free to serve and
help Yolande, as his loving, loyal heart would
serve and help her all his life long if she but
spoke the word.

They are shown into the library, having
sent up their cards to Miss Skipton in the
first instance.

Lance stands looking out into the shrubbery,

and watching the slow monotonous drip of
the rain as it falls from the heavy clouds. It
is a dull, cheerless day, a day that almost blots
out all memory of summer, so dreary and
colourless are sky and earth.

The opening of the door makes him start. He
turns round hurriedly, and sees Miss Skipton.

** Dear Miss Skipton," he says, advancing
and taking the limp hand of that worthy lady,
I have taken the liberty of bringing a friend
of mine here to see Yolande ; but I thought I
would ask you to tell her first, as she might
wonder I should bring a stranger here at such
a time."

It is a trying time indeed ! " exclaims Miss
Skipton, tearfully. '* Everything is upset.
Management and method have become alike
impossible. My pupils cannot give their
minds to my instructions. Poor old Mr
Mervyn is quite childish and helpless, and
Miss Yolande  I have not seen anything of
her since last night."

Could you kindly send her a message

requesting her presence here ? " interposes Mr
Herrick, gruffly.

The handkerchief is abruptly withdrawn
from Miss Skipton's eyes, and with no small
amazement she surveys the speaker.

'' Oh, certainly ! " she gasps, feebly, retreating
as she speaks to the bell, and keeping
vigilant watch on the stranger, as though she
feared he would offer violence in some shape
or other.

The message is despatched to Yolande in
her room, and the three remain awaiting her
presence in the library, with various degrees
of agitation.

Some five minutes elapse, and then the
door opens, and three eager pairs of eyes turn
swiftly and instantly towards it. There stands
there only Enid  Enid, with face white as the
paper she holds in her hand  Enid, with eyes
from which the swift tears rain, as she flies
in terror and anxiety to the side of her
governess.

"Oh, read this!" she cries. "Whatever

can it mean % I cannot believe it  yet I
found it in her room just now ! "

Ere Miss Skipton can take the paper from
her outstretched hand, Lance is by her side.

Let me see ! " he cries, hoarsely, and then,
without apology or explanation, snatches the
little note, and reads it with eyes where a
great agony and an intense bewilderment
struggle for supremacy at every fatal line.

Darling Enid,"  so runs the letter, 

Don't think too hardly of me for what I am

going to do. I cannot stay here any longer.

It will kill me to look upon my father's face

and know what I have given him to bear, to seethe

shadows of suspicion creeping daily closer

and closer around me, and estranging all love

and confidence from hearth and home. I

have brought all this upon you. I alone

should bear the punishment. I cannot write

clearly and coherently, for I feel as if my

brain were on fire to-night, as if the agony

and shame of this day were burnt in living

letters on my memory and my heart ; but,
oh, remember I love you, all of you, so dearly
that I cannot bear to bring further suffering
on your innocent heads. Some cruel vengeful
fate pursues me still. It is that which
drives me from home now ; it is that which
nerves me for this last desperate resolve.
Tell Lancc-oh, but words can never tell
him !  how deeply I feel all his goodness and
kindness. He must not trouble about me
now. I have formed a plan, and I shall follow
it out. From time to time you shall
hear of me, I promise you ; and, when I can
bear it, I should like news of home  the home
I never loved as I love it now, when I am
leaving it perhaps for ever. You will know
soon enough why I take this desperate resolve,
know that I  your sister  am watched, suspected,
hunted like a criminal. I cannot bear
again what I bore to-day. You know that
my heart is innocent, that my lips are truthful.
Your love will never misjudge me, oh,
dear ones, whom I leave so sorrowfully now !

A thousand words can say no more. Farewell
! Poland."

For an instant Lance stands with the
letter in his hand, all the colour and life
gone from his young healthy face, his lips set
sternly and fiercely in fixed and terrible despair ;
then he thrusts the paper into Miss Skipton's
hands, and turns to the waiting lawyer.

*' She is gone % " questions that imperturbable
person, with a rapid glance at the changed
and suffering face before him.

Yes," is the brief response. *' May
Heaven's curse fall on the hound who has
driven her forth in her defenceless youth to
suffer and endure what lies before her ! "

*' Hush ! " says the old man solemnly, ashe
rises and lays his hand on the lifted arm
upraised in the mad longing for vengeance,
which is the outcome of suffering and despair.
'* Call down no curse. The fate that follows
crime is sure, even though slow. Trust to
time and Heaven for the justice you would

VOL. I. T

blindly seek." , Then with kindly words he
soothes the weeping women, and shows them
how, after all, Yolande has done the best and
wisest thing she could have done. " If that
blundering fool intends to follow up his suspicions,"
he says in conclusion, "he will have all
his work cut out for him. Let it be our task
to lead him off the scent, so that your sister
may be unmolested till the right time comes."

Then they go away, the kind-hearted lawyer
and the almost despairing lover, who sees
in Yolande's rash act but fresh complications
for her fresh suffering: for himself.

How Lance gets through that terrible day he
never knows. He sees the long dreary array
of draped horses and dark dingy coaches and
nodding plumes ; he is dimly conscious of the
long drive, the mournful service while the rainfalls
in dreary heavy drops on the mourners'
heads, and the moist clay descends in a dull
dead mass over the lowered coffin. Then he
is driven home, and sits through the lonely
drive opposite his father, whose cheery words

and smiles seem to jar with fretful pertinacity
on the young man's irritated nerves, and has
to listen to reiterated expressions of wonder
and regret with respect to all the sad events
of the last few weeks.

By the way, Lance," says the old squire at
last, as his son rises impatiently from the scarce-tasted
meal, " I forgot to tell you Budd was here
to-night  for a strange purpose, it seemed tome.
He asked me, as the nearest magistrate,
to make out a warrant for the apprehension of
Yolande Mervyn. I thought the man must have
taken leave of his senses, and told him so."

You did not give it ? " interrogated Lance,
eagerly and indignantly.

** Give it ? Not I ! " ejaculates the old
squire, wrathfully. " I told him his evidence
didn't justify my granting such a thing, and
sent him off objecting and complaining in fine
style. But, seriously. Lance," he adds  his
tone growing graver as he notes how anxious
and disturbed is his son's face, how weary
looks the listless young figure  "seriously,

my boy, this is growing a more difficult and
Complicated business than we could have suspected.
Budd is determined to get his warrant,
and so I suppose he'll go to Colston ; and
in that case he will put it in execution tomorrow.
Would it not be as well to warn Yolande ?
If we got her out of the way for a time  And
yet  well, I suppose that would look suspicious.
It's a sad affair, my boy, very sad, and she such
a sweet girl and such a favourite with us all  a
girl I've had in my mind's eye for a daughter-in-law.
Lance, ever since you were children together.
Ah, well, 'tis a strange world this ! "

"Budd can save himself the trouble of
getting his warrant," says Lance, calmly.
Yolande has left home, and no one knows
where she has gone."

Then, with the old squire's wondering
ejaculation of surprise in his ears still, he
abruptly leaves the room.

CHAPTER VI.

[jWO figures are slowly sauntering
along in the dusk of the autumn
afternoon. The sky is clear and
fair, but the earth is fast showing symptoms
of the waning of the year. The few leaves
on the far off beech-trees gleam like gold and
amber as the sunlight throws its parting rays
upon them ; but under foot the dead leaves lie
in damp and desolate heaps, and the signs of
decay are everywhere.

The external gloom of wood and lane however
has not the slightest effect upon the two
happy idle people wandering along with hand
clasped in hand, and eyes that never seem
weary of gazing on each other.

And you were really sorry when you sent

VOL. II. F

me away ? " Denzil Chart eris is saying. " Did
you care for me then ? "

Yes," answers Yolande, humbly. " I was
very wrong, I know ; but I thought of how
proud and cold you had always been, and
of the insult you sent me in that  valentine
and  '*

What are you saying ? " he asks, bewildered.
** Valentine ? I never sent you a
valentine in my life ! "

You did not ! " she cries, standing still
and surveying him with surprise, and a curious
shame as well. '' You did not send me the
very words I heard you quoting to your
cousin, on the night of that party at the
Hargreaves's, about * My Lady Coquette ? ' "

Certainly not," he answers, sternly. '' I
should never have been guilty of such an
ungentlemanly action."

** Then who could have done it ? " cries
Yolande, in bewilderment. " Oh, Denzil," she
adds, with sudden piteous remorse, "that was
the cause of all my behaviour to you ! I

thought, as you imagined me so heartless and
so bad, you should find your punishment when
that day by the brook  you told me you
loved me. I thought my secret would have
betrayed itself. I never thought it would be
so hard to refuse the love I had resolved to
gain only for revenge. Oh, my dear, don't
look so sad ! I know I was wicked, foolish,
vain ; but indeed, Denzil, I have suffered
bitterly for that one rash, misguided action.
It brought its own punishment to my heart
and life."

'' If I had only known," he says, looking
with a strange and wistful sorrow at the
beautiful pleading face, " how different the
last few months would have been ! "

** No regrets can undo the past," Yolande
answers, humbly. '' We must be thankful
that Heaven has enabled us to find out our
error in time, Denzil. And you forgive me
now, do you not ? "

** Forgive you ? Yes, a thousand times ! "
he says, earnestly. " My darling, there is

nothing I would not forgive you, now that I
know your love is mine, come what may."

Yes," she responds, solemnly, laying her
hands in his and looking up at his face with
such love and truth in her own as makes his
heart thrill to read  *' yours always now,
Denzil, come what may."

You need not have repeated that, sweetheart,"
he says, half jealously ; *' for nothing
can come between us now  nothing shall."

Heaven grant it I " whispers Yolande, all
her heart going out to him in the relief of this
new-found knowledge. She has never loved
him as she loves him at this moment, when
the fact of her own misjudgment proves him
nobler, truer, braver than she has ever dreamt.

** You do love me, do you not ? " he says,
tenderly, as though the question were something
quite new, as though it had not been
asked and answered over and over again each
time they have met.

'' Love you ? Oh, Heaven knows I do,"
she says, a sob breaking the tender words, for

her whole heart is softened and wrung with
bitter penitence at the thought of all her wilfulness
and pride have given him to bear 
more than you know, Denzil  more than I
ever deemed possible when you told me such
bitter truths of myself  once ! "

*' I was a jealous fool," he returns, humbly.
I feared I would never win you, Yolande ;
even now I can scarcely believe it, though all
night long I have lived upon the memory of
your words, upon the thought of your face as
it nestled on my breast, until I grew half mad
with joy and doubt  one moment fearing that
I should never see you again, that this was
all some wild and foolish dream ! "

** I have thought the same very often," says
Yolande. ' ' It seemed impossible, after giving
you up as lost for so long a time, to realise
your return to me. Oh, Denzil, that awful
thought ; the fear that in some rash moment
you had sought your own death, the remorse
of knowing I had driven you to despair ! At
times I felt a very murderess ! "

My darling," he answers reproachfully,
winding his arm round the trembling little
figure and drawing her closer to himself in
the gathering dusk, " how grieved I am that
you should have had such terror and anxiety.
And yet perhaps but for that you would not
have learned to care for me."

** Would I not % " she questions, tenderly.
I believe I cared for you always, Denzil,
from the very first hour I saw you."

"My sweet, my own true little love! Can
I ever be thankful enough for such happiness
as this ? "

Then you don't mind risking your happiness
with a coquette, Denzil ? " she asks presently,
after a long pause, filled up in lovers'
fashion.

You are not that really, are you ? " he
asks. '' That men should admire and love you
is not to be wondered at. Your face is just
one of those witching, beguiling faces that live
in a man's memory far longer than any regular
statuesque beauty. But still, dearest, you

would not try for the gratification of your
own vanity to win love, and then cast it aside
in selfish disregard of the giver's sufferings ?
You would not do that, Yolande ? "

." Never, never ! " she says, earnestly.
"That is why I felt your reproaches so
bitterly, Denzil ; for I hated to think that
you had formed such an opinion of me, that
you thought T was

' Such an un thrift of sweets,

My favours were but like the wind
That kissed everything it meets ! ' "

"" Have you ever kissed any man before ? "
he asks, suddenly, looking with jealous longing
at the sweet crimson lips beside him.

'' I am afraid I have," says Yolande, with
pretty pretence of candour.

I suppose so," remarks Denzil gloomily.
'* I wonder if it would be possible to meet
with a girl whose heart had held no lover,
whose lips had known no kiss till the man
who was to be her husband claimed them for
his own ? "

*' The absence of the lover is feasible," says
Yolande, demurely ; " but, as for the lips 
well, a girl can't answer for their being untouched
by male lips so long as father,
brothers, and cousins are in existence ! "

*' Then do you mean that only your father
or brother have been before  "

'' Before you ? Yes," she says, with an arch
provoking look that is irresistible.

You little torment ! " he cries, laughing.
" Why could you not say that at first ?
T thought you meant some other fellow 
Stapleton perhaps, or  "

Poor Lance ! " interrupts Yolande suddenly.
" How long it is since I remembered
him ! And he was so good and kind in all
my trouble !

He too has been searching the wide world
through for your errant little ladyship," says
Denzil. " He cares very fondly for you,
Yolande."

*' Yes, I know," she returns, sadly. " I am
so sorry. You see we were just like brother

and sister for so long that I never thought lie
would turn into a lover. I wish I could cure
him. Do you think it possible ? "

** Judging from my own feelings, I should
say certainly not," answers Denzil. '* Ah, my
dear, men are but fools when they love ! It
is like the moth who scorches its wings for the
sake of the glittering flame, and despite the
pain and the scorch, cannot but return as long
as the light beguiles it."

*' Then you have scorched your wings ? "
says Yolande, looking up quickly at the grave
face she loves so dearly. "Is it for the first
time, Denzil ? "

Even as she asks the question she repents,
for he turns deadly pale, and the lines around
his mouth grow very stern and sorrowful.

** Do you mean have I ever loved before ? "
he says. " You have a right to ask, I suppose.
Ah, Yolande, no man reaches my years
without some page in his life's history bearing
the trace of a woman's handwriting ! There is
a dark past in my life that I hate to think of.

I loved  or thought I loved ; but the fancy-was
transient as a breath on a mirror compared
with the passion of my heart now. She
was as base and unworthy as you are pure and
true. Oh, my love, my love, you are not
jealous of a shadow that long, long ago fell
over my path ? Believe me, the love I offered
her is not worthy of comparison with that
which has grown and blossomed over its cold
dead ashes. It is my life, my soul, my very
being that I offer to you, Yolande. I could
no more go back and take up life where
I left it than I could calmly yield you to any
man who claimed you from my arms now.
Darling, say you believe me ! "

Yes, I believe you," she replies, softly.
** I would rather be last than first, for I have
you and she has lost you. After all, I suppose
a man has always that past into which a
woman's eyes must not peer too closely. But,
Denzil, my love for you makes me jealous of
any other who has felt the touch of your lips,
the clasp of your arms. It seems as if even

now a shadow were gliding between us, putting
me from your breast with cold and chilling
touch, saying, * Stand back ; I had his love
first ! ' "

My darling, you are fanciful ! " he says,
earnestly. Why, you shiver even now ! " and
with a protecting, almost reverent touch, he
closes his arms around the slight and trembling
figure. '' Don't let such thoughts come
between us, Yolande. The past is dead and
buried. My future is all yours, love, to do
with as you will."

"Don't say that, Denzil," she objects,
gravely. '' It frightens me to think of such
a responsibility. And, after all, what am I
that you should love me so utterly % "

'' You are more to me than any woman on
earth. All other love is but a shadow in
comparison with what my heart holds for you,
my beloved, my idol, my wife ! "

As the passionate whisper falls on her ear
her doubts and fears fade away utterly.
Clasped to his heart, sure of his love, what

harm can touch her now ? What power can
part them ? So she thinks in the depths of her
passionate loving soul ; so he murmurs too, as
in the closing darkness he rests his lips on
hers, and in their touch finds entrance to a
paradise of bliss such as in all his life he has
never entered, nor dreamt of entering.

'* When you leave here," he says, presently,
you will not let me wait long for you,
Yolande ? Somehow it seems as if I could
never be quite sure of you until I have you
as my very own, safe under my care henceforth.
Promise me, darling, that as soon as
you go back you will-marry me, you will give
me what I have never had yet  a home ? "

A home  a home with him ! How sweet
the words sound in her ears ! Across their
music comes no jingling discord ; before the
vision they conjure up rises no pale shadow of
a woman's vengeful form standing with arms
upraised to the starlit heavens murmuring
with white and rigid lips a pitiless oath.

*tell me," he says, as she is still silent.

*' Darling, this is no time for coyness or pretence.
My whole heart is bared to you ; my
life is at your mercy. If you are sure of
yourself, Yolande, sure that you love me  "

Love you ! " she exclaims, raising her head
and looking at the pleading eyes, with tears
rising hotly and swiftly in her own. '' Indeed,
indeed I do ! I never thought I could love
any man so utterly. It may not be wise or
right ; Heaven alone knows. But I cannot help
myself now. Denzil, I am almost afraid of
such love ; it is too engrossing, too idolatrous.
It is the sort of love that depends so utterly on
the fate of the object loved, that something
always happens to  to mar it."

Yolande," he says, his voice hoarse with
pain, " don't torture me so ! What could
happen, save only death, to part us now ?
Am I not sure of myself ? And you, are you
not the same ? "

"Yes," she says, in the same low thrilling
voice, '' quite sure ; but still  "

'' Oh, hush, hush ! " he entreats. *' I will

not hear it  I cannot. Yolande, if such
thoughts as these are to mar our meeting, I
will marry you straight off in defiance of Mrs
Davies and all your pupils. There ! "

I will not speak of them again," she says,
raising an April face of tears and smiles to his.
That terrible threat will drive all such fears
away. After all," she goes on thoughtfully,
it is foolish to talk of such dreadful possibilities
when we are so happy now. Do you
know, Denzil, the night I went to the rectory
I had the most horrible presentiment of something
that was going to happen. I told Rose
I had a great mind to go home on the
spot."

'' And was it not dreadfully realised ? " he
asks, tenderly. '' Did you not find your

terrible ogre had come back in life

'to

again

to torment you, sweet ? "

*' Such tormenting as his," she says, fondly,
as she lays her cool fair cheek against his
hand, " would make me content to verify a
good many such presentiments."

That is a shocking confession, my little
enchantress," he observes, taking the sweet
face in his two broad palms, and gazing down
into the violet depths of her uplifted eyes.
How do you suppose I am to behave myself
under such provocation ? "

You ha-ve not behaved yourself at all yet,"
laughs Yolande. *' I don't know when you
intend to begin. I always thought you such
a grave, sensible, stern kind of man. I had no
idea you would be so  so  "

'* Out with it ! " he says, smiling. '* Confession
is good for the soul, you know. Is it
ridiculous, you mean ? Well, I daresay I am.
But how can I help it ? I am only flesh and
blood after all, Yolande, and you are bewitching
me out of sober reason altogether."

'* Well, if you mean me to get home intime
for tea," suggests Yolande, *' we had
better be moving on. I am sure it is late.
It is quite dark already."

And you are quite determined to stay
on here for the next six weeks ? " he asks,

obeying the hint and moving on with her
through the gathering dusk.

' Quite," she answers, earnestly. 'don't
you see, Denzil, my very happiness is apt to
make me selfish ? I have gained so much it
seems only right to make some small sacrifice
if I can. Even as it is, what have I done
above all other women that I should win so
great a blessing as  your love ? "

My own," he says, his lips quivering with
the emotion her words stir within his heart,
*' can I not say the same ? What am I above
all other men that I should have won yours ?
There are others so far more worthy of you.
Even Lance Stapleton, with his honest heart,
his brave and generous spirit, his devoted
unselfish love, is better deserving of you than
I am. Yet you turn from him to me. Sweetheart,
you are sure you love me  not him ?
I am not so brave, so sacrificing, so forgiving.
I do believe you are throwing over the good
bargain for the bad even now."

I cannot help that," she answers. *' For

good or ill my choice is made. I can but
repeat your own words a few moments ago,
Denzil. What is any man to m e but a
shadow, save only you ? "

"Heaven bless you for those words!" he
says, brokenly. '' They are the sweetest music
I have ever heard. And, oh, my darling,
Heaven grant that in all the years to come
you may never have cause to repent them ! "

And even then, as the shadows close around
them and the autumn wind sighs chilly and
mournfully through the leafless trees, they
neither see nor feel the darker shadows slowly
and surely closing around their love, and
breathing with icy breath upon its glowing
ardour.

In each heart fear and sorrow are unremembered
for a time. What could work harm
between them in the first flush of acknowledged
love ? Ah, what ? For the enmity
of a scorned and jealous woman is utterly
forgotten by both.

VOL. II. G

WSSS>

CHAPTER VII.

 WEEK has passed. The lovers have
made the most of it, even though
Yolande has strictly limited their
meetings to one a day  made the most of
it so far in that they have become more
infatuatedly in love than at its commencement,
going steadily deeper and deeper into
that ocean of bliss which exists for each in
every thought, word, touch, look, which is
given or received.

The morning of the new week which opens on
this fresh page of their history brings also new
events in its train. The post-hour arrives, and
with it come letters that bring the first shock
of that after-trouble which is slowly and surely
threatening the lovers' fabric of happiness.

The letters at Llwynpia House are put
beside each girl's plate on the breakfast-table,
and, when Yolande takes her seat as usual,
she finds two for herself  one from Enid, a
rapturous excited epistle, brimming over with
interjections and dashes, the other from Lance
Stapleton. She puts his in her pocket for
after-perusal, and then resumes her " 
" occupation of cutting bread-and-butter
for the assembled girls. She is so
happy that her face is unwontedly pleasant to
look at. So Josephine Herron whispers to
Rose, who is far too happy to note that one
among that crowd of smiling merry girls is
surveying her with a glance of malicious
triumph as she thrusts into her pocket a
letter in delicate feminine telegraphy which
she has just perused.

To explain why Jane Croft hates Yolande
Mervyn would be difficult. There are some
natures that instinctively rebel against the
beauty, light-heartedness, and fascination of
others. When Yolande was but a governess.

this girl hated her and cast every possible
slight upon her that she could  hated her
for the radiant beauty no sorrow could mar ;
for the love and worship she gained from
every one, high and low, with whom she
came in contact ; for the gifts she possessed,
the talents that were lavishly used in the
service of others, talents which all this envious
girl's care and plodding could never secure for
herself. But she hates her worse than ever
now  now when the mantle of romance has
glorified her into a heroine in the eyes of her
adoring worshippers  now when the theme on
every girl's tongue is the wonderful history
and happy prospects of the lovely young
teacher she has always affected to despise.

It is of no use for Jane Croft to sneer at
the prospects, to hint malevolently that girls
with false names and accused of strange
crimes have no business to be placed in
authority over the heads of others ; it is of
no use to scoff" at the pretence of duty
which keeps her to her post now that her

story is known, and there no longer exists
any necessity for such self-sacrifice  no use.
No, for every girl, from the eldest to the
youngest, is Yolande's slave, ready and willing
to fight against any odds under the
championship of their idol.

It wanted but one element more to turn
this envious dislike into vicious hatred, and
unfortunately that element was soon added
jealousy. This pale, untimely, silent girl
has long nourished a secret passion in her
breast for the master of Llewellyn Park. It
happened in this wise.

During the previous Christmas holidays
Jane was as usual left at school while the
girls went to their respective homes. She
had no parents, as every one knew, and was
being prepared for future governesses at
the request of her guardian  a distant relative,
who lived in London. Kose Bertram,
pitying the lonely girl, who looked so sadly
envious of the groups laughing and jesting
together while awaiting the respective vehicles

and trains which were to bear them homewards,
invited her to Pwym Dyas for the holidays.

The invitation was only too gladly accepted ;
and, though neither Kose nor Jane liked each
other very cordially, they at least managed to
get on as well as most girls. The long frost
made the prospect of skating very promising.
There was a lake at Llewellyn Park, and
thither all the neighbouring families went at
the invitation of its owner, for the purpose of
enjoying their favourite pastime. Jane and
Rose, among others, were there daily ; and Sir
Edward, strange to say, seemed more attentive
to the quiet pale-faced Jane than to any other
of the blooming, smiling damsels who would
so gladly have won his careless and rarely-given
attentions. He taught Rose and her
friend to skate, and invited them to the Hall
for afternoon tea, at which his sister presided.
He chatted with them by the library fire in
the dusk af the winter evenings, and escorted
them home when the torch-light skating was
over. All these little favours were given

thoughtlessly enough, not a shade of deeper
meaning lurking in their carelessness ; but,
for all that, Jane made up her mind that the
master of Llewellyn Park had fallen a victim
to her pale grave face and cultivated intelligence,
and from thenceforth her whole heart
was given to the task of completing his subjugation.
She thought what a triumph it
would be when she appeared to her sordid
relatives no longer as the pseudo-governess, the
despised dependant they had intended her to
be, but as Lady Llewellyn of Llewellyn Hall.

For this end she endeavoured to win Rose's
careless favour, for this end she sought every
rare and difficult-to-be-attained opportunity of
throwing herself in Sir Edward's way. On
one occasion he had come to the breaking-up
party at Llwynpia House, and then again had
unfortunately fanned the flame in the quiet
girl's breast by singling her out of all the
others for his conversation, and two out of
the three dances he danced.

It was then with fierce and angry indignation

that Jane learnt from Rose Bertram's careless
words that Yolande had captivated this
sought-for prize at the rectory party a week
previously. All the long pent-up jealousy and
dislike of her nature burst into fierce flame,
and scarcely could she control her anguish
when, on the following Sunday, Sir Edward
joined her after afternoon service, and in
five minutes' time betrayed to the jealous
girl the secret of his foolish heart. It was
in vain that she sought to divert conversation
into other channels. Do what she would,
it always flowed back to Yolande, and in
the very hopelessness of his adoration lay
its sharpest sting to the girl who loved him.

Had not Yolande her own lover ? Alas it
not sufficient that he should have displayed
his mad infatuation for her so openly without
her also winning this carefully-guarded
treasure from her care ? Must she, by means
of her fatal beauty, ensnare and delude this
foolish victim, whose offering at her shrine
was alike unheeded and unrequited ?

So it comes to pass that on this morning,
when a letter from an almost unknown correspondent
lies in her hands, Jane sees the
opportunity of at last paying off some of
the debt she owes her unconscious rival, and
grasps at it with the unscrupulous meanness
of a jealous nature.

When the breakfast is over, when prayers
are read, and for ten minutes' interval before
the school-bell rings, the girls are scattered
in groups, chatting, reading, preparing tasks,
or finding books and papers, she slips away
and hurries off to her room, once more to
peruse this strange document.

It is as follows : 

*' My dear Miss Croft,  I daresay you
will hardly remember me, and, even if you
do, will marvel why I should write to you.
But, when we met a year ago at Llewellyn
Hall  I as a guest of Miss Llewellyn, you
as a daily visitor during the skating-season 
I learnt that you were staying at Llwynpia

House ; and this fact has recurred to my
mind in a season of great perplexity. I have
just learnt from my cousin, Mr Charteris, that
a young lady, a near neighbour of ours, who
is connected with a horrible scandal here, and
been obliged to leave home in consequence,
is at that school as governess. Her name is
Yolande Mervyn. Will you do me the great
favour of informing me under what circumstances
she came there, also whether my cousin,
who, I fear, is foolishly infatuated by her pretty
face, visits her, and under what pretences ?
For the credit of our family and name I
am anxious to do anything in my power to
prevent his entangling himself with a girl
who is not likely to be scrupulous in such a
matter. I therefore throw myself upon your
kindness and discretion to enlighten me. I
need hardly say that this is strictly confidential,
and that I rely on you to destroy
this letter, and any further correspondence
on the subject. If there is any means by
which I can repay this service I have asked

you to render me, you may command me to
the utmost.  Faithfully yours,

'pauline Ray."
*' Fas.  In a letter recently received from
Sir Edward Llewellyn, he speaks very highly
of you. Indeed, from what I saw at the
hall on the occasion of my visit, I am half
expecting some news which will call forth my
warmest and heartiest congratulations."

When Pauline Ray wrote this letter, she
knew, as well as though she had been Jane
Croft's confidante, how matters stood between
the girl and Sir Edward. Pauline is a woman
who never wastes an opportunity, who looks
upon life as a game of skill, in which no
card is utterly valueless. In her short visit
to Llewellyn Park she had read with unerring
clearness the state of affairs between her
host and one at least of his guests, and
with placid amusement had watched the pale
strange girl's endeavours to entrap her careless
admirer into some more secure and flattering

position. To a looker-on the game was
amusing enough ; but little did Pauline Eay
imagine then what deeper and weightier interests
would one day be involved in its
performance.

Only when Denzil's curt epistle reached the
Priory, and in her torture and fear she set
herself to think out the new perplexity in
this endless puzzle, did the memory of the
previous winter's events flash across her
mind, and with the mention of Yolande as a
resident at Llwynpia House came also the
remembrance that in that very domicile resided
a girl whom previous instinct had
assured her would be a valuable tool in the
hands of a skilful artisan.

The same morning that brings this letter
to Jane Croft and lays the train for a base
and dastardly plot in her revengeful mind,
brings flashing along the wires from the
West of England to the South of Wales a
message for Denzil Charteris.

He is strolling up and down the rectory

garden, smoking his morning cigar, when a
telegram is put into his hands. He looks at
the ominous yellow envelope carelessly enough
wondering who has thought fit to trouble even
this quiet retreat with messages of haste that
are rarely welcome. He opens it, after having
tossed the messenger half-a-crown for the
trouble of bringing it the long distance from
the office to the rectory. At the first lines
his face changes. The envelope flutters from
his hand and falls at his feet unnoticed. Pain,
doubt, grief, all sweep in rapid changes over
his dark and troubled face. Those few little
words mean so much for him now  absence
from his darling, anxiety, suspense  Heaven
alone knows what.

This is the message : 

From Mrs Peters, Beechhampton, to Denzil
Charteris.  Come at once. She is dying, but
quite sane now. She has some terrible secret
to confess, which she will tell no one but you."

Ho says nothing ; he only folds up the

paper and puts it into his pocket, and then
takes his way back through the garden paths
into the house.

He goes straight to the old rector in his
study and says abruptly, 

I must leave to-day. When does the next
train go ? "

"My dear Charteris," exclaims the rector
he has known him since boyhood, and
knows too the secrets and shadows of that
troubled past  " What is it ? No bad news,
I hope ? "

She is dying," he answers, quietly.
Peters has telegraphed. I must go back at
once."

'* You can't leave till four o'clock now," says
his friend. " The early train left half-an-hour
ago. You will have to change at Cardiff
and then again at Belford. And what about
Miss Mervyn, Denzil ? "

I must go to her at once," he answers,
sadly. " It is hard to be obliged to leave her
now ; but it must be done."

Your duty is here," says the old man
laying his hand on the pencilled words that
give the address of the sender of the ill-omened
missive. " Thank Heaven, Denzil, the
burden may be lifted from your heart at last.
You will be a freer and a happier man. Have
you told Miss Mervyn anything about this ? "

*' No," replies Denzil, sternly ; '' I could
not. It was no tale for her ears. Thank
Heaven, the necessity of such a confession is
over now ! "

"I fear it is not," remarks the clergyman,
thoughtfully. '' She cannot die and be buried
without some trace of the secret being discovered.
How it has been kept so long I
cannot imagine. But there, we need not
worry ourselves over possibilities now. I see
you are in a hurry to be off. I will look after
your luggage and you can drive to the Pwym
Dyas Station in my trap. You had better
have some luncheon now, and then you will
have two clear hours still in which to bid farewell

to your lady love. Come, Denzil, don't
look so gloomy ; you are not likely to be
parted long."

*' No ; I know that," answers Denzil, sadly ;
but I hate to have to leave her now. I feel
as if I dared not trust her out of my sight
again."

Come, come, this is more than lovers'
folly," says the old rector, laughing. *' What
can possibly happen ? In five weeks she will
be going back to you, if in the interim you
have not travelled hither once more, a happier
and freer man than you are now, Denzil. Ah,
there is the luncheon bell! Come, I must
insist on your taking some sort of a meal
before you go on this long journey ; and try
to put off that gloomy face, my boy, or you
will frighten Miss Mervyn when she sees you."

OING away ? Oh, Denzil, you cannot
mean it ! "

It is Yolancle who says this 
Yolancle who, standing with her lover in the
empty, deserted schoolroom  (all the girls are
out walking)  hears his words with a strange
sinking at her heart, for they pronounce a
fiat of doom, so it seems to her, in this first
moment of pain and bewilderment.

My darling," he answers, taking her in his
arms and hiding the sorrowful grieving face on
his breast, because it pains him so terribly to
read its signs of suffering, " my grief is as
great as your own. Nothing but absolute
necessity could compel me to leave you now.
But, oh, love, there is no appeal ! I must go."

VOL. II. H

What is it ? " she asks, suddenly. '' Has
anything happened at the Priory, to Mrs
Ray, or  Pauline ? "

No, no, no ! " he says, impetuously. Do
you think they could drag me away from
you ? Believe me, dearest, it is a stern necessity
that compels me to leave you ; and
don't make the pain of parting harder than
it is. If I could tell you, I would."

** You would not suffer me to have a secret
from you," she says, raising her white sad face
to his, " and yet, Denzil, how many do you
keep from me ? Why should you demand
more trust than you give ? Surely I, your
betrothed wife, have a right to know what
calls you from my side ? "

If you knew, it could only pain you," he
answers, in a low earnest voice. *' Yolande,
it is a story of shame and suffering I cannot
dare not tell. Will you not trust me,
darling ? Indeed I am acting for the best.
If it would make you any happier, if  "

You need not say more," she interposes,

proudly. " I do not seek to force your confidence.
As you told me not long ago, a
man's life always has its one page scored by
a woman's handwriting ; it is a woman who
parts us now."

She has withdrawn herself from his arms,
and stands in the glow of the firelight, her
face pale and proud, her eyes dark and flashing,
her whole expression mutinous, wrathful,
indignant.

'' Yolande," he entreats, his voice going
forth in passionate appeal to her heart, but
never changing the proud young face from
its set and rigid coldness  '' Yolande ! Oh,
Heaven, you would not quarrel with me
now ? "

There is something so heart wrung and desolate
in his voice that it pierces her very
soul ; but through it all she sees the coming
of a cloud over the bright horizon of her
perfect dream. She stands with the tears
gathering in her eyes and raining down her
white cheeks, feeling his kisses on her brow

and lips, hearing his murmurs of penitence
and passion and remorse, and yet there is
a keen sorrow in her heart, a deeper darkness
in the darkening room, a shadow in the
glow of fire and flame which leaps up to her
face and his, and shows them to each other
in this their first moment of distrust and
severance and grief.

" Sweetheart," he says, *' it is only for a little
while I leave you  a few days, a week at most.
Do you not believe that nothing but necessity
would induce me to take this journey ? "

If you say so, I must believe it," she
answers, the cold misery at her heart speaking
out in her changed voice, and taking all the
bloom and brightness from her changed face.

He does not take her in his arms now.
She stands facing him in the firelight, while
his proud, passionate, eager gaze is bent on
her downcast eyes, and his heart thrills
with a strange regretful joy as he reads
in her sorrow for his absence the further
certainty of her love.

"It is almost worth the pain to know that
she will miss me so," he thinks, for at times
even now he can scarcely believe that she
does really love him as he loves her.

"Yolande," he says, breaking the painful
silence at last, 'ein an hour I must leave.
Are you going to embitter our parting by
suspicion and anger ? It is not like you,
sweetheart, to be so proud and cold."

The pain in his voice breaks down all her
defences. She loves him so utterly that she
cannot long be cold ; she cannot keep him
at arm's length, though his want of confidence
wound her ever so deeply.

"You are right," she says, looking up
at him with passionate eyes. 'rit is hard
enough to part. I have only just learnt
what it is to need you, and already you leave
me."

Not for long, Yolande," he returns, tenderly
 " not for long, my sweet. And everyday
and every hour I shall think of you
and weary for your dear face, your loving

words, your sweet lips. Shall you miss me
even half as much as I shall miss you ? "

You are sure you will come back soon % "
she says, trembling, as she leans against his
breast and lets him draw her soft arms round
his neck in the fashion he loves. '' Or must
I wait to see you till I go home ? "

'heaven forbid!" he answers, earnestly.
*' Five weeks, five long desolate weeks without
you ! I could not bear it, love ! "

You give it to yourself to bear," she
says, half jealously. 'rand you will be with
her, while I  "

What do you mean ? " he asks, sternly.
With whom ? "

Pauline," she says, slowly. " And she
is so beautiful ; and you loved her  once."

My love, my life ! " he murmurs fondly.
"And is it that you fear? Do you doubt me
so easily % Yolande, be jealous of what you
please, of the friends who claim me, the cares
that bind me, the duties, necessities, occupations
of my life apart from you ; but, oh, my

darling, never be jealous of a soulless love,
a thing so utterly dead that no grave could
hold it in a deeper forgetfulness than a heart
that loathes it ! "

*but I shall lose you!" she cries in sudden
pain. "Every day I have had the joy of looking
for your presence ; every duty has been the
lighter for knowing the hours of leisure would
bring you to my side ; and now, oh, love,
I did not think it would be so hard to have
you out of reach of the sound of my voice,
the touch of my hand ! "

'' And think, if it is hard for you, it is
doubly hard for me ! " he says, with passionate
regret. "And yet, sweetheart, it is almost
worth this pain to know you really do love
me at last."

I wish I did not, oh, I wish I did not ! "
she sobs, in a sudden paroxysm of grief and
terror as she clings more closely to his arm.
Something is sure to happen when people
love like we do, Denzil. It is the calm, even
placid-going affections that prosper and are

blessed. It seems almost wicked to love anyone
so blindly, idolatrously, so beyond and
above all other earthly objects as I love you,
as I think you love me ! "

Don't think it, my own ; be sure of it,
utterly and entirely sure as you are of your
existence. And why should it be wrong,
Yolande ? Has not Heaven given us this
capability of loving, and will it not be satisfied
% What could part us now ? You are
not likely to be faithless, beautiful and winning
as you are, and dangerous enough to
most men's peace of mind. As for myself,
the stars above are not more sure and steadfast
than my love for you."

'eyes, what could happen?" she asks,
slowly ; but, even as she says it, a bitter
desolate pang strikes through her failing
heart. " You trust me, do you not,
Denzil ? "

'' Beyond all things now," he says, with a
falter in his strong rich voice. " No one
could take you from me, could they ? "

'' No one," she answers, solemnly  '* have
I not promised ? "

And you won't flirt while I'm away ? "
he says, lightly, trying to chase away the
shadows from the bright face he loves so
dearly. '' You know you have made a conquest
even here, Yolande. Poor Llewellyn is
over head and ears in love with you."

She smiles sadly at his words.

I am not vain enough to believe that,"
she answers, gravely ; '' and don't jest about
such subjects any more, Denzil. Since I
have learnt what love is myself, I cannot bear
to think how lightly I once regarded it. I
know now what poor Lance feels, bravely as he
tries to hide it in every letter I have from him."

'' He corresponds with you still ? " Denzil
says, with a sharp fierce pang, for which he
blames himself the next moment.

I have heard twice since they knew where
I was," she answers.

And have you told him about me ? " asks
Denzil.

No," she says, colouring a little as she
sees his disappointment. " I could not. It
will be better to say nothing to any one,
Denzil, until we are both back there among
them. Even then it will be a strange engagement,
for poor papa can never know nor
bless us while he lives, and, oh, he would
have been so happy could he have known
how happy his child is at last ! "

Then I am not to tell any one ? " questions
Denzil, rather coldly.

Please, no," she says, entreatingly. " I
want to tell them myself. I like to keep it
between us, Denzil. I do not want our happiness
marred by other people's remarks and
formal congratulations."

'* It shall be as you wish, of course," he observes,
" but I should have thought you would
like to put your faithful admirer at least out
of his misery."

"You are unkind," she answers, proudly.
"You know very well, Denzil, that it can
make no difference to Lance, because he

knows I never should have married
him."

*' Forgive me, darling ! I believe I am a
jealous fool. I know you love me, and that
ought to satisfy me ; but, oh, Yolande, I shall
never feel sure, or safe, or happy, till I
hold you to my heart as my own, given mein
sight of God and man as that sweetest and
holiest of things  a wife."

Are you so afraid of my slipping away
still ? " she asks, with one of the old vivid
blushes dyeing her cheeks and throat with
its soft rose-flush.

I don't know what I fear any more than
you knew yourself a few moments ago," he
answers, sadly. '' It seems as if my happiness
would be too perfect for earth ; and
yet  oh, how I long and pray for and look
forward to it ! Surely Heaven cannot deny
it!"

*' When you comeback," she says, dreamily,
'' how strange it will be to look back on this
little parting and tell each other how we

dreaded it ! We shall be very happy when
we next meet, Denzil ; shall we not ? '*

'' Heaven grant it ! " he responds, kissing
her pale lips again and again. '' Darling, the
hour is up. I must go now. Say farewell,
and tell me once again you love me. It will
be the one happiness on whose echoes I must
dwell till once again we meet."

'* I love you," she says, very solemnly, as
though it were some sacred vow that she
pronounced. '' And, oh, Denzil, do not forget
me when we are apart ! Do not mistrust
me, whatever any one may say ! Remember
but, oh, why should I ask you that ? Kiss
me once more, Denzil, and  let me go."

Only one more meeting of the clinging lips,
one more passionate pressure of the trembling
hands, and then she knows that for her the
world will be all empty and void and cheerless
till Heaven sends him back.

N the late dusky afternoon a man
hurries through the woods which
lead to Beechhampton Castle. It
is a bleak miserable day, with more of winter
than of autumn in the pitiless blasts, with
each wild gust blowing the dead leaves about
his hurrying feet, till they seem like troops of
evil spirits pursuing him in this hour of
anxious pain  with a dark black sky overhead,
from which fierce rain descends in
fitful showers.

He pays little heed to the stormy elements.
His face is set and stern ; his eyes glance
anxiously towards the lifted turrets of the
ruins, which rise sharply and distinctly in the
grey dusk, a black pile, frowning down in

its dismal solitude upon the man whose ancestors
had once held high court within its
stately halls.

With the tread of one well accustomed to
the deserted ways, he threads the moss-grown
paths, and turns up the winding stairway
leading to the only shattered remnant of
the once-beautiful building ; then he pauses
in the archway to strike a light, and from
a niche in the wall produces a small lantern.
By its feeble illumination he hurries on more
swiftly and certainly, till reaching a door,
he opens it, and finds himself in the room
to which Yolande had once penetrated in her
exploration of the ruins. He goes straight
up to one spot in the walls, and, touching
what seems to be a small iron knob, a panel
immediately opens and reveals another room.
It is small, but comfortably furnished ; the
floor is covered with soft rugs, the walls are
hung with faded tapestry, the one small
window is carefully shrouded and curtained,
a fire burns in a tiny grate, beside which a

woman kneels, stirring something in an iron
saucepan.

She starts to her feet immediately  a tall
lean figure, with a face lined and marked as
only a face that has known much sorrow ever
is marked, a strange repressed look, visible
even now in the calm grey eyes, the pale
thin lips.

** You have come, sir. I am glad of it,"
she says, quietly.

** Yes. I got your telegram only yesterday.
I ought to have been here this morning,
but the train was so slow. I missed catching
the express. Am I  in time ? "

' Yes," she says, looking up curiously at
his face, as she notes the slight falter in
the last two words. You would like to see
her now, I suppose ? You must be prepared
for a great change."

He makes no answer, and she takes the
light and quickly leads the way to another
room, which is entered in the same secret
way as that which they are just leaving.

It is furnished as a bedroom, and, propped
up by pillows, on the curtained bed is the
wasted, death-marked figure of a woman. Her
hands are worn to skin and bone ; the long
sharp fingers clutch nervously and continuously
at the coverlet. Her face is so ghastly
and terrible that it is little wonder if Denzil
Charteris shudders as he looks on its marred
and pallid outlines, remembering what it was
once. Her eyes turn piteously, entreatingly
towards him ; but the look he has dreaded
to see no longer lights with lurid vacant
flames those large and splendid orbs. He
gives a sigh of relief, and his voice is very
gentle and courtly as he stoops towards her.

'' You know me, Alethea ? " he says.

*' Denzil ! " she cries ; and over all the
death-like pallor of her face a faint warm
colour flushes, like the hue of a faded rose-leaf.
"Denzil, I am glad to see you before
I die ; the end will not be long  now."

Her voice is very weak ; the sentences
flutter forth only in faint disjointed breaths.

'' She has told  me  all," she goes on
presently, pointing to the nurse, who gives
her some cordial to revive her  " all your
goodness  and the burden you  have borne
I cannot thank you ; I can only pray
Heaven may atone  for the sufferings and
shame I have brought upon your head 
your name  your life. How you have kept
my secret  I cannot tell. Even in my
worst moments  the thought that I was still
here  that I was not shut up with others
mad  and morbid  as myself  never left me.
Since that  day  when you found me bending
over the beautiful girl whom I so terrified
I have known  and thought  more than
you imagine. I have seen what you must
have borne  for my sake and  his  whom
I so wronged. The clouds began to clear
off my brain  and, as my reason came slowly
back, so my bodily health failed ; and now
I know earth will not hold me  much
longer. But there is something I must tell
you before  before it is  too late. It is

VOL. II. I

about that  pool  in the woods yonder 
Denzil  and the  murder ! "

What ! " he cries, in amazement  " the
place where they found a dead man's body,
and wisely decided it was mine ? "

I never heard of that," she says,  " Peters
never told me. But I could not speak  of
this  of what I had seen  to any one. Who
would believe me ? And then it was not so
clear  as it is now. If I confess all  Denzil,
will it be right  will it bring justice to  the
guilty ? '"

'' Stay  let me think ! " he cries, in bewilderment.
' Peters, was Doctor Deane here
to-day ? "

'' No ; I am expecting him every moment,"
answers the nurse.

'' Then you must wait till he comes,
Alethea," says Denzil, persuasively. "Remember,
what you have to say may entail
serious responsibilities upon us. Unless
certified by proper witnesses, your confession
would be useless. The hue-and-cry

about this unknown man is still sounding
throughout the country ; and I have a deep
interest in bringing the matter to some satisfactory
result, for it involved me and others
in deep unhappiness."

'' I think this is the doctor, sir," interposes
the grave voice of Peters at this juncture ; and
Denzil, turning with a strange sensation of
relief to the opening door, welcomes the
hearty, kindly presence of old Doctor Deane.

Oh, Charteris, so you have come ! '* says
the doctor, cheerfully. " I am glad of it.
Our patient has been wearying sadly for
sight of you."

But, even as the cheery voice and hand-grasp
are heard and felt, Denzil reads in the
grave eyes how near the end is. Drawing
the old man aside, he whispers hurriedly of
the dying woman's desire.

You can certify as to her sanity now ? "
he asks, anxiously.

Yes, with a clear conscience. I always
told you that it would end thus  recovery

of reason, loss of life. I am right, you see.
But the question is, what sort of state was she
in at the time she witnessed, or thought she
witnessed, this affair ? Might it not be an
hallucination of her brain ? "

** Peters says her mind has been gradually
recovering itself for some three or four months
back," answers Denzil.

'* Well, we can but hear it", says the doctor,
gravely. '' It is odd that she should know
anything of a matter that has convulsed the
country round for so long a time."

Then they approach the bed, and, with
grave faces and an ever-deepening wonder
in their minds, listen to the strange disjointed
confession of the dying woman.

You have taken it all down ? " says Doctor
Deane, in a low voice, as he at last lays the
exhausted sufferer back on her pillows, and
holds to the pale lips the reviving cordial
offered by the nurse.

Yes, every word," answers Denzil, sternly.
If such evidence can be received, that wretch

will soon answer for his crimes and cowardly
persecution ! "

Of course you must feel it deeply," the
doctor continues, coming round to where the
younger man stands, with the paper just
signed and witnessed still held firmly in his
grasp. " We cannot wonder now that he
tried so hard to make use of such an opportunity
as your disappearance gave. What a
cunningly-contrived plan it was ! "

*' But the ring  that puzzles me," answers
Denzil. ** At the inquest it was proved to be
my own without doubt. Of course we can
allow for the false swearing as to its being
drawn off the dead man's finger ; but how did
it come into the witness's possession ? "

** Depend upon it we shall learn that all
in good time," replies the doctor. " There is
more in this matter than we have yet discovered.
And to think that the offices of
justice were placed in the hands of such a
villain ! By Jove, it makes my blood boil to
think of it ! And then to embroil that poor

girl in the hateful business ! The scoundrel !
Why, Charteris, no one who saw her face on
the day of the inquest will ever forget the
history it bore ! Such suffering, agony,
shame, and all borne with a meekness so
uncomplaining, a heroism so noble ! There,
don't look at me ! I'm a foolish old man,
and I've known her since she was a baby in
arms. It brings the water to my eyes when
I think of her on that day."

He turns away as he speaks  turns so suddenly
and quickly that he does not remark the
agitation his words have aroused in his companion.
Presently, when Denzil joins him, he
finds him gazing anxiously at the marble face
on the pillows  the face which, but for the faint
flutter of breath that ever and anon leaves the
parted lips, might indeed be the face of one
whom death has already claimed for his own.

They stand there, a grave and silent group,
each heart stirred into strange sympathy with
the mystery of this closing life and the knowledge
of its long-borne sufferings.

Then, at a sign from the nurse, Charteris
and the doctor go with soft and reverent
footsteps into the adjoining room.

** Her life will end in that sleep," Doctor
Deane says, gravely. *' There will be no pain
or strno'orle."

'' It will be well for her at last," remarks
Denzil. " What a wrecked and wretched life
hers has been ! Do you remember how you
tried to dissuade me from this plan at first,
how you spoke of the suspicions and dangers
it would arouse ? I think, after all, it was
the best."

It was a courageous attempt on your part.
I never thought the secret could have been
preserved so well," answers the doctor.
Even now there are difficulties to face  the
funeral formalities must be gone through."

I will have her removed to the Priory,"
says Denzil, suddenly. '' I have nothing to
fear from any inquiries now. Every one knew
she went abroad. What more natural than
that she should return to her old home to die ? "

You should have thought of that sooner,"
answers Doctor Deane. " To die  yes ; but if
she be dead ? "

*' Have you your carriage here ? " asks
Denzil, hastily.

*' Yes  and that old confidential coachman of
mine whom the people call ' unimpeachable.' "

If she could but bear the journey ! It is
short,' continues Denzil, musingly. ' They
know I left home. They would not be surprised
to see me return with her, because they
know I have been in the habit of going to see
her  abroad. They all think  "

*' I see what you mean," says the doctor,
gravely. '' But it is such a risk I hardly dare
counsel it. It would be better still to say she
could not bear the journey. Every one knows
that this eccentric Peters has lived like an
owl in a church-tower here. You brought
the patient hither and summoned me ; so it's
all fair and above-board. I hope my reputation
is sufficient to back up anything I choose
to tell the gossips here."

'' Yes ; that would do very well," answers
Denzil. " Poor, unfortunate Alethea ! Little
did lie imagine, when she came to Beech-hampton,
in the pride and splendour of her
bridal pomp, how sad and miserable would
be her life, how lonely its close ! "

She has but her own folly to thank for
it," remarks Doctor Deane. " Sorry as I feel
for her, I cannot forget, Denzil, what shame
and sorrow she brought upon your house."

Let it be forgotten now," is the quiet rejoinder.
" I can afford to forget it, for life
is bearing promise of happier things at last."

I am glad to hear you say that," says
the old doctor, heartily. '' I hope it means
that you are going to be a lonely misanthrope
no longer, but give your home a mistress,
and your cousin a happiness she indeed
deserves."

*' My  cousin ? "  and Denzil looks sternly
at the kind old face beaming up to his own
in the sincerity of earnest good wishes.

'' Yes ; it is Mrs Ray, I suppose, you

mean ? '* replies the doctor, a little surprised
at the sudden sternness, almost anger, of his
companion's face.

Certainly not," lie says, coldly. '' Mrs
Eay will never be mistress of the Priory while
I live."

*' Bless my soul ! " utters Doctor Deane, in
confusion. '' I  I beg ten thousand pardons !
You see, it is so generally expected, so confidently
looked for, in fact. I  I am surprised."


*' Not more so than I am myself," is the
cold rejoinder. *' I have never given anyone
cause to imagine Mrs Ray was anything,
or would be anything more to me, than a
cousin."

But you were engaged once, you know,"
says Doctor Deane.

"' Can no one ever forget, or suffer me to
forget, that wretched farce ? " exclaims the
young man, passionately. " Her beauty and
her wiles deluded me, it is true ; but I was
too thankful to escape the snare to fall into

it again when later experience had brought
wisdom in its train."

'' Well, well, you know your own affairs
best," says the doctor, still looking a little
bewildered. '* I only hope you may secure
your own happiness. It seems to me that
you have been playing at pitch-and-toss
with it long enough."

I think I have secured it at last," answers
Denzil, a smile of rapt and perfect content
illuminating his handsome face and sunning
itself in the dark splendour of eyes that might
have looked any woman's heart away.

And the good old doctor, seeing that smile,
and knowing only too well what shadows and
shipwrecks lie in the past life of the man who
at last has won peace and happiness, clasps
his hand with a hearty genial jrcssure that
speaks better than words of his true and
kindly sympathy.

As they stand there together, hand clasped
in hand, the fire-flames glowing on the grave
and cordial satisfaction of the one face, on the

rapt and passionate expression that tender
memories have left upon the other, both
forgetful of all save the words that have
meant so much, for all their brief, terse utterance,
the dividing door opens softly, and the
nurse comes forward into the firelight gloom.
'* It is all over," she says.

CHAPTER X.

[pauline RAY and her mother have
just left the dinner - table and
settled themselves comfortably by
the drawing-room fire, when a loud peal at
the entrance door startles them.

Who can that be at this hour ? " exclaims
the elder lady, looking in bewilderment at her
daughter's pale face. " Not Denzil, surely ! "

The words have scarcely passed her lips
when her nephew enters, and with him
Doctor Deane.

I am afraid I have surprised you, aunt,"
says the younger man, hurriedly. '* But I
had no time to let you know of my coming.
The truth is that I received a summons from
Alethea, and hastened to obey it, and  "

'* You will oblige me, Denzil, by not mentioning
that misguided person's name," interrupts
bis aunt, coldly. '' You are acquainted
with my aversion to her and its reasons ;
and I am at a loss to imagine how anything
connected with her brings you home
so unexpectedly."

'' She is coming here'' Denzil answers,
coldly. *' I presume I am sufficiently master
of my own house to bring any one I choose
hither."

Coming here ! " gasps Mrs Eay, turning
paler than her daughter at the shock of the
news. " Very well, Denzil ; then I leave.
The same roof can never shelter Alethea
Charteris and myself ! "

It will not be for very long, madam," interposes
Doctor Deane, sternly. " The unfortunate
lady was coming here only to die ;
yet even that solace was denied her ; for she
lies dead at the castle yonder, under the
care of the only friend whose fidelity misfortune
could not shake."

Dead !  and at the ruins ! What can you
mean ? " exclaims Pauline. ** What could
have brought her there ? "

She could not bear the journey hither,"
answers Doctor Deane, with amazing ease in
the assertion. 'rand you know Peters has
chosen to live in that turret yonder ever 
ever since her mistress was banished from
here. Fortunate it was  for us  as the event
has proved. Now, my dear madam," he continues
firmly to Mrs Pay, '* what you have
to do is surely no hard task. A room must
be prepared for the unfortunate lady ; and
Denzil and I are now going to send a carriage
to the castle for her. Peters will stay here
until the funeral is over  of course it must
be as quiet and private as possible. There
is nothing you need do, save stay where you
are, and prove that you are not quite without
feeling, even to one who has wronged

you."

Mrs Pay looks ill at ease and troubled at
this harangue ; but she knows Doctor Deane

of old, and knows too that lie cannot offer
any objection to Denzil's wishes.

'' I  I cannot truthfully say I am sorry for
what you tell me," she remarks, presently.
'* The disgrace brought upon us as a family
by that  by my poor nephew's rash marriage
is well known. However, there must be no
occasion given for further gossip. Make
what arrangement you please, Denzil."

They shall not interfere with your comfort,
aunt, I promise you," he answers coldly ; and
then, with a touch of the hand to Pauline, he
leaves the room, accompanied by Doctor Deane.

** There  that is over ! " exclaims the old
man, thankfully. ** It's a mercy she asked no
questions, Denzil. Now it only remains for
you to select two of the men-servants whom
you can depend on ; and before morning all
will be satisfactorily settled. I will arrange
with the undertaker as I go home ; and you
can have a private service in the chapel,
yonder. There will be no need for any show
or parade."

By-the-way, Deane," says Denzil, suddenly,
as he pauses in the hall and looks
quickly at his companion, 'where was that
body taken after it was disinterred ? "

''To Ashbourne Cemetery, of course," answers
the doctor. "There it will remain,
unknown, unnamed, until some further clue
to its identity is furnished."

I wonder when that will be ? " sighs
Denzil, heavily. " Oh, doctor, if you only
knew how sick I am of tragedies and horrors,
you would pity me now ! "

Never mind, my boy ; bright days are in
store for you," answers the doctor, cheerily.
"You have had your share of troubles.
Heaven knows ! The reverse side of the
picture is to come."

I hope so, I am sure," rejoins Denzil,
trying to speak hopefully, but conscious all
the time of a settled gloom that seems to
be descending on his heart.

I must write to my darling to-night,"
he says to himself. " That will cheer me up.

VOL. II. K

Ah me, how long it seems ah-lady since I
left her!"

Tongues would have babbled and gossiped
a good deal about the doings at the Priory
had it not been for Doctor Deane. Very
quietly and skilfully he tells the story of
the illness and death of the unfortunate lady
who, years before, had been the cause of
a terrible and unforgotten tragedy.

No one ever suspects that all these same
years she has been in their midst, guarded
and protected by the man whose early life
her own folly and passion blasted ; her wandering
fancy, her tottering reason, kept
secret from all, and ministered to by the
one devoted servant who has attended her
from childhood. It was a great risk, and
Denzil had known it ; but, despite the paroxysms
of madness which at times frenzied
the distraught brain, she had never been
aught but gentle and tractable in the hands
of her attendant and himself. A word from

him calmed her in her worst moments ; and
he had confided his secret to Doctor Deane,
and from time to time  sought his advice
and treatment for the unfortunate woman.

My brother was the head of the family,
and he loved his wife to the verge of insanity.
I cannot look upon his tragic end and her
worse future and condemn her to that fearful
doom you would desire," he said again and
again ; and, with many a sigh and many a
fear, the kind-hearted doctor allowed himself
to be won over to Denzil's side, and did his
best for the poor suffering creature to whom
life could bring no further solace or relief.

When people hear that she lies dead in
the stately home whither she had come in
the flush and fulness of her girlish beauty,
they are not so much surprised as Denzil
and his faithful coadjutor anticipated. It was
only natural, they thought, that she should
have sought refuge there at last  only natural
that she should be laid at rest, despite her
wrong-doing, in the vaults where all the dead

and gone Characterises lie mouldering io the
dust.

So, two days afterwards, she is quietly
and reverently laid there, and Doctor Deane,
Denzil Charteris, Lance Stapleton, and the
clergyman are the only spectators. It is not
until after the ceremony is over that Denzil
makes the first move in the next part of this
strange game of fate which has associated
him with the tragedy of murder and death.

Knowing Lance Stapleton's interest in the
matter, he draws him aside and tells him of
Alethea's confession.

But how came she there ? " is the natural
question that follows. " I thought she was
abroad."

*' Not then," answers Denzil ; " she was
staying in this neighbourhood."

But why did she not speak at the time
more especially when there was such a
hue-and-cry after you ? "

She knew nothing of that ; she was too
ill," replies Denzil. " She confessed before

Doctor Deane and myself that she was so
terrified at what she had seen she dared not
speak of it. Besides, she did not wish anyone
to know where she was."

I'll tell you what I'll do," says Lance,
eagerly. 'i'll take this to Mr Herrick  the
lawyer. He has taken a great interest in the
matter, and, if any one can get at the root of
it, he is the man. He always said there was
something suspicious in the way Budd tried
to fasten it on to  Yolande."

As he utters that name, he looks up suddenly
at his companion's face ; and then by
some subtle intuition the truth flashes across
him. The brightness of his face changes to a
fixed settled stupor, with no glint of peace or
hope in its dull wistful regard.

'' You  she  I mean it is all right  now ? "
he stammers, confusedly.

Yes," says Denzil, trying to calm his
voice, that its quiver of joy may not grate
upon his less fortunate rival's feelings.

And she is coming back soon ? " Lance

continues, turning away his haggard young
face, only hoping the misery of this new
knowledge is not too apparent in his changed
demeanour.

*' At Christmas," answers Denzil, quietly.

Not till then ? Ah, well, Heaven bless you
both ! " he says, hurriedly and unselfishly.
*' I hope  I am sure you will be happy."

She asked me not to tell you or anyone,"
says Denzil, gently ; " but you guessed
it for yourself. You will respect her wishes,
though, will you not ? She wants to tell
Enid and Vi herself."

'* I shall not speak of it," he replies,
hoarsely. '* It is hardly likely. I  I hope
you will be married before I come back."

Come back ! " echoes Denzil in surprise.
'* Why, where are you going ? "

I am going away  to travel. My father
has often wished it. I shall be away sometime,"
he says, rather incoherently ; and
Denzil, knowing his secret so well, has no
heart to utter the formal observations that

conventional usage demands. Even while he
is trying to collect his scattered thoughts, to
say something that will not jar upon the
sensitive heart - strings of his companion's
generous nature, Lance wrings his hand, and,
with a muttered farewell, is gone.

When the door has closed, Denzil stands
for long looking out with troubled eyes at
the sombre, desolate aspect of the park and
grounds.

How the bitter and sweet are mingled
in my cup ! " he muses. " I have had a
week's happiness ; now all is gloom and
perplexity once more. Deane declares I must
stop here and assist in clearing up this
mystery about Bred. Budd has disappeared,
and goodness knows where he will be found.
My aunt looks like a mute at a funeral every
time she sees me. Pauline is as sad as
though the cares of the universe had fallen
on her shoulders. I have not had a line yet
from Yolande, and I did so hope she would
have written. If I could only go back to

her, my sweet love ! How wasted the hours
seem when we are parted ! "

A heavy sigh parts his lips ; he turns away
impatiently and goes out through the hall
and opens the entrance door, with some vague
purpose of which he is scarcely conscious.
Just as his hand is on the latch he glances
round and sees the footman entering with
the post-bag.

"Any letters, Thompson?" he asks,
abruptly.

Yes, sir ; " and the man hands him
several envelopes, and then places two other
letters on a salver to carry to the ladies.
Denzil glances at them. One is addressed to
Pauline in a fine clear feminine hand. With a
start of surprise, for which he cannot account,
he sees that the post-mark is YstradiFelter.

How can Pauline have a correspondent
there ? " he thinks, in amazement. " Perhaps,
though, it is from Miss Llewellyn."

Then he throws his own letters down
unopened. Not one among them bears the

superscription of his darling's hand, and all
others seem but a hateful mockery now.

'' She might have written," he says, in an
endless wearisome refrain. *' Three days is
time enough. Surely she must know how ]
am longing for a word or line."

In gloomy discontent he treads the damp
paths, scarcely heeding whither his footsteps
lead him ; but it is with a start of surprise
that he finds himself at the chapel, and,
obeying the same strange heedless impulse,
he enters it, closing the door behind him.

The light comes dimly through the stained-glass
windows and falls across the black and
white marble of the floor. A deep silence
broods everywhere  a solemn peace that harmonises
well with Denzil's weary, troubled
thoughts, and calms their restlessness by the
spell of that perfect stillness.

He seats himself in one of the cushioned
pews, and, leaning his head on his folded
arms, gives himself up to meditation.

How long a time has passed in that deep

intense thought he does not know ; but it
seems a long time to him when the opening
of the outer door and the soft rustle of a
woman's dress rouse him. He starts up and
sees Pauline Eay. She comes slowly up the
aisle, her black dress trailing behind her, a
basket of white flowers in her hands.

With a swift dark flush of pain and surprise
mounting to his face, Denzil stands up
and confronts her. The start she gives at
sight of him is too admirably simulated to
render him suspicious of its genuineness.

He steps forward in the gloom and says,
wonderingly, 

You here, Pauline ? "

*' I came to put some flowers there," she
answers, pointing to the vaults.

Are you so mindful of the dead ? " he
asks, somewhat bitterly. " I thought no one
remembered her or cared for her now."

I have pitied her always," she says,
very gently. '' It would be strange indeed
if I had not some sympathy with a fate

whose unhappiness so closely resembles my

own."

Denzil is silent. He knows only too well
what that reproach means, and he is too
weary now to argue or evade it.

'you are not afraid to go through those
gloomy vaults alone ? " he asks, presently.

'' Afraid ? " cries Pauline, in scorn of such
a suggestion. '* No ; it is not the dead I
fear, Denzil ! "

*' Nevertheless I will accompany you," he
says, quietly. " It will be my last opportunity
too  for the vaults will be closed tomorrow."


She makes no answer ; she only gathers
the folds of her soft black gown in one white
beautiful hand and moves on slowly by his
side, with the last pale rays of dying light
falling slantwise through the painted windows
above on her fair rich hair.

It is a strange moment for both. Denzil
has never given his cousin credit for much
sentiment or feeling, and her unwonted remembrance

of the ill-fated Alethea touches
him deeply.

Glancing at her, he sees that she is very-pale,
that dark violet shadows lie under the
drooped lids of her downcast eyes, and that
over all her bright and brilliant beauty has
fallen some dim and indescribable change.
But she is nearer to him and more attractive
to him in this sadness and shadow that seems
to have fallen upon her than she could ever
be in the glorious splendour of the loveliness
which long since has lost its charm for his
eyes. He does not know what a flame of
torture burns in her heart now, what a whirl
of fierce, angry, revengeful feeling is surging
within her breast, as she walks silently and
slowly desire him, fair and calm and stately
as some mediaeval saint, yet hiding, with all
the force of her subtle nature, a secret that is
rending her spirit with its terrible fear.

Within the vaults a dim light burns as the
two quiet figures move silently through.
Around them lies many a dead and gone

member of their race  voiceless, sightless,
silent now. The marble that entombs themis
not more cold than they  more dead to
sense and knowledge and feeling.

Some such thought as this strikes to the
heart of the beautiful living woman who
strews her flowers upon that last opened space
where no name is yet graven to tell the
history of its tenant. As the last of the white
flowers are scattered in scented profusion over
the marble slab, she suddenly drops the
basket from her hand, and, falling upon her
knees, bursts into bitter, agonised weeping.

It is perfectly natural  it is not done for
any effect, being purely and simply the result
of heart-wrung agony that at last crushes
down the icy, hard-worn composure she has so
long displayed. Denzil, to whom a woman's
tears are painful in the extreme, looks on in
perplexity at this passionate outburst.

'* Pauline," he says, gently, '' what troubles
you ? It cannot be grief for  her  that
moves you thus."

'' No," she answers, wildly, raising her
haggard face, all marred by grief and suffering
; "it is for myself I weep, who would so
thankfully change places with her who lies
here below, but who yet must live on and
suffer and endure ! "

Is your life so hard to bear ? " he asks,
but with no tenderness in the cold gentleness
of his quiet voice. " It need not be, surely,
Pauline ? "

She rises to her feet and dashes away the
tears from her eyes.

'what it is concerns me only," she says,
shivering, as if with sudden cold. " I alone
have to bear it till the day comes that brings
me rest as it has brought it to  her." Then,
with no further word, she raises her basket
from the ground and leaves the vaults, he
following.

|T is quite dark when the two cousins
leave the chapel and take their .
way homewards. Both are very
silent, for both their hearts are heavy, though
with very different reasons for the oppression.
Yet their reasons are more nearly allied to one
cause than they know or suspect, though
Denzil has said nothing to Pauline of his new-formed
ties, and she nothing to him of her
suspicions respecting them.

'' Pauline," he says at last, under cover of
the friendly gloom that conceals his agitated
face from her quick eyes, " who is your correspondent
at Ystradffelter ? Do you and
Miss Llewellyn write to each other ? "

It is well the darkness hides the flush on her

face, the sudden terror of her eyes, as with
well-feigned calmness she proceeds to answer
him.

I have one or two correspondents there
friends that I made when staying at the
Llewellynss last year."

** Oh, indeed ! " says Denzil, rather uncomfortably.


One of them is a very charming girl,"
continues Pauline, coolly. '* She is rather
unfortunate, so far as worldly prospects are
concerned, being, in fact, at a school therefor
the purpose of fitting herself for the duties
of teaching. She took a fancy to me when we
met at the Hall. She was often there,
and knows the Llewellynss well. She writes
occasionally still. I mean to get her on if I
can. She is just the sort of girl to make
her way  clever, quiet, unassuming, and yet
amiable and useful."

'' What a paragon ! " Denzil observes, indifferently.
*rit is strange, though, for you
to turn philanthropist, Pauline. I thought  "

You thought I was altogether vain and
worldly," she interrupts, fiercely. " Yes, I
know it very well, Denzil. You need not trouble
to tell me again how few womanly, graceful
sentiments you credit me with possessing ! "

"Indeed, Pauline, you are unjust," he
answers, gently. " If I give you credit for
less sentiment than you possess, is it not your
own fault for always endeavouring to deny
the existence of such feeling ? "

There is little enough in my life to call it
forth," she says, gloomily. " My heart is very
empty."

Yet there has been little lacking to fill
both life and heart. Love, kindness, wealth,
station, honour  all these you have possessed."


'' Nay, you mistake, Denzil," she answers,
softly'' not all."

And something in the tone of the softly-cadence
voice stirs his heart with the faint-remembered
music of the past. He knows
what want it is that keeps her heart empty

VOL. II. L

with so much to fill it, her life desolate with
so much that might content it.

"Why will she always drift into these
memories ? " he asks himself, impatiently.
*' Can a woman never believe that her power
is dead, that her spells are broken ? "

*' Denzil," says his cousin's voice suddenly,
you have not asked the question in your
mind. Of course there is some one at Llwyn-
pia House in whom you take an interest, just
as I do in my clever Miss Croft. Do you fear
to make me a confidante Denzil ? Do you
really think, oh foolish cousin, that I cannot
read your secret, and be glad for your sake ? "

Oh, dangerous tremble in the sweet voice !
Oh, subtle tremor in the soft hands closing
on his own !

"- How silent you are ! " she goes on presently.
" Ah, Denzil, you have not learnt
to know me yet ! Do you think that, in spite
of all that has passed and gone, I can still
be so selfish as not to rejoice in your happiness
? "

'' Pauline," he says, disarmed and deluded,
as she had meant him to be, *' if I have
wronged you, forgive me. My heart is too
full of happiness and content to know a
single cold or bitter feeling now. We will
be friends at last."

And in the cordial pressure of the beautiful
supple fingers that meet his own, he seals
the bond of a new confidence, and forgets the
dangers he dreaded so short a time before.

Half-an-hour later the two cousins are
sitting in the warm firelight library together,
Pauline resting in a low velvet-cushioned
chair, her hand playing lazily with the teaspoon
in her cup, her eyes turned towards
the dark eager face of her companion as he
stands leaning against the mantelpiece.

Presently she withdraws her handkerchief
from her pocket, and in doing so lets fall a
letter that flutters on to the thick soft carpet
and lies there, a speck of white on its dark
colouring. A few minutes afterwards she
ceases the half-grave, half-playful converse

she has made so alluring to the man who
but a short time ago avoided and distrusted
her with a prudence that he sadly lacks
now.

** I really must go and dress for dinner,"
she says. " And mamma will be wondering
what has become of me all this long afternoon."


' Is it really dressing-time already ? " asks
Denzil, in surprise, as he opens the door for
her. " I could not have believed it."

Nor I," she says, with a look that is
tender and grateful, yet dangerous withal.
And then she glides away up the great carved
oak staircase, leaving him to return to the
library.

The first thing his eye rests on is the
letter. He stoops and picks it up. It has
no envelope, and the flames, flickering up
brightly and suddenly for one brief moment,
show him one word that sets every pulse
beating with mad wild ecstasy. It is *' Yo-lance."
With a strong effort he resists the

temptation so subtly thrown in his way. He
crushes the letter in his hand, and with
steady resolute step crosses the floor. As he
opens the door he sees his cousin hurrying
towards him, her face eager and anxious, her
eyes fixed intently on his face.

Denzil," she says, in a voice of strange
agitation, " did I drop a letter in the library
just now ? "

'' I was just going to return it to you,"
he answers, drawing back a pace or two
into the room. " Here it is."

She takes it eagerly from his hand ; yet he
wonders why she follows his backward step
and closes the door, thus leaving them both
in the room once more.

You did not  But there  I am foolish
to ask. Of course you would not do such a
thing," she says in sudden, agitated, disjointed
sentences.

I did not look at it ? Is that what you
mean ? " he says, coldly. ** Inadvertently I
did. I caught sight of a name  that is all.

But, if you fear I have done anything so
dishonourable as to peruse another person's
letter, you are mistaken, Pauline."

'' Oh, Denzil, you know I could lot mean
that ! " she exclaims, with ever-increasing
agitation in her voice. ' It was only your
happiness I was considering. I was so dreadfully
afraid you might have seen or learnt 
Oh, what am I saying ? "

I should like to know what you mean
by it, at all events," says Denzil, very sternly.
In what way does that letter concern my
happiness % "

Do not ask me ! " she cries, passionately.
'* You would never thank me for opening
your eyes. No, Denzil ; go blindly on to
the end. It is not for me to say a word
that will shatter your fool's paradise."

Pauline," he says, his voice cold and hard,
you have said too much or too little. I
insist upon knowing what you mean. If
you have guessed my secret  "

*' Guessed it ! " she interrupts, hastily.

Oh, Denzil, longer than you have known
it yourself have I known of your love for
Yolande Mervyn ! It is for that reason I
will say no word now. You will hate me
because I tell you what all who know this
girl know, that she is too thorough a coquette
to be content with only one slave,
even though he gives her such a heart as
yours."

As she ceases speaking she turns away and
moves softly over the carpeted floor. Before
she reaches the door her cousin's voice stays
her.

'' Stop ! " he cries, mastering by a strong
effort the storm of anger and distrust awaking
in his heart. " Pauline, one word ere
you go. You have learnt my secret ; learn
also that of the woman I love, I believe no
ill, no slander. I am as certain of her truth
as I am of my own. If any lips condemn
her, if any words can shake my faith in her,
those lips and words are hers  no other's."

The beautiful woman stands meekly by the

door, her drooping face illumined by a sorrow
so deep that it angers him strangely to
read it.

You need not have told me that, Denzil,"
she says, softly. " Can I not read the trust
and confidence of your nature aright ? But
remember, in any time to come, that I would
have done my best to spare you  if you would
have let me."

And ere he can quite fathom the meaning
of her strange words and looks she has gone.

What does she mean ? What fresh
troubles threaten me ? " he says, wearily, ashe
leans against the high oak chimney-piece,
resting his aching brow on his hot clasped
hands. '' She is, she must be, all I imagined.
Oh, darling, my darling, what can
be coming to me that in my heart there
lurks even now the shadow of that old sad
fear, the fear that, do what I may, strive
how I may, I can never, never be to you
what you are to me."

With restless strides he paces the room ;

his heart is wrung with wild and miserable
fears. If she had only written  if only one
word had reached him to tell of her love,
her thoughts, it would have been something
on which to lean in this moment ! What
is she doing ? he wonders. Are the days
long and wearisome to her as to him ? Does
she already look for his return ?

I will write to her again," he says, suddenly,
as he rings for lights and stirs the
fire into a bright and cheerful blaze. " I
get melancholy and morbid in this gloomy
house. Oh, how different every room in it
will look when my darling's lovely presence
is among them all ! "

When lights are brought, he sits down to
his writing-table and commences his letter.
It is the third he has penned to Yolande
since he left her, and he cannot help the soft
reproach that steals through its loving sentences
and shows the greatness of the disappointment
her silence has been. Still the
very fact of writing seems to bring her nearer ;

the touch of the paper that she will touch
sends a swift thrill of delight to his heart.
It will go straight from him to her ; it will
disprove his doubts and fears, and  oh, best
and sweetest hope of all !  it will bring
back a reply as surely as it goes to seek one.

There was a cloud between us when we
parted, my sweet," he says in conclusion.
*you thought I showed a want of confidence
in not telling you why I left your side
when I would have stayed so gladly. But
when we meet again, Yolande, 1 will tell
you all. No secret from this time forth shall
ever breathe an hour s distrust between your
heart and mine ! "

Then, with many a fond and tender word
written with linoerinor hand, as though the
task were too sweet to be hastened, he ends
the letter, and seals it with his own seal, and
lays it on the table, resolving to send the
butler in for it, as he does not care to be
seen putting it in the post-bag himself.
Then with some foolish manly shame, as he

thinks, how the man must wonder at the daily
missive bearing ever that one sweet name,
he writes two other short business notes as
well, and places them over it. At the same
moment the second dressing-bell rings and
he hurries away, knowing it is more than
probable he will keep) dinner waiting, and
remembering too that Doctor Deane is
coming to-night.

When he is safely closeted in his own
room, the library door opens softly, and
Pauline Eay enters. In a second her eyes
discover the little pile of letters on the writ-unstable.
She sweeps across the room and
bends over them.

*just as I thought!" she says to herself.
He has written again ! "

She takes the letter to Yolande in her
hand and gazes at it as though she could
have vented all the rage and fury boiling
in her heart on the small innocent-looking
missive.

" Can I dare stop it  again ? " she says.

Then her hand closes over it, for a step
in the hall sounds in her ear.

'rit is Thompson with the post-bag," she
says ; and, quickly extinguishing the light,
she conceals herself in the great deep window,
drawing the velvet curtains around her.

In another moment, the man enters the
room. He goes up to the writing-table,
takes the letters and drops them into the
post-bag, then stirs the fire, arranges the
chairs, and finally leaves the room to solitude
once more.

The guilty woman creeps forth from her
hiding-place, her face ashy white, her hands
trembling.

It would never have done for me to be
found here," she mutters, " in case of any
after inquiries."

Quietly watching her opportunity, she slips
out of the library and gets back to her own
dressing-room without having met any one
of the household. Once there, she seats
herself at her escritoire, first ringing the bell

that summons her maid. When the girl
answers it she finds her mistress sealing a
letter, and two or three others lying ready
for the post.

'' Annette," she says, hurriedly, " I hope
I am in time. I want you to take these
and put them into the post-bag."

'* Yes, madam ; you are quite in time,"
returns the girl, respectfully. *' Thompson
was just collecting the letters when your
bell, rang."

With a sigh of relief her mistress hands
her the three missives and sees her leave
the room.

That was well managed," she says. *' The
girl left me here writing letters and found
me here finishing them. No one knows I
have left the room."

When the dinner-bell rings sbe descends
the stairs, calm and stately as ever, her
black satin dress sweeping around her in
the exquisite statuesque folds which an irreproachable
modiste alone can give, her beauty

even more dazzling by reason of the carmine
flush that art has supplied to her cheek, the
lustre of her eyes more brilliant by reason
of the feverish thoughts within her breast.
As she is entering the drawing-room she
hears Denzil's voice speaking to the old and
trusty butler as he comes through the
hall.

There were some letters in the library,
Thompson," he says. " Did you look there ? "

Yes, sir ; they have gone," answers the
man.

And with a radiant face and lighter heart
Denzil Charteris thinks that his letter is
already on its way to tell his darling of his
unshaken love and fidelity to her.

The evening passes off pleasantly and
quietly enough.

Pauline is so dazzling and bewitching that
old Doctor Deane marvels more than ever
how Denzil can remain heart-whole in the
companionship of such a lovely and fascinating
woijaan ; and Denzil, by reason of

the new lightness of his heart, is more brilliant
in conversation, more gently courteous
in his manner to his cousin than he has
been for long.

'' I shall surely have a letter now," he
tells himself over and over again ; and to
the sweet music of that hope his heart beats
more gaily than is its wont. The dark doubts
that have distressed him are forgotten.

The evening; is over ; the dark night has
brought restless slumbers and fevered dreams
in its train. The morning comes with its
new duties and its new cares ; and once
more the post brings Denzil Charteris the
anguish of disappointment. He has not of
course expected an answer to the letter
written during the previous evening  it
would not be in Yolande's hands till midday
; but he knows how his heart has clung
to the hope of a word of remembrance in
the sick cold pain of knowing that hope
again deferred.

Half-an-hour after breakfast he is informed
that Mr Herrick has called to see him on
important business, and he turns his weary-feet
to the library with an utter hatred and
horror of the task before him.

'' I am sorry to trouble you at such an
unconventional hour, Mr Charteris," says the
old hard-visaged lawyer, rising as the young
man enters and bowing gravely in acknowledgment
of Denzil's stiff salute; "but Mr
Stapleton has put this paper into my hands,
and I have of course come to know if you
have any objection to my making immediate
use of it ? "

'not the slightest. Why should t?"
demands Denzil, abruptly.

'you see," goes on the lawyer, coolly,
"it might not be pleasant to have the name
brought forward so publicly. Of course the
man accused here will leave no stone unturned
to defy conviction. Are you prepared
for what must ensue, Mr Charteris ? Are
there no secrets connected with this unhappy

lady which you dare not let into the light
of outer curiosity and discussion % "

The young man's pallid face flushes to the
very brow.

My assails are pretty generally known,
it seems," he says, haughtily ; ''I should
scarcely have thought they could have penetrated
to your retreat though, Mr Herrick."

'' We men of the law hear and see strange
things ; our only defence is that wee can
keep a quiet tongue in our heads about the
secrets we chance to discover," rejoins the
old lawyer.

'' You must do your duty of course," says
Denzil Charteris, coldly. " I am the last
man likely to interfere with you in any
measures you adopt. While this poor lady
lived I did indeed, dread publicity as to her
state and condition ; but now she is beyond
all dread of consequences, all morbid horror
of the fate that mio;ht have been hers in
the years that are past."

'' But are you aware of your own risk,

VOL. II. M

Mr Charteris ? " demands the old lawyer.
'' Were you justified in  in concealing this
matter, however well meant your motives ? "

'* In my own mind I was," answers Denzil,
calmly. " It should never have been known
if I could have helped it while she lived.
Now, of course, my actions must take their
natural consequences."

There would be nothing to fear if it
were not for  Budd," says Mr Herrick,
meditatively. " But you see, Mr Charteris,
what a loophole of escape this osiers. ' Why
was she in hiding ? Why did she not at
once make known what she had seen ? '
will be naturally asked ; and you alone
know if the answer will be satisfactory.
Respected as you are in the county, it will
be awkward to have your private motives
openly discussed ; yet I fail to see how it
can* be helped. That is why I called on
you before taking any steps in the matter."

'' You are very kind," is the cold rejoinder ;
'' but, as I have said before, justice must be

rendered to the guilty, and this strange and
secret crime fathomed at last. If I had withheld
this confession out of selfish consideration
to my own feelings, I should have deemed
myself as guilty as the criminal himself."

They say he has gone off to America.
Did you know that ? " asks Mr Herrick.

** No' answers Denzil ; "' I have heard
nothing of him since I returned."

That little escapade of yours cost us some
trouble in the first instance, Mr Charters'
remarks the lawyer ; *' and yet we may have
cause to be grateful ; for, had it not been
for that, this discovery would never have
been made. Mr Charteris," he goes on
grimly, " have you ever pictured to yourself
that man's feelings when the dog led
him straight on to the last place he would
have willingly sought, when before the murderer's
sight must have arisen the awful
vision of his victim's doom ? I don't envy
him the sensations of that moment."

Nor I," answers Denzil, rising as the

lawyer rises, and feeling a half sense of
relief that the interview is over.

'from time to time, I shall let you know
how affairs go on," says Mr Herrick, wondering
why the hand extended to him is so
dry and burning, and the handsome face of
the young man so careworn and haggard.
You are not going to run away from us
again, I hope ? Your evidence will be the
first we shall require ; and you must be
within easy distance if possible."

I was thinking of returning to Wales
next week," says Denzil.

"On no account  pray ! " exclaims Mr
Herrick, anxiously. "It is most important
you should be here. We may lay hands on
Budd at any moment, and then we shall
have to call U230n you and Doctor Deane."

I thought you said the man had gone
ofi" to America % " remarks Denzil, with visible
annoyance, for he remembers how every delay
keeps him from returning to his darling's
side.

It is reported so ; but I don't believe
it. I am sure he is not so far off as we
imagine, or as he would like us to imagine.
Well, I won't detain you any longer, Mr
Charteris. I see you are impatient. By-the-way,
do you know young Stapleton has
gone off suddenly ? Kamtschatka, or Norway,
or some equally delightful region, he
told me. Well, good-bye  good-bye ! "

OLANDE Mervin sits by the
schoolroom fire alone. The girls
are out for their afternoon walk,
but she has pleaded a bad headache as an
excuse for not accompanying them. She looks
very weary and pale as she sits in the lonely
room ; a book she has made a pretence of
reading has fallen from her hand, and lies
unheeded on the floor ; her eyes are gazing
wistfully into the heart of the glowing coals,
as if at some vision that enthralls her. The
clock strikes five, and the sound seems to
recall her to herself. She springs to her
feet and goes over to the window, looking
out from there with cheeks that flush into
their old rose-brightness, and a heart that

throbs  oh, so painfully !  with an expectation
that is more of fear than hope.

The postman is coming slowly and leisurely
up the gravelled walk, and as if he did not
carry in his ugly weather-worn leathern bag
a score of missives that portend love or grief
or joy or ruin to those who await his arrival.
With an intensity of eagerness, a heart-sick
longing, of which she is perfectly unconscious,
Yolande watches his approach with straining
eyes. She sees him come up to the door ;
she hears the servant who answers it jesting
and laughing with him ; then he goes back
again over the garden walks, and she hurries
away to ask the question she is so sick of
asking ; and yet from which she cannot refrain.

The oirl comes alone to the schoolroom
with a packet of letters.

Two for you, miss," she says, as she
meets Yolande's eager gaze. " Shall I light
the candles here ? "

Yolande utters something, she scarcely
knows what, and with trembling fingers

takes the letters. Then she stirs the fire
into a brighter blaze and bends down to read
the superscriptions. Her heart gives one
wild throb, her eyes grow dim with a rush
of blinding tears ; she feels half suffocated
with the vividness and force of passionate
emotion called up by the familiar seal and
postmark on the letter in her hand.

'' At last ! " she says. " Oh, thank Heaven,
thank Heaven ! "

She dallies with her happiness a little while
longer, she gazes with such an agony of relief
and love at the welcome name, she kisses
with tender rapture the still unbroken seal,
and then slowly and reverently, with lingering
loving touch, she opens and reads her
first love-letter.

For a moment the words seem to swim before
her eyes, a faint, dizzy bewilderment
steals over her senses. A love-letter this 
these few cold lines, these rigidly courteous
sentences ?

*' Oh, Heaven ! " she wails, and throws herself

down by the fire, the bright flames of
which have shown her only the broken fabric
of a dream she has raised to be overthrown.

The very violence of her paroxysm of grief
brings as violent a reaction. She springs up
hastily, and dashes away the tears from her
eyes in bitter scorn of her momentary weakness.


And it is for this I have waited and
longed," she cries in the depths of her poor
proud wounded heart  " this cold courteous
epistle, that any man might have written to
any woman, save only the woman he loves.
Is this how he keeps faith with me ? Why,
his silence was no greater insult than such a
pretence of remembrance ! " The, with a
gesture of supreme scorn, of passionate disdain,
she flings the letter into the flames.
I need not trouble to answer that," she
says, fiercely, for her pride and tenderness
and love have been cruelly outraged. " If
absence has such an effect upon his love, he
may give it to one who will value it more

highly than 1 do. If a week of Pauline Kay's
companionship can so easily console him for
my absence, let him return to his allegiance
to her. I will have all or nothing."

Breaking in upon the storm of passionate
feeling come now the laughter and chatter of
the 2:ir]s returning: from their walk. With
a violent effort Yolande endeavours to compose
herself and answer their questions as
to her headache. But the incessant chatter
almost maddens her ; and the knowledge that
her flushed cheeks and swollen eyes are objects
of notice and whispered remarks, in noway
tends to soothe her ruffled spirits.

Making some hasty excuse, she at last
breaks from the throne:, and leaves the room.
Crossing the passage that leads to the staircase,
her eye falls upon the second letter,
which she still hold in her hand. It is
addressed in unknown writing ; but she pauses
under the lamp and opens it.

It is an invitation from Miss Llewellyn,
of Llewellyn Park, asking her to spend

Saturday and Sunday with her, and bring
her friend Rose Bertram also. As Yolande
has only once met the kind old maiden
mistress of the Hall, she is greatly surprised
at the invitation. Her first impulse is to
refuse it ; and then her pride steps in again
and offers counsel to her own future undoing.


Why should I not enjoy myself while 1
can?" she thinks. ''If he can so easily
forget, I need not hesitate to try to follow
his example."

That evening Yolande despatches two missives.
One is to Miss Llewellyn, accepting
her invitation with many thanks, the other
to Denzil Charteris at Beechhampton.

It reaches him safely enough the next
day ; and, after all his misery and anguish,
this is the reward he gets, 

''My dear Denzil,  I duly received your
letter, informing me of your arrival at Beech-hampton.
Pray do not hurry back here on

my account ; there is not the slightest necessity.
I am perfectly well, and looking
forward with great pleasure to a visit to
Llewellyn Park, where I have been invited
for a few days. I think, as I shall so soon be
home, it is very unnecessary for you to take
the trouble of the long journey to Wales
again. Doubtless we shall meet quite soon
enough. If you see Lance Stapleton, tell
him, with my love, that I shall write from
Llewellyn Park in answer to his letter. 
Yours affectionately, Yolande Mervyn."

With an increasing bewilderment that
would be ludicrous if it were not so deep
and so earnest, Denzil Charteris reads this
cool production.

The post comes in at breakfast time, and
Pauline Eay sits opposite him at the table,
watching with covert intentness every change
of his face, from surprise and incredulity to
shame and anger.

So this is the answer she sends to my

loving words ! " he tHinks, as he crushes the
letter in his strong grasp. 'rit is for this I
have hoped and longed and lingered."

He sits staring blankly at his plate, unconscious
of all other presence, stabbed to
the heart by the violence of this shock,
wondering dimly and dreamily to himself
whether it is possible that the same girl
whose lips have touched his own, whose
tears have fallen on his breast, can indeed
have penned these cruel, heartless lines. He
knows that she has distrusted him once 
he knows that she was proud and angry
when he refused to give her the reasons of
his absence ; but he has never dreamt of
such retaliation as this. He thinks of the
three letters he has written to her since their
parting, especially the last one, in which his
heart showed all its weakness, its longing,
its love.

** And this is how she receives it ! " he
says again.

And now despair and disbelief give way

to fierce fury. He remembers the character
of this girl, and how he had always known
and mistrusted her ; he remembers the inherent
coquetry of her disposition, and his
own jesting words that Llewellyn was overhead
and ears in love with her. What can
he think but that she has gone to subjugate
a new admirer  to cast her chains around
another victim % She has stabbed him in
the one weak place of his armour of trust
for Denzil Charteris is a fiercely jealous
man, and hates to think that one smile, one
look of the tender witching eyes he loves
is lavished upon another, that the pretty
ways, the irresistible fascinations this girl
possesses are only coquetries displayed to
all men alike. He has always heard it said
of her, he believed it himself for long ; but
love had suddenly blinded him, and he too
had been ensnared.

In this hour his love changes as he himself
could scarcely have thought it would
change ; jealousy, fury, disappointment, pride

all the demons that in our weakest and
worst moments fight so mercilessly for our
subjugation  all these feelings sweep over
him in fiery torrents. He rises from the
table, neither remembering nor caring to
remember his cousin's presence, and rushes
away to solitude as the wounded stag rushes
to the thicket to bear the agony of the
hunter s shot unseen, unpitied.

The beautiful guilty woman at the head
of the table watches him with pitiless calmness.
That all his fabric of happiness is laid
in dust and ashes at his feet is nothing
to her.

It works well," she says, when she is at
last alone, a guilty joy in her heart, a passionate
exultation in her voice. '' Now I
have but to wait a few days more and 
the prize is mine ! "

Despite all Yolande's efforts and struggles,
it is no easy matter to hide the suffering she
is enduring, and her visit to Llewellyn Park

opens drearily enough. There are a few
people there, and she is conscious of being introduced
to them, and of laughing and talking
and behaving much as she generally does ;
but there is a strange, dull, heavy feeling at
her heart, and an indescribable and ever-recurring
sensation that she is somebody else,
looking on at herself and wondering vacantly
why this bright-faced, jesting girl should carry
on her shoulders so heavy and wearisome a
burden.

After luncheon a drive is proposed, and Sir
Edward Llewellyn, who has been hovering
devotedly around Yolande since she set foot
in his ancestral halls, begs her to let him
drive Rose and herself. The girl agrees languidly
enough. It is absolutely nothing to
her whom she accompanies ; but she believes
that Rose Bertram prefers Sir Edward's
society to that of any other of the young men
at the Hall, and so thinks it will at least
please her.

Owing to a misunderstanding' reo-ardinsf the

time, Yolande does not come downstairs until
a quarter of an hour later than the rest of the
driving-party ; and, to her surprise, she sees
the various vehicles disappearing rapidly down
the avenue  all except one at least ; for as
she stands hesitating, pale and bewildered,
Sir Edward approaches, leading a tall rakish-looking
chestnut, attached to a vehicle so
high and narrow that Yolande regards it with
absolute dread.

Am I to go in that ? " she cries, disappointedly.
" And where is Kose ? "

*' She has gone on," answers Sir Edward,
looking rather distressed at Yolande's want of
appreciation of his favourite steed Highflyer.
We are to meet her at our rendezvous.
Come, Miss Mervyn, don't look so alarmed !
The chestnut's quite quiet, I assure you."

But he looks so terribly fidgety," remarks
Yolande, drawing back from the prancing forelegs,
which seem fonder of pawing the air
than resting on mother earth.

Oh, I assure you he's perfectly quiet ! "

VOL. II. N

answers Sir Edward reassuringly, as he
beckons one of the grooms to come to the
animal's head while he steps forward to assist
Yolande into the vehicle. '' He's only a
little fresh. In a few minutes he'll go as
quiet as a lamb."

Yolande has grievous doubts on the subject,
feeling perfectly certain that there is nothing
lamb-like in the nature of this fiery steed.

"Ah, well, I suppose one can but die
once ! " she says as she takes her seat with
some little difficulty, owing to the restless
capering of Highflyer. " Still, if I had my
choice, I would rather not have my neck
broken as the means of exit from this life."

Do you think, if there was any risk of
such a thing, I would allow you to be here ? "
asks her companion, so tenderly that Yolande
starts back with sharp and sudden fear, from
his down-bent face. Tones and accents of
this description fall too freshly on her tortured
heart to be anything but unwelcome  almost
hateful.

Please attend to your duties as driver,
Sir Edward," she says, coldly. " This is no
time to discuss my fears or your motives for
calling them forth."

This sharp rebuff recalls Sir Edward to
himself; and for the next ten minutes there
is absolute silence between the two.

It was too bad of Rose to desert me in
this manner ! " exclaims Yolande at last, feeling
that it is better to make some effort at
conversation than to drive along in sulky
silence.

*' Are you so very averse to my companionship
that you grudge me half-an-hour of your
own ? " he asks.

** Oh, no ! " answers the girl, in surprise.
** You surely don't think me so rude as to
mean that ? But, as Rose had agreed  "

'* Yes, I altered that agreement," he interrupts.
" I wanted a few perfect moments
out of all the wretched many that I have
still to spend, I suppose."

I should have imagined you were the

last person in. the world to complain of being
wretched," answers Yolande, coldly ; for she
has no desire to drift into the style of conversation
such remarks as these usually lead
to  at least in her experience.

'* Should you ? " he questions. '* Well, it
is my own fault, I suppose, if I am."

'* Don't you think you are very foolish,
then ? " asks the girl, quietly. '' Why should
you voluntarily make yourself wretched ? "

'' Because I can't help it," he says, passionately.
" I was happy enough and contented
enough a little while ago ; but Heaven
'knows what is the matter now ! I have lost
all inclination for anything I used to enjoy ! "

*' Perhaps you are dyspeptic," suggests
Yolande, politely.

He looks at her in angry bewilderment.

'' I have never had a day's illness in my
life," he says, coldly.

Oh, indeed ! How fortunate ! " is the
rejoinder. " Sir Edward, what do you call
this vehicle ? "

*' A dog-cart. You don't mean to say you
didn't know what it was % "

** I wasn't quite sure. Isn't your horse
going rather fast ? " she asks, nervously.
** We seem so high up here."

** There is no occasion for you to be uneasy,"
he says, quietly. " I am perfectly
accustomed to driving."

You are very fond of horses, I suppose ? "
asks Yolande, looking straight ahead and inwardly
wishing he would not stare at her
quite so hard.

"" Yes," he  says, rather absently. " That
is to say, not very. I am not a man who
finds his height of bliss in hunting, or steeplechasing,
or amusements of that description.
I like a quiet life, though I have seen a good
deal of the world besides this place."

** And now are you going to settle down
here ? " queries Yolande.

I don't know. You see it is dull being
here by oneself."

But you are not by yourself," rejoins

Yolande. *' You have your sister and lots
of friends. I am sure you ought not to
complain of dulness. Besides, you said
just now you liked a quiet life."

*' I see I must mind my ' p's ' and * q's ' when
I talk to you," he says, with a faint smile.

Have you ever wondered why those two
letters should have been singled out of the
other twenty-six for the meaning your sentence
gives them ? " asks his companion,
musingly. " Why can't people say ' i's ' and
u's,' or ' w's ' and * v's ' ? We don't use * p '
and ' q ' more frequently than any other
letters, do we ? "

'' No  unless it's something to do with
particular.' There are ' p ' and ' q ' in that,
you know," hazards Sir Edward, with a feeble
attempt at wit.

"I don't see the *q,'" answers Yolande,
laughing. " I decline to look upon it as
mere matter of punning or pronunciation.
No, Sir Edward ; you ought to find a better
reason than that."

Her companion looks as if he were about to
say something, then evidently is unable to
make up his mind as to what it had best be,
and so turns his eyes once more on his cur-elinor
steed, who is tossing his head and
snorting defiance at every cloud of leaves the
wind whirls around his feet.

'* I suppose you are not much impressed
with the beauties of Wales ? " asks Sir Edward,
presently.

*' Not this part of it certainly," says Yo-lance.
'* But it is just as well I have not
been too charmed, for I am going to leave
it soon."

** Ah, yes, I forgot ! How I wish  But
I suppose it's impossible. Don't you think,
Miss Mervyn, that there are some people in
the world whom it would be better not to
see at all, than to see and lose ever after ? "

I can't say I have ever thought about the
subject," answers Yolande, philosophically.
*' I will give it due consideration and let
you know."

"Don't laugh at me," lie says, earnestly.
*' Indeed I am serious enough. I often wish
I had never seen you ; for now  "

** Now you will certainly have that steed of
yours bolting if you don't hold him in a little
more firmly," interposes Yolande, hastily.
Please don't talk nonsense, Sir Edward,
even if it is uncomplimentary. It is of no
use to wish you hadn't seen me, when here
I am sitting by your side, with a twelve-mile
drive in prospect. However, I will efface
myself as much as possible for the rest of
the journey ; and, if you only look straight
before you, it will be easy to forget I am
here'*

"- You know I did not mean that ! " he says,
angrily. " I am a bad hand at expressing
myself, I know ; but still I could not be so
rude as you make out. What I mean is  "

"Never mind what you mean or meant,"
she interrupts. " Sir Edward, you are not
doing your duty as cicerone. Why don't
you point out to me the places of interest.

or describe the landmarks we pass so regardlessly
? "

"They are nothing particular, and, even if
they were, I do not feel inclined for the task,"
he says, huffily.

'* So it seems," is the placid rejoinder.
How selfish men are ! They won't even
talk of things that they don't care about,
much less do them ! "

I would talk of something I care about
very much if you would let me."

"There is a toll-gate," remarks Yolande.
"And isn't that one of the other carriages
before us. Sir Edward ? " she adds, eagerly.

Yes, I think so."

We shall soon reach it then," says Yo-lance.
"Why, Sir Edward, where are you
going ? "

Don't you see the gate's shut ? The
railway passes close by here," answers her
companion. " By Jove, there's the smoke !
We shall see the train in a minute."

He draws rein as he speaks, and the unwilling

chestnut plunges and prances and
shows every sign of equine displeasure at
the sudden termination to his sharp trot.

The train won't frighten him, I hope % "
says Yoknde, timidly, for she has not yet
got over her vague distrust of the spirited
animal.

'' Oh, no ! " answers Sir Edward, reassuringly.
''Woa, Highflyer; steady, old boy!"
he goes on soothingly.

But the animal puts back his quivering
ears and snorts defiantly.

Suddenly the sharp shriek of the whistle
cuts through the air, and the red lamps flash
through the gathering dusk ; then, roaring,
pulling, snorting like some devouring monster,
the train dashes by and plunges into the
darkness of an adjoining tunnel.

It seems only a second since Yolande has
seen it, only a second since the red lights
flashed through the cold dim air ; and their
she is conscious of a rearing, plunging horse
standing bolt upright and pawing the air

with frantic hoofs, of a low muttered exclamation
from her companion's lips, a faint
shriek from her own, and she is being whirled
along through the dusky autumn gloom,
while trees and hedges, and bare black fields
and stretching roads, and white, straight
signal-posts all race and fly before them in
one giddy, furious whirl.

IT still, for Heaven's sake ! " says
a man's voice, hoarse and low
with an exceeding fear.
Faint and ill with the rapid motion, Yolande
closes her eyes, and clutches the side of the
dog-cart with one hand and the back of her
seat with the other. Like a flash of lightning
comes back the memory of all the lovejoy,
sorrow, trouble of her life. She finds
herself wondering whether she will be killed,
and, if so, whether Denzil will be very sorry
when he hears of it. She does not address
a single word to her companion  she only
sits still, pale, motionless, a lovely statue
of fear and resignation.

The man beside her is straining with giant

strength at the iron-mouthed brute who
holds their lives at his mercy. After one
quick agonised glance at her face he gives
no other ; only, with a passionate half-breathed
prayer, he bends all the force of
will and muscle in this fight for conquest.

The long white road stretches before them,
and down it they fly at racing speed. The
bleak landscape hurries along like a gaunt
shadow ; fields are replaced by trees, hedges
by banks, elm-tree boles by cottage-gardens,
and still on and on goes the horse in his
wild unchecked career, caring no more for
the hand on the reins than if it were a
child's, mad with a wild, free sense of liberty,
rushing on, on, on, as though to the goal
it sought were no limits, to the limbs
and frame of the seeker was no fatigue.

It may have been hours, minutes, seconds
Yolande does not know which  when there
comes a crash, followed immediately by a
stunned, dazed feeling on her own part ; then
all is dark and silent for a space. It maybe

long or short  she cannot tell ; for her
spirit floats off into some misty dreamland,
and she is as unconscious of the pains, dangers,
or sensations of the body as if it had
nothing whatever to do with her.

When she does come back to consciousness,
however, she finds herself supported in a
man's strong, tender arms ; a voice, broken
and unsteady from a great fear and a great
lovingness, is calling on her name. Somehow
it does not seem strange or even a
liberty in such a moment as this ; and fora
few seconds more she leans against his
strong broad shoulder, wondering how it is
she is alive still.

*' Are you hurt ? " he asks, anxiously.
*' The hedge broke our fall, I know ; but do
try to tell me if you're injured. Oh, Heaven !
how shall I ever forgive myself for putting
you into such danger ? "

*' I told you  I was afraid  of the chestnut,"
says Yolande, with a strange hysterical
little laugh as she draws herself away from

his arms and sits upright. *' Don't look so
anxious," she goes on. " I daresay I am all
right  only shaken."

You are sure ? Oh, how thankful I am ! "
And Yolande thinks that in all her life she
has never seen such radiant gratitude on any
face as on his.

*' What is to be done now ? " she asks,
dismally. ** Where are we ? "

'ein a field at present," he answers,
rising from his knees and looking about
him.

*' And where is that adorable steed ? "
asks Yolande, mischievously.

'* The brute ! " mutters its owner, savagely.
** I shall sell him tomorrow."

"Thank goodness I'm not an intending
purchaser ! " exclaims Yolande, heartily ; then,
suddenly putting her hand to her head, she
cries  " Why, where is my hat ? "

*' In the hedge, I'm afraid," answers her
companion, ruefully. " I'll go and look for
it, if you like."

Well, help me up first," says Yolande.
** I want to feel if I can stand again."

He gives her both his hands ; and she
finds herself bruised and shaken and slightly
unsteady from the effects of her fall, but
otherwise not hurt. After a few moments'
search the hat is found, and Yolande replaces
it, in a slightly crushed condition, on her
ruffled tresses.

'* Fortunately for us the wheel caught, and
that checked the horse's speed for an instant
; but of course we were both thrown
out directly," says Sir Edward.

It's a mercy we're not killed ! " remarks
Yolande, turning very pale as the memory of
the furious race comes back to her mind.
The question is, what are we to do now ?
Are we far from the Hall ? "

I am afraid so," answers her companion,
anxiously, as he glances around the fast-darkening
landscape ; for, though it is not yet
five o'clock, the evening shadows are falling,
and the last rays of daylight are scarcely

visible behind the range of mountains to the
west.

How many miles, do you think % " pursues
Yolande.

'* Ten at least," he says, regretfully. *' I
suppose you are not equal to walking that ? "

I must do my best," answers the girl,
brightly. " We can't stay here  that's very
evident. I suppose there is no chance of
any of the other carriages overtaking
us ? "

'' I fear not. You see they are to go home
by the Llanfyrterm road  quite in the opposite
direction. But, if we come up to a cottage,
you might rest there, while I send a message
to the Hall for a trap, oughtn't you ? "

'' Yes," answers Yolande. " I must say I
don't feel equal to much walking. Haven't
I a bump or scratch or something on my
forehead ? " she asks, suddenly, as she turns
her face to him.

Indeed you have," he says, sorrowfully
and concernedly. " But, if you have no worse
VOL. II.

injury than that to complain of, I shall be
very thankful."

'* Did you escape equally well ? " asks Yo-lance,
remembering him for the first time.
Why, what is the matter with your arm ? "

I am afraid it is fractured or broken,"
he says, calmly. ** I fell rather heavily on
it."

And all this time you have never said
a word ! " exclaims Yolande, reproachfully.
** Does it pain you much ? "

Not half so much as the knowledge of
your danger and discomfort," he answers,
earnestly. *' How you must wish you had
never come out with me ! "

This is so exactly what Yolande does wish
and has been wishing for some time past, that
the faint disclaimer politeness demands is very
weak indeed.

They walk along silently and drearily, looking
in vain for sight of lights or habitation.
Presently, as the darkness settles down more
completely, a faint drizzle sets in, and adds

still further to the discomfort of the weary
pedestrians.

Poor Sir Edward is in an agony of self-reproach
and misery. Every glance he gives
at the pale distressed face beside him adds
a fresh pang of torture to those his heart
already endure.

'rare you cold?" he asks, suddenly, as
she shivers.

'' Yes, I am indeed ; this sort of damp mist
always chills one more than a downright good
shower."

** And our umbrellas and wraps are all in
that infernal machine ! " he mutters, savagely.
** Here, stay  let me wrap this round you."

He begins unbuttoning his great-coat ashe
speaks, and, despite all Yolande's prayers
and entreaties, wraps it in a moment round
the slight young figure.

** You must have it ! " he says, authoritatively.
" Good Heaven, child, don't you
know that if you got ill or took cold, as well
as enduring all the discomforts of such a

spill, I should be ready to cut my throat
for grief ? "

That would in no way mend matters'
says Yolande, coldly. '' Why do you talk
in that absurd way ? If there is one thing
I detest, it is exaggerated speeches ! "

'' I am very unfortunate to be always offending
you," returns her companion, humbly. " I
wish you would tell me how to please you ;
I would give a great deal to do it."

The colour spreads slowly over her face ;
her heart aches with a bitter indignation.

I think if you let me alone and did not
talk I should like it," she says at last.

That is one of your cruel speeches, Miss
Mervyn. If you only knew how they hurt me,
I think you would be a little more merciful."

Is not that a light  there ? " cries the
girl, suddenly. " Look  shining just behind
that group of trees ! "

''I see," he says, quickly. " Yes, it certainly
is. Here is a field-path leading toit.
I think it is one of the farms near

Pwym Dyas ; that dark pile there to the
right is the ruins of the old church. Well,
you will soon be able to rest now. Once at
the farm, I can send a message to the Hall,
and they will let us have a trajj in an hour
or so. Are you very tired ? "

'' Indeed I am," answers the girl, wearily.
If you only knew how I long for the sight
of a fire and a chair beside it ! Isn't it odd
how little we appreciate the every-day comforts
of life when they are around us ? It
is only when we lose them that we feel what
a loss they are."

True," he says, curtly, with a long lingering
glance at the beautiful wistful face and
a strange wonder at his heart if any loss
she has sustained throws so deep a shadow
over its beauty. " I wonder which is worst,"
he adds, presently, as they still bend their
steadfast steps towards that beacon light, *' to
sustain a loss, or to long for something too
unattainable even for the chance of possessing
and losing it % "

You are fond of propounding psychological
questions, are you not ? " laughs Yo-lance,
her spirits rising now that every step
brings them nearer and nearer to the welcome
glimmer which promises the rest and warmth
she so sorely needs. '' Do you think them
out and then answer them 1 "

I wish I could answer, or get you to
answer, one," he says, sadly.

I am not learned enough. Don't ask me
anything so dreadful," she returns, nervously.

You need not be learned. It is a very
simple one," he says, with a heavy sigh ;
but it holds all that can make my life
as bright as it is dark now, in its meaning
and reply."

'' Then I am sure I can have nothing todo
with it," she answers, coldly.

** And if you had ? " he asks.

"It is impossible for me to answer such
an impossible conjecture."

I wonder," he says, drearily, after a long
pause that follows those last distracting words,

why it is so difficult for me to gain your
friendship ? I never seem to come a step
nearer, and yet I am sure I try hard
enough."

Perhaps that is the reason," answers Yo-lance,
coolly. " One of the things that do
not come for the trying is liking."

*' Or love," he adds, slowly. *' I could wait
so long, so patiently, for such a hope as that ;
but I fear is is quite impossible."

Quite," says the girl gently ; " so please
don't think about it."

I should have to change my whole nature
then," he remarks, very sadly. " I cannot tell
you how strange a fascination your presence
has had for me from the very first moment I
beheld you  the moment that

I lifted up my eyes,
And loved you with the love that is my doom.' "

Oh, don't talk so ! " entreats Yolande. *' It
is not fair or kind of you to take advantage
of a time like this ; besides "  and her voice

breaks into a half sob, so weak and weary
and desolate does sbe feel  " besides, I must
not listen to any suck words, save from the
lips of one man only."

*' Is that true ? " he asks, fiercely, staying
her passage for a moment and gazing down
from his tall height into the sorrowful weeping
face. '' Are you engaged ? "

'* I was," she says, in confusion. " I mean
yes  you have no right to ask ! "

'' I have the right of knowing I love you
beyond and above all other things that life
holds," he says, with ever-increasing earnestness.
" But, if you have promised  "

*' I have ! " she answers, her face growing
whiter, her eyes full of fear and pain and
passionate regrets. *' And, even if I had
not, Sir Edward, I cannot give to any other
what is already  given."

"Is it so ? " he says, and drops her hand
and turns and walks on by her side. " Then
I am indeed of all men the most miserable ! "

She is quite silent.

For a moment she wonders, with that
strange hysterical mirth that sometimes touches
the borders of the safest moments of life, how
it was that the Widow Malone managed her
score of lovers when she finds even three
beyond her powers. She is very sorry for
the man beside her, so easily won, so utterly
undesired, the man for whom so may women
have sighed and ogled and spread their
snares ; and yet she, who has never cared,
or wanted him, is the successful fowler.

'' I was a fool to think of this, I suppose ? "
he says, presently. *' And yet I could not
help telling you how dearly I love you.
Even now I cannot help saying that, if at
any time, in any moment, things altered, and
you were free once more, I should never give
up hope. No coldness of yours can discourage
me. A love so faithful, so much apart from
every thought or feeling of selfishness, a love
that gives my life to your service, that is
yours to order or control as you deem best,
most surely in the end be of a little value

in your sight ; and that is better than
nothing."

It is of value indeed," returns the girl,
with deep and bitter pain ; '' but I am so
sorry that you should have thought of mein
just the one way that is impossible for me
to answer."

'* And it will be impossible  always ? "
he asks with passionate earnestness in
his strangely-shaken tones.

Always," says the girl softly, but so
firmly that he knows no further assurance is
needed to tell of the utter hopelessness of
hope.

He makes no complaint, though all the
dreamt-of beauty and brightness die out of
his heart and leave him gazing blankly at a
future where all he craves and idolises is
shut out from his possession, making only the
paradise of another, blessing it with all the
wealth of joy he has lost so utterly. Some
sympathy with his pain and suffering keeps
Yolande silent too. She has learnt for herself

how much of bitterness lurks in the
sweet and sparkling cup of love ; and she
pities most intensely the man who walks so
quietly and bravely by her side, fighting his
battle with stern and uncomplaining patience,
though he bears a mortal wound already in
his heart.

Just before they reach the farm-house door
he takes her hand in his.

** You forgive me ? " he says gently.

I have nothing to forgive," she answers,
with low and piteous voice. '* I can only
pray you to pardon me for any pain I may
have unwittingly caused."

*' You are in no way to blame," he says,
with a brave good man's unselfish tenderness.
*' You did your best to show me how foolish I
was ; but I was mad, and would not see."

They stand alone in the bleak wild scene,
the little spot of light still gleaming clearly
and steadfastly through the deepening gloom.

** I will say farewell now to all my hopes,"
he says, with the passionate regretfulness of

one who voluntarily foregoes his self-promised
bliss. '' Farewell Yolande. I may call you
that this once, may I not ? I thought it the
loveliest, sweetest name I had ever heard 
once. I shall think so even after to-night.
But from henceforth I will not trouble you
with my foolish hopes."

Their hands meet and clasp ; but he gives
her no kiss on hand or brow. It is as if he
parted with the dead, and went out thenceforth
into the coldness and emptiness of a new
life, where one word haunts him with the
bitterness of a lost and buried joy. That
word is only " missing."

CHAPTEE XIV.

jHE bright - faced, short - petticoated,
Welshwoman who opens the door
at Sir Edward's knock, stares in
open-eyed amazement at her visitors. However,
she leads them into the bright clean
little kitchen, and divests Yolande of her
damp outer garments, while Sir Edward explains
their mishap, and asks if there is anyone
who could take a message to the Hall.

They are closer to Pwym Dyas than to
Llewellyn Park, and Yolande suggests send-nor
there for assistance ; but Sir Edward
negatives the proposal after a few moments'
consideration, as he knows Mr Bertram is up
in London at present.

'' It is only a question of an hour longer,"

lie says ; " and they will be anxious about
us at the Hall."

So it ends in a note being written, and
one of the farm-lads despatched with it,
while he and Yolande make up their minds
to wait with what patience they can for the
arrival of a conveyance.

It is very pleasant in that cosy kitchen ;
and Sir Edward insists upon Miss Mervyn's
boots being removed and put to dry, and
persuades the good-natured woman to make
them some hot tea, and behaves altogether
in such a frank, elder-brotherly manner, that
Yolande feels all the awkwardness of the
situation vanish, and sits contentedly on her
high-backed chair with her little stockinged
feet on the fender and her damp shining hair
unloosed and falling around her  a picture
of beauty and comfort upon which Sir Edward
feasts his eyes unsparingly.

After the tea, however, she finds her eyes
grow strangely heavy, and her head aches
and throbs so violently, that the slightest

motion or noise is painful in the extreme.
Do what she can, her eyes will close ; and
the chatter of the Welshwoman becomes
more and more indistinct ; and her husband
at the farm, and her sons at the Aberdare
Collieries, grow strangely mixed and confused
in her listener's mind. Then some one puts
a cushion behind her head, and she leans
contentedly back, and knows no more of
what happens till she starts up, shivering
violently, and hears the old eight-day clock
over the chimney-piece striking nine.

** Why, where am I ? " she cries, in bewilderment,
as she turns her eyes from one
unfamiliar object to another.

You have been asleep," says Sir Edward,
coming over to her side, while the woman
plies her knitting-needles and with placid
amusement surveys the pair.

She knows the master of Llewellyn Hall
well ; and she immediately jumps to the conclusion
that he is courting this sweet young
creature who looks like a being from another

world, with her pale lovely face and fleece
of golden locks. She stoops intently over
her knitting and pretends to become oblivious
of their presence as the young man bends so
anxiously over the beautiful figure, wondering
why strange shivers shake her from time to
time, when her hands are so hot, her cheeks
so brightly flushed.

Has no carriage come yet ? " asks Yolande,
wearily, as, after one feeble effort to sit upright,
she leans her aching frame against the
pillows again.

No' he says ; " I cannot imagine why.
I hope the stupid fellow hasn't lost his
way."

'' How the wind howls ! " exclaims Yolande,
shivering again so violently that her very
teeth chatter.

Are you cold ? Whatever makes you
shake like that ? " exclaims Sir Edward, in
alarm.

*' I don't know," says the girl, putting up
her hands to her aching head. " I am not

cold. I am very hot. Feel." And she
places one little burning hand in his.

Oh, if they would only come ! " he
cries, impatiently, as he strides over to the
window and looks out at the black, howling
night.

But another half-hour passes before the
welcome sound of wheels is heard ; and then,
when he has given the mistress of the farm
a sovereign for her trouble, and wrapped
Yolande in a thick scarlet shawl she insists
upon lending her, they get into the carriage,
and are soon driving rapidly away
through the storm and gloom of the wild
night.

That strange languor and fatigue steal again
and again over Yolande's aching body. She
feels as if a heavy weight were lying on her
chest, and every moment breathing becomes
more difficult. She is alarmed, and yet
too weary and faint to speak about it. Suddenly,
after one of the long shivers, she begins
to cough  a harsh, hoarse, terrible cough,
VOL. II. p

that sounds even worse to the ears that hear
it than to herself.

'' Oh, you are ill  you are suffering ! " he
cries, in an agonised voice that sounds dull
and far away to her ears.

She cannot contradict him ; she feels that
speech is almost beyond her strength with
the dead heavy weight on her chest, the
strange oppression in her laboured breath.
She is beyond all resistance when he takes
her in his kind strong arms and lays her
head against his shoulder, drawing the warm
crimson folds of her shawl more closely round
the slender figure, and murmuring tender,
gentle words as a mother might murmur to
her sick child.

At last the carriage stops. She has no
notion of time or place. She is just barely
conscious of a group of frightened faces, of
a buzz of anxious voices ; and then some one
carries her up the broad oak stairs, and someone
else takes off her clothes, and she is laid
in the softest of white nests  too utterly spent

and weary to speak, or care, or look at her
attendant, who is no other than kind-hearted,
faithful Rose.

'' She will be all right tomorrow," says
the girl, coming out to speak to Sir Edward,
who hangs anxiously about the passage, and
cannot be persuaded to eat, drink, or rest.

I have sent for Evans," he says, alluding
to the family doctor. '* I shall wait up till
he comes. Are you going to stay with her ? "
he continues, anxiously.

*' Of course," answers Rose, bravely, though
she feels her own hopes sinking lower and
lower at every word he speaks, though she
knows she has met her rival in this girl she
has loved so dearly.

Oh, thank you a thousand times ! " he
says, gratefully. 'rit is all my fault, you
know," he goes on, with passionate remorse 
all my fault ! Good Heaven, when I think
of it, it nearly drives me mad ! If anything
happens to her what am I to do ? "

*' Nothing will happen, I hope," returns

Rose, soothingly. " Don't distress yourself so
much. She has caught a chill, and the fall
must have bruised and shaken her ; but a
few days' rest and nursing will soon put
her all right."

Then she goes away into the room again,
where poor Yolande is growing worse and
worse every minute, for the hard, hacking
cough is accompanied now by spitting of
blood ; and Rose sends an urgent message
to Miss Llewellyn to come up and see
her.

Hour after hour passes, and, even to their
inexperienced eyes, the girl seems worse after
each. They watch beside her all night, and
at daybreak the doctor at last arrives. He
had been away when the message was sent.
His face grows very grave as he looks at
his patient.

She is very ill," he says ; ** it is inflammation
of the lungs."

All through that miserable Sunday the girl
lies unconscious on her bed, knowing no one ;

feverish and rambling in her talk, utterly
prostrate and helpless.

Mrs Davies is of course informed of the
catastrophe, and hurries off with all speed to
Llewellyn Park. To remove the girl is out
of the question, and it is equally impossible
for the good schoolmistress to forego her own
duties at this the heaviest time of the year.
She is obliged, however, to yield to Rose
Bertram's frantic entreaties, and leaves her to
nurse her friend with all the zeal and devotion
of her large-hearted nature. It is a relief to
know that Yolande is not entirely among
strangers.

She seeks an interview with the doctor, and
begs him to tell her if there is any danger, for
she is uncertain whether to telegraph to the
Court or not. But Doctor Evans will not
commit himself yet.

"Careful nursing," he says, "and strict
attention to my orders are all that are needed.
It is a case that depends more on nursing than
medicine."

And Mrs Davies, feeling sure that weak
inexperienced girls like Enid and Yi would
only do more harm than good, decides on
waiting a day or two longer before alarming
them with such tidings. Of Denzil Charteris
she does not think at all.

Sir Edward is reduced to a state of pitiable
despair. He waylays the doctor at every
visit ; he bribes the servants to peep into the
sick-room on every possible pretence, that he
may know how the patient is ; in fact he
behaves in a manner so wild and irrational
that he nearly drives his sister frantic.

All the guests have left now. The house is
strangely quiet and desolate ; and its master
only feels, as each long day goes by, that if he
could offer every valuable or precious thing
he possesses, if he could turn his heart's blood
into payment for that fragile life still trembling
in the balance, he would do so without an
instant's hesitation. But the greatest love
cannot purchase a human life.

If he had any work or occupation to employ

his time or concentrate his thoughts upon, he
would not suffer so severely. But he has
nothing ; he can only sit in passive idleness,
waiting, waiting  oh, the heartsick anguish of
that word !  waiting for some hopeful tidings
that yet never come through all those weary
days.

It is a week since Yolande fell ill ; and today
for the first time one tiny symptom of a
change has been observed  not much, not
anything on which to build the certainty of
hope, but still something that has lightened the
load upon Sir Edward's heart, something which
causes him, as he sits now in his own quiet
study, to bow his face on his trembling hands
while great drops trickle and fall from his
hidden eyes, in the gratitude and relief of this
most exquisite moment.

Pbr half-an-hour he sits motionless ; then
the entrance of a footman rouses him. The
man stirs the fire and lights the reading-lamp,
and places a salver of letters and papers on

the table by his master's side. The sight of
that pile rouses Sir Edward from his reverie.
All through this dreary anxious week his correspondence
has been neglected and his papers
have been unread ; and now with a vigorous
effort he draws up his chair to the table and
commences to look over the accumulated pile.
The first letter he opens makes him stare
in bewilderment. It is from the editor of the
Ystradffelter Express, a local paper he had
once refused to patronise, to the great irritation
of its publisher, and runs as follows : 

Dear Sir,  As I received no answer to
my communication of the 1st instant, I
have published the item alluded to, and
forward copy of the Ystradffelter Express
of the 2d of November for your perusal."

'' What the deuce does the fellow mean ? "
exclaims Sir Edward, in astonishment, as here
-peruses this epistle, and still cannot imagine
its drift.

Then it occurs to him that the best way
of solving the matter will be to look over
the papers. And he begins to search among
London weeklies, and dailies, and Welsh
Couriers and Expresses for the special one
to which his attention has been directed.

It is not among the heap beside him ;
and, after a good deal of time and patience
exhausted in the search, he rings the bell
for the footman.

'james," he says, *has a Ystradffelter
Express been sent here within the last
week ? "

The man looks slightly confused.

*' Yes ; I believe  I mean I don't know,
sir," he stammers. " I fancy I heard Thompson
say that such a paper had come, but
that he did not like to send it up, as you
once told him if that paper ever came to
the hall he was to light the fires with it."

*' Yes ; it's a scurrilous rag, I know," answers
Sir Edward. *' But, as it happens, I
want to see last week's  the 2d. Just go and

see if it's downstairs, and tell Thompson
another time not to be in such a hurry to
act on his own authority in matters that
don't concern him."

The man bows, and beats a hasty retreat,
while Sir Edward spends the intervening
time between his absence and return in reading
some of his letters ; and the bewilderment
on his face deepens as each one is
perused and thrown aside.

** Have they all gone mad," he says ; " oris
it a hoax ? "

Presently the man enters with the paper
for which his master has asked, and a muttered
apology to the effect that, as he had
forbidden it ever to come into the house, no
one had liked to bring it up with the others.
Sir Edward cuts his explanation short and dismisses
him ; then he draws his chair close to
the light, and opens out the hitherto despised
chronicle, with a vivid interest and eagerness
that would have gladdened its editor s heart
could he have seen it.

He begins at the first page and runs his
eye over numerous advertisements of every
description. There is nothing there of any
interest to him. Then comes a list of local
births, deaths, and marriages  about which
the only thing remarkable is the recurrence
of similar names. Then come long notices
of board meetings, school meetings, chapel
meetings, and penny readings, odd fragments
of poetry, chiefly Welsh, descriptions of
crimes, criminals, and misdemeanours, colliery
accidents, farming items, jokes, tales, and
local gossip.

Hitherto nothing has rewarded his efforts ;
and he is just about to throw the paper
down in disgust, when a short paragraph,
in which his own name figures, catches his
eye. He reads it, and then he sits gazing
blankly at the paper, reading over and over
again those few lines, and yet utterly unable
to comprehend what they mean, so dazed
and bewildered does he feel ; yet presently,
when the cloud clears ofi* from his brain, he

finds himself studying these words as though
he had not gone over them half a score
times already : 

'' We believe, on good authority, that Sir
Edward Llewellyn, of Llewellyn Park, is
shortly to be united to Miss Mervyn, of
Mervyn Court, Ashbourne, Devon. The
young lady is a guest at Llewellyn Hall
at the present time."

The infernal liars ! " mutters the young
man, wrathfully, as he dashes the paper to
the ground.

It then suddenly occurs to him that the
letter alluded to may furnish some clue
to this mystery. Hereupon ensues another
search, and at last the missive is found.
This is its purport : 

The editor of the Ystradffelter Express
will have much pleasure in inserting the
notice Sir Edward Llewellyn has forwarded,
unless he hears anything to the contrary
from that gentleman before going to press."

Hang it all, who has been taking these

liberties with my name ? " mutters the irate
baronet. *' I must see into this at once."

But he knows well enough that he cannot
do anything till the following morning, when
he must drive into the town and see the
editor himself, and ascertain how such an unauthenticated
statement came to be inserted.

*' Of course it must be contradicted at
once," he says to himself. '' Ah, me, my
darling, if it were only true, what a happy
man I should be to-night ! "

Again and again his eyes turn to the
newspaper, and again every time does he
marvel how such a report could have spread
in so short a space. It is only eight days
since Yolande came to the Hall, eight days
since that memorable drive, eight days since
fear and anxiety for her welfare have changed
him into a haggard, careworn man.

It can't have done any mischief yet,"
he thinks, wearily, after long cogitation has
made his head ache as its only result.
*' She does not know of it at all events ;

and the fellow she is engaged to  if she is
engaged  is not likely to hear it ; and so I
can soon set matters straight. But I'm
determined to get at the bottom of this,
and see if anything more than editorial love
of gossip led to its insertion."

And somehow  unconscious as he is of all
enmity roused against himself, or the girl he
loves so vainly  a doubt creeps into his mind
as to whether some deep and wanton motive
has not had a part in this senseless, foolish
trick, or some hidden malice lies beneath the
surface of those brief false words. He has
no reason to fear treachery for himself or
for her ; and yet he does fear it ; and a
strange dread and a hot anger rise up
in his heart the more he thinks of the
matter.

This is a hard night for him, despite the
last news he hears of Yolande's faint but sure
amendment. He tosses sleeplessly on his
couch, wondering what she would say if she
knew the lie that had coupled her name with

his, and sent it broadcast at the fancy of
every gossiping tongue in the county.

More and more uneasy does he become the
more he thinks of it ; and the long dark hours
go on, and he lies wide awake, only longing
and looking for the morning, only trusting
that his refutation of the lying paragraph
may come before it has had time to work
mischief to his darling  for of himself he
never thinks.

Alas, if he only knew what mischief it has
worked, his self-reproach would be ten thousand
times sharper than it is !

Denzil Charteris sits in his library, alone.
He has been alone the whole day long, fighting
with a '' devil worse than any death,"
as the poet calls it, the furious jealousy of a
wronged and self-deluded man.

A letter and a newspaper lie before him 
small things, insignificant things enough, and
yet they have been able to wreck a man's life,
they have rendered him for the time being

mad as any poor wretch in Bedlam! The
newspaper has reached him directed in Yo-lance's
handwriting. The letter merely said
that she had changed her mind and accepted
Sir Edward as her future husband, though
she would always look upon Denzil as a
friend. She begged him not to write, as he
could only reproach her for fickleness ; but
then he must remember she was only acting
up to the character he had given her long ago.

The letter and the paragraph marked in the
newspaper, following closely upon the cold
insinuation of her intended visit and the
strange silence following, are confirmation of
perfidy too strong for Denzil to doubt. He
knows her writing, her paper with the
curiously wreathed monogram *'Y. M.," and
the sweet faint scent that it always bore.
He knows too that fatal coquetry of hers,
which, while it allures so resistlessly, scatters
suffering right and left without a pang of
remorse.

As he has judged her first, so he has found

her. There is nothing improbable or unlikely
in this sudden change. Has she not tricked
young Stapleton in the self same manner ?
Is it likely she should resist the temptation
again ? Besides, Sir Edward Llewellyn is far
wealthier than Denzil Charteris. So he goes
on from thought to thought, until a thousand
jealous demons seem to take possession of him;
and he spends the whole long terrible day in
his lonely room, desperate with grief and agony
and shame, utterly unable to account for any
action, to conquer any paroxysm of fury.

It grows dusk. The light of the fire burns
low, the shadows fall broadly and slowly and
dimly across the darkening room ; but the
man sitting there with bowed head and tortured
heart seems to take no heed of time,
to be utterly insensible to anything around,
save only the knowledge of his own suffering
freshly dealt by a woman's hand.

Yet suddenly, when the soft gloom is
deepest, he becomes conscious of some other
presence beside him, of a tender voice whose
VOL. ir. Q

soothing tones steal like music to his bewildered
brain, and rob it of some of the
fierce dazed horror that has made it burn
with murderous passion throughout those
wretched hours. He does not question how
it is that Pauline should be there beside
him now, weeping passionate tears of sorrow
for his sorrow, whispering tenderest words of
peace and consolation in this most terrible
crisis of his life. He may be mad or dreaming
; he neither knows nor pauses to question
it. She has suited her time so well ; she
has come just when the force and fury of
the storm have left him weak and passive
in her skilful hands. It does not need much,
only the tears of a true and unalienated
sympathy, only the showing up the contrast
betwixt fidelity and faithlessness, only gentle
ministry to mind and body, just when the
long strain of suffering has left them
feeble as an infant's. Before these arts he
falls, before the splendour of the voluptuous
beauty thrown into his very arms, the

declaration of the long faithful devotion this
one woman at least has held for him, he has
neither wish nor will to resist now. Her
words do not stir his heart  it is utterly-dead
; but the thought that the cruel girl
who has so deceived him should see her arts
have not ruined his life, steals feverishly into
that deadly apathy and arouses it into life.

He leans his burning brow upon the temptress's
breast, he listens to her sweet soft
whispers. Hating one woman for her falseness,
he clings to another for her seeming truth.
Ere two days have passed they are married by
special licence at Beechhampton Priory.

So the printed lie does its work fatally well,
while Yolande lies prostrate and unconscious
of the fearful blow it has dealt ; and the man
she has loved so dearly, binds himself in fetters
indissoluble to the traitress who has deluded
both.

END OF VOL. II.

Cotton AND SON, Printers, EDINBURGH.

L I E) RARY

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

Of 

V.3

A NOVEL.

BY

'' K I T A,"

AUTHOR OF " VIVIENNE," " LIKE Dean's KISS,
COUNTESS DAPHNE," ETC.

IJV THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

TINSLEY Brothers,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

188 1.

AU Rights reserved.

nn

MY LADY COQUETTE.

Chapter.

[IR EDWARD LLEWELLYN gets
very little satisfaction from his
visit to the editor of the Estrade
Express. He is a cringing low-born
tradesman, who by dint of struggling and some
poor pretence of learning, has won himself
this position. From his account it appears
that the notice had been forwarded to the
publishing office, written in a clear, bold hand,
and bearing the seal and motto of the Llewellyn
on paper and envelope. When Sir

VOL. III. A

Edward sees the document, he recognises his
own usual writing-paper easily enough ; but
still he is at a loss to imagine what member
of his household could have had the audacity
to play such a practical joke.

He knows nothing of such a sheet of paper
and envelope given to Rose Bertram on the
day of her arrival at the Hall by Miss Llewellyn,
and sent by Rose to Jane Croft at
Llwynpia House in compliance with that
young lady's urgent request for the crest of
the Llewellynss. Even if he had known of
such a circumstance, his honest, not over-quick
intellect, would have seen no connecting link
between the two facts, for how could Jane
Croft possibly interest herself in his affairs
or those of Yolande Mervyn ?

After a sharp reprimand to the editor to be
more careful on what authority he prints such
paragraphs for the future, and a hint from
that worthy man to the effect that, if people
would only read their letters when they were
received, it might save much after confusion,

the young baronet leaves the office and rides
]pack gloomily to the Hall.

The report will, of course, be contradicted
in the next week's issue of the paper ; but
meanwhile hundreds may have seen and read
it ; and there is no knowing how much
mischief might have been done. His day's
troubles are not half over, however ; for, on
reaching home, he hears that Mrs Davies is
waiting in the library to see him, and, on
going thither, finds that worthy lady in a
most distressed state of mind.

Have you seen this ? " she cries, handing
him a newspaper and utterly forgetting any
other sort of greeting, so troubled and bewildered
does she feel.

'the Express'' he says, in fierce annoyance
at its haunting persistence. " Oh,
yes ! I've just been to blow up the editor
about it. I can't imagine who's done
this."

The Express f No," returns Mrs Davies
'* the Times  yesterday's Times !

Good Heaven ! it's not in that, surely ? "
cries the perplexed baronet, as he takes the
proffered journal from her hand.

*' Look there, in the list of marriages ! "
answers Mrs Davies. " Oh, dear, if Yolande
sees it, it will kill her ! "

Still with his own thoughts harping on that
one subject about which he is concerned, Sir
Edward looks stupidly at the list before him.
The names are so numerous, the print is so
small, and his own brain so confused, that he
cannot for some moments distinguish anything
bearing the importance Mrs Davies
words imply.

** There  there ! " she says, impatiently,
pointing to the place. " Don't you see,
Charteris,' ' Eay ' ? "

He does see the words at last. With
astonishment he reads the following announcement,


'* On the 5th inst., at Beechhampton
Priory, Ashbourne, Devon, by special licence,
Denzil Charteris, Esq. of Beechhampton, to

Pauline Kay, widow of the late Cranston
Ray, Esq."

He turns his eyes on Mrs Davies's pale
troubled face, and the paper falls from his
hand.

*' It cannot be," he says aloud ; " there
must be some mistake ! "

But, even as he says the words, he remembers
the paragraph in the local paper,
and the whole vile plot flashes across his
mind. This is no mere hoax, no foolish
joke ; it is part of a deep-laid scheme  a
scheme to ruin the happiness of two people ;
and he knows it has succeeded through his own
fatal negligence. Had he but read the notice
sent him, he would have inquired into tiie
matter, and then it would have been stopped
in time ; whereas now  now, alas, he cannot
stay the mischief it has worked, he cannot
avert the blow that will shatter the happiness
of the girl he loves for ever !

'what is to be done?" continues his
companion, presently. ** If Yolande were to

hear of this in her weak and critical condition,
it would kill her outright. Can you
keep it from her ? "

I must," he says, sternly. ** I will give
due warning to all those who come near her ;
and you must keep back her letters for the
present. As for my own course of action,
I see it plainly now. I shall go to Beech-hampton
at once. Perhaps this is only a
lie after all. I must see Charteris and
explain."

Then you might also go to Mervyn Court
and tell the girls about Yolande's illness,"
suggests Mrs Da vies, eagerly. *' Say that
we are doing everything necessary, and that
the doctor says quiet and good nursing will
soon bring her round. She has a good constitution
fortunately. The only thing he
fears is the winter coming on. Her chest
will be so delicate after this. It is very
likely she may have to go away to Italy or
the south of France to set her up."

'' Yes ; I will tell them," says Sir Edward,

with a heavy sigh. " I can but hope I may
bring her back some good news, poor girl.
How unfortunate that none of us thought
of telling Charteris about her illness before
! "

*rit has all been so sudden and terrible
you see," answers Mrs Davies. " After all,
it is but a week too ! Who could hav
imagined so much happening iiL so short a
time ? "

Sir Edward is silent ; his thoughts are busy
with that other matter, of which Mrs Davies
knows nothing as yet.

Had Miss Mervyn any enemies here ? "
he asks, suddenly.

** Enemies ? " cries the old lady, in surprise.
" Certainly not  at least not that I
am aware of. She was the idol of the whole
school. They have been in despair since her
illness."

'' Well, at Ashbourne ? " he continues, earnestly.
" I ask for a special motive. It
seems to me that some one has been maliciously

tampering with her name and  and
another person's, for reasons I cannot quite
fathom yet. If you knew anything that
would give me ever so faint a clue, it would
be of great service at the present time. You
see I cannot ask her."

Mrs Davies shakes her head gravely.

No," she says, slowly, " I know no one
who has such a feeling as you describe. But
of course such a person may exist. I am not
acquainted with her life at Mervyn Court, or
any friends or enemies she may have made
there."

'* Ah, well, I must do my best to find
out ! " remarks Sir Edward. '' And now,
Mrs Davies, I will send my sister to you.
You will need some refreshment before you
return. I must go and prepare for my
journey."

*' Good-bye, and Heaven speed you ! " she
says, earnestly, as she takes his hand and
looks up at his grave and troubled face. " I
hope you may find things better than you

imagine, and bring her lover back with you
if possible. No one can breed dissension
between them then."

He does not answer ; it sends a sharp thrill
of pain to his heart to know that he has this
task to perform, to seek the man who stands
in the place he covets, and explain to him
all the series of contretemjps that one short
week has wrought.

*' Charteris was always so confoundedly
jealous too," he thinks, as he turns away
from the old lady's friendly face, and goes
off to summon his valet and prepare for his
hurried journey. '' I hope, however, that he
has not been such a fool as to marry another
woman in such hot haste. Why, even if he received
that paper, he might have waited longer
than two days for confirmation of such a report !
Nothing would have induced me to believe
ill of her, save from her own lips ! "

They were the very words Denzil Charteris
had used in a love and trust as deep as that
of the man who now thought them ; yet,

tried by the same circumstances, perhaps he
too might have been found wanting.

As fast as the express train can take him,
does Sir Edward Llewellyn speed down to
Devonshire, and at noon next day he drives
over from Colston to Beechhampton.

Yes ; Mr Charteris is at home," he is
informed, rather doubtfully, the man going
on to say that his master denies himself to
all visitors ; " would Mrs Charteris do ? ''

'' Certainly not," answers Sir Edward, with
terrible want of courtesy ; and he is just
about to send in his card when a sudden
thought flashes across him. If Charteris sees
his name, it is not at all likely that he will be
received ; so, after an instant's hesitation, he
bids the man say he has called on important
business.

'' Shall I say from Mr Herrick ? " asks
Thompson, eagerly. " Mr Charteris receives
no one but him."

"Yes, yes," answers Sir Edward, who does
not know Mr Herrick, but looks upon the

man's suggestion as a perfect godsend in this
dilemma.

accordingly he is shown into a small room
fitted up like a study, and there left to await
the master of the house. It may be five or
ten minutes  Sir Edward does not know 
when the opening of the door makes him
turn round sharply.

Good Heaven, Charteris, is it you ? " he
says, and then his outstretched hand falls to
his side.

Is this Charteris  this man gaunt and worn
and white as ashes, with a fierce light burning
in his deep dark eyes, the impress of a
fearful misery on his haggard face ?

It is the look in those eyes that terrifies
Sir Edward now, the look of madness, devil-wrought
and murderous, that flashes over the
face, till, with a quick-drawn breath and hand
upraised to parry a frenzied blow, he gasps
out, 

Stay, Charteris ; it is a lie  all ! "

The haggard face before him changes, the

white lips part, yet no word comes. Sir
Edward takes his arm and leads him to a
chair as though he were a child.

*' Listen," he says, in calm steady tones
that insensibly control the ear of the miserable
being who hears them. " She came to
stay at the Park with my sister, and met
with an accident while driving. She has been
very ill, and could not write. Some blundering
fool sent a gossiping notice to one of the
local papers. Have you seen it ? "

"Yes," he answers, hoarsely.

Then it is as I suspected ! " cries Sir
Edward. '' This is all part of a scheme to
ruin her happiness and yours. One word
more, Charteris. You did not believe it ? "

'' I did."

*' But you are not lost to her ? You did
not distrust her quite so easily ? You are
not"

** Married ? Yes ! "  and he laughs a laugh
as mad and fierce as ever left a madman's lips
in the solitude of his lonely cell.

Sir Edward shudders as he hears the
sound.

Then it is too late," he says, and sinks
down into the opposite chair, with the
misery of that other face reflected in his
own. "How could you have doubted her
so easily ? " he groans aloud. " Could you
not have waited, or written, or come, before
putting this crowning barrier between her
love and yours ? "

She does not love me ! " exclaims the
wretched man, wildly. *' I have her own
letter, in which she told me she was about towed
you. And when the paper came too,
and I saw it printed there, I could doubt no
longer."

Oh, Heaven, what a net of misery you
have woven ! " cries Sir Edward, in despair.
*' The mistake, the letter, the doubts, all these
could have been explained away ; but nothing
can undo the knot you have tied for yourself.
Oh, Chart eris, were you mad, to throw away
your happiness thus ? "

Deuzil makes no answer. He only sits in
stony, haggard misery, his senses coming
slowly, uncertainly back, after the long and
fearful strain of the past week. Piece by
piece he puts together the framework of this
puzzle ; drop by drop does his cup of wretchedness
fill with every added proof. He has
been duped and deceived by the woman whose
only fault till now he deemed her too great
love for him. Shudderingly he thinks of
Yolande's parting words, '' Don't mistrust me,
whatever any one may say." And what has
he done ? Not only believed ill of her, butin
his madness bound himself to the woman
who has worked this deadly wrong. Yes, he
sees it all now so clearly  the cruel, horrible
jjlot, the well-timed consolation and sympathy
that soothed his anguish and whispered to
the heart wrung desolate man, '' Am I not
here, and do I not love you ten thousand
times better than she ? Would I not rather
have the dregs of your life and heart than the
whole devotion and worship of another man ? "

He thinks of the love, the tenderness, the
clinging beauty of the siren who bewitched
him, who threw the glamour of the senses
over his momentary madness, who worked
upon his pride and outraged honour and
falsified trust, who  But there he ceases.

A whirlwind of passion shakes him as a
storm may shake a reed. He starts to his
feet and throws his clasped hands wildly
above him.

*' Heaven ! " he cries, '* shall I never
cross this gulf that lies between my love and
me ? Shall I yearn for her unceasingly,
knowing that my own mad folly has lost
her ? Oh, that I might die ! that I might
die!" And, sobbing like a child, he falls
upon his knees before the pitying, compassionate
face of his friend.

Come, Charteris," says Sir Edward, " bea
man  bear it bravely. We all have our
troubles. Heaven knows I I too have a heavy
burden to bear, and I feel often as if it were
beyond my strength."

But, oh, think of mine, think of mine ! '
moans the wretched, broken-down man before
him. '* And to know that I owe it all to  "

Quite suddenly he springs to his feet.
His face is ghastly pale, his burning eyes
look wildly before him.

I forgot," he says. ** Ha, ha ! I make buta
sorry bridegroom, do I not, Llewellyn ?
Let me make amends at last. You shall
come with me and be introduced to  my
wife I "

He makes one step forward towards the
door ; but ere he reaches it, he throws his
arms wildly forward and falls to the ground
as senseless and helpless as the dead.

Fortnight has passed since Yo-lance
was taken ill, and to-day she
has been pronounced out of danger.
Save for extreme weakness, and a slight
irritating cough that comes on in the evenings,
she feels " as well as ever," so she
says. But the doctor never ceases to impress
upon her and all around her the necessity
of extreme care, and the advisability of trying
a warmer climate for the winter.

She is lying on a couch in the dressing-room
adjoining her bedroom, for this is the
first day she has been able to get up, and Rose
Bertram sits beside her. She keeps her face
studiously averted from Yolande, for it is a
very tell-tale face, and the anxiety depicted

VOL. III. B

upon it at the present time might have struck
any casual observer.

'* I am sure you must be tired of me, dear
Rose," says the invalid, softly. " What a
trouble I have been to you all this time, and
how good and patient you were ! I wonder
you are not worn out ! But Enid is coming
tomorrow, and so you will be relieved. How
kind it was of Sir Edward to go and fetch
her ! "

For Yolande knows nothing of the real
cause of the master of Llewellyn's absence, nor
how for three days and nights he has watched
beside the couch of the man who was once his
rival. Doctor Deane declares that Charteris
has had a narrow escape of brain fever, and
that nothing but his friend's incessant care has
warded it off. However, a heart-sick, grey,
haggard man rises from the three days' couch
of agony and delirium, and, looking up at the
face of the man who has saved him, cries passionately,
" Could you not even let me die "? "

It is but poor thanks to receive for the self-sacrifice

entailed, but Sir Edward feels only
pity, not anger, and says compassionately, 

'* Life and death are not in man's hands,
Charteris. You have work yet to do in the
world, be sure of that."

But of all this Yolande knows nothing.
Lying pale and shadowy on her couch, she
thinks remorsefully of her cold letter to Denzih
Her doubts begin to die away. She remembers
the proud, imperious, love-lit face where
truth spoke out in every line. She remembers
his words, so tender, so loving, so sad.
She asks herself is it possible that one short
week would have changed him so ? She even
makes excuses for the tone of his letter. He
may have been worried, pressed for time,
puzzled by difficulties. Why should she have
condemned him so readily ? In her weakness,
and thankfulness for the life that has been
spared, her pride gives way, her heart softens.
*' Rose," she says, presently, " do you know
if any one wrote to Mr Charteris about my
illness ? "

No, Mrs Davies forgot ; and she was the
only one who knew his address," answers the
girl

Ah, then he does not know ? " Poland
cries, eagerly, the bright pink spot which excitement
always brings into her cheeks now
burning brighter and deeper as she raises herself
to a sitting position. " Rose, dear, I must
write to him at once. He will think it so
strange, all this silence."

**No, Yolande  not yet. You are too
weak," urges Rose, earnestly. *' Wait a few
days more, dear, till you are stronger and
more like yourself. Perhaps he is on his
way here even now. He might come back
at any moment."

Yolande smiles ; such a tender, wistful smile
that it makes her friend's heart ache as she
sees it.

At any time, on any day ! " she echoes,
softly. ** How nice and comforting that
sounds, Rose ! Oh, I do hope he will ! You
know, dear, we had a little  not quarrel 

difference, and I was very proud and cold
about it, and wrote him an angry letter.
How I wish I had not done it now ! I
suppose," she adds, wistfully, "there is no
other from him ? Nothing came since I
have been ill ? "

No," says Rose, bending over the fire
and intently arranging an obstinate coal that
seems very unequally balanced.

Yolande sighs. She feels disappointed, but
still bravely tries to repress it, and tells herself
that it is all her own fault.

I think I ought to write," she says again,
gently but decidedly. " Come Rose, darling,
be good and hand me my desk from the
table there. I will send only two or three
lines, I promise you."

Rose is in despair. She knows the whole sad,
pitiful tale. She knows that the fragile, loving
girl beside her has no right now to address asa
lover the man who is lost to her for ever.
Yet what can she do ? To deny, or excuse,
will only arouse suspicion. Perhaps it is

better to let her have her way. She brings
the desk and puts it on a small table beside
the couch, and arranges th pillows behind
Yolande, so that she may lean back even
while writing. The grateful smile and earnest
kiss she receives as thanks, almost breakdown
her composure. She feels a lump in
her throat, a sudden dimness comes into her
eyes, as she turns away hurriedly.

Yolande is sitting up now, and the position
shows her the reflection of herself in the large
mirror opposite to her couch.

I did not think I looked so well, Kose,"
she says, brightly. " Why, I have as much
colour as ever, haven't I ? Of course I am
thinner "  and she looks at the slender white
arms for which the sleeves of her dressing-gown
seem so unaccountably large  "decidedly
thinner," she go'Ss on, seeing how
loosely the once well-fitting robe hangs around
her pretty figure. '' Like poor love-lorn
Gloria, I must have ' me frocks tuk in.'
But I daresay I shall soon get plump again,

once I can leave the house and get about.
I shall have to drink Guinness's stout, the
double X  sha net I, Rose ?  or cod liver oil,
or something of that kind. I don't like to
be thin, you know. Don't you remember
how we laughed at Jane Croft when she
said no waist could be genteel that measured
over twenty inches % I suppose mine is
genteel by this time ! "

So, babbling on with foolish, merry words,
she begins her letter, while Rose Bertram
kneels by the fire in an agony of dread and
shame, marvelling how the poor, trusting,
ignorant girl will receive the awful news in
store for her.

It is not a very long letter that Yolande
writes, but a sweet, trusting, tender little
letter, every sentence of which will burn in
words of fire to 'the heart of the man who
reads it. She tells him that she has had
only one letter from him, and that that was
so strangely cold and unloverlike that it
made her angry, and so called forth the

abrupt and equally cold response. Then she
speaks of her accident and illness, and finally
tells him how she longs to see him again
how in her weakness and weariness her
heart calls always and only for him, and,
if he can come, or cares to come, how gladly
she will welcome him after these weeks of
absence and restraint.

"There," she says, after it is signed, sealed,
and addressed ; *' now I feel better. You
must please put it into the post-bag yourself,
Kose, and I shall know it is safe."

And so thankful is Rose for the excuse to
leave the room that she hurries off with most
suspicious alacrity. On the way she stops at
Miss Llewellyn's door.

*' Please go and sit with her a little while,"
she entreats. ** To have to stop there and
hear her talk in all her innocence and unconsciousness
is more than I can bear." And
she bursts into bitter agonised weeping.

The kind old maiden lady soothes her very
gently, and then, bidding her remain quiet

until she has recovered her usual composure,
she hurries away to the invalid's room.

'sand so you are really up again, my dear!"
she says, brightly, as Yolande rises from her
recumbent attitude to greet her.

"Yes, and feeling so much better and
stronger," the girl answers, joyfully. "Don't
you think I got over it well ? "

'' Wonderfully," is the hearty rejoinder ; and
Miss Llewellyn bends over the girl, kissing
her many times, and wraps the white fleecy
shawl more closely round the slender figure.

You did not think I should be well so
soon, did you ? " persists Yolande, cheerfully.
The doctor says I must have a good constitution."


Yes," says the old lady, calmly, wondering
what it is in the look and aspect of the
beautiful girl which sends so sharp a thrill of
pain to her compassionate heart. But she is
accustomed to rigid self-control, and Yolande
cannot see the efibrt it costs her to look and
speak in her usual manner.

Miss Llewellyn sits quietly chatting to the
sick girl upon a thousand light indifferent
matters  of her sister's expected arrival, of
the near approach of Christmas, of Rose
Bertram's regret at being obliged to go back
to school for the last three weeks of the term
of anything and everything that can amuse
and distract her fancy for the moment, until
at last Yolande, with a little tired sigh,
declares she is lazy enough to long for bed ;
and Rose is summoned, and they both undress
her, and the couch is wheeled back with heron
it, and once more she nestles among the
downy pillows, and closes her eyes, declaring
after all she cannot be quite so strong as she
thought she was.

All this is heart-rending to Rose ; and all
the time she dreads what the future only too
surely has in store for the sorely-tired girl.
She has to smile and move about, and decry
Yolande's languid fears, and tell her she will
soon be strong and well once more, only she
must not expect too much at once.

Enid Mervyn arrives next day, and is
shocked at the change in her sister. Not
being accustomed to self-control, she gives
way, despite all Miss Llewellyn's cautions, to
bitter weeping and lamentations at sight of
Yolande. Rose is very wroth with her, and
declares sternly that she will not leave her
in charge of her patient if she is going to
behave in such a silly, childish way. At this
Enid gets indignant. She is sixteen now, and
quite as tall as Yolande, though angular and
undeveloped in comparison with her sister's
exquisitely-proportioned figure. But she is
very pretty  almost as pretty as Yolande, Sir
Edward Llewellyn thinks. She has the same
wavy, curly hair, though more brown than
gold lurks in its brightness, and her eyes are
brown and soft as a water-brook that runs
over dark dim pebbles underneath the shadows
of thick-foliaged trees.

Such eyes are very fascinating ; sparkling,
tender, soft, beseeching, capable of mirroring
every motion, from laughter to sorrow, from

pity to pain ; and they have been brought to
play upon the lacerated feelings of the handsome
young baronet in a way which shows
Enid too is not quite inexperienced in those
witching arts that seemed so peculiarly to
belong to "My Lady Coquette."

At Rose Bertram's rebuke she stifles back
the sobs that have so distressed Yolande, and
begins, with all the composure and alacrity
that Rose herself has displayed, to render
her sister the little services she still requires.


Sir Edward has been obliged to explain to
Enid the state of affairs between Denzil and
Yolande, and has sternly impressed upon her
the need of caution in mentioning his name
if her sister should speak of him.

As soon as she is stronger the truth must
be told," he says, very sadly ; 'but that lies
between Charteris and herself. Heaven pity
them in the ordeal ! What we have to dois
to get up her strength as fast as we canso
that the shock may not fall on a weakened

frame. Even with all that care and affection
can do, I dread the result inexpressibly."

Something in his voice and face makes
the quick-witted girl look up sharply.

" So that's how the land lies ! " she says
to herself. '' Yolande has been at her old
tricks ! Will she ever be able to spare a
single man she comes across ? "

She promises to be discretion itself, however,
and fulfils her promise fairly well, telling
Yolande that Denzil Charteris is as busy
as he can be with following up the hue-and-cry
after the supposed murderer of the unknown
man found drowned in Dead Man's
Pool

'' And he has been ill too," she says,
foolishly.

111 ! "  and Yolande turns deadly pale.
'' Oh, and I was so cruel, and thought such
hard things of him ! " And thereto she falls
into such an agony of remorse that Enid
sorely regrets her inadvertence.

For the next few days every drop of

nourishment and medicine the invalid takes
is coaxed down with Denzil's name, and the
declaration what a pleasure it would be to
him to see her strong and like herself. But
the best and most miraculous medicine of
all is a paper, bearing a few blotted lines
of hurried writing. It only says, 

** My Darling,  Get well and strong as
fast as you can. When you are better I
will be with you. I only await the doctor s
permission."

After that there is nothing the girl will
not take so that only she may get better.
It is nothing short of marvellous the rapid
strides she makes now. She wants to get
well. Her whole heart and mind is benton
achieving this one object  and that is
half the battle.

So another week goes by ; and now Yo-lance
can walk by herself from room to room
on the same floor. She does not need to be
lifted on her pillows or trouble other people

to fetch and carry for her. Fortunately too
the weather is unusually mild, and there are
no chilling winds and bitter blasts to tell upon
her delicate frame. Still every one has so
strongly counselled her going to Italy for the
winter that at last she consents to do so.

AYe will all go," she says to Enid  ** the
dear old dad too ; and Skippy shall chaperon
and look after us  eh, Enid ? And, perhaps,
if Denzil is not going to be very busy, and
all this horrible law-business is settled soon,
he will be able to come too. He has travelled
so much, and knows all about foreign ways
and tongues. What fun it would be ! "

Poor Enid turns faint at the thought of
the misery in store for the happy, trusting
girl. Every day the fear grows deeper in
the minds of all who watch and tend her, that
the impending blow which is bound to fall
on her joyful anticipations, will be more than
her strength can bear.

It seems so wrong, so shameful to let
her go on believing all she does ! " cries Enid,

passionately, to Sir Edward, as they stand
before the drawing-room fire a fortnight after
her arrival at the Hall.

** But what can we do ? " he asks in bewilderment.
" She must know all or nothing.
This is no ease for half measures. Her .health
is the first and most important consideration,
is it not ? "

Of course," answers the girl, gazing sorrowfully
into the glowing embers at her feet.
But it is terribly hard to have to hear her
innocent questions and remarks, and all her
plans and projects for the future, and know
all the time  Oh, Heaven, why did she
ever care for that man ? " she breaks ofi" suddenly.
" He has caused her nothing but
misery from the first, and yet she is absolutely
infatuated ! I cannot understand it."

Love is not in our hands to give or control,"
says Sir Edward, sadly. " If it were,
how different the world would be ! "

Yes ; but even then two or three might
give it to the same person," answers Enid, a

little mischievously. '* Look at Yolande, for
instance. I'm sure, ever since she was a child
in short frocks, every male being who has
come near her has fallen in love with her !
It's positively dreadful, for she can't marry
everyone ; can she ? "

" Certainly not," he says, with a faint
smile. "But, as you must allow, the men
cannot be blamed for succumbing to her
fascinations."

I'm sure I wish she'd give me some ! "
remarks Enid, dolefully. '' It's too bad that
one member of the family should have all the
attractions ! Now I and my other sister areas
different as possible from her."

' Perhaps that is just as well," says S ir
Edward. '' Fancy three such sirens in a
family ! What would become of the men in
your county ? "

Enid laughs.

"' Oh, they could take very good care of
themselves, I'm sure!" she answers. "Sir
Edward "  and her voice grows grave again 
VOL. III. C

'* do you know if it is really true that Mrs
Charteris has left her husband ? "

Yes," he says ; and he too looks pale and
disturbed now. " She left Beechhampton on
the day he was pronounced out of danger.
You know even in his worst moments she was
not allowed to approach him. He seemed to
feel her presence, and it drove him into a
fresh paroxysm. At last Doctor Deane forbade
her to come near the room."

And do you know where she went ? "
asks Enid, pityingly.

No ; she left no word or message. It
was supposed she had gone to her mother.
Charteris himself has never mentioned her
name since."

** Poor fellow ! It must be awful for him,"
gays Enid, her voice full of intense compassion.
*' Only fancy finding himself married
to the woman who had tricked and deluded
him so skilfully! I can't imagine how it
all came about even yet. Of course no one
knew anything about the matter until the

announcement appeared in the papers. We
could hardly believe it even then."

** They were married by special licence,"
says Sir Edward. " I can't think how
Charteris could have been such a fool. But
there  I must not speak ill of the poor
fellow. He has suffered terribly enough
for his credulity. She must have laid her
schemes very skilfully indeed to have succeeded
so well''

"You have not yet discovered who sent
that notice to the paper here ? " asks Enid,
gazing thoughtfully at the clouded, sorrowful
face of the young man.

** No," he says. " I can do nothing, because
I know no friends or enemies of your
sister ; and that newspaper paragraph is part
of a deep-laid scheme, which she alone can
help us to fathom. That woman did her
work very well, I must say."

"Ah, well, she will have her reward,"
observes Enid. " She cannot expect to have
any honest regard from man or woman now.

Her husband will not live with her, and so the
very object for which she schemed is defeated.
I almost wonder he did not murder her, in
his rage and shame, when he first discovered
her treachery. The Charteris race are fearfully
passionate and fearfully proud."

*' I almost feared he would at first," says
Sir Edward, wondering a little whether these
are quite suitable topics for a young girl to
discuss, and yet not seeing how he can avoid
such discussion.

'rand what will become of her, do you
suppose ? " asks Enid, after a long thoughtful
pause.

'* I  I really cannot imagine," he says,
rousing himself with a faint start.

What would you do in such a case ? "
inquires the girl, regarding him curiously.

''I?" he says  and his voice grows stern
with repressed pain. " I could never be in
such a case. Miss Enid, for the testimony of
the whole world would have weighed nothing
in my mind against your sister's simple

word. Unless she herself had stood before
me, and then and there declared her perfidy,
I should never have believed ill of her."

** 0-h ! " says Enid, looking with reluctant
admiration at the splendid truth and constancy
of the noble face. *' What a pity she
did not care for  you ! "

He flushes to the very roots of his hair ;
and she, seeing the flush, repents swiftly of
the ill-advised words. Her eyes droop in
confusion.

** I beg your pardon," she stammers. *' I
did not mean to pain you. I  I am always
so accustomed to speak out what I think,
that I forgot."

"There is nothing to pardon," he says,
gently, as he looks at the pretty blushing
face and soft troubled eyes, and feels his
heart beat faster even at the transient resemblance
they bear to another face and
another pair of eyes. *you are too honest
not to speak out what you think ; and I
honour you for it. Besides, why should I

S My Lady Coquette.

seek to deny it ? I did care for your sister.
I do still, though I know it is utterly, absolutely
hopeless. But, for all that, I am not
going to pass my life in repining at the fate
that has given her love far enough away
from me. I would rather put her happiness
before my own, and, if anything I could do
would further it, I should never grudge any
pain to myself  never ! "

How good you are ! " says Enid, softly ;
and the soft words comfort him strangely,
not only now, but in many a day to come,
when they float back with his memory of
this hour.

f|T is most extraordinary," says Mr
Herrick, as he paces the dreary
gravel walks of his dreary garden
one cold November day  " most extraordinary
! "

He shakes his head and buttons his long
coat more closely round his long spare frame,
gazing all the time with thoughtful eyes at the
ground at his feet, as if it held the clue to the
problem he was solving.

He raises his head sharply enough however
as a footstep sounds behind him, and, facing
round, he takes in, with one brief comprehensive
glance, the aspect and features of the
advancing stranger.

There is nothing very remarkable about the

man. He is slight, pale, quiet-looking, and
plainly dressed in dark clothes  not a workingmen
or a tradesman evidently ; and yet it
would puzzle any one to assign him a position
higher than the one or lower than the other.

Good morning, sir," he says, touching his
hat. '* Mr Herrick, I believe ? "

"Yes," answers the lawyer, curtly. "And
you ? "

I come from Mr Lancaster, sir," the man
says, quietly. " He said you wanted an under-gardener."


Exactly," answers the lawyer, with a grim
smile. "From all Mr Lancaster said, you
ought to suit the place exactly."

I hope to do so, sir," says the man, with
due humility and a business-like composure
of manner.

The lawyer chuckles for a moment ; but his
mirth has no more effect upon the quiet imperturbable
being before him than if he had
been merely a piece of carved wood.

Ha, ha ! You'll do you'll do ! " says Mr

Herrick, when his merriment has evaporated.
Come  you mustn't look so suspicious ;
there's not a soul to hear us. I've sent my
man to the village, and my old woman is as
deaf as a post. Now to business. Any clue
yet ? "

I can't say there is, sir."

Humph ! Well, I hardly expected it so
soon. Now, Mr  What's your name, by
the way ? "

'* James Dowling, sir.'

Dowling, then. Well, look here. I've a
special interest in this matter ; and, though
I've given up practising for many years, I
mean to have a try at my old game again.
It's a queer hole-and-corner case this, for we
can't get at who the murdered man is, in the
first place ; in the next, the only witness who
saw the crime committed is dead ; but we
have her confession, so that's something to go
by. As for the man suspected, he's dropped
clean out of sight. He bolted to London the
moment Mr Charteris turned up  gave up his

situation in the police force and disappeared.
From that hour to this no one has seen or
heard anything of him. Humph ! Why,
what are you smiling at ? "

It could hardly be called a smile, the faint
quiver at the corner of the mouth, fading into
gravity as soon as noticed.

"' Nothing, sir," is the quiet rejoinder.
'* Only I was thinking of one of the
queerest cases I ever had, where the fellow
had given us all the slip, and we were sure
he had gone to America. One of our men
even was clever enough to discover the vessel,
and slipped on board and made a capture quite
with stage effect  only of the wrong man."

Well," asks Mr Herrick, impatiently.

Well, sir, all the time the real criminal
was living quietly and working within a few
miles of the spot where the murder had been
committed. He was so well disguised no one
knew him.

And was he caught at last ? " inquires the
lawyer, growing interested.

He was, sir, and by your humble servant."
*' You did it, then ? " exclaims Mr Herrick,
with interest. *' Will you tell me how ? "

*' Yes, sir ; for it was curious how I found
him out. His very mother and sisters never
recognised him. Even his voice was changed.
I was sent to make inquiries down at the
place, and, strange to say, this man was the
first person I tackled. He had it all so perfectly
 the means, the motives, the flight of
the criminal  that somehow, I cannot tell
why, I grew suspicious of him. Still he was
so awfully cautious that I was two months
dodging about, and yet as far off as ever from
discovering the truth. He never drank, so
there was no chance of unloosing his tongue
that way. He always slept alone, and always
with his door locked. He riled me so
that once I almost thought of turning incendiaries
and setting his cottage on fire, so
as to see if he forgot his disguise in the alarm
of the moment. But that was too great a
risk for me. So at last I gave out that we

had found a clue, and that the real murderer
was in London. The next day I left the
place, returning in a new disguise by the
night train. I went to the cottage. It was
all dark, save one window belonging to his
sleeping-room ; and there I had noticed before
a light had always burned, though he
carefully shuttered the window so that no outsider
might see it. The cottage was low, and
I easily climbed up by means of a gardening
ladder. There was just one chink through
which the light shone. While I had my
eyes on it the shutters were suddenly thrown
open from the inside, revealing the room. I
had hardly time to scramble down and hide
myself in the bushes near by, when the man
unfastened the window, and, to my amazement,
got out."

Did he not wonder at finding the ladder
there ? " asks Mr Herrick.

He might have done so at another time,"
says the man. " But you see, sir, he was
asleep."

Asleep ! " echoes the lawyer, in surprise.

Asleep as sound as a door-nail," is the
answer. ** Of course I didn't know at first,
for it was too dark to see his face ; but I
followed him as quiet as I could, and he led
me  where do you think, sir ? "

Not to the place ? " hazards Mr Herrick.

** There, and nowhere else," returns the
man  "as straight as he could go."

And what did you do ? " asks the lawyer.

** Followed him, and saw him go through
the wretched pantomime in his sleep, which
in his waking moments had made him a
murderer," answers the detective, slowly.
I'm not a man given to squeamishness,
sir ; it don't do for us, otherwise we should
never keep our places. But I will confess
that the sight of that wretched being drawn
back by some resistless force to the very place
he had hitherto avoided, and there, with his
brain locked in sleep, making full confession
of his long-guarded secret, did give me the
queerest turn IVe ever known. I went up

at last, and touched him on the arm. He
woke ; and to my dying day I shall never
forget the scream of horror that left his lips.
He hurled himself at me like a madman ;
and he was a strong man too, and desperate.
It was hard work to get him under, but I
did it at last ; and, though I had neither
warrant nor anything else to give me the
lawful right to capture him, I just clapped
the irons on his wrists, and told him he
might as well make a clean breast of it, for
I'd every proof of his guilt."

And did he confess ? "

** Yes, sir ; and I had all the credit of as
neat a capture as could be desired. It gave
me a great rise did that little case. I always
call it the case of the sleep-walker."

'* Well, I wish you may be as successful
in the present instance," says the lawyer,
gravely. " But the man I suspect is too
cunning and cool a villain to give us such
a loop-hole as your sleep-walker did."

Yes, he's another sort of chap altogether,"

answers the detective. * Still, in every case
of murder  with but rare exceptions  there's
always something done or left undone to
convict the criminal. It's a mercy that it
is so. It's not a very noble or edifying thing
to have to resort to all kinds of mean expedients
to entrap our fellow-men, is it, sir ?
I used to think so myself at first ; but I've
got hardened now. I think it's only fair to
meet treachery by treachery, cunning by
cunning. The instruments which the murderer
uses against his victim are turned
against himself Yes ; I think now, if ever
there was a case where the end justifies the
means, it is that of hunting a criminal to
justice."

I agree with you," says Mr Herrick.
'* Heavens ! what a state of life and society
there would be if murderers and thieves
stalked red-handed among us, laughing with
impunity at every effort to convict them,
triumphing in the vile skill that enables them
to evade all pursuit and accusation ! The

detective force is one of the greatest boons
to all classes, the innocent as well as the
guilty."

But now, sir," suggests the detective, " let
us proceed to the business we have in view.
There is a reward of fifty pounds offered for
any information respecting the man who was
murdered, and a further reward of one hundred
pounds to the discoverer of the murderer.
Is it not so ? "

Yes. And Mr Lancaster recommended
you to me as being specially suited to what
I call a * blind ' case. I have told you whom
I consider the criminal. The description in
Mrs Charteris's confession tallies exactly with
Budd ; but not knowing the reason of the
crime and the impossibility of identifying the
murdered man, make it very difficult to discover
anything. It may have been revenge
or robbery. It may have been a hot quarrel
that resulted in the blow that struck him
down into the water. We have nothing
tangible to hold to."

*'I want a full description of the man first,
sir," remarks the detective. " I suppose
there's not such a thing as a picture of him
to be got anywhere ? "

I fear not," says Mr Herrick. He was nota
man given to personal vanity. But come
along with me into my study now, and I will
tell you all about his physiognomy, as far
as personal description can do it."

You won't forget, sir," suggests the man,
respectfully, "that I'm only your under-gardener
for the time ? "

No, I shan't forget," chuckles the old lawyer,
grimly  " an idle, lazy, good-for-nothing
sort of chap, a deal too fond of loitering in
the village, and drinking and gossiping with
the folk around  eh, Dowling ? "

If you please, sir."

If I please ! Ha, ha ! Well, come along,
come along ! My old servant is in the
kitchen, and won't see us go into the house.
I suppose you'll want to change your toggery
by-and-by, eh ? "

VOL. III. D

Yes, sir. I have got all that."

'* Humph ! That's right." And, with no
further observation, Mr Herrick leads the way
into the gloomy old house, the detective
quietly following.

jNID, how do I look ? Not very
dreadful, do I ? " asks Claude.
Not at all dreadful," says
Enid, with a suppressed sigh, as she thinks
that in an hour more her sister will care little
enough for the appearance which now she is
making as fair as fair can be for her lover's eyes.
'' He will be here so soon now," continues
the happy girl. ** It does not seem so long
ago since we parted, when I look back to-day,
though it has been terribly long to bear. But
I am glad you made me wait till I was well
before you sent for him, because now he won't
think me so much altered. I am paler than I
used to be, am I not, Enid ? But am I very
much thinner, do you think ? "

'' Oh, Yolande," cries the girl, wildly, " why
do you trouble about such things ? Don't
you know it's you yourself Denzil cares about ?
He won't think of anything else."

*' Oh, but he will  after a time ! " says
Yolande, with her old lovely blush. '* He
will take note of every change in face and
form. I know him better than you do, Enid.
I wish my heart would not beat so fast,"
she goes on agitatedly. *sand just look
at the absurd way my hand trembles ! I
have run this pin three times into my neck
instead of into my frill. Please do it for me,
Enid. Why, how pale you look, dear ! You
have no need to be agitated, I'm sure."

I know," she responds, shivering involuntarily.
" I am cold, Yolande ; that is all."

'' Cold ? And in that thick dress ? " says
Yolande. 'well, my dear, you had better
run down to the library ; there is always a
food fire there. It is so kind of Miss
Llewellyn to give up her lovely little boudoir
to  us." Again the soft shy blush crimsons

lier delicate cheeks. '' You will see he comes
up at once, Enid, won't you ? I can't stand
waiting as I used to do. I am not quite
strong yet, you know''

Every word stabs poor Enid to the heart
and taxes her self-control to the uttermost.
Again and again does some trembling word
of warning or preparation rise to her lips ;
but again and attain is it forced back. She
has been sternly forbidden to say anything.
Only Denzil Charteris himself is to tell the
girl he loves, the sad, pitiful tale of treachery
and wrong.

I haven't put on any finery," Yolande
continues, looking at the reflection of the
slight pretty figure in its dress of navy-blue
seroe, the lace ruffles at throat and wrist its
only relief. *' Finery doesn't suit an invalid,
Enid. Do you know I never coughed once
all last night ? I believe if only the wind
never went to the cast I should be as well
as you are."

'' Let's hope it never blows from that

quarter in Italy' answers Enid, who is standing
by the window now, looking with straining
eyes for the approaching carriage.

Let us hope so indeed," echoes Yolande,
giving a last touch to the lovely shining
locks that wave and curl in nature's own
luxuriant fashion over her dainty little head.
We shall go off there as soon as ever I am
able to travel, Enid. And I shall take such
care of the dear old man at home that perhaps
the change of air and scene may do
him good too. What a mercy it is, Enid,
that all this time he has never missed me !
I could never have left home had he been
as he was before."

'' You gave us all a terrible fright, running
off as you did," says Enid, 'rand then posting
your letters in London, and never giving any
address to write to. Eeally, now I come to
think of it, your whole course of conduct
looked uncommonly guilty."

'' I can't help that," she answers, shuddering
even now at the recollection of that

terrible time. '' Do you know, Enid, I never
quite believed Denzil was dead even then ?
I felt as if I should know and feel the reality
of his death had it really happened. And
when, after all that dreadful time, I saw him
one evening  without any warning  walk
into the rectory drawing-room here, I felt
more relief than surprise, frightened as I
was."

'' I wonder you did not take him for a
ghost," says Enid, marvelling how the conversation
always turns back to that one
subject, try as she may to avoid it.

A little happy laugh leaves Yolande's lips.

** No," she says. " He did not look at all
ghostly. I wonder if he is much changed
now ? He has been ill too, poor darling ! Ah,
I have been so wretched since he left me ! I
did not think it could have made such a
difference in my life  just his absence. I
don't think I shall ever try the experiment of
another parting. We must always be together
now, until  "

But Enid can bear it no longer.

Oh, Yolande," she cries, wildly, don't think
so much of him  don't ! Have you not other
people to love you and to love ? Is all the
world nothing beside this one man ? "

Yolande looks wonderingly at the pale
trembling young face,

*' It is not that I love any of you less,
dear," she says, softly ; '' but he  Ah, well,
some day you too will understand 1 "

'shall I ? " questions Enid, dreamily, as with
a choking sob she turns away once more.
** Almost I could hope  not."

*' There are the wheels ! " cries Yolande,
turning white as death in the great eagerness
and agitation of the moment, " Quick, Enid
darling ; run down and meet him ! No, don't
stay to help me. I can walk these few steps
quite well,"

She moves away swiftly to the warm cosy
boudoir, the room where the most terrible
scene in her life's drama is to be enacted ; the
room, the memory of which henceforth will

fill her with sharpest pain as she thinks of
the agony it witnessed.

But as yet she knows nothing. She leans
against the couch, her hand on its back, as if
to gain some slight support. Her heart seems
to stand still ; her whole being is absorbed in
the one intensity of listening, listening for the
music of the returning step, so long silent,
listening for the sound of the tender voice
for which her ears are aching. Every pulse
pauses, then throbs in wild, mad unison. He
is coming ; he is close at hand ; he is here !

The door opens, and even in the glad rapture
that thrills her to the very core and
centre of her being there comes some strange
chill touch of pain. He is so sadly, strangely
changed !

All the welcomes she has framed, all the
pretty tender sentences that she has rehearsed
so glibly, are utterly forgotten now. One
thing only she sees  his arms outstretched as
in by-gone days. That is enough. With a
low faint cry of inexpressible happiness she

flutters birdlike into that close embrace, while
between them no word is spoken, no question
asked. There is only a great silence.

She would fain raise her head at last ; but
he presses it down against his breast, and the
great fierce throbs of his heart frighten her as
they sound upon her ear.

Oh, Denzil," she says, softly, " I have
been so ill, so miserable ! Why did you try
me so ? Did you want to find out if I loved
you really ? Oh, my darling, I did  so
dearly ! "

Her voice breaks into a little sob, but he
makes no answer ; the laboured throbs of the
poor suffering heart grow duller, slower, more
painful.

'' You have been ill too, poor fellow ! " she
goes on, pityingly, trying to raise her head
so as to look into the well-beloved face once
more.

What is it that curdles her warm young
blood with such an icy fear, that stays the
words on her pale lips, and leaves her gazing

mutely at him now with such an anguish in
the dumb and sorrowful eyes, as never any
woe or pain has brought into them before %

'' Denzil," she implores, " tell me  are you
ill, or  has something happened % "

She cannot shape the vague fear at her
heart into anything tangible yet. At those
words he unfolds his arms and places her
gently on the couch.

Yes," he says  and his voice is altogether
strange and harsh and full of a soul-wrung
agony, that makes the girl tremble  ' something
 has happened ! "

No sound breaks the awful pause that
follows those brief words. They stand and
look at each other. Then a great calmness
steals over Yolande. She puts out her hand
it does not even tremble.

Sit down here," she says, " and tell
me."

But, instead of obeying her, he throws himself
at her feet and buries his face in her lap,
trembling from head to foot with a strongman's

agony ; kneeling thus, in a few brief
words he tells her all.

She does not weep, or moan, or utter any-sound
; but, as the last word leaves his lips,
and she feels the scalding touch of tears on
her hands  tears wrung from the innermost
depths of his heart, and for which he feels
no shame and she no wonder  her icy calm
gives way. She lowers her head to his, noting
even in that moment of horrible torture the
grey hairs that streak its dark rich curls.
How is it she has never seen them before ?

Oh, my poor Denzil ! " she says.

That is all. There is no blame for him,
no pity for herself for all the long, blank,
dreary years that stretch before her. Her
eyes are quite dry. A little while ago she
could have wept ; but then her heart was
all unstrung and quivering with every breath
of emotion. Now  ah, now ? Is this cold
dead weight within her bosom a heart at
all ? she wonders.

Won't you look at me, Denzil ? " she says

at last. " We must part soon now, and I
have hardly seen your face once. I suppose
it is not wrong to want to say farewell toit
? Not so very long ago it was mine, and
after to-day  "

He looks up ; the little tender break in the
pretty wistful voice recalls him to himself.
She gazes at the noble, passionate features,
from which all the life and glow have faded,
leaving only a haggard-worn reflection of all
that she remembers.

How I have looked forward to our meeting
! " she says, shivering. '' And now I suppose
even that is a wrong to your  wife ! "

*' For Heaven's sake do not you pollute that
name by giving it to the traitress who has
murdered our every hope of happiness ! " he
cries, with such a fire of fury blazing in his eyes
as frightens her for a moment. " Yolande, you
only are my wife in Heaven's sight. No other
woman can bear that title while you live."

'' Hush ! " she says, and lays one cold little
hand against his fevered lips. " Denzil, you

have lost all right to say such words to me.
Wrong or sinful as she is, bitterly as she has
made us both regard her, yet none the less
she is bound to you by every human law.
She bears your name, she holds your honour.
Did you not vow yourself to her as long as
you both shall live ? "

He springs hastily to his feet, and his voice
rings out with bitter scorn.

*' As long as I live," he cries, fiercely, '* she
may bear my name ; but she shall be no
more to me than the veriest stranger who
passes me in the street ! "

Yolande's heart gives one throb of guilty
joy. Does he mean it ? she thinks. Is the
woman who has duped and wronged them to
be punished thus ? Has she no need to fear
that wonderful rival's beauty blinding his
senses till he forgets even her wrong-doing
for the sake of her love and her loveliness ?
Will she indeed be banished from his presence,
receiving no kiss, no word, no caress,
that are denied herself? It were fitting

punishment, if she loves him with one-tenth
part of the love crushing this poor weak
girl's heart, if she has sinned and laboured
and schemed so long only to find her reward
in his life-long abhorrence and neglect. Buta
moment after this harsh revengeful tide of
passion and despair sweeps on, and leaves
her trembling at her own baseness.

*' I am growing wicked too," she thinks.
Come here, Denzil," she says, softly. '' I
am not strong yet, and I cannot bear this
much longer. Dear, it almost breaks my
heart to have to say ' Good-bye ' to you again ;
and yet I must say it. I had planned such a
merry, happy time for us. I thought you
too might come to Italy when I went, and
see how much better I grew, and rejoice with
me over the returning health that brought
me nearer to  But no  I must not say
that. Oh, Denzil, how hard it is to keep off
that one topic ! "

'* Oh, Yolande, your words kill me ! " he
groans.

''No, no," she says, hurriedly; *you are
brave and strong, dear. You will not give
way even beneath this heavy yoke ; for you
must do your duty, Denzil, hard as it is. A
few months ago, when I was only a giddy,
thoughtless girl, I do not think I could have
borne to tell you this ; but since I have been
ill I have looked at things with different eyes,
and I know that Heaven's blessing sometimes
come to us in different shapes from what we
desire or expect. Your duty, Denzil, is to
return to your wife ; for she is your wife,
say what you will, and you are bound
to try and be true and good to her, even
though you do not love her as  as you love
me."

I hate her ! " he cries, hoarsely. '' How
little you know of men, you poor little child,
when you give me such counsel as this !
Why, do you know that to see her at my
table in the place I pictured you, her figure in
each spot and nook where yours has lived forme
in every thought of wife, her head laid

where yours should lie  great Heaven, it
maddens me to think of it ! "

** You gave her my place, Denzil," says the
sweet low voice. '' You married her."

** True ! But I was not sane or reasonable.
She bewitched and deluded me by arts that
fitted in cunningly with the reaction of my
wrongs, dealt, as I thought, by your hands.
Oh, my love, my little sweetheart, bid
me do anything, however hard  bid me go
from you to misery, madness, despair  but
do not bid me take that traitress to my
home again ! It is a task beyond my
strength ! "

'* And have you thought of the questions
that will be asked ? " she says, still calmly.
Have you thought what reason you can give
to the world for thus casting adrift the woman
who is of your blood, your race, and to whom
you have given your name ? "

I care nothing for the world or the babbling
tongues of the fools around," he answers,
gloomily. "If it be your will that she comes

VOL. TIT. E

to Beechhampton, I leave. The same roof can
never shelter her and me ! "

*' She too loves you," pleads the girl.

*' Love ! "  and his scornful laugh cuts like
a lash. " A fine love, to mock and fool me,
to ruin my happiness and yours, to wrest by
force of cunning what she could never obtain
by right or honest means ! Yolande, do not
pollute the name thus ! "

She sits quite silent, too weak to urge another
plea, yet bravely trying to stifle the
sinful pleasure at her heart.

*' She is a weak and erring woman, Denzil,"
she falters slowly ; " but, oh, my dear, can you
not forgive her ? She will have to suffer more
than you could. Leave her punishment in
Heaven's hands."

If you loved me," he says, passionately,
you would never send me back to her ? You
would bid me put seas and lands between us
both ; for in very truth, Yolande, such a
woman may tempt me to  murder ! "

'' Oh, no  oh, no ! " she wails. " It is not

you who are speaking now, Denzil. It is some
evil spirit striving to master your better
reason. Look  I am only a weak girl, and I
have loved you with all the force of my whole
heart  I can give no other man a thought or
feeling that has once been yours ; and I see
this woman step between us, and turn to sin
our love that was so pure and beautiful, and
place herself between your heart and mine,
and wave me back from your side by right of
plighted vows that make her sacred ; and yet
I can bid you go, because  oh, Denzil, because
surely duty is higher than even love ! And
after all life is not so very, very long ; and the
reward of suffering here is all to come  hereafter
! Do you not believe this, Denzil ? "

No," he says, gloomily. " I only know I
have lost you. And, if you loved as I love,
you would have room for no other thought.
Can any good hereafter atone for the loss of
all that makes life sweet and fair ? I do not
believe it ! "

'* Yes, you do  you must," the girl cries,



passionately ; '' for, oh, Denzil, parted as weare
here, what comfort is there for you orme
if we cannot look forward to  that other
meeting ? "

He looks at her, all his soul in his pleading
eyes, the pale, careworn misery of his face
taxing her self-command to the utmost. A
wild impulse crosses her mind to throw herself
into his arms, to bid him do what he
likes with her, so that only they two are
together, defying the world, but happy even
in that defiance ; but only for a moment does
that fierce temptation last. She thrusts it
sharply, swiftly aside, but her face pales to
the hue of his own, and great tears gather
slowly in her eyes.

'* My love," he says, mournfully, and kneels
beside her once more, pressing his hot lips
on the cold and trembling hands that lie so
tightly clasped in her lap, ** my own little
sweetheart, what can I say, what can I do
to comfort you % The love of my whole heart
is yours so utterly and entirely that I have

no thought, no hope apart from you. When
I thought you were false, I went mad with
the shame and shock. I do not remember
one sane or painless hour till I awoke from
a dream of agony and saw the man I thought
your lover stand before me saying, * It is a
lieall ! ' "

And it was too late then ? " asks Yolande,
bitterly. " You  you were married ? "

Heaven forgive me  yes ! "

A strange bright streak of colour comes
into the girl's wan face.

*' There can be nothing more to say between
us now," she says, in a strange hushed
voice. '* Every hour you stay with me is a
wrong to her. We cannot even be friends,
Denzil ; for there is no medium place on
which our hearts can find rest. It is very
hard  very hard ! Had I known of this
when I was so ill, I think I should have
hardly prayed so earnestly to get well and
strong. But I suppose I ought not to say
this now. Oh, my dear, for the love of

Heaven leave me ! I  I cannot bear this
any more ! "

He rises to his feet and releases her hands.
A deadly struggle is at war within him, a
fierce passion mingles with the sad and yearning
regret for the fate he has drawn in with
his own ; great drops stand upon his brow ;
he trembles through all his strong erect frame
as weakly as a woman.

"' You will kiss me  once more ? " he
whispers, hoarsely, his whole soul going out
in that last entreaty.

She cannot resist it. She forgets all, save
that he was her lover  hers despite all
Wrongs, all ties, all barriers. She lets him
draw her to his breast, and suffers him to
hold her there as if no earthly power could
rend her from his arms again.

"It is for the last time," she says to herself
 *' the last time ! "

But as his lips touch hers, without moan
or cry she lies there in his arms, crushed and
stricken like a broken flower in a tempest.

fOLANDE, oh, dear Yolande ! Will
she never speak ? "

The languid eyes unclose and
rest on Enid's weeping anxious face.

'what is it? Have I been ill?" she
asks, looking wonderingly around the pretty-room.


'you fainted," says Enid. "Not that 1
wonder at it. Oh, my poor darling, I wish
I could comfort you ! "

Yolande sits up then. How swiftly
memory comes back ; and yet how calm and
dead her heart feels ! Presently she pushes
all the bright soft hair from her forehead,
and leans her head against Enid's shoulder.

You know all ? " she asks.

Yes, dear."

After to-day," continues the soft pained
voice, ** I do not want any one to speak of
it again to me ; but I want to tell you,
Enid, that I shall try to bear it as bravely
as I can. I am not going to make everyone
around me miserable out of the pure
selfishness of grief; but just at first it will
not be easy, and you must bear with me 
for, oh, Enid, I loved him so ! "

'' I know, my darling," says the comforting
voice.

I suppose I ought not to say so now,
for all is changed so utterly," goes on the
sorrowful girl ; " but one cannot forget all at
once. We will go to Italy as soon as ever we
can, Enid, won't we ? I think it will be easier
to think more kindly of her, less regretfully of
him, when the wide sea is between us."

"We will go wherever you like, dear,"
says Enid, soothingly, feeling thankful that,
for all its pathos, the pretty voice does not
break into tears and lamentations.

I shall still have papa to think of, and
all of you to love. I wonder if it will be
very hard to  not forget, I could never forget
 but to think a little less of my darling
who is so heart-broken now ? Enid, I think
it is worse for him than for me, for his hand
raised the barrier between us. He can never
forget that."

Enid is silent. There is a great relief in
her mind that Yolande is '* taking it " so
much better than she anticipated ; and yet
she feels a little puzzled at the strange unnatural
calm in her sister's face and eyes.

If she would cry, I could understand it,"
thinks Enid, distressfully.

The brave white face with its unutterable
calm, the little figure sitting so still with
folded hands and mute white lips, is a picture
so different from the passionate grief she has
expected to witness that her heart grows
awed and perplexed.

After all, I need not have been so
troubled about my thinness," says Yolande,

quite suddenly, the irrelevance of the words
startling her sister all the more after the
long pause of quiet thoughtfulness. " I
don't think Denzil even noticed it ! "

'* Oh, Yolande," cries Enid, desperately,
don't be so cold and calm ! It is all the
worse for you. Do you not feel all that lies
before you to bear and suffer ? Oh, my dear,
my dear, can you not cry as I do ? "

No'* is the troubled answer. " I feel as
if I had no tears to shed. My heart aches,
and I know I shall be very miserable by-and-by;
but I scarcely feel yet that I have lost
him."

'' Will you try to rest now ? " says Enid,
coaxingly. *' Miss Llewellyn sent me up with
this medicine for you. Drink it, and then try
to sleep."

** Yes, I should like to sleep," returns Yo-lance,
wistfully. " I suppose in sleep one can
forget, and I was never good at dreaming,
so"

But she does not finish the sentence, though

Enid knows it just as if she had ; she drinks
the medicine  it is a sleeping draught  and
lets Enid arrange her pillows and cover her
warmly with shawls, and so lies back with
closed eyes and folded hands, utterly spent
and exhausted.

But that draught and the long, long sleep
that follows in all probability save her life
and preserve her reason.

When Denzil Charteris leaves Llewellyn
Hall it is as a crushed and heart-broken mana
man who curses his own mad folly with
every breath he draws. There is no clear plan
of action in his mind. Yolande's words have
taken no hold of him in the bitter agony that
has held him like a spell. With the memory
of her look, with the touch of the sweet
tremulous lips growing cold, despite the passionate
caress that clung to them in that
desperate farewell, there mingles only the
utter stupor of misery that even the sharpness
of despair can hardly penetrate.

She has bidden him go back to his wife ;
but that he knows is beyond his strength todo.
Go back to her, look into her eyes, touch
her hand, when, had she been a man, they
would have stood face to face, with only death
or bloodshed possible to avenge a wrong so
vile ! No, it is impossible ; and yet what
alternative has he ?

Separation ? It can bring him no nearer to
his lost love. Divorce ? It is impossible to
obtain. The foulest treachery could not make
that possible, and only of treachery can he
accuse her. She will be faithful enough to
him, he doubts not. It is not want of love
that he can accuse her of. No  rather the
reverse. But to live with her, even in common
friendship  he shudders at the bare idea !

He sees her now in her true colours  vile,
relentless, deceitful, not one fibre of her moral
nature attuned to thought or feeling of his
own. His whole soul revolts against the
fearful bondage that holds him in its thrall ;
contact and association with the woman who

bears his name and calls herself his wife seems
more loathsome and abhorrent the more he
thinks of it.

*' It is like looking on heaven while devils
hold one back ! " he groans in his awful
misery.

He is lying face downwards on the cushioned
seat of the railway carriage, the train hurrying
him swiftly back to his own most desolate
home.

** Women have indeed been the curse of my
life," he thinks ; '' this is the third time it has
been marred by their hands. First, the hot
wild passion of Alethea, alike unknown and
undesired, that turned my brother's love to
madness, and wrought his own rash end ; then
my own brief fancy for Pauline, which she
threw over to suit her ambition ; and, last,
this one pure love, so real and so perfect, the
love of my manhood, as fixed and as enduring
as my own life, and that too is cursed by
failure and disappointment."

It does indeed seem hard. All that he has

needed and found  sympathy, comprehension,
love, pure yet passionate, strong and faithful as
his own  all that might crown his later years
with the blessings his youth has never known
and vainly sought, is irretrievably lost. Do
what he may, try as he may, he can see
no way out of the horrible net in which his
feet are entangled ; and endurance seems
almost beyond his strength.

The train whirls him on through the bleak,
wild, desolate country ; but he takes no heed
of whither he goes. The trance of dull despair
that holds him in its power binds all his
senses in a stupor, through which only the
sharp thrust of this last and worst sorrow penetrates
from time to time. If anything were to
happen then to end his life and his misery together,
he would not care one iota. But accidents
lie in wait only for the fortunate and
happy ; they pass by in heedless mockery, the
wild despairing hearts that call to them as
Denzil Charteris calls now.

I shall either go mad, or die of longing for

sight of her sweet face ! '* he groans, raising
his desolate, haggard face at last. " Oh,
Heaven, my life is too hard ! I have no
strength to bear it ! "

The train is slackening speed now ; they are
approaching a junction. He does not move,
even though he has a dim recollection of having
been told he must change somewhere when
he asked for a carriage to himself. There is
much bustle and confusion and calling out of
strange Welsh names ; but he only listens
mechanically to it all. How trivial appear
the common affairs of every-day life now,
when the greatness of this fresh - wrought
sorrow weighs heavily on mind and heart !

He relapses into his old position, shutting
out sense and sight alike. He never rouses
himself even when he hears the guard's voice
speaking ; he fancies it is only something
about the long delay. Then, slowly at first,
but soon with increasing speed, the train
rushes on once more ; and, as he raises his
face and mechanically looks round the great

dusky carriage, he sees in the corner opposite
himself, but farthest removed from where he
sits, the face of  his wife !

It seems to Denzil that he is the victim of
some hideous dream, as he sits silently looking
at the calm still figure with the triumph
of revenge on her lips, the light of mockery
and derision in her eyes.

One single word, hoarse as a death-cry,
alone escapes his lips, 

'your

'* Yes, even I," she says. '' It is an unexpected
pleasure to meet you here. " Have
you been to Pwym Dyas ? "

The mockery of her voice stings him to the
quick.

He presses his hand to his heart like one
suffocated by a deadly pain. The blood
flushes in crimson torrents to his face. His
eyes blaze with a fury that frightens this
woman who has driven him to bay  and she
is no coward. He springs to his feet and
makes one step towards her, as, with a low.

faint cry of exceeding fear, she shrinks back
into the recess of the carriage.

You may well be frightened ! " he says,
in a voice wherein scorn and hatred master
even the agony of blinding rage that surges
within his breast. " You have done a bold
thing, madam, to trust yourself in here alone
with me ! Have you so little care for your
life ? "

'* Yes," she says, recklessly, " I have. I do
not think I should care if you killed me now
at this very moment. At all events, you
could not wade through my blood to the
little fool, who"

Peace ! " he thunders ; and his voice holds
her silent perforce. " Dare to mention her
name, and neither sex nor relationship shall
save you from the vengeance of a man whose
anger your mere presence turns to madness ! "

Something in his face and voice shows her
in that moment all the havoc and ruin she
has wrought. Involuntarily her voice softens
and goes out to him in a piteous appeal.

VOL. III. F

Denzil," she cries, '' will you never forgive
me ? Do you not know I only erred
because I love you ? "

Love ! Do not pollute the name by
applying it to the vileness and treachery
that have wrecked my whole life ! Love !
Faugh ! What do you know of love, when
you call your foolish revengeful frenzy, that
stooped to naught but baseness and stands
laughing in mockery of my wrongs, love ?
But I waste words. Why are you here ?
Are you still employing your genius as a
spy in watching my actions ? "

'' No," she cries, stung to fury by his
taunts ; " it is accident that has brought
me hither. I do not expect you to believe
it ; but I have no object in not telling you
the simple truth now."

You do me too much honour, madam.
That means you have nothing further to gain
by lies."

'' I wish I were dead ! " cries the wretched
woman in a sudden paroxysm of agonised

remorse. ' Ob, Denzil, I thought you might
care for me in time, even a little  ever such
a little ! I do not ask much, just a crumb
to satisfy my starving heart, just a word
that you might throw to a stranger in ordinary
courtesy. I could be so patient ! You
do not know ! Oh, Denzil, have you not
one grain of pity for me  not one ? Even
she does not  cannot love you with one half
the strength and passion that are mine ! "

He looks down on her quite unmoved.

I cannot forgive you," he said, coldly,
sternly, as some inexorable fate.

"Are you so hard-hearted ? Do you think
this is a mere pretence, Denzil ? Oh, believe
me, it is not ! All my chance of becoming a
better woman lies in your hands. If you send
me from you, I shall grow desperate. Don't
have my blood on your hands, my sins on your
soul, as you have the blood of another of your
fated race ! Denzil  husband, it is my last
appeal ! Oh, for the love of Heaven, hear
me! 1 will never ask you again after to-day!"

*' Did you heed me," he says, " when I
cried to you  when you stole to my side in
my madness and despair, and, knowing who
had dealt this deadly wrong, yet denied to meas
well as to yourself all power of reparation ?
No, it is beyond my strength ; I cannot grant
your prayer ! "

Then, as Heaven hears me, I will end my
life!" she cries, wildly. '' On your head be
my blood, Denzil Charteris ! " And, ere he
can stay her or fathom her intention, she has
flung open the carriage door, and sprung upon
the step.

He sees the desperate face, the mad action ;
he hears the wild cry. Then  how, he knows
not  his arm is round her. With one hand
he clutches the swaying door, with the other
he holds her, struggling, quivering, panting
like a wounded deer. She cannot release herself
from his grasp, try as she may. The cold
keen air blows fiercely, swiftly by ; the trees
and telegraph-posts race on in mad confusion.
Then, swift as a lightning-flash that rends a

cloud, comes a shock  a crash. The panting
engine seems to rear like a living, furious
thing ; and, amid fire and smoke and hissing
steam, Denzil is conscious only of a falling
blow that lays him prostrate on the carriage
floor, deaf and insensible to all that follows.

boston is a quiet, sleepy, though
by no means small town, with nothing
to boast of in the shape of
architectural beauty. It has a market-place
and a bank, a theatre and a town-hall, a few
good streets, an immense number of bad ones,
a great many churches, one or two chapels, a
railway station, and some of the dingiest,
purlieus imaginable leading from the outskirts
of the town into the country lanes and roads,
which in their turn stretch away to pretty
picturesque Ashbourne.

In one of the dingiest and narrowest and
worst-famed of these streets stands a little
public-house bearing the sign of '' The Spotted
Dog." Such a miserable dwelling it is, and

bearing so little appearance of anything likely
to tempt customers, that the notices of '' Good
beds " and " Pea soup and sausages, sixpence "
are seemingly looking out of the opaque
window-panes in irony, or put up as baits to
trap the unwary. Certainly rest and refreshment
look far enough away from the unsavoury
obscure place.

One dark winter night, however, a customer
does look in at that humble tavern and boldly
orders a steak and pint of ale as refreshment.
The fat landlord lounging in the bar looks
curiously at the newcomer, and growls out a
summons to his slipshod, slovenly wife to
attend to his wants. The stranger meanwhile
seats himself at one of the tables covered
with sticky oilcloth, and bearing innumerable
impressions of the wet bottoms of pewter
pots and prepares to wait with commendable
patience for the arrival of his supper. The
fat landlord, having apparently overcome his
momentary distrust, lounges in from the bar
and stirs the dreary fire into a blaze, and

makes an apologetic attempt to wipe the
sticky table with his not over-clean apron.

Bad night this," he says by way of
conversation.

True enough," answers the other.

Are you a stranger to these parts ? "
demands the landlord, presently.

Yes. I came as gardener to Mr Herrick
the lawyer a month or so ago," is the frank
rejoinder.

Oh, ay ! A close-fisted tough old customer
your master, bennet he ? "

It ain't much concern of mine," answers
the younger man. *' He pays my wages, and
that's all I care about. His place is dreary
enough, but I manage to give 'em the slip now
and then, and make off for Colston when I
want a spree."

You don't go to Ashbourne ? " queries the
landlord.

Sometimes ; but it's not so much in my
line. 'Tis a dull place at best."

How came you to find out this place ? "

asks the man, with a suspicious glance at
the smooth inscrutable face beside him.
'' Strangers as a rule are not over-quick at
finding their way to the worst part o' the
town. We've some rough customers here
sometimes, I can tell you ; and a dandy
chap like you wouldn't be over and above
safe if they didn't happen to be in a humour
to see you."

Oh, I'm not afraid ! " returns the other.
** A public's a public, I suppose ? I lost my
way in looking out for some confounded
seed-shop that I had to go to ; that's how I
came here. I shan't interfere with any of
yer customers, I lay."

Are you a Londoner ? " demands his host.

' No ; I come from Doncaster ; but I've
been in London a goodish bit."

*' I wonder you don't stop there then ;
this part of the country is hardly the sort
for men 0' your mettle."

The man shrugs his shoulders.

** One can't always pick and choose," he

says. " I'd been out of work a long time,
and was getting hard up when I heard of
Mr Herrick. It's a dull enough place ; but
it'll do for me a while."

*' You smoke maybe ? " questions the landlord,
taking out a short dirty clay, and proceeding
to light it.

'' Oh, yes," answers the other, cheerfully ;
*' and, if you think my supper's going to be
much longer, I'll join you with pleasure.
Shall I order some beer ? Smoking's dry
work."

The host evinces no objection to this suggestion,
and even retires to draw a jug of
some special brew which his customer shrewdly
suspects is from a private tap reserved for
himself.

Then they draw the table nearer to the
fire, and sit down to discuss their pipes and
exchange opinions on matters in general.
The landlord, in thinking about this evening
afterwards, finds it difficult to account for the
manner in which the conversation turned to

the murder in Dead Man's Pool  a topic stale
enough to his mind and possessing little
interest.

'there be a letter in to-day's Advertiser
'bout that very thing," he says, presently, his
tongue wagging freer after the copious libations
of strong: ale he has swallowed at his
customer's expense. "It gives it sharp to
local police and local juries, that it do, and
as good as hints that once they had the real
culprit pretty nigh at hand, and yet let him
slip through their fingers."

Oh' observes the young man, thoughtfully,
" it seems a queer 'fair, don't it ? I
suppose it would never have been found out
if that gentleman from the Proiry hadn't disappeared
? "

No, that it wouldn't," says the man, " and
yet  But there  it's no good a-tellin' suspicions
now. I don't want any of those darned
peelers a pekin' and prin' into my concerns.
When they find the murderer, it's time enough
to speak about the feller as was murdered."

"Then you know something of him,"
asserts the stranger, quietly.

The man takes his black pipe out of his
mouth and bends a little nearer.

"" I don't mind tellin you, as you be a
stranger here," he says, in a thick uncertain
voice  the effect probably of deep potations 
*' I don't mind tellin' you, young man, that
I've a strong suspicion in my mind as how I
knows that 'ere chap whom no one could
'identify  isn't that what they call it ? "

** Yes," answers the stranger, with suppressed
eagerness, though he fills the bowl
of his pipe quite calmly even as he speaks.
Now you do surprise me ! "

*' Yes ; I know a thing or two more than
people quite give me credit for," continues the
old Silenus, helping himself to another glass,
as his companion pushes the jug towards him.

I should fancy you did," returns his companion,
with judicious flattery. *' But you
were saying  "

'* Here's your supper, I do believe," says the

host, turning his bleared eyes towards the
door. " No  not yet. I'll give that old
woman a rousing  by Jove, I will, if she
don't look a bit sharper after a customer than
what she's doing to-night ! Half a mortal
hour ha you been sitting here, waiting for
that bit 0' steak ! "

Never mind," says the young man, soothingly
 " I'm not very hungry. Perhaps your
wife was busy."

Busy ! " growls the old man. '' She hasn't
got no call to be busy ; she's only the lodger's
supper and yours. Yes, that's my lodger sitting
down there  old Job we call him. A
rum old cove he is. You needn't take any
notice of him ; he's always like that."

The under-gardener's sharp grey eyes are
fixed carelessly but yet intently upon the
strange shambling figure that has entered the
parlour. It is the bent, almost humpbacked
figure of an old man  a man with white hair
in straggling elf-locks about his shoulders, and
a pair of blue spectacles fixed over his eyes.

He has a curious habit of always rubbing his
hands softly together, and apparently talking
to himself in a semi whisper, utterly regardless
of any observers. After one long curious
glance the young man turns to his host again,
but further conversation is for a time interrupted
by the entrance of the landlady with
the long-delayed supper, and the interchange
of a few little social amenities between herself
and her liege lord, whom she designates as a
loosing old sot," a remark, the far from complimentary
nature of which, seems to ruffle his
temper exceedingly.

The steak is very tough and unappetising,
and the customer does not appear to possess
much appetite. He orders, however, some hot
rum-ands water, at which the landlord's eyes
sparkle with rapture, and of which he shows
even greater willingness to partake, than he has
before displayed for the ale.

Were he at all suspicious now, he might
wonder that the young man presses the drinks
so hard upon him, and partakes so sparingly of

them himself; but his soddened brain is beyond
all such power of reasoning ; and he lets
his skilful questioner get out of him the story
he has already begun, without offering any
objection to his skilful cross-questioning or
suspecting that any sinister motive lurks
beneath the seemingly careless interest.

It were a matter of some nine or ten
months ago "  so he begins his narrative 
when a queer foreign-looking, foreign spoken
chap looked in here  as it might be you looking
in to-night  and ' Can I have a lodging ? '
says he. I told him * Yes,' he could, and he
ordered his supper and took a look at his
room and said it would do. He had no luggage
of any sort, and was dressed very quiet-like
 just as any gentleman might be dressed
and he sat there, just as it might be where
old Job is sitting now "  the young man
glances at the lodger, and sees him peering
eagerly through his blue spectacles at the
greasy torn paper which the landlord has
been reading  'eyes, just where old Job is

sitting now," reiterates the narrator, and his
hearer fancies that there is a strange quiver in
the newspaper that the quiet reader holds,
but then he tells himself, " Old men's hands
are apt to tremble." " He spoke little," continues
the landlord, " and the room was pretty
full of men, all smoking and drinking and
talking away together. Presently this stranger
comes up to me, * Landlord,' he says, * do
you know where Inspector Budd, of Colston,
lives ? ' "

As the narrator again pauses to partake of
some of the rum-and-water the eyes of the
quiet listener again turn to the figure opposite.
As his glance darts forward, the newspaper is
cautiously moved aside, and for one second he
catches sight of the blue spectacles, not resting
over the eyes now, but pushed up on the
forehead.

Humph ! " says the young gardener to
himself. '' That man's disguised as sure as I
live ! Is this some one else on the scent with
an eye to the reward, or  " But the last

suggestion hold him breathless. He dares
not trust himself to follow it up. " Goon,"
he says, to the host, who is evincing
far greater interest in his grog than in his
narrative.

'* There's not much more to tell," returns
the landlord huskily. " I said I knew the
inspector very well  which was true. I
snowed him a deal better than I wanted.
He said could he have a message sent to him
particular that night? I said 'Yes,' if he
liked to pay for it. He laughed, and said he'd
more money than 'ud keep twenty such publics
as this ! I said, ' Don't brag too loud, for
there's a rough set of customers here.' Well,
to make it short, I sent the message, and the
boy brought an answer back. It was written
on a scrap of paper ; and he swore and cursed
in fine lingo when he read it. He went to
bed, and the next morning he asked the way.
to Beechhampton Woods, and I directed him
as well as I could. He paid his bill, and told
me he shouldn't be back in these parts again.
VOL. III. G

He gave me a five-pound note and said he
wanted no change. Ses I, * You seem to have
a rum lot of money about you ' Yes,' he
says, ' and it's nearly all in paper ; and everyone
of these bank-notes is marked like that
one IVe given you.' Well, I was never much
of a scholar ; so I asked him what that mark
was. ' It's M-a-y,' he says, ' the name of
my sweetheart. She were the prettiest lass in
Suffolk, and we were to be wed as soon as I
came back from sea ; but I was wrecked, and
then kept in a foreign prison, and no one
knew anything of me for many a long year ;
and when I went to look for her I heard she'd
gone away wi' another chap  a mean sneak
as I'd always hated ever since we were boys
at the old national school together. I didn't
believe it when I heard of it ; but I shall
know soon whether it's true or not.' I wondered
a little at his saying that ; but I thought
no more of it. He went away towards Beech-hampton,
whistling quite cool and calmly. I
never see'd him again."

** But lie said he was not coming back,
did t he ? " inquires the attentive listener.

Yes ; and I shouldn't have thought so
much of that," returns the landlord, leaning
forward and speaking in an awed and troubled
voice, " only, look you here  "

But ere he can speak the words he wishes,
the door is burst riotously open, and three
ill-dressed, savage-looking men enter, calling
vociferously for jugs of porter and ale, and
indulging in much coarse bantering of old
Job, which he neither answers nor seems to
hear.

The fat landlord leaves his snug nook by
the fire to attend to his customers' wants,
and the gardener sits there alone, fidgeting
impatiently for his host's return, which seems
likely to be long protracted.

The silent old man still sits with the newspaper
before him, apparently quite unmoved
by the noise around. The blue spectacles are
replaced, and even the searching eyes bent
upon him can see nothing but a shabby,

decrepit-looking old man, following with a
dirty trembling finger the lines of the news
spread out before him.

He's not quite wrinkled and leathery
enough for that white hair," thinks the sharp-eyed
watcher. " I should like to know what
his little game is ! "

Presently the individual in question puts
down the newspaper, takes up his hat, and
shuffles off without a word to anybody.

That's his way always," says the landlord,
coming over to his first customer and handing
him his bill, in accordance with his request.
'' Queer ? Well, I daresay it is ; but we're
used to it now."

Has he been with you long ? " inquires
the gardener, handing a sovereign, after having
run his eye over the items of the bill.

Two  no, three weeks," answers the man.

'rand what does he do  generally speaking? "

Plods about, and gets odd jobs about the
town, so he says. I don't know. I never
watches my lodgers. 'T wouldn't pay."

*'I suppose not," says the younger man,
thoughtfully. " Well, I must be going homewards
now," he adds, as the clock strikes ten.

Ay ; I should think you're an unco mon
free and easy chap to go stopping out like
this ! " answers his host, coming out with
him into the bar. " I always thought Squire
Herrick shut up every hole and corner of his
rabbit-warren yonder at ten every night."

No, half-past," corrects the man, lighting
his pipe as he speaks. ''A bad night, isn't
it, for a long tramp ? "

"Ay, ay!" returns the landlord, gruffly.
*' You know your way though, I suppose ? "

Oh, yes ! " answers the other, cheerfully.
** I know it right enough." Then, as if by
some impulse, he lays his hand on the landlord's
arm. " You broke off your story just
at the most interesting part," he says, persuasively.
'' Won't you tell me what you
were going to say ? "

For a moment the man hesitates and looks
around suspiciously.

I don't know as how I ought to say anything
about it' he says, slowly at last.
*' Howsomever, I don't suppose you'll be getting
me into trouble about it. You're one of
the silent sort, I'm thinking, though you are
free and open enough with your money. Well,
what I was going to say was this. Last
market-day, when I went to the Corn Exchange,
I got a note given me in payment
of summit a chap there owed me. I don't
care particular for notes, and I was handing
it back, asking him to give me gold instead,
when my eye fell on the back of it. It made
me feel downright queer for a minute, for
there, staring me in the face, just as I was
giving it to the chap, was the same mark
as was on my own note at home  M-a-y."

*had you not changed your note, then ? "
asks the man, with suppressed eagerness.

No ; I've got it still."

** But the man you spoke of might have
changed others of his notes in the town beside
the one he gave you," suggests the gardeners

He might  true," says the landlord,
huffily ; " but I don't believe he ever did 
even if he had the chance ! " And, without
another word, he waddles back into the bar,
slamming the outer door, and shutting out
his customer with the blackness and darkness
of the stormy winter night.

PFTEE that evening, in the course of
which the landlord of " The Spotted
Dog " had been so communicative,
it is a noteworthy fact that Mr Herrick's
under-gardener is a very frequent visitor to
that place of entertainment.

Twice or thrice at least in every week does
he make his appearance, flinging his coins
recklessly into the landlord's till, standing
treat to him and many of his colleagues
with munificent generosity, and winning the
character of being '' a rare free-handed chap,
with no nonsense about him." On these
evenings, old Job never deviates from his
course of action. At the same hour he always
comes in, orders his frugal supper,

drinks his pint of ale, reads the paper while
the others talk, jest, and swear in their
various fashions, and then takes himself off
to bed without word or warning. At the
gardener's third visit he endeavours to make
overtures to old Job of a similar nature to
those by which he has earned the goodwill
of the rough customers who usually frequent
the public-house ; but his advances meet
with no encouragement ; and, though old Job
drinks willingly enough at his expense, his
potations only make him surlier, denser, and
more impenetrable than ever. Still Dowling
perseveres in his efforts with remarkable good
nature. In the object he has in view patience
is the surest weapon for conquering all difficulties
; and the greasy note-book carried in
the under-gardener's breast-pocket bears many
a memorandum of these apparently wasted
evenings, that would have greatly astonished
his colleagues.

There is plenty of vagabondage going on
around, and mysterious meetings and colloquies

often take place between suspicious-looking
individuals who drop in to drink and
smoke and talk thieves' jargon in corners, or
make bets on horses, or discuss the Derby and
the forthcoming Leger and the Cup, and quarrel
and swear and behave generally in a manner
utterly at variance with the tenets of decent
society. But Dowling pays no heed to these
individuals, though he makes many a private
note of their names and aliases ; and they
grow so accustomed to the sight of the quiet
good-humoured-looking stranger, who so freely
treats them to liquors and looks so superlatively
unconscious of their jargon, that the
distrust with which they had at first received
him completely vanishes.

'' Have you heard the folks are back at
Beechhampton ? " he says, one evening, as he
sits puffing clouds of bird's-eye, and keeping
one eye, as usual, on the bent and withered-looking
figure of old Job.

"Ay," answers the landlord. "A fat lot
t)f good that Mr Charteris do do here. He's

no sooner back at the Priory than he's off
again."

" He had a nearest shave of his life in that
railway accident a while ago, hadn't he % "
pursues Dowling.

Yes ; they do say as madam won't ever
recover. Her spine's injured, or summit o'
that sort. He had only a broken arm."

"Where have they been all this time, do
you suppose ? " questions the other.

*down at the little Welsh place close to
where the accident was," is the reply.
"Leastways the papers says so  don't they,
Job ? "

** Miss," grunts that worthy from behind the
sheets of the local journal he is perusing.

** Well, he don't appear going to have much
comfort out of his married life," continues the
landlord. " It was a queer affair, so sudden
and secret-like ; and then he getting ill, and
when he were only fit for bed  so the servants
said  a-startin' off to goodness knows where,
and she and he being in the Welsh train as

was going back to the very place he had left.
They say he should have changed to the down
express and didn't. But she were mortal injured
 and he's pretty well damaged too, I'm
thinking."

Mrs Charteris is very beautiful, is she not ?"
inquires Dowling.

I dunno," returns the man, surlily. " She
be a fine dashing woman, but not one as I'd
like to know. Was you speaking. Job ? "

A grunt was the only reply.

I've not seen her," says the gardener,
thoughtfully.

And I don't repose you will now, if what
the paper says be true," answers the landlord.
*' She won't be able to move off her couch again."

Serve her right too ! "

The furious tone in which these words are
uttered makes Dowling and his host stare in
unqualified amazement at the speaker.

Why Job," exclaims the latter, " what are
you a-talkin' of ? How do you know aught of
Mrs Charteris ? Have you ever seen her ? "

But the old man only grunts some
unintelligible remark, and relapses into impenetrable
silence once more.

Will you have some pine-apple rum,
Job ? " asks Dowling, presently. '' It'll warm
yer old bones. This is an awful cold night
and no mistake''

The old man lays down his paper and
shambles along towards the chimney-corner.
It is his usual method of accepting an invitation
; he never wastes words on anybody.

The steaming glass of rum-and-water seems
in no way to thaw his icy gloom and impenetrability
; but Dowling and his host goon
with their pipes and conversation, bestowing
very little notice on the shabby, dreary
old figure bending and shivering over the fire.

So your theatre's going to open next
week ? " remarks Dowling, presently.

Ay," grunts the landlord.

"" Does it ever pay ? " inquires the gardener.

*' Dunno. Never go a- wasting my money
on such trash," is the grim rejoinder.

Wal, now, I like the theatre," says the
younger man. '' It does one good to see a
rale fine bit of playacting now and then.
When I lived at Doncaster I went continual."

** There's another queer set out, a-coming on
at the Town Hall," adds the host, taking a deep
draught of his fragrant beverage. '' A magician,
or wizard, or something he calls himself.
He does a power of wonderful things  makes
people go to sleep and tell him all he wants
them to tell, and sends watches through hats,
and rings through handkerchiefs, and gold-fishes
come into a bowl of water, and I dunno
what all."

** Indeed ! " says the younger man, thoughtfully,
" that must be nigh as good as the theatre.
Have you got it there in the paper ? "

*' Yes," answers the other, stretching out
his hand for the greasy wells thumbed journal,
and handing it to Dowling.

The latter looks carelessly at the ostentatious
advertisements of the wonderful and
renowned Wizard of the West, who will give

his marvellous entertainment, comprising mesmerism,
ventriloquism, magic, and legerdemain,
at the Town Hall, Colston, for three nights
only.

Then follows a description of the alliterative
advertiser's feats and accomplishments,
which Dowling peruses with a smile of incredulity.
He turns next to the theatre,
and reads the programme of that fascinating
abode which is rarely open more than
three months in the year, and has been the
ruin of many an enterprising manager and
starring company.

The Bells'' he says ; "I never heard or
saw that before. A queer enough name,
isn't it ? "

As good as any other," grunts the landlord.
" I've heard of it somewhere ; it made
a bit of a hit at Manchester  I think it was
Manchester. A customer of mine were talking
about it. He says, says he, ' I never felt so
downright queer as when I saw that piece.
'Tis all about a murder done by some foreign

chap  a mayor, or something of the sort 
and no one knows or guesses it all his life.
He must have been a rare, artful cove
that ! ' "

A crash of glass interrupts the speaker
and startles Dowling.

** Job, you mortal old stupid ! " cries the
irate landlord. '' There, if you haven't been
and smashed your glass. My missus be
fine and rampageous with you, I know."

'' 1  I'll buy another ! " says old Job, trying
to gather up the broken fragments with
his trembling fingers.

Won't you have another glass ? " asks
Dowling, cheerily. "You didn't drink half
your rum ! "

" No more, no more ! " cries the old man,
huskily, as he shuffles off in his usual unceremonious
fashion. 'don't be angry,
Harris, don't be angry ! I'll buy you another
glass  oh, yes, I'll buy you another
glass ! "

'queer old cuss that!" remarks Dowling

as the door closes. ** Nerves seem shaky,
don't you think ? "

"Something seems shaky about him tonight,"
answers the other, gruffly. " It
isn't often he trembles like that, old ashe
is."

*' Well, I must be going now," says the
young man, rising and pushing back his
chair. * You don't care for the theatre,
Harris, you say, or else I'd treat you. I
mean to go and see The Bells the first night
it is performed."

*' Seems to me your master allows you a
jolly sight more liberty than you ought to
have," returns the other.

** As long as I do my work, no one has
any call to interfere with me," retorts Dowling
; ** and, if I have the bad taste to prefer
your public to a heap of other better and
cleaner ones in the town, you oughtn't to
complain, Fm sure."

*' Who's complaining ? " growls Harris, surlily.
" I'm glad enough to see you when you

VOL. III. H

comes in for your drop o' grog and your pipe.
I can't say more, can I ? "

"No," laughs Dowling, heartily  "and I
don't want you to. But about the theatre ? "

Hang the theatre ! " exclaims the other.
'* Fm not going' to any theatres; so don't waste
your time asking me."

"All right. Then I shall go alone. I've
got a fancy to see the piece ! "

The Theatre Royal, Colston, like most other
theatres in country towns, is small, dingy,
ill-built, and badly ventilated. On the night
on which the opening performance of the
starring company is given it is tolerably well
filled. The piece is new to the general public ;
and the principal actor, who, since its production
in the provinces, has made for himself a
wide-spread and universal fame, is here also.

Mr James Dowling betakes himself to the
pit, and, after a rapid survey of the house,
makes himself as comfortable as circumstances
permit, the said circumstances being represented

by squalling babies, pushing children,
noisy women and half-tipsy men. The performance
begins very punctually with a farce,
in which there is a good deal of 
business, and a young man in alarming
check trousers is constantly occupied in
hiding himself from the discovery of an irate
parent. Mr James Dowling is apparently not
very hard to please, for he laughs heartily,
applauds immensely, and behaves as one of
the approved patrons of the British drama
generally does behave.

When the curtain draws up for the great
piece of the evening, however, his face grows
grave and watchful. As the first act proceeds
it grows rather perplexed ; and, when
the curtain falls, he applauds merely mechanically.


I'm hanged if I can make it out ! " he
mutters, rising and giving himself a shake, as
if to waken his brain from its bewilderment.
Standing thus, he suddenly faces round, and
with a rapid lightning-like glance sweeps the

gallery above him. His quiet face flushes
ever so slightly, a sniile of ill-concealed
triumph quivers round the firm compressed
lips. '' I thought so," he says to himself,
turning away his eyes, and letting his face
resume its expression of habitual indifference.
By Jove ! I do believe I'm getting on the
scent at last ! "

The curtain rises again ; the play goes on.
The betrothal of the Burgomaster's daughter
to Christian, the signing of the marriage contract,
the strange and marvellously-conquered
agitation of the man, who, at the very moment
of the fulfilment of his dearest hopes, hears
the haunting, ill-omened sound of the sleigh-bells
of his victim  all these pass before the
young man's eyes, yet scarcely impress him ashe
had expected to be impressed. A thrill of
disappointment runs through him as the
curtain falls once more to applause that is
very faint and weak.

''I didn't see much in it after all," he
thinks.

And then his mind reverts to the momentary
glimpse of the haggard face and white
straggling locks of the man in the gallery, the
man who had shrunk back with down-bent
head into his seat as the glance of those sharp
piercing eyes detected him.

The opening of the third act rouses him
from his meditative trance. Once more he
turns his eyes upon the stage, carelessly,
wearily enough ; then  Ah ! what is it that
rouses his wandering attention and holds him
silent, spell-bound by the weird and mystic
scene ? The stage grows dark and dim, yet
from the darkness looms, faint and indistinct,
a shadowy circle of figures. The piercing eyes
soon make them out to be a court of justice.
With all the mystic meaning of a dream, that
strange weird scene goes on. The stern voice
of the judge rings out, the defiant answer of
the accused comes firm and hard in answer.
Piece after piece of evidence is confuted, until
at last there issues forth the strange command,


*' Bring hither the mesmerist ! "

The wild hoarse cry that follows from the
lips of the haunted, despairing man seems to
curdle the very blood in the veins of the
awe-struck, breathless audience. Not a sound
is heard now ; every eye is fixed, every ear
strained as the awful spectacle proceeds, where
science forces the guilty soul to act out its
own red-handed drama, to shadow forth with
deadly certainty each action of a deed of
blood.

James Bowling's face looks like an iron
mask in its cold, rigid horror. He scarce
draws breath, he moves neither eye nor limb
until the scene fades like the dream it has
represented ; and on the lighted stage are
confused figures and frightened faces grouped
around the guilty man, who dies in the horror
of that awful dream, that to the spectators
seems no dream at all.

Blind, confused, his usual steady brain in a
whirl, his usual firm step shaking and trembling
like a drunkard's, the detective rushes

forth from the wild weird scene into the cold
and stormy darkness without.

'' I have it now ! " he cries to himself in
riotous triumph. " Ere a week is over my
head my task will be ended, as sure as my
name is  not James Dowling ! "

m

lOU must be mad, Dowling ! " says
Mr Herrick the next morning, as
tie paces up and down the garden
with the new gardener. ** I never heard of
such a preposterous suggestion ! "

'' All's fair in war and  justice, sir," returns
the man, with a queer twinkle in his eye. '* If
you'll only give your consent to the experiment,
I'll be bound to have the case all cut
and dry before you for the next assizes."

** What makes you so confident ? " asks the
lawyer.

*' I can't tell you, sir ; only I'm pretty sure
I've scented my man out at last. My only
fear is he'll give us the slip if we don't look
sharp. I notice he's a deal too fond of looking

at the shipping-lists lately. Come, sir, haven't
you got confidence enough in me to trust mein
this instance ? I only want your consent
and a promise of a fiver to that rum old cove
who calls himself the Wizard  as nice an old
party to speak to as ever I met, he is too,
though he dresses himself a bit outlandish."

'well, I don't know what to think of it,"
says Mr Herrick, in a puzzled tone. 'rit's
the queerest suggestion I ever heard of in all
my life ! I don't know that it's quite fair
either to the man."

Anything's fair to such a wily old dodger
as that," replies Mr Dowling, contemptuously.
It's my belief he's living on the money got
from that poor murdered chap all this time.
I've traced two of those marked notes back to
him."

Ay, that was very clever of you," says
the old lawyer, approvingly ; '' but I want to
know how you're going to prove old Job, as
you call him, to be our friend that we're looking
after. You can't tell him  he's disguised ;

and, pon my honour, Dowling, the man you
pointed out to me the day we tracked the old
man is as different as possible from  Budd."

Hush ! "  and the detective looks cautiously
round. '' Not so loud, please, sir. No
one must get wind of our being on the lookout
for that gentleman, if you ever mean us to
catch him."

'* But why should he be living here so close
to the place  in the very neighbourhood where
he might be most easily recognised ? " exclaims
the old lawyer, impatiently.

'' Ay, why ? " returns Dowling, softly.
"Why do murderers always do just the one
silly, soft thing that leads to discovery ?
That's the puzzle, sir ! They're so mighty
clever that some little foolish every-day circumstance,
of which they never think, convicts
them. But it's a law of Providence, I think,
that, sooner or later, they must come back to
the place of their crime. They don't seem as
if they could help it. I suppose they think
no one's likely to look for them there. But,

to return to our ' mutton,' Mr Herrick, will
you give in to me in this ? I can't get a
warrant out on the very slight suspicions I
have formed ; they're strong enough to me,
but two people rarely look at things with the
same eyes. A bold stroke may carry the
game, hesitation may lose it. Which is it
to be ? "

'' Well, you must have your way, I suppose,"
says the old lawyer, after a lengthy
pause. '* Manage it the best way you can ;
though how you mean to get over that scoundrelly
old Harris puzzles me ; also how you
suppose Job, or whatever he calls himself, is
going to be foolish enough to submit to such
an operation ! "

Bless your heart, sir, he won't know a
word of it ! " chuckles the detective. '* Trust
me and the Wizard for that ! As for Harris,
he's got his price, like most people, and 111
give him a pretty strong hint as to what
he'd better do in the matter. All I want you
to do, sir, is to remain out of sight till I give

the signal. Then you can come in and put
the old chap up to what he's to ask."

*' It's the most extraordinary idea  really
the most extraordinary idea I ever heard of ! "
says Mr Herrick, in an odd, bewildered tone.

*' Well, you see, sir, we live in extraordinary
days," answers the detective, with a faint
quiver of amusement round his grave mouth.
And why shouldn't science be brought to
bear on criminal cases as well as on other
things ? I don't see it, I'm sure."

** It will be a wrinkle for law-courts and the
private police, I must say," says Mr Herrick,
grimly.

'* There's no occasion for any of them to
hear of it," answers Mr Dowling. *' You see,
sir, it's quite private-like. If my idea's right,
we accuse him boldly ; if not, there's no harm
done, and old Job is old Job still  not a
farthing's worth the wiser for all he's been
saying and doing. I got it all out of the
old cove myself ; there's no risk, no fear 
nothing. He'll just go off to sleep like a

lamb ; you ask all your questions through
the mesmerist, and there you are ! "

There I am indeed ! " says Mr Herrick.
It's a bold stroke, and no mistake, Dowling.
I only hope it's all right."

Eight as a trivet, sir ! You trust me,"
is the confident answer. " Now I'm just
going to rake up those 'ere beds, and this
afternoon I go to Colston for those seeds as
you want so particular, and which haven't
come. And to-night  "

"To-night indeed!" says Mr Herrick,
gravely. *' I wish it may be all as well as
you imagine, Dowling."

It is close upon nine o'clock, and the parlour
of *' The Spotted Dog " looks even more
gloomy and disreputable than usual. The
fat landlord sits near the fire, imbibing pineapple
rum ; but his usual surly countenance
bears an expression of intense fear, and his
restless glances wander incessantly from James
Dowling's face to the slipshod figure of old

Job, who sits in his usual corner poring over
the newspaper.

'* Have some rum, Job ? " inquires Dowling,
presently. *' What an unsociable chap you
are ! Come, put down that paper and join us.
We're dull enough to-night as it is. What's
become of all your customers, Harris ? ''

'' Dunno," growls that worthy.

*' I don't mind if I do have a glass to-night,"
says old Job, with unwonted loquacity. " I
shall be a-going off from here tomorrow,
Harris. I've heard of a job as'll likely suit
me, and I'm going to see after it."

Oh, indeed ! " says Dowling, leaning back
in his chair and yawning lazily. *' And are
you going far % "

That be my business," is the curt rejoinder.


True for you," says Dowling, bending
down to strike a match on the heel of his
boot. " Well, here's good luck to you ! "

They drain their glasses, and, as they put
them down, the door opens and a stranger

comes in. He is a tall, thin man, very shabby
and poverty-stricken in appearance, with a
pale, strange face and dark sombre eyes. The
landlord rises to greet him and to supply his
wants. Dowling and Job, after a careless
glance, go on with their employment of mixing
fresh tumblers of rum-and-water. Old
Job is opportunely in a sociable mood, and
actually condescends to answer Dowling's remarks,
and give that astute individual a
surly account of his forthcoming change of
location, and the duties he has undertaken 
all of which his hearer knows to be utterly
false. Presently, however, the old man seems
to grow uncomfortable. He twists and turns
about in his chair, his words come in a short,
jerky fashion, and his eyes wander restlessly
about the room.

Dowling apparently pays no attention to
these symptoms. Presently, to his great
surprise, the old man rises and crosses over
to where the pale, odd-looking stranger is
sitting.

The new arrival takes no notice of him,
beyond raising his eyes and giving a sharp,
rapid glance at his face.

Then he says, in a low soft voice, 

'' Remove your spectacles."

Without a word or sign of remonstrance
the old man obeys.

Sit down," continues the stranger.

With a deep sigh old Job sinks into a chair,
his eyes still resting in absorbed, yet reluctant
intentness, on those strange sombre
orbs that are fixed on him.

Dowling lays down his pipe and watches
the two in breathless silence. The stranger
stands up now and makes a few rapid passes
over the man's head. Then he turns to the
detective.

'* He's off now," he says, quietly. *' He's a
wonderfully easy subject ; he only resisted
for half a minute."

Are you quite sure he's not shamming ? "
asks Dowling, approaching and gazing awestruck
at the trance-sleeper.

Sure ? " exclaims the stranger, scornfully.
I wish I was as sure of having a thousand
pounds this minute."

*' Shall I call in the others ? " asks Dowling,
respectfully.

*' Certainly. Have you any questions you
wish me to ask him ? "

Not yet ; the other gentleman is to do
that," says Dowling, going to the door.

A moment later Mr Herrick and the landlord
enter together. The lawyer gives a keen,
critical glance at the calm sleeping figure, and
then turns to the host.

Be good enough to lock your door," he
says. " I daresay you know me ; I'm Mr
Herrick, the lawyer. IVe reason to suspect this
man of an ill deed, and I call upon you to bear
witness to anything that may occur to-night."

** I don't want to stand in the way of
justice, squire," returns the man in his usual
surly tone, '' but I don't know what you're a
poussin' of that poor old chap for ; it don't
seem fair play to me, that it don't."

VOL. III. I

'you hold your tongue and drink your
grog ; that's all you've got to do, my friend,"
says Mr Bowling, approaching. " I'm John
Clarke, of Scotland Yard. You've heard of
me before to-day, or I'm much mistaken."

The discomfited Harris, to whom that well-known
name is a signal word of terror, collapses
immediately at this remark, and, with no
attempt at reply, seats himself by his favourite
chimney-corner to watch the proceedings.

To all appearance, the suspected man is
quietly asleep. His colour is as fresh, his
breathing as regular, as a child's.

"Your questions, sir," says the mesmerist,
turning to Mr Herrick.

*' Ask him whether he is disguised or not,"
is the quiet answer.

Yes," is the response of the man ; and,
expected though it is, neither the lawyer nor
the detective can repress a slight start of
surprise at the ready affirmation.

*' For what reason ? " is the next question.
To avoid detection," comes from the unconscious

lips that are sealing the doomed
man's fate.

Why do you wish to avoid detection ? "

There is a strong shuddering sigh. It seems
as if the bound and controlled spirit seeks to
resist the indomitable will that forces it to
respond ; but in vain  in vain.

*' Because  I am a guilty many

The grim old lawyer s face grows paler than
usual ; the detective's mask of impenetrability
is lighted by a gleam of triumph in his calm
grey eyes. But neither of them speaks. In
the chimney-corner sits the landlord, his pipe
and glass alike forgotten as his wondering
gaze takes in that strange group.

Ask him," says Mr Herrick, presently,
'* to describe what took place on the evening
of the 20th of January last."

'* I had a note from Gabriel Lor ton, a man
I had not seen for half a score of years ; I
thought he was dead. I had done him a great
wrong once, and had no wish to see him again.
He found me out on his return from sea and

tracked me here, " comes slowly and monotonously
from the sleeper's lips.

'' What did the note say ? "

*' He asked me to meet him."

'' Did you consent ? "

** I wrote and bade him be in the Beech -
hampton Woods, at a spot I described, the next
afternoon."

What followed ? "

For a moment there is a hesitating silence.
The face of the man grows convulsed, his body
writhes as from some strange inward torture ;
but a wave of the mesmerist's hand stops the
paroxysm, and his breathing grows calm ; it is
the last struggle of the weaker will against
the stronger.

His head drops on his breast. The inexorable
voice goes on, 

'' What followed ? Tell me all."

*' I met him at the entrance to the woods.
I led him on to the most sequestered part.
He insisted upon knowing what had become
of the girl to whom he had been betrothed

when he sailed for that foreign port. We
had been rivals once, and he hated me as I
hated him. He said he had found out she
had left the village where she lived until then.
Where was she now ? I told him she had
loved me better than him  that I had wedded
her, and we had been happy together for
many years  then she died. As I told him
that, he flew at me like a tiger. He said that
I was a lying hound, that I had killed her. I
knew he was risjht. I knew that the girl had
broken her heart for love of him  had pined
away like a dying flower from the moment she
had become my wife. His words maddened
me ; my blood was up. I had hated him
always. 1 had hated him more since the
only woman I ever loved had left me alone
and burdened with misery. I have always
been reckoned a soft, good-natured, easy-going
man ; but no one ever knew what a demon
lurked in the depths of my heart, ready to
spring up at the provocation of such a
moment. He was a strong man ; but the

strength of a hundred fiends was raging in me.
When his hand touched my throat I grew
mad. The air seemed filled with voices
shrieking, ' Kill him, kill him ! ' A sea of
blood seemed to float before my eyes. We
wrestled together silently. I think he must
have seen there was murder in my look, he
grew so pale ; yet no word escaped him  no
prayer for mercy. My hands pressed tighter
and closer on his throat. He was like a child
in my grasp. I saw the veins swell, the
starting eyes, and heard the suffocating gasp ;
then his strength failed, his arms relaxed  he
fell at my feet like a log  dead ! "

A shudder of horror runs through the
listening men ; only the pale face of the
mesmerist remains unchanged.

' Go on," the calm, icy voice commands.
I was stunned for a moment. I knelt
there and tried to revive him. It was useless
; he was quite dead. I searched his
pockets then ; I dared not let anything
remain about him by which he could be

identified. I found nothing but a silk handkerchief,
a pocket-book full of bank notes,
and a few loose coins. I took them all,
then dragged the body to a place I knew
of, where there was no likelihood of any
living being ever approaching, and dropped
it in the deep stagnant waters of a pool.
Then I went home."

*' When the body was found, long afterwards,
why did you try to persuade everyone
it was the corpse of Mr Charteris of
Beechhampton ? ''

'* Because I wished to divert suspicion from
myself, and I owed Miss Mervyn a grudge ;
and Mrs Ray, who was sweet on Mr Charteris
then, promised me a large reward if I got her
so suspected that she would be obliged to
leave the place."

Did Mrs Ray know that this was not
Mr Charteris ? "

** I cannot tell. She never said."

*' Ask him where he got the ring which he
said he drew off from the murdered man's

finger," says the detective, looking up from
his pocket-book.

I went to the Priory to make all the
inquiries respecting Mr Charteris's disappearance,"
says the man, when the question has
been put. "Mrs Kay and I were talking
together in his dressing-room, when my eyes
fell on the signet-ring. I took it up quietly,
and was putting it on and off my finger while
she was talking. She never seemed to notice
it. After a while I laid it down ; but when
her back was turned I put it into my pocket."

** As neat a bit of villany as ever I pieced
together ! " exclaims Mr Dowling, looking
grimly at the unconscious man. ** Oh, what
a thing it is to have a chap sleeping before
you as sweetly as a babe, and doing his very
best to commit himself all the time ! What
a sight of trouble we should be saved, if we
could get a few more treated in the same way ! "

'* Have you written all down ? " asks Mr
Herrick, sternly.

Yes, sir."

'' Then I think there is no need to ask anything
more' says the old lawyer.

'* Shall I wake him now ? " demands the
mesmerist.

'* Yes  no ; stay ! Bid him remove his
disguise first."

The sleeper obeys. He wrests off the close-fitting
wig and the grey eyebrows, and stands
revealed before his accusers, the smooth, sleek
Inspector Budd. Yet he is not quite the
same as of yore, for his face is haggard and
thin, his eyes are sunken and lustreless, the
brow is scored with many a deep furrow,
and the close cropped hair, over which the
disguising covering fitted so admirably, is
streaked with patches of white.

Now wake him ! " says Mr Herrick,
sternly.

There are a few slow waves of the strange,
mysterious hands, and then with a faint,
quivering sigh the eyes of the trapped and
guilty wretch unclose and rest upon the stern
accusing faces around him.

He springs to his feet. His face turns
grey and ashy, like the face of a corpse. Involuntarily
his hands go up to his head and
he finds that his disguise is fathomed at last.
A low hoarse shriek passes his lips. He hurls
himself at the detective's sturdy figure, overturns
him in his desperate strength and flies
to the door. It is barred and bolted ! Howling
like a caged wild animal, he turns back
and faces his persecutors.

'* I think you had better make no resistance,"
says the firm, cold voice of the
lawyer. " We are three to one. not counting
Harris ; and the house is surrounded by
police ! "

"You have no warrant! You dare not
arrest me ! What do you all mean ? " shouts
the man, turning his glaring eyes from one
face to the other with the wild, ferocious terror
of an animal at bay.

I accuse you of the murder of Gabriel
Morton, a seaman, whose body was found in
Dead Man's Pool in the Beechhampton

Woods," says Mr Herrick, in a low, grave,
relentless tone.

A shudder shakes the figure of the guilty,
cowardly wretch. His eyes turn wildly, appealingly
from one face to the other.

'' I never did it ! " he says. '' What proof
have you ? "

'the best proof possible," answers Mr
Herrick, sternly. "Your own confession
while you slept. Nevertheless, you shall have
a fair trial ; by that you must abide."

The ghastly incredulous stare which met
this charge, fades and changes into one of
abject fear. Without a word or plea, without
an expression of doubt, the man drops
upon his knees, grovelling in abject, miserable
terror at the feet of his accuser, rending the
air with shrill quavering cries for pity and
for mercy.

" Seek them where, your victim and accuser
stands," is the old lawyer's relentless response.
'' Man will but deal back to you the mercy
you showed to him ! "

CHAPTEE IX.

[HE snow is covering all the quaint
old gables of Mervyn Court and
spreading a spotless, dazzling carpet
over the walks, lawn, and garden-beds,
when Yolande once more comes home.

White, pale, and fragile as any snowdrop
she looks herself, but for all that she declares
she is perfectly well and strong, though a little
anxious still for that milder air of the south
which is to work such wonders in her health.
The old master of the Court rouses himself
to some dim perception of his beloved child's
presence. She always hovers about him, sings
to him, talks to him, ministers to him as no
one else can do, her dearest reward being
some brighter gleam in the fading eyes, some

stronger pressure of the frail old hand, that
once could give so true and hearty a grip to
friends long since forgotten by his fading
memory.

It brings the tears to Yolande's eyes
to receive the tender greetings which are
lavished upon her  sto see Arthur's face grow
brighter and his boyish eyes fill with tears
of joy, and Miss Skipton's chocolate visage
beam with welcome, while all the old servants
crowd round her with loving words and
greetings ; and later on old Doctor Deane
and his wife and the Hargrave come in, and
there is pleasant talk and discussion, and
no one says a word that might awaken painful
memories. The pale, lonely girl moves
among them all, with her wistful eyes and low,
sweet voice, thinking, with strange subdued
pain, of the lover who is to her as the dead,
and missing in all the crowd of loving faces,
that one face far tenderer and more loving still.

Though his name is never breathed by her
lips, it is ever in her heart, lying there as

the dead lie in our memories ; for to her it
must be indeed as if he were dead henceforth ;
to think of him living is to destroy the hard-won
composure that, though it deceives others,
can never even for one brief, blessed moment
deceive herself.

Yolande is only to be at home a week, just
long enough to make all the necessary preparations
for that long stay in the south,
whither they are all bound, except Arthur.

During all that week she never leaves the
precincts of the Court. She knows that the
Charteris family are at the Priory. She has
heard various rumours of the accident, which
was so nearly fatal to both, but she has
not trusted herself to ask for particulars.
Sometimes she thinks that moment of mutual
danger may have softened Denzil's heart. At
all events, he and his wife are together now,
and so his thoughts of her must be kinder
than they were.

Is there not exquisite pain in that idea for

the brave girl who urged him to that distasteful
duty ? Ah, well she knows it  too well,
when the sharpness of agony pierces her at
the thought of her rival's loveliness, subduing
and softening the rancour of her husband's
feelings, winning back some warmth to the
chilled and desolate heart that once was
vowed to her who mourns him now !

In time he will forget," she tells herself
again and again. " Oh, Heaven, that I might
learn the lesson too ! "

When Sunday morning comes round Yo-lance
does not go to church with the others ;
she cannot bring herself to sit in the old
accustomed place, and see perchance in the
well-known Beechhampton pew the faces of
Denzil Charteris and his wife ; so she lets
the others depart, and walks up and down
the warm conservatories with her father for
his usual morning exercise, and then leaves
him settled for his nap in his great deep
arm-chair, and, wrapping herself in her warm
furred cloak, she goes out.

It is a crisp, cold morning. The ground is
frozen hard under foot, the trees are hung
and garlanded with icicles, and the sky overhead
is of a clear steel-like blue. The fresh
air and brisk exercise bring the old-rose tint
back to Yolande's pale cheeks, and send the
blood tingling and coursing through her veins.
She leaves the Court by the old lodge-gate
and turns to the road that leads to the woods
she used to love so well.

How quiet and still everything is ! Not a
human being is visible anywhere. A robin
chirps on a tree near by, a ray of sunshine
falls through the white glittering boughs, and
its dazzling lustre is caught and reflected by
the shining crystals on every side.

She leans against the well-remembered stile
leading to the short cut to Beechhampton 
the stile on which she and Arthur, and Vi and
Enid, cut their initials in the old childish days
that seem so long gone by. She leans there,
and through the frosty air comes the clear,
sweet chime of bells. The girl leans her head

on her hands, and a sudden rush of tears
comes to the hidden eyes. It is only in
solitary moments like this that she gives
way to such weakness ; but it is a hard task
to forget, and, to such a nature as Yolande's,
impossible. The bells cease at last ; the robin
flies to chirp his little song at some cottage
lattice ; and the girl, leaning so wearily
against the stile, raises her eyes, with deep
dark circles round them, and her face full of
an unutterable anguish, and looks straight into
the face of the man from whom she parted in
such bitter agony a few brief weeks before.

She recoils a step. He is on one side of
the stile, she on the other  divided by a
barrier so slight, yet strong as that invisible
barrier which keeps them apart now  with no
kiss or hand-touch given or asked.

Denzil speaks first.

How ill you look ! " he says. " Yolande,
is it true you are going away ? "

Yes," she answers, with a quietness that
surprises herself. " We leave tomorrow."
VOL. III. K

*' I  I hope it will do you good," he says,
with a dangerous tremor in his voice. " I did
not think you were so changed ! "

He stands gazing at every line and feature
of the lovely little face, so unutterably pathetic
now in its mute brave sorrow, with the
childish quivering lips, the dark and sorrowful
eyes drooping before his own too eager
gaze. Her name passes his lips  he makes
no effort to restrain himself  in a second he
has leaped the barrier that keeps them apart,
and stands beside her, folding his arms round
the little trembling figure, half mad with the
rapture and the longing that seize him as he
feels her heart beats answering his own, as he
sees the warm, rich colour flushing over cheek
and brow beneath his passionate words.

*' If I could only bear your sorrow, or
lighten it ! Oh, my love  my love ! "

She is too weak, too startled to resist him.
Passive as a child, she rests in the strong
clasp of those arms that where to have made
the shelter and refuse of her life once  that

now  She shudders at the thought, and
strives to release herself.

Oh, Denzil," she moans, '' you only make
it harder  thus ! Do you forget  "

Forget % " he says, bitterly. ' Is it so
easy ? While the blood of life runs through
my veins, while my heart beats at the mere
delight of your presence, the mere sound of
your name, I shall never forget ! "

I did not mean that ! " she says, piteously.
I suppose it is wicked and wrong of me not
to wish to lose your love ; but I meant, do
you forget  her ? We have no right to stand
thus, now ! The more difficult the task we
have to learn, the more we should avoid all
temptation to forget it. Denzil, it is well we
have to part. I do not think I could bear to
be here and see you and her  together ! "

You would not see that," he answers,
coldly, releasing her from his embrace now,
and stepping back a pace or two as he speaks.
Have you not heard ? "

"Heard what?"

Of the accident that so nearly killed us
both. Oh, Yolande, if it only had ! It has
crippled her for life. She never moves off the
couch ; the doctor says she never will ! "

'' Oh, how sad ! " cries the girl, turning
very pale.

I wonder you do not say it is a judgment
upon her. Many women in your place would."

*' Oh, no ! " she says, shuddering. " I am
not so wicked, so unforgiving ! Deeply
enough she has wronged us both, Denzil.
Yet I know that, with all her schemes and
all her beauty, she has not been able to win
what she would have given all else to obtain
your love ! "

'' You are right ! " he answers, with the old
passionate gleam in his dark eyes. " My little
darling, no one in all the world can ever win
that from you."

She looks up at him, and both are silent 
a long, dangerous silence, sweet, soft, and full
of exquisite memories, but doomed to an
awakening of tenfold bitterness. As, after

some bright dream, when the loved and lost
return, we awake to the double misery of loss
and grief, so they too awake to the memory
of the present, the knowledge of the parting
that lies before them.

"You need never fear that," he goes on,
softly. *' Such love is not to be taken or
given at will. But, oh, Yolande, what right
have I to burden your life with a faithfulness
I may never be able to repay ? I ought not
to be so selfish. If you in time to come, think
it possible to find happiness in new ties with
any other, and thus forget the fatal error
which has darkened both our lives, believe
me, I will never reproach you ! I cannot say
I shall not suffer ; for a man of my years,
who loves as I love you, cannot easily unloose
the memories which bind him, or tear
his idol from his heart, without desperate
suffering. But you must not think of me,
if  such a time ever comes ! "

His voice grows almost inaudible in its
anguish, bravely as he strives to steady it.

She looks up into his face with a strange
smile on her own  such a smile as a martyr
at the stake might wear, as a woman only
gives in her agony who would fain comfort
at any cost one she loves.

Oh, hush, Denzil ! Do you still mean to
give me the old character ? Would you have
me believe it possible to break vows I deem
as sacred as a marriage oath ? Love or happiness
with any other is utterly impossible !
It sounds an insult to speak of it ! I should
not be worthy of that love I hardly dared
hope to win, could I give to another what
was sealed and sacred to you."

He bends his head to conceal his agitation.
He can find no words to answer her now.

How noble you are ! " he murmurs at last.
'' To think what I have lost, to think how I
wronged you ! Oh, Heaven, the tortures of
Tantalus are not more terrible than mine ! "

Seeing his anguish, her strength almost forsakes
her. A heavy, hopeless sigh escapes
her lips.

*' I did not think I should meet you again,"
she says, sadly. '' I thought you would beat
church this morning, and I came out to
say farewell to the old familiar landmarks.
I shall not see them for so long, you know."

** And I did not even know you were home
yet," he answers, raising his white haggard
face ; doubly haggard and worn it looks in
the sweet golden sunlight flooding earth and
sky so lavishly. " I have been thoughtless
too in keeping you standing here in the cold.
You look so delicate still. Yolande "  and a
sudden sharp anguish thrills his voice  " are
you really better  stronger than you were ? "

*' Do you mean, am I going to die, or go
into a decline, or anything of that sort ? "
she answers, with a bitter little laugh. '* No,
Denzil, it is only in novels girls do that sort
of thing. I have got bodily strength to bring
me through this, though I should not have
believed it once ! "

Don't speak like that," he entreats ; ** I
cannot bear it. Do you know, if anything

happened, it would seem to me as if I had
killed you  killed you by my own mad folly.
Oh, Yolande, how could I ever have believed
what I did ? I have always been hasty and
given to forming passionate judgments  such
errors have marred my life before. But surely
I must have been utterly insane to credit such
a tissue of lies as were told me ! You heard
about that girl at the school who stopped the
letters and sent the notice to the paper ? "

'* Yes," answers Yolande ; " she always disliked
me. But, oh, Denzil, don't talk about
that any more now ! Nothing can alter or
remedy it. Regrets are so useless ! "

True," he says, despairingly, as he walks
on beside her. "Nothing can alter it. My
jealous fury, which turned all faith in you to
utter disbelief, which rendered all the memories
of your truth, your love, your vows,
of no avail, has indeed been punished ! "

It must have been so hard," she returns,
never blaming him, never saying that a thousandfold
such testimony could not have deluded

her into such utter madness as had led
him to forge the terrible fetters which bind
him now. "I do not wonder you doubted
me, Denzil. I suppose you thought I was
still playing the rule of ' My Lady Coquette ' V

*' Even that wrong I owe to her ! " he cries,
fiercely. *' She sent you that odious valentine,
copying my handwriting as closely as
possible ! "

*' How long ago it seems since I got that
unfortunate piece of paper," answers Yolande,
sadly, " and yet it will only be a year next
month ! "

'* A year ! Oh, if it were only possible to
cut out this wretched, wasted year from my
life  to begin aoain with a new heart and
fresh hopes ! " he groans aloud. ** Oh, my
darling, I cannot bear this ! Am I never to
see your face now ? Is all this cruel distance
to be between us, and no word or sign to
bridge it ? "

*' Is it not best ? " she says, gently. " Ask
yourself, Denzil, whether we could do any

madder or more senseless thing than to meet
even casually as we met to-day, knowing
all that the past has told, that the future
forbids ? "

He turns deadly pale ; his whole frame
quivers with an intensity of emotion that
scarcely all the force of his strong will can
curb or control.

*you are right indeed," he says. "I
cannot see you and forget how wildly I love
you. I cannot look on you and remember
my own cold, unblessed life, in which you
have no part or place now, and be calm as
my honour demands, as your nobleness deserves.
Heaven forgive me, I cannot ! And
yet, oh, my darling, with all the width of
oceans between us, should I not still sin
in thought ? For, if love sanctifies a human
tie in an absolute and unalienable fidelity, such
love lives in my every memory of  you ! "

The low-breathed passionate words sweep
like sweetest music over her aching, throbbing
heart. She raises her eyes to his, heavy with

unshed tears, eloquent with a love that equals
his own in force, devotion, and strength.

"I do not envy her  now," she murmurs,
tenderly. '' For all she has robbed me of,
how little has she gained ! No, don't speak,"
she adds, hurriedly. ** I should not say such
words  perhaps they are wrong and unwomanly
; but it seems to me that love cannot
be given and recalled, even in view of a
hundred marriage rites ; and yet, Denzil, as
I said before, we must not meet again if we
meet thus. It is but re-opening old wounds.
You must see it too. Nothing will give us
back our wrecked happiness, and, till we can
meet calmly  as friends  we had better not
meet at all. Now here we are close to the
lodge gates. Say good-bye, Denzil, and let
me go."

Can I let you go ? " he says, wildly,
stretching out his arms once more to fold her
to his aching, tortured heart.

She steps gently aside.

*' No," she says, firmly, '' I will not forget

what is due to myself again, even if you
forget what is due to  your wife."

Are you so cold ? Can you leave me
thus ? " he cries, passionately. '* Heaven
knows when we shall meet again ! Am I
to have nothing to remember of our last
farewell ? "

She looks at the wild, sad face, the imploring
eyes, the white and trembling lips,
and her strength almost breaks down.

'listen," she says; and something in her
voice calms the fiery tumult in his soul as
by a spell. " I am not cold  I am not indifferent
to your pain and misery. I will
put the greatest trust in you that woman
can put in man, for in telling you this I lay
my life at your mercy. I will not rest in
your arms ; I will not suffer your kisses, because
 oh, Denzil, why do you press me to
say it ?  if I did so, I should have no strength
to bid you leave me again ! " And, with bent
head and cheeks shame-flushed, she moves
swiftly away.

For a moment he stands there spellbound.


*' Oh, Heaven," he moans, ' how she loves
me ! What have I lost ? "

And to the hurrying figure, that turns not,
nor looks back in the piteous shame, passion,
and bewilderment that throb in every heart-beat,
there comes across the white and silent
road one low and bitter cry  the cry of a
strong man in his agony and remorse. It
finds an echo in her own despairing heart.

[iN the softly-shaded boudoir which
forms part of her suite of rooms
lies the mistress of Beechhampton
Towers.

The beautiful face is drawn by severe pain ;
all its soft and delicate colouring has fled.
That terrible accident, which was so nearly
fatal, has left her a helpless cripple for life,
dependent as a child on the attendance and
ministry of others. Her plotting and scheming
have done little for her, after all. She
cannot enjoy even the outward semblance of
all she has sacrificed her honour to win. The
man she has wronged so deeply avoids all but
the most ordinary intercourse with her. He
pays her one visit in each day ; but his pity

for her sufferings is merely such as a stranger
might feel. Every comfort, luxury, and care
that money can command are hers ; but the
ministry of servants is at best a poor substitute
for the devotion of love ; and, save
for her mother's languid sympathy, and his
stated visits, she is utterly desolate. Yet that
strange ill-fated love burns as deeply as ever.
Like a miser counting his gold, so does she
count those few blessed moments when her
husband's presence lightens her dreary solitude.
She is racked with an aching longing
for the mere sound of his step, and the touch
of his hand. He gives her no other greeting,
nor has he given her such since the hour that
she won his empty heart in its reckless and
despairing rebound.

A terrible price indeed has she paid for her
bargain ! There are moments when, if she
were not so utterly helpless, she would put
an end to the existence that is one long,
maddening torture ; but all means to commit
this crime she once rashly attempted are

beyond her power now. She can only lie
there suffering  suffering from day to day,
yet finding even in bodily anguish no respite
from the torments of her sin-stained soul.

It is Sunday evening. The bells are chiming
soft and clear, the stars stud the heavens
like myriads of glittering gems. The lamps
in the boudoir are shaded, shedding a softened
light over the exquisite room and the
figure lying so still on the couch by the fire,
with golden hair rippling over the white lace-edged
pillows, and feverish restless eyes that
gleam with unwonted brilliance as they turn
from the clock on the chimney-piece to the
door.

'* You are sure Mr Charteris is in, nurse ?"
she says, for the twentieth time.

'' Quite sure, madam," answers the stately
silk-robed matron beside her.

'' I never knew him so late before," she
murmurs, restlessly. '* He always comes at
six, and now it is nearly half-past. Nurse,
send a message down to say I wish particularly

to see him. I  I cannot wait any
longer.

The woman rises and leaves the room.
Five minutes more elapse and then she
returns.

Mr Charteris will be here immediately,
madam," she says.

The beautiful marble-hued face glows with
sudden rosy warmth, and the restless hands
grow still.

You can leave me now," she says. " I
will ring when I want you." And with a
stately curtsey the woman passes out.

Pauline lies back on her pillows, her eyes
closed, her whole heart absorbed in that intense
eager listening for the reluctant step
that makes the sole music of her life. It
comes at last ; strangely listless and reluctant
it seems to-night ; and the face that bends
over her in the usual conventional greeting
bears a sorrow and an anguish on its haggard
features greater even than usual.

You sent for me," he says, coldly.

VOL. III. L

'' Did you not mean to come ? " she asks.
Had you forgotten ? "

I suppose I had," he answers, wearily, ashe
sinks into the chair beside her couch.
How are you to-day ? "

Why do you ask that ? " she cries, fiercely.
'you know that each day, each hour, you
wish me dead ! Why do you feign this interest
in my health or welfare ? "

He is silent. His eyes turn to the fire
and rest there.

** If you only set for me to utter these old
reproaches, I had better leave you again ! " he
says, sternly, at last.

*' Oh, no  oh, no ! " she half sobs, stretching
out one white fragile hand to stay him.
How cruel, how hard you are ! Do you not
know that in all the long, torturing hours of
day and night I have only one thing to
look forward to  your brief visit ? Will you
shorten even that ? "

'' I have no wish to add to your pain or
sufferings," he says, more gently ; " but for

Heaven's sake spare me needless taunts ! I
have enough to suffer without them ! "

She looks at him with a fierce and passionate
scrutiny. Her hand tightens its hold
on his arm.

You have seen  her ! " she says.

The blood rushes to his face. He shrinks
away as if from the insult of a blow.

Well ? " he says, with that cold hauteur
which has made friends and enemies alike
think twice before provoking Denzil Charteris.

Oh, Heaven ! " she moans, dropping her
face on her hands and quivering with a passion
of jealous rage and baffled love. '' And here
I lie like a log, a half-dead inanimate block,
while you and she make love as though you
had no wife ! "

Pauline," he says, with a sternness that
awes her even in that outburst of wild, unrestrained
passion, " if you wish for even the
hollow semblance of peace between us, never
desecrate her name by uttering it to me !
Wrongs like mine are not easy to forget. Do

not rouse the madness in my nature again.
You call yourself my wife. Be sure that so
much honour is still mine as to make me
respect that title. Though you lie on that
couch for twenty years you need fear no rival,
but you have never had my heart, and therefore
you cannot complain of losing its possession."

'' How cruel you are," she sobs  '' how
cruel ! Was I not fair as she ? Alas my love
not a thousand times stronger ? Had I not
your love first, before even her shadow crossed
your path ? Can I win nothing from you 
not even a kiss, a touch, a tender word, to
lighten my weary journey to the grave ? "

How pale and pleading and lovely she looks
in her helplessness ! The tears stream down
her cheeks, the great billowy masses of hair
float over her couch, her arms are stretched
towards him in passionate despair ; and yet,
intensely as he pities her, her words only open
his wounds afresh, her face only grows dark
and abhorrent in his sight at the remembrance
of the treachery that dims its beauty.

** I pity you," he says, with that cold
gentleness which hurts her more than any
anger. ** But you know what you ask is
impossible ! "

She looks up at his averted face, and her
own grows grey and colourless with the
anguish of a great despair.

*' How did she make you love her so ? " she
wails. " You used not to be so passive or cold ;
and I, who would lay my life down to win one
tender word, can gain nothing from you but
abhorrence. Is it because I sinned ? "

** Because you sinned ? " he echoes, bitterly.
** That word is too light for your deadly,
treacherous wrong. Had you sinned in a
moment of anger, a fit of jealousy, the desperation
of frenzy, I might have judged you
less hardly ; but you worked and planned
with the cunning and deliberateness of a
revengeful, merciless woman. You spared no
pains, you brought the basest tools  Faugh !
It sickens me to think a woman could be so
utterly vile ! "

' I own it now ! " she cries, shrinking
beneath the piercing scorn of his words.
** Will you never forgive me  never ? "

I am no hypocrite," he says, bitterly. " If
I could forgive you I might be a happier
man ; but my wrongs are too new and fresh
I cannot ! "

*' No ; because you love that little coquette ;
because she has come here to win you from
your duty to a dying wife  because  oh,
because I have done you a greater wrong in
living than any that has gone before !" she
cries, with the old wild ungovernable passion
in her face and voice.

He rises from his seat.

Further discussion is useless," he says
quietly. *' Such violent agitation must be
injurious to your health. I will call your
attendant."

'' No, no ! For pity's sake stay a moment
longer, Denzil ! " entreats the wretched woman.
'' I cannot let you leave me thus. I repent of
my wrong-doing  I acknowledge it now.

And, oh, husband, if I sinned it was because I
loved you ! Oh, be merciful in this my hour
of punishment ! Say you forgive me ! Oh,
Denzil, in pity say it ! Your anger kills me ! "

He pauses, and looks with white set face
and sad stern eyes upon the wreck that
suffering and passion have made of this once
most beautiful, brilliant woman. She has
touched a dangerous chord while praying for
that forgiveness ; but he knows that his
wrongs are indeed avenged by a Hand
mightier and juster than that of man.

He walks over to the window, the throbbing
of his heart nearly stilling him, the anguish of
that struggle within his breast blinding his
eyes to the calm and peaceful beauty of the
nioht on which he oases.

Panting and exhausted his wife falls back
on her pillows, the moisture of weakness on
her brow, the pallor of deadly faintness on
cheek and lip.

The moments pass. The man looking outwith
sad and agonized eyes on the peaceful

loveliness of the scene is wrestling with the
strongest and fiercest temptation his life has
yet known. He thinks of his cruel wrongs, of
his darling's pale, changed loveliness, of the
gloomy future stretching before them both  of
the days and nights filled with an exceeding
bitterness of regret that lie before him within
the future. Then across the turmoil and
tumult of his thoughts breaks the sweet music
of the distant bells. A great peace that is in
itself relief steals over his aching heart. He
bows his head on his hands. The sob that
bursts upward from his heart is half a prayer.
Oh, Heaven, give me strength ! "
A few moments later he turns back and
approaches the couch. The lovely anguished
eyes look up in frantic terror to his own. He
bends over the prostrate figure and lays his
hand upon the head where shame has placed
its unsightly crown, and honour's golden
circlet has for ever been displaced.

Pauline," he says, in low soft tones,
Heaven knows I never thought to speak

such words to you as you have prayed me
to speak. But I have no right to set myself
up as a judge of others. My own life has
not been so guiltless or so pure that I should
condemn you for falling under the force of
such tempting as beset you. All loftier,
nobler, purer hopes, are forbidden in such a
strange union as ours ; but at least there shall
be peace. I will do my best to think as
gently of you as I can, to smooth the rough,
hard path by which you are to travel. I
cannot say I forgive you all at once  my
heart is too sore still  but I will strive to
forget your wrong-doing, and I will not reproach
you with it again."

For a moment she gazes at him in wondering,
incredulous joy ; then she catches his
hands in both her own and bears them to
her lips, while the flood-gates of penitence
are opened, and her tears flow forth in purer
streams than have ever left those haughty
eyes since childhood. When she grows
calmer, she looks up at her husband's pitying

face  remorse, regret, and misery still shadowing
her own.

You are nobler than I thought, Denzil,"
she whispers, faintly. '' Bend down  close 
closer. I am spent and exhausted now, but
I will give you your reward."

He stoops towards her in faint wonder, and
a whisper, wrung from the very depths of
her sinful, passionate nature, reaches his ear.

*' I wanted your forgiveness  freely. I
would not win it by a bribe. But I heard
to-day  that in  six months more  you will
be free ! "

As the last word leaves her lips, strength
forsakes her. Through all her misery she
has never suffered as she suffers now, when
she knows that her sin has availed her
nothing, that an inexorable fate will erelong
part her from the man she has risked
honour, happiness, life, and truth to win.
She sinks back on the pillows in a long and
death-like swoon, while the effort of that
fiery struggle leaves him too sad and heart-wrung

for even the new-born hope she has
whispered to stir one blissful thought of
future happiness within his breast.

If you please, sir, Mr Herrick is in the
library, and wishes to see you on special
business."

Denzil Charteris gives a glance at the
sleeping woman, lying wrapped now in the
deep dreamless slumber of exhaustion, and
softly leaves the room. Strangely weary and
worn does he feel and look as he descends
the stairs and enters the room where the old
lawyer waits  so worn and so altered that
Mr Herrick's first words are, 

Good Heaven, Charteris, your accident
must have been more severe than we imagined
! You look as if you had just recovered
from a long illness ! "

*' Yes ; I have suffered a good deal," answers
Denzil, mechanically. " But pray sit
down. I suppose you have come about the
old business ? "

Yes," says the lawyer quietly ; '* I have
come to tell you we shall settle the affair
without troubling you at all."

'' How ? "  and the pale haggard face lights
up with momentary interest.

*' We have caught the fellow, and he has
confessed," answers Mr Herrick ; '* so there
is no need now to call upon you for that
document. I am glad of it. Private family
matters would have been sure to be raked up,
and that wouldn't have been pleasant."

But how is it ? Who has caught him ? "
asks Denzil in surprise.

** An uncommonly clever fellow I got from
Scotland Yard. He was up to the queerest
dodge I ever heard of. I'll tell it to you in as
few words as I can."

And forthwith he relates to the quiet
listener the whole of that eventful plot by
which Budd was discovered.

'' It would read queerly enough in a book,"
says the lawyer; ** but seeing is believing ; and,
though I was much against the experiment at

first, I must say I never saw anything more
successful. Even now," he adds, looking
round with a grave, reluctant glance, *' I seem
to hear that cry of fear and baffled rage with
which he awoke, knowing he was trapped,
despite all his caution. He was nearly
through our hands too, for we found out
afterwards that the next day he was going to
Liverpool in a new disguise, and I suppose
from there he would have sailed to America or
California ; and a precious job we should have
had to catch him again. However he's safe in
Colston gaol now, and will be tried at the
next assizes."

** No wonder they could not identify the
body if such a long time had passed since the
murder was committed ! " exclaims Denzil
Charteris, interest in the strange narrative
replacing for a time the indifference he has
hitherto felt.

No ; and it was just like that parcel of
boobies to be led by the nose in the first instance,
and declare the body was yours because

Budd said it was yours. What a fool lie was
thoTigli ! He must have known that sooner or
later you would return, and so it was useless
to make out you were dead ! '*

*' Perhaps he counted on the length of time
I might be absent. I had cause enough then
to hate the place, Heaven knows ! " exclaims
Charteris. " That fellow was a mean spy
always ; perhaps he knew the reasons that
made me leave so abruptly."

Well, there is no need for you to do anything
now but settle down quietly here with
your wife and  forgive me, Charteris," adds
the lawyer, breaking off abruptly. "How
could I have been so foolish as to forget
what has happened ? Do the doctors give no
hope?"

"No."

It is a strangely cold unloving response fora
newly-wedded husband ; but the old lawyer
knows better than to suppose a man like
Denzil Charteris would bare his heart to the
pity of any human creature.

For a moment they are both silent : then
Mr Herrick rises and says, 

'* I should not have intruded on you, Charteris,
on such a day, and at a time when your
heart must be indeed heavy with anxiety, had
it not been that I felt my news might be some
relief. But I will not detain you longer ; only
be sure that I feel and sympathise with you
now ! "

Thank you," answers Denzil, curtly ;
'' you are very kind. But no sympathy
can ease my burden ; I must bear it
alone ! "

The old man wrings his hand, with a glance
of deep commiseration at the worn and melancholy
face, so strangely, sadly changed ; and
then, without further words, he leaves him.

How he must love her ! " he thinks as he
leaves the house. '* And yet he told me once
he would never marry her ! "

For long hours on that quiet Sabbath night
did the master of Beechhampton sit there in

his library, never stirring nor moving, his
head bowed on his folded arms, a tempest of
passionate and stormy feelings raging within
his heart.

None but himself ever knew what an
almost superhuman effort it had required to
speak those words to the woman whose hand
had twice dealt out to him the bitterest suffering
of his life. Every time he entered her
presence and saw her in those rooms he had
in fancy prepared and beautified for his lost
love, his heart was stabbed with a fierce, sharp
regret. At every tone of her voice and every
glance he felt afresh the bitter sting of that
most base betrayal ; he felt inclined to curse
that moment of insane tempestuous fury
when her words had goaded him to a
course from which there was no possible
return. He knew that if she had been as
she was but a few weeks before, he could
never have forgiven her ; and even now,
though she lay on a bed of suffering, from
which death alone could release her, it

seemed to him but a just retribution for her
treachery to his innocent love. For himself
he would not have cared ; but that look today
on the changed sweet face that had been
so radiant and so fair  that strange shadowy
dread, which had haunted him ever since he
looked his passionate farewell at the slight
fragile figure  these recurred again and
again, to torture him with a fear beyond
all he had ever known. These brought
him to his knees, bowed his proud head,
and taught his stubborn heart such prayers
as it could only have learnt in the fire of
suffering.

In that terrible struggle between wrath
and pity, between the memory of wrongs
done to him, and compassion for the poor
broken wreck of womanhood who prayed
his forgiveness for those wrongs, he had
striven, with the first purely unselfish force
his moral nature had ever known, to forget
what she had done, to remember only what she
suffered. Hatred and resentment faded slowly

VOL. III. M

away. He knew he had no right to condemn
when he too was so far from faultless ; and
he was glad he had granted her prayer ere
he knew that Death would so soon be his
avenger.

Slowly and solemnly to-night there passed
before him in strange review the events and
incidents of his own life , the errors that pride
had led him into with the recklessness of an
uncontrollable will, the hasty doubts and
passionate judgment that had marred his
prospects of happiness and had left him
helpless in the hands of a designing
woman.

He remembered how one betrayal in his
early youth had hardened him to all belief
in the purity and single-heartiness of woman,
how with reckless and vehement passion he
had loved, and with equal recklessness and
vehemence had turned to utter disbelief in
the object and worthiness of that love. A
thousand memories of childhood, youth, and
manhood haunted him to-night. He gave no

heed to time as the hours rolled on. His
solitude was undisturbed. All external surroundings
were forgotten, and in that long and
terrible vigil perhaps a spirit of good wrestled
with his own, as in the days of the old world
that Heaven-sent messenger wrestled with
the patriarch, yet, after the struggle and the
pain, left a blessing behind.

Ere the party from Mervyn Court start the
next morning, a tiny note is put into Yo-lance's
hand. It bears no signature, it
addresses her by no name ; but she knows
only too well whose hand has penned the
brief hopeful lines.

*stake every care of yourself," it says.
'' Remember, your health is infinitely too
precious to be trifled with. Above all, keep
up a brave heart, and hope for the best.
Something tells me that happiness may yet
be ours. When night is darkest dawn is
nearest. Heaven for ever keep and bless

you, and guard you with safer care than
mortal love can do ! "

And, with that letter resting on her heart,
Yolande sets out on her journey, feeling
strangely comforted.

[N the sweet rich air of southern lands,
with their blue skies and fresh winds,
cool with a tempered coolness that
rarely visits northern winters, Yolande grows
stronger and more like her old bright self.

The party stay for two months at Nice,
and then wander on lazily and carelessly from
place to place, avoiding tourists' haunts and
generally choosing the quietest and most unknown
villages for their resting-place. Travelling
across Tuscany, they halt one evening
at Montepulto, that exquisitely-situated little
spot, with its scattered high-roofed houses,
its groves of chestnuts, its pale-grey groves
of olives, its many vineyards and thickets of
genista and myrtle and acanthus.

'* How beautiful ! " cries Yolande. '' What
is the name of the place, Castro ? " she
asks the courier.

"Montepulto, signora," he answers, and
forthwith launches into a description of its
vineyards and olive-groves and vines, to
which none of the party pays the slightest
attention.

We will stop here," cries Yolande, eagerly.
** Is there an inn ? "

The courier answers in the affirmative ; and
shortly afterwards they dismount from the
rickety conveyance which has brought them
from their last halting-place, and dazzle and
bewilder the landlord of the shabby little inn
by their number, the beauty of the girls, and
the many wants of the whole party, as explained
by the courier.

It turns out that there is another Englishman
here too, a tourist ; and the landlord,
with many apologies, hopes the illustrious
Angles will not object to his presence, as
there is but one public room. Enid horrifies

Miss Skipton by declaring that the stranger's
presence will make it all the jollier. Then
the three girls rush off to look at their bedrooms.
Enid and Yolande must share one,
Miss Skipton and Vi the other ; that matter
is soon settled. Then Yolande comes down
aofain to look after her father and see that
he is comfortable. The old man is not half
so feeble as he used to be, though his memory
is still a blank, and his talk placid and simple
as a child's.

I think I will go out and look about me
for little while," she says, after these matters
have been satisfactorily arranged.

Don't get lost ! " cries Miss Skipton,
anxiously.

And don't fall in with our fellow-traveller.
I mean to be the first to discover him,"
adds Enid.

And, with a laughing assurance that she
will avoid both contingencies if possible,
Yolande leaves the inn and saunters forth.

It is a lovely day ; already the breath of

spring seems in the air, and the young grasses
gleam like a pale green sea as they spread
over the brown earth once more. The young
leaves wave, the young birds sing, the throbbing,
pulsing, quivering beat of life is everywhere
; and the girl moving amidst it all
feels to the very core and centre of her being
the joy of its loveliness, the passion of its
memories. No one guesses aught of the
burden she carries in her heart, so bravely
and uncomplainingly is that burden borne ;
but her thoughts are rarely absent from that
one place where her lover lives and waits,
and struggles along that stony path of duty,
which she has bidden him follow.

Not one whit less does she love him than
she did, but that love is known only to herself
and Heaven. She asks no pity or sympathy
from any living being. Who could
understand her, or judge him as she can
judge him, or think of him so tenderly that
there is no room in all the loving, trusting
heart for any thought of wrong to enter ?

With musing eyes downbent, with thoughts
absorbing heart and mind to utter forgetfulness
of time and place, she moves along, a
fair living picture in that fair scene. Sorrow-does
not kill, nor suffering either ; and, though
both have left their traces on the once-brilliant
beauty of the girl, she is not one whit less fair
than she was.

Her absorbed reverie is disturbed at last.
Along the narrow path she treads another
footstep echoes. She raises her eyes, and sees
approaching the figure of a man, young, stalwart,
clothed in a light-grey travelling-suit,
his head bent  as hers had been but a moment
before  his stick scattering the pebbles at his
feet, or switching off, in utter absence of
mind, the young heads of the shining grasses.

'* It is the fellow-traveller, I suppose, '
thinks Yolande, with a slight feeling of
annoyance.

In an instant the approaching figure pauses,
looks up, and then, with a cry of bewilderment
rather than of pleasure, Yolande sees

before her the well-remembered face of Lance
Stapleton.

** Lance ! " she cries, eagerly, and her hand
is outstretched in greeting ; and the wonder
and surprise of seeing him bring the rosy
colour to her face in flattering warmth and
brilliance.

Why, Lance, how did you come here ?
Have you dropped from the clouds ? How
glad I am to see you ! "

He makes no response to her enthusiastic
welcome. He only stands looking silently at
her face, a great pain gnawing at his heart,
a great sorrow darkening his eyes.

** Are you not glad to see me ? " she says,
disappointedly. '' You have not spoken a
single word''

I  I was so surprised," he stammers,
feebly.

" Yes, I daresay you were," she says,
laughing a little at the remembrance of his
astonished face. " And so will the others be
when they see you. I suppose you are the

English gentleman staying at our inn, whose
company is to be inflicted upon us ? Weare
all here, you know  papa and the girls
and Miss Skipton. We shall be quite a family
party again."

He is still silent. His eyes never leave her
face.

'' Have you been ill ? " he asks.

'eyes," she answers, flushing nervously.
But I am all right again now  quite strong
and well, Lance, I assure you."

'' You don't look it."

"Never mind my looks," she says, impatiently.
" Tell me how you came here, and
if you are going to stop."

'' I don't know," he answers, absently. " I
my plans are very unsettled. I  I suppose
your husband is here too ? "

*' My husband ? "

The girl recoils as though he had struck
her, and every drop of blood recedes from
her face, leaving it white as death.

Oh, Lance," she cries, clasping her hands

iiiid turning her sorrowful eyes away from
his startled face, 'ris it possible you have not
heard ? "

'' Heard what ? "

That Denzil Charteris is married ? " she
says, with a quietness that amazes herself.

'' Married ! and not to you, Yolande ? Are
you dreaming ? "

*' Oh, I wish I were, I wish I were ! " she
cries piteously, all her self-command swept
away by the sympathy and tenderness in his
gaze and voice.

It seems all so strange," Lance continues,
moving on beside her through the pale green
olive woods. ** When I saw him last he was
so full of joy and happiness, I guessed his
secret without a word. He said he would
bring you home as soon as ever it was possible.
What has come between you ? Has
he played you false, or have you  "

No," she interrupts. " Treachery parted
US  a woman's treachery. She is now his
wife. I cannot tell you all the wretched

story, Lance ; it is too painful still. You
must ask Enid ; she knows."

I do not want to ask any one what you
withhold from me," he says, slowly. *' It is
enough that you are parted. There is no
need to ask if you are faithful still, Yolande ;
I can see it in your face."

Faithful ! " she repeats, with momentary
forgetfulness of the pain she deals her old .
lover. ** I shall always be that, Lance. The
cant of society calls it a sin, I suppose, when
a girl refuses to forsake and forget the man
to whom her heart is given because between
them lies the barrier of impossibility ; but tome
it seems no crime to be true, as I vowed
and promised to be true, simply because he
cannot marry me. I gave him my heart.
Can I recall it because treachery has drawn
him from my side ? No. I shall never
marry now ; but, all the same, I have no
blame for him. Wrong has been stronger
than right, as it often is ; but, when I
think of all he suffers, I have only pity,

no blame. It is so much worse for him than
for me."

*' I  I wish I could understand," says Lance,
pale and bewildered. '' Who has come between
you, Yolande."

Pauline Eay," she answers, her voice very
low and soft.

'' His cousin ? And they are wedded, you
say ? " Lance murmurs.

'' Yes," she says, simply. '' And I am that
most deplorable of beings, Lance, a girl who
loves a married man ! "

Don't, Yolande ! " he cries, the bitterness
of her voice stabbing his faithful heart with
sharpest pain. *' You don't know what you
are saying. It is horrible to hear you speak
like that ! "

It sounds wicked, I suppose," she says,
with forced calmness. " I have no doubt a
proper-minded young person would have immediately
returned his letters, given back his
ring, and  forgotten him. Well, I am not a
proper-minded young person, for I have done

none of these things. I have only avoided
him for his own sake, even more than for
mine."

It seems strange to her that she can speak
so much more easily and frankly to Lance
than to anyone else who knows her sad story ;
but she does. And he sees now, even as he
saw in the old by-gone days, how utterly
hopeless his own ill-fated love must be. Bound
or free, it is all one. She has given her love
once ; she will never give it again. Her faith,
sorely as it has been tried, is still unshaken.
But he feels a shudder of horror through all
his strong young frame as he hears her reckless
words, as he sees that her lost lover is
her lover still, that she does not for one
moment seem to think of him as another
woman's husband.

Yet what can he say ? She is not a conventional
girl ; she is not a well-drilled society
machine, acting, thinking, and expressing herself
after the most approved and correct pattern.
Hers is a heart that can sweep all paltry

considerations away, and look danger calmly in
the face. A love that is unlawful might make
some women weak as water ; it only strengthens
her amidst the fiery suffering it brings.

Had Lance Stapleton known all the facts
of the case, he might not have blamed her,
even in thought ; but he knows nothing save
that Denzil Charteris is the husband of his
beautiful intriguing cousin, and that Yolande
loves him no whit the less for that fact.

I know you are wondering at me, Lance,"
she says, presently. '' I daresay you think I
am very wicked to speak like this ; but indeed
I cannot help it. Fidelity is a rare-enough
virtue, and when it exists seems always to
exist in the wrong place. To me it is the very
core and centre of love, keeping it true through
evil report or good  through suffering, sin, or
shame."

He looks in silent wonder at the beautiful
face so eloquent with feeling, so pure and
noble, that all thought of rebuke fades from
his mind. He sees here a truth that is

above all paltry considerations, that can be
judged by no mere conventional rule, and his
heart thrills with admiration, even though he
knows such feelings are for ever vowed to his
rival's cause.

** How we have all misunderstood you,
Yolande ! " he says, with a deep sigh.

'eyes. I daresay you too thought I was
only good for flirting* and waltzing and amusement,"
she says, with a faint smile. "It is
so difficult to judge from the surface view of
character. I don't think I ever quite knew
myself  what was really in me  till I learnt
to suffer and endure."

It is a hard lesson," he says, compassionately,
looking with unspeakable sadness at
the shadowed and pathetic beauty of the
once bright, wilful face.

"Yes, but a necessary one. Perhaps it
has done me more good than any one
imagines. Life cannot be all sunshine  can
it, Lance ? "

"Your life should have been," he cries,

VOL. III. N

passionately. " Oh, Yolande, what a treasure
Charteris has thrown away ! Was he mad,
that he did this thing ? "

She bends her head, a sudden flush of
shame staining cheek and brow.

I think he was," she says, hurriedly 
mad with grief and rage and distrust.
They told him I was to be wedded to
another ; it was even printed in the newspapers.
Oh, Lance, you little know how
cleverly that woman schemed to rob me of
him, what arts she iised to divide us both ! "

But could he not trust you better ? Why
did he hurry into the trap so readily ? Even
if he knew you false, did that necessitate his
marrying another woman ? "

You do not know," she says, piteously,
you do not understand ! "

It hurts her unspeakably to hear her lover
blamed by any other lips. She would have
all judge him, as she in her tender love has
done.

'' No," he says, coldly, '' you are right ; I do

not understand. Were I your brother I soon
should."

She turns very pale, but her face grows
cold with a haughty scorn that he has never
seen it wear yet.

Were you my  brother," she says, coldly
and cuttingly, " you would have to learn what
you must learn now  that I allow of no interference
with matters that concern only me."

But this does not concern only you," he
rejoins, flushing angrily.

"If I choose to think so, it does. Oh,
Lance," she cries dropping her cold tone
suddenly and stretching out her hands in
piteous appeal, '' don't let us quarrel now !
We have been friends so long, and I have
enough to bear ; don't you turn against me
too ! "

' Heaven forbid ! " he says, with passionate
fervour, taking the little trembling hands in
both his own. '' Deeply as your words wound
me, Yolande, I cannot resent them. Let us
try to forget what we have said."

** I don't Want you to be cross with me,"
she remarks, a dangerous quiver in her voice
as she meets his entreating eyes. '' We were
always good friends, you and I, Lance ; and
I have not so many that I can afford to lose
one."

I will be your friend always," he answers,
tenderly. '' Even that cold tie is sweeter
than the love of any other woman. Like yourself,
Yolande, I own the virtue of fidelity."

She blushes deeply ; her eyes droop, her
hands loose their clasp.

I thought you had forgotten," she says.

*' Forgotten ! " he echoes. ** Is it so easy,
Yolande? Ask your own heart, and by its
answer read mine."

She is silent. His words pain her deeply,
because only too well does she know their
meaning, only too well does she gauge their
depths of pain. They move on together,
neither of them speaking, each busy with
sad and painful memories, each striving for
outward calm despite that inward struggle.

[Dying on with heedless feet and
down-bent eyes, Yolande and Lance
suddenly find themselves once more
in the straggling village street ; and there,
standing at the inn-window, laughing and
talking merrily together with the unrestraint
and freedom of old acquaintanceship, Yo-lance
sees her sister Enid and Sir Edward
Llewellyn.

A friend of yours ? " questions Lance,
seeing her start of surprise and the young
baronet's bow of pleased welcome.

Yes," she says. " We seem to be coming
across all our old friends to-day. You are
coming in surely ? " she adds, as he pauses and
extends his hand in farewell.

"Presently  not just now," he answers,
hurriedly. " Excuse me, Yolande. I want
a few moments to myself before facing
strangers."

She makes no comment  only gives him
her hand in farewell, and passes from his
sight into the dusky archway of the inn.

'* You here ? " she cries, as a certain shamefaced,
well-known countenance turns to her
in gladdened welcome. " I really wonder
whom we shall find next. One would think
we had appointed Montepulto as a trysting-place
for all our friends."

I have only just arrived," he says, shaking
hands warmly with her as he speaks.

And were you not surprised to find us
here ? " asks Yolande.

I  I cannot exactly say I was," he answers,
in some slight confusion ; *' for, to
tell you the truth, I followed you up from
your last halting-place."

** Oh, indeed ! " says Yolande. " And are
you doing Italy also % "

I  I think so," tie answers, making a
valiant effort to recover himself and look
composed.

'' Whom were you walking with, Yolande ? "
interrupts Enid at this moment.

"Lance Stapleton. It turns out that he
is our fellow-traveller who is staying here,"
she answers.

*' Lance  dear old Lance here ? Oh, how
glad I am ! " cries Enid, with an enthusiasm
that apparently does not awaken any sympathy
on the part of Sir Edward.

*' A friend of yours. Miss Enid ? " he asks.

**A most particular friend," Enid answers,
emphatically. ''' We have known each other
ever since we were children. He lives close
to our place at home."

Oh, indeed ! " he says, somewhat coldly.

Do you know if we are going to have
anything to eat. Miss Skipton ? " inquires
Yolande, removing her hat and swinging it
carelessly on one finger.

*' I believe luncheon is coming up directly,"

answers the faithful gouvernante. '' At least,
Castro said so a few moments ago."

** You will stay, will you not ? " asks Yo-lance.
*' It will give us great pleasure ;
won't it, papa ? "

"Yes, dear, yes," answers the old man,
nodding placidly from his chair by the
window.

I should be most happy," says Sir Edward,
rather stiffly ; " but I fear I shall be spoiling
your party."

"AVhat nonsense ! " exclaims Yolande. "We
have got out of the way of ceremony here.
We shouldn't ask you if we thought that."

Is Lance coming soon ? " asks Enid,
mischievously.

I believe so," answers her sister. " I will
just run upstairs and leave my hat, and be
down directly. Sir Edward, pray don't look
so formal and punctilious ! We are out of
England now."

She runs away lightly, and the baronet
turns to Enid, thinking how much prettier

she has grown within these past few months,
and how much more like Yolande.

I suppose you admire Italy very much ? "
he says, in a low voice, as though the remark
was very confidential.

Of course," she answers, demurely. " Its
fine and equable climate, its radiant skies, its
picturesque scenery, and its abundant and
variegated floriculture render it indeed worthy
of the enthusiasm poets and historians have
lavished upon it."

*' Why do you talk like that ? " he asks,
half vexed, half laughing.

I learnt it from the guide-book," she says,
laughing too at his impatient tone. ''I intend
to say it always when I am asked that
ridiculous question. I don't think my
querists will pursue the subject for long,
do you ? "

'' No, I don't. Is that a hint to me ? "

*' Well, it was so absurd," she answers,
lifting her radiant lovely eyes to his. '* Just
as if I should only admire Italy, or like it !

Why, it takes one by storm ! It makes
one want a new language to utter all one
feels!"

Have you been to Florence yet ? "

** No ; but we are going. We shall make
a long stay there, I hope."

Have you heard any news from home
since you left ? "

Nothing very particular. Arthur writes
from college ; but he is of course full of
longs ' and ' shorts ' and * little go's ' and
'varsity eights ' and ' strokes ' and training,
and goodness knows what all ! His head is
running more on boat-racing than on books,
I should say ! "

But I mean from Ashbourne or Colston ? "
says Sir Edward, gravely.

"No. We never look at a paper, and weare
so constantly moving about that our
letters never seem to find us."

'' I have brought some news for your
sister," he says, dropping his voice so suspiciously
that Miss Skipton eyes him with

o

duenna-like fierceness from her corner of the
room.

'' For Yolande ? Oh, Sir Edward ! Good or
bad ? " And the girlish laughing face grows
strangely agitated as she puts the question.

Good," he says, steadying his voice with
an efibrt, but bravely speaking out what he
has travelled all these weary miles to say.
Charteris's wife is dead ! "

Enid is silent. It seems incredible for freedom
to have come thus. Her heart almost
stops beating, so agitated is she by the news.

And is that why you are here ? " she asks
softly at last.

Yes," he says, simply. *' I thought I
would not trust the news to post or printer.
When shall I tell her ? "

Not here  not before us all ! " cries Enid,
hurriedly. *' Wait till luncheon is over. I
can scarcely believe it yet myself You are
sure it is true ? "

Sure. Do you think I should be here to
deceive her ? " he says, sternly.

"No, no  I know that!" she answers,
with quick compunction. *' But even newspapers
lie sometimes. She is only just growing
calm and reconciled to her fate."

'* I trusted to no second-hand authority,"
he says. " I came direct from the Priory.
I saw Charteris myself I did not tell him
I was coming here ; but I think he knew."

*' How good of you," she remarks, giving
him a shy bewitching glance, " to take all
that trouble for her ! "

'' Perhaps it was not all for  her," he says,
with a look eloquent of meaning into the soft
brown orbs. '' I knew I should meet you
again too."

'* But that must have been a very secondary
consideration," declares the little flirt,
because no one thinks anything of me
when Yolande is by."

I have thought of you very often," says
the audacious young man, utterly ignoring
Miss Skipton's Gorgon-like glances, '' even
when Yolande was by."

'* Ah, there is Lance Stapleton passing the
window ! " cries Enid, jumping up with an
effusive eagerness of welcome that secretly
inspires her admirer with an intense desire
to knock down the object of her interest,
without further notice. " Oh, please excuse
me, Sir Edward ! I must go and see him ! "

And Sir Edward bows and gnaws his
moustache, muttering inwardly to himself, 

D  n Lance Stapleton ! "

lEUSHED for a time by the bitter
knowledge of his hopeless love, Sir
Edward had yet risen from the
blow, manlier, braver, stronger. He was not
going to spend the rest of his days in pining
after what could never be his ; and he set
himself bravely and manfully to work to
conquer the passion that had been so sudden
and so sweet, that had ended in an awakening
so dark and desolate. His love had been like
some rich tropical flower blooming into vivid
summer life in the dull garden of his commonplace
existence ; like a flower too it had been
short-lived, sweet, intoxicating. But he was
too wise to waste all that remained of his years
in lamenting its loss ; and he was surprised

himself to find how much easier the task
had become since Enid's face had smiled on
him. In days yet to come, when the old
wound is healed and the old smart no longer
stings with sharp pain at any touch or word,
he will turn for consolation to the bright
young comforter who has already done him
so much unconscious good, and she will make
his imperfect, half-spoiled life, a happy and
complete one.

At present, however, she is occupied in the
tantalising pursuit which seems inherent in
every woman's nature, of playing off one man
against another, lavishing all her words,
looks, and attentions on Lance Stapleton, to
the utter  apparent  exclusion of the unfortunate
baronet. She piques him into considerable
wrath by this ruse, and then as
suddenly soothes him again by a soft glance,
a low whisper. Truly Enid is no unworthy disciple
of her elder sister ; but she will never love
as faithfully as does " My Lady Coquette."

She  Yolande  is still unconscious of the

good news in store for her. In all her many
portraits of her lost lover, she had never
pictured Denzil as being free once more. He
has either died, or she has drooped and
faded beneath the long and weary struggle, a
struggle all the fiercer and harder in that it
is fought in secret, a struggle that would have
gradually sapped her life-springs and given to
the loving faithful heart but one dream of rest,
one hope of peace  death ! Yet Heaven has
not so willed it. For once the hand of Fate is
kind, and metes justice where justice is deserved.
For once the long and faithful love
that has been tried in the fire of suffering is
destined to be rewarded ; and when, in the
cool spring evening hour, she hears at last
from Sir Edward's kind lips the sweet tidings
of her lover's freedom, the shock of joy is
almost more than her strength can bear.

The great heroic tenderness which has buoyed
her up in the deep waters of trouble, fails utterly
now in this moment of unlooked-for joy.
"White as death, she stands trembling in the

moonlight, listening: to the words that are a?
freedom to the captive, as reprieve to the
criminal, as the warm, fresh, delicious ecstasy
of liberty to the prisoner released from long
and almost hopeless captivity. Trembling like
a leaf in that moment of relief, she lifts up hei
face to the man who has brought her such joy ;
and that one look of gratitude, that speechless*
voiceless thanksgiving, quivering on her lips,
yet finding no utterance in mortal speech,
repays him for all the self-abnegation of his
task, and brings the tears to his own eyes in
kindred sympathy. Then, having told her all,
he leaves her to the solitude of a holier, sweeter
peace than ever her life has known in all its
days of sorrow, or of joy.

They are a merry, happy party enough now.
Enid is the life and soul of them all. Yolande
after the first prostration and exhaustion
brought on by the reaction of her unexpected
deliverance, grows sweeter, lovelier, more
fascinating than ever.

VOL. III.

With the smile of spring over all the lovely
lands through which they journey, life and
love and peace come also to their hearts and
lives. Even poor, sad, desolate Lance grows
calmer and more comforted, though he knows
in his lost love's eyes, lives the radiance of a
hope that is to him as death, the light of joy
rekindled from the ashes of a great and passionate
sorrow.

Quite alone, and pale with watching and expectation,
Yolande sits in one of the rooms
in their pretty villa awaiting her lover's
return.

Her head is bent on her hands ; the light
flickers down on her hair and turns it into
richer gold. Her eyes are dark and wistful ;
for even this most exquisite moment is tempered
by the shadow of the past.

Just so once before had she awaited his
coming, and found in it her doom. A prayer
is on her lips, a prayer of thankfulness for the
great blessing that has been restored, a prayer

for strength to bear it meekly, humbly, as one
to whom a great and precious gift has been
entrusted.

And while such thoughts are in her
heart there comes through the hushed and
fragrant silence, the sound of a footfall. She
lifts her head  her colour comes and goes 
her eyes grow bright and dark in the joy and
fear of this expectancy. Then, with a rush of
joy so keen that it is almost pain, she sees
the face she scarce had thought to look upon
again, save in dread and misery like that
which had filled their last parting.

With one low glad cry of purest rapture
she springs to meet him, feeling, as his arms
close round her once again, as his lips rest
on her own in passionate unspoken welcome,
that neither life nor death can part her
now from a love that will live through
all time.

    c 

At the winter assizes the once esteemed
and respected inspector finds the reward of

long treachery and hidden guilt. From the
moment he knew by what means his confession
had been wrested from him he ceased
to struggle. He even said it was a relief to
find that it had all come out at last, for he
had grown weary of concealment ; and yet
some instinct stronger than reason, more
powerful than the longing for safety, had
held him chained to that one spot which his
crime had stained, which his sin had
haunted.

Rose Bertram left school at Christmas, and
soon after married a wealthy young Welsh
landowner, who lived near Pwym Dyas and
fell a victim to her large amount of personal
charms and her pleasant, frank nature. Jane
Croft was dismissed by Mrs Davies, at the
request of Denzil Chart eris, long before his
wife's death, and took a situation as companion
to an elderly dowager, who certainly
avenges the sins of her youth upon her long-suffering
victim. With all her cleverness,

Miss Croft has never succeeded in winning
a husband, and has at last settled
down into soured and discontented old-maidenhood.


Enid in two years' time consoled Sir Edward
for his first misplaced affections, and
made him very happy. Vi is still at the
Court, and emulating her sisters' graces and
witcheries as fast as she can. Yolande makes
a lovely and gracious chatelaine at the Priory,
and adores and is adored by her husband with
a worshipping zeal that is the amazement of
all their friends. Her father lives there with
her, Arthur, Vi, and Miss Skipton reigning at
the old Court.

The tragedy at Dead Man's Pool is long
remembered and retailed by the chroniclers
of Ashbourne ; but happily no other deed
of violence has yet arisen to replace its
interest. James Dowling  or rather John
Clarke  received his reward and another
handsome douceur from Denzil Charteris
for the capture of Budd. That worthy

hypocrite ended his career in the odour
of sanctity, the chaplain at the gaol declaring
he had never had a convict so creditable
or so penitent.

