CHAPTER I.

THE STORY TOLD BY MRS. DEBORAH CLITHEROE,
HOUSEKEEPER AT OWLS ROOST, IN THE SERVICE
OF ERROL GLENDENNING, ESQ.

I HAVE been asked by Mrs. Freer to relate,
as succinctly and clearly as possible, my
knowledge of certain facts relating to the
mystery of Owl's E-oost  the mystery of
my master's strange marriage, and its still
stranger results.

T am getting on in years now, but, thank
Heaven, my memory is good, and my powers

' VOL. I. 1

of thinking and reasoning not deficient.
When I told Mrs. Freer all I knew, she
asked me if it were not possible for me to
put it together in the form of a narrative, so
as to join in with her own later acquaintance
of the sad history. I agreed very readily.
My time is none too fully occupied, and the
forcible presentiment of late in my mind, that
some day my testimony may be of service,
has conspired to further my efforts. I wish
to try if it is possible  in writing  to put
down the series of perplexing, melancholy,
and sorrowful events that have so affected
my dear master's fate, and fallen with so
sombre a darkness and mystery around his
ancestral home.

To begin with, I have lived in the service
of the Glendennings, of Owl's Roost, since I
was a mere slip of a girl of fifteen. The old
Squire was alive then, and his wife also. A
proud, cold, managing lady she was, and not
very much liked. They had two sons,
Philip and Errol. Mr. Philip was the
mortal image of his mother in everything 

looks, temper, and pride. Mr. Errol was
quite different  dreamy, gentle, kind of
heart  for all the world like the old Squire.
From his birth his mother treated him quite
differently to Mr. Philip. All of love or
tenderness that so cold and proud a lady
could show, she gave to her eldest born. It
was not fair or right, I often thought, but
mothers have these fancies.

When Mr. Errol was about two years old,
there happened to him that sad and cruel
accident, which, to my thinking, altered his
whole life and nature. He and his brother
where playing together in the gallery overlooking
the staircase, when some childish
dispute arose. Mr. Philip was high and
haughty even then, and he struck his baby-brother
across the face. Mr. Errol did not
cry, but his little face grew scarlet, and he
seized Mr. Philip and kicked him several
times. It was a childish quarrel, and a
childish burst of passion ; but it happened
that their mother was just then crossing the
gallery to the great staircase, and saw them.

12

I saw them, too, but before I could reach
their side, she had seized the little fellow, and
with her riding-whip she struck him heavily
across his back. He struggled out of her
grasp  they were close to the staircase by
then  his foot slipped, and he fell down the
whole flight of stairs. I felt sick with
horror. I seemed rooted to the spot. At
last I ran forward and looked down. The
child was sobbing in his father's arms.

The scene comes before me, even after all
these years, like a picture. The haughty
lady standing at the top of that staircase,
dressed in her riding-habit, and with the
whip held tight in her clenched hand, and
that awful look of white, set passion on her
face, and there below, looking up at her in
pale and shocked reproach, the noble figure
of the grey-haired Squire, with that little
bruised and sobbing figure clasped in his
arms.

His mother came slowly down the steps at
last. It seemed to me as if only a sense of
duty prompted the inquiry : 'Is he hurt V

Her husband never answered. He carried
the little fellow to the nursery, and I
followed. My lady went out for her ride
alone.

We undressed him, and there seemed no
sign of hurt on him, except the cruel mark
across his little back where the whip had
struck him.

When I saw the look of agony on his
father's face as he pressed his white and
shaking lips to that place, I thought it was
strange that only women are credited with
tenderness.

The child soon ceased to crj, and his
father took him out with him on the big
black horse that both the boys knew and
loved so well. I cannot, of course, say
whether he spoke to my lady or not ; but if
he did, it made no difference in her coldness
to the child.

A year after that, I first began to notice
that the boys back was not quite straight,
and I spoke to the Squire at once. The
child was taken up to London and seen by

the cleverest physicians there. After that,
most of his boyhood was spent bound down
to an invalid's couch. All the gaiety, and
fun, and frolic, and mischief of his sex and
years were denied him ; but to compensate
for that, he had all the devotion and love of
his father. My lady seldom came near him.
Perhaps his presence was a reproach to her.
He had his own rooms, his own attendants ;
he had books, toys, and every ingenious
device to while away his hours of confinement
; and perhaps both mother and brother
thought that he ought to be satisfied.

He was always most patient and gentle.
But I think that life sobered and saddened
him, and gave to his character a shy and
sensitive reticence, which kept him lonely
then, and keeps him lonely still.

I fear I am wandering somewhat in my
story. Memories carry me back instead of
forward, and I forgot that my intention was
to write of my master as he is, not drift into
reminiscences of his childhood.

The years brought changes. My lady died

quite suddenly of a chill, caught at a county
ball. Then Mr. Philip, who was at college,
was upset into the river while making one of
a boating-party, and drowned. It was a
great blow to the old Squire ; but he and
Mr. Errol lived on quietly here for five or
six years more. Then the old Squire died,
sitting quietly in his chair in the library, and
Mr. Errol was left alone.

He was about eight-and-twenty then, but
he looked much older. The deformity had
almost passed away, save for a slight stoop
in the shoulders. His face was delicate,
thoughtful, refined, but not strikingly handsome.
He was very studious. He lived
almost entirely among books, and such
friends and guests as came to see him were
all scholarly or scientific men.

Owl's Roost was very, very lonely in those
days. My husband was butler, and I had
been given the post of housekeeper. Mr.
Errol gave no entertainments, and no ladies
ever came near the place.

Even at its best the house had been

dreary. It was very dark, and very, very
old. It was near enough to the sea-coast for
the swell and roar of the Vvaves to be heard
in any storm ; it was closely shut in by
trees ; and in one of the oldest portions was
a ruined turret, where from time immemorial
had dwelt the race of melancholy night-birds
who had given to the house and property the
name of ' Owl's Roost.'

There was a tradition about them, of
course. The luck of the race was connected
with the life and succession of these uncanny
tenants. When the one was broken so would
be the other  at least, that was the popular
superstition.

The intense quiet and dreariness of the life
there seemed to deepen as the years went by.
Mr. Errol, as by force of habit I called him
still, was more like a man of middle age, than
one who should have been in the prime of
youth and strength.

The only thing that for long broke the
monotony of this life was the arrival of two
boys  sons of some distant cousin who had

left the children to Mr. Errol's guardianship.
For some years they ran wild about the
place, and I will give them credit for waking
it up. We all adored them, and I am afraid
spoilt them, too.

The eldest, Mr. Basil, was over twelve
years old when Mr. Errol, whose health had
for long been very delicate, was ordered by
the doctor to spend a winter abroad. He
arranged then for the boys to go to the
rector's every day to be instructed as he
thought fit, and left Owl's Roost to the joint
care of my husband and myself.

All that winter we heard but once from
the Squire, and that was to say he was at
Nice, and enjoying much better health.

The cold, bitter weather was just breaking
up, and a few buds and shoots were visible
on the trees, when a telegram came that fell,
so to speak, like a bombshell among us all.
It said :

/ was married in London this morning.
We are coming straight to Owes Roost, Have
all in readiness for your mistress'

That was so like a man, and a man who
had Heed a bachelor's Hfe for more than
thirty years.

Carpets were to be put down, beds aired,
furniture cleaned, and rooms arranged, all ina
few hours' time, and without any previous
warning' !

o

However, we all set to work, and made the
old place look as well as we could, and what
with fires and lights, and one things and
another, the hall and the library looked very
well.

We did not touch the great drawing-room.
There was no time, and we knew it would
scarcely be needed. I was full of curiosity
to see my new mistress, and well-nigh mazed
with wonder at the thought of Mr. Errol
being married, and so sudden.

I told the young gentlemen, and had them
nicely dressed in their Sunday clothes, and
begged them to be on their best behaviour 
not that they ever had any ' best ' so far as
I could judge. However, they were fairly
good, and had settled themselves and their

dogs on the rug before the great fire in the
hall, when the carriage drew up. My husband
was ready to open the door, and I stood
just behind to welcome my lady.

The lioht from the blazing fire fell full on
her as she stepped into the hall. I quite
started. She was so wonderfully beautiful,
and yet so strange to look at. If she had
been carved out of marble she could scarcely
have been whiter, and her eyes were so large
and so solemn they made me feel afraid. She
threw off her heavy travelling mantle, and
went up to the fire. She was dressed all in
white, some thick, soft stuff, with black
velvet bands at her throat and wrist, and she
looked like a spirit more than a woman.
The boys sprang up, and stood staring at
her. They never even noticed their guardian,
till he spoke. He had shaken hands warmly
With me as I bade him welcome home, and
then he went up to his wife, and laying his
hands on her shoulders, turned her face towards
the boys.

My dear,' he said, ' these are the young

wards I told you about. Won't you speak
to them ?'

She looked at the two young, startled
faces, and then put out her hand in a timid,
appealing way.

I hope,' she said, in a low, even voice,
and with a certain hesitation and formality
of speech, that made me think she must be
foreign, ' I hope we shall be good friends.'

Mr. Stewart hunir his head and said
nothing. Mr. Basil, always the leading
spirit in everything, took her hand at once,
and said, with a graciousness I could scarcely
have expected :

I hope so, too. I don't see why we
shouldn't. Only I hope you don't mind
larks.'

Larks V she echoed.

She looked in a puzzled sort of way at her
husband, and then at the boy. Her calm
blue eyes would have seemed cold, had it not
been for the wonderful shadow and softness
of their long black lashes. The effect of that
colouring on the marble-white face gave it a

strange and fascinating beauty. I saw Mr.
Errors glance rest on it with passionate
admiration. He smiled at her.

Basil means fun, riot, and recklessness, I
fancy he said. * But he must learn to alter
his boisterous amusements now that there is
a lady in the house.'

She did not answer her husband's glance.
She looked at the bold, handsome, boyish
face, and faintly smiled.

He must not alter anything,' she said in
that slow, measured way, as if the English
words and the English phrasing were yet
strange to her. ' I should not wish it.
There is so little time, after all, that one is
young.'

A shadow crossed her face, her ej'es
drooped. I noted then how sad a face it
was, and what lines of trouble were about
the tremulous lips. Mr. Basil looked at her
with fervent admiration :

I think you're a brick !' he said, and then
drew back and stood beside his brother.

I knew by his face and his words that he

vas her devoted champion henceforth. I
stepped forward then.

Would you like to go to your room,
madam V I said, and took up her heavy
traveling-cloak from the chair where she had
tln'own it.

She assented eagerly.

I am very tired,' she said to her husband;
T shall rest till dinner-time, if you do not
mind.'

Pray do.' he answered, with that gentle
courtesy of manner I knew so well. ' Mrs.
Clitheroe will see to your comfort, I am sure.
We need not dine for an hour yet, if you
prefer it.'

I should prefer it,' she said, and then
followed me up the great oak staircase to the
room prepared for her.

It was always a gloomy room, that state
bedchamber at Owl's Roost. Not all the
flow of fire and candles seemed to make
it cheerful, and I noticed that my lady
shuddered as she glanced round. The
wind had risen, too, and was sobbing in a

fitful, moaning way around the dreary old
house.

She listened for a moment, standing by
the hearth, with her dress held back a little
from her pretty arched feet.

Does it always make that sound V she
asked.

Yes,' I said. It was the truth, and I
knew she would have to get used to the
sound like the rest of us.

It is very dreary here,' she said, and
again she shuddered, and her face seemed to
grow white and cold in a set, hopeless way.
I did not know it was so dreary. I come
from France, you know.'

I did not know, madam,' I said. ' My *
master only to-day, telegraphed he was
married.'

You  you must have been surprised,' she
said, bending her white face down to the
flames.

We were all surprised I answered ; ' but
very pleased. He has been alone so long 
so very long.'

But in my heart I thought  why had he
married a half-foreign woman of all women,
and one so beautiful, and so young, and so
strange ?

He is very good,' she said presently ; and
then, looking at her, I saw the tears standing
on those wonderful lashes. * Very  very
good. I should have been quite friendless
and homeless but for him.'

I wondered greatly to hear her speak like
that, but I made no remark. I removed her
hat, and saw then what wonderful hair
framed in that lovely face  not gold, or fair,
or brown, but a rich and burnished tint, the
like of which I had never seen. It waved
back naturally from her low, smooth brow,
and little rinses and tendrils of it cluno like
threads of gold about her ears and temples.
Her beauty amazed me more and more. She
was slightly made and of average height 
not too tall or too short. All her movements
were graceful, if somewhat languid. I thought
that night that sorrow and fatigue had depressed
and unnerved her. I only learnt

later what terrible sorrow she had undergone.
I moved about. I opened her ,
and put out such things as she would
require, and brought her hot water, and did
all I could to make her comfortable. Then,
remembering she had said she wished to rest,
I asked her if I should leave her.

Her eyes were still fixed on the fire. She
sighed wearily.

Yes,' she said, with a nervous look around.
It is a dreadful room,' she added. ' That
bed looks like a funeral vault, and every
corner is full of lurking shadows. Are all
your famous English mansions like this?'

I felt hurt. The dignity of the family was
called in question by this young and ignorant
foreign girl. It did not seem right or
fitting.

Few are so old and so famous,' I told her
proudly, but I saw her shudder again, and
felt hopeless of her power to keep up that
family dignity, or even appreciate it. I made
my obeisance and left the room.

My master still stood by the fire, the boys

VOL. I. 2

on either side of him talking eagerly and
gaily. He turned quickly as he heard my
step.

Well, Deborah,' he said gaily, ' I have
taken you by storm, have I not ? Were you
very much astonished?'

As the words left his lips, he stopped like
one in the act of listening. In the momentary
hush of the wind I caught a sound  the
sound of wheels dashing quickly up the
avenue. I saw him hold up his hand as if to
silence me. The next instant the bell awoke
a hundred clanging echoes, and, as he heard
the noise, his face grew white and stern, and
full of wrath. He drew himself up, tall and
stern, as if to confront an enemy or a judge.

The next instant the great door fell to
with an ominous, hollow sound, and I heard
my husband's voice announcing ' M. Pierre
de Volens.'

I SUPPOSE a greater contrast than that presented
by the two men who now faced each
other in that dim old hall could not easily be
found.

The gentleman thus abruptly introduced
was, to my thinking, the handsomest man it
had ever been my lot to gaze upon. Tall and
splendidly made, with haughty, clear-cut
features, and the darkest of hair and eyes, he
stood before my master, and eyed him like a
wrathful and avenging spirit.

Tell me,' he said,  it is not true  you have
not married her !'

 It is quite true,' said my master. He
seemed to have forgotten my presence and
the boys'.

I went up to them and drew them away.

Come,' I said, ' this is no place for
you.'

Mr. Stewart, with his usual pleasantness,
was following me, but Mr. Basil refused to
move.

I'm going to hear what's the row,' he
said in his favourite schoolboy phraseology.
Perhaps they'll fight a duel. How jolly.'

I did not waste time trying to persuade
him. I knew it would be of no use. I drew
Mr. Stewart's hand within my arm and
turned away. At the same moment a sound
caught my ear. I looked up. I saw my
lady in her white dress, with all that lovely
burnished hair hanging loose to her feet, come
flying down the steeds.

Pierre !' she cried, and her voice had such
a ring of gladness, and love, and wonder in
it, that it held me chained and spell-bound to
the spot.

The stranger looked at her, then a very fire
of fury and hatred seemed to flash into his
face.

Brute  dog !' he hissed ; ' I could kill

you !' And his hand was at my master's
throat.

With a faint cry of intense terror she flung
herself between them. Not on the breast
whose love and shelter she of right could
claim ; not on the heart whose duty and
affection were for ever her own ; but into the
arms of that stranger whose presence had
evoked this stormy scene.

He held her for a moment while her husband
drew back and surveyed them both with
a look the like of which I pray I may never
see on a man's face again.

He saw the convulsive clasp of those meeting
arms  he saw the agony of one face
change to chill insensibility ; the passion of
the other to the diabolical and thwarted fury
of a fiend.

He saw, yet stood there silent, mastering
with the strong, stern self-control of years,
the storm of bitter and outraged feeling in his
heart.

I shook in every limb with the terror and
the pity that I felt. Mr. Stewart and I were

in a shadowy corner of the great hall, and I
do not think anyone noticed us.

The strange gentleman was murmuring
words in a foreign tongue over the pale,
senseless form of my master's bride. Presently
he led her to the chair by the fire. Her
eyes were open now  she looked ghastly.

Pierre,' she said faintly, ' you should not
have come here. Did you not get my letter V

I did not believe it,' he said. ' Bitterly
as your father hated me, I did not believe
it.'

Mr. Errol stepped forward then.

Sir,' he said coldly, ' your presence here is
an intrusion. I have every reason to believe
that M. de Foreze had good and justifiable
reasons for wishing to part his daughter and
yourself. I intend to obey his wishes in that
matter. Permit me to remind you that this
lady is my wife ; this house mine. I will
explain my motives to her for saying plainly
I desire you to relieve both of your presence.'

The handsome face looked very evil now.
He glanced irresolutely from the drooping

figure in the chair to the stern, cold face of
my master.

Is this your wish also, Nancette ?' he
said.

'Yes, Pierre  yes,' she answered faintly.
I told you we ought never to meet again. I
told you of my father's dying wish. It is too
late. Go  go your way and forget me !'

He drew back ; he looked first at one face,
then at the other.

I go,' he said slowly and distinctly, and
the light in his eyes grew lurid and evil.
But I shall not forget you, Nancette  nor
you, monsieur,' turning sharply on my master.
' You have played your game well  sofar.
But there may be other cards in my
hand. Time will show. I am a De Volens
a De Volens never forgets  nor forgives
!'

He made this theatrical speech ; he followed
it by a theatrical bow. He did not
touch my lady's hand nor look at her again.
An instant later the door fell to with a loud,
dull clang. The roll of departing wheels

announced the departure of our strange
visitor. My master turned to his wife.

I think he said, with cold gentleness,
that you had better retire to your room
again. Permit me to offer you my arm.'

She rose slowly, like one half stunned. But
she did not take his arm.

I hope,' she said, ' you do not blame me.
I forbade him to come. I know you are my
husband. All my duty and obedience are
yours. I would not willingly have seen
him.'

I believe you,' he said, still very coldly.
 And I hope you will understand that it is at
your father's imperative command that I close
my doors on Pierre de Volens.'

She shivered as if with sudden cold.

I will obey you,' she said. ' It is my
duty.'

I think the words pained him, but I think
it pained him more to see the little chilling
gesture with which she turned from his
offered arm, and went up the broad oak stairs
alone. He watched her till she was out of

sight, then turned and leant against the great
carved oaken mantelpiece, and I heard him
groan.

I made a sign then to Mr. Basil, and, for
once, he was actually good enough to obey it.
Softly and quickly he crept to my side, and
then followed his brother and myself into my
own snug room. When we got there, however,
the momentary fit of seriousness forsook
him. He leapt straight on to the table.
Then he crossed his arms on his breast
and threw himself into a theatrical attitude.

Sucre nom de Dieu /' he cried, in exact
imitation of the strange gentleman's voice
and manners. ' I do not forget  I. I am a
De Yolens  a De Yolens never forgets, and
nev-ar-r-e forgives 1'

Then his mockery ceased, his face and
voice grew grave.

Deborah,' he said, ' I like Nancette.
When I'm a man, I shall fight that frog-eating
Frenchman ! See if I don't !'

It miofht have been some half-hour later
that my lady's bell rang. I went up to her

room, as she had brought no maid. My
master met me at the door.

His hand was pressed against his heart.
He looked like a man who had received a
death-blow.

Your mistress wants you,' he said. 'Goto
her.'

He hurried down the stairs and into the
library. I heard him close and lock the
door.

All this happened two years ago. I have
never set eyes on my master since.

I TRY to keep to the sequence of events, but
I find it is not so easy to write things down
as it is to say them. This point of my story
brings me to the point of my master's letter,
written to me on that night.

I have said he locked himself in the
library, and that from that hour to this, I
have never seen him. But don't let it be
supposed he came to a violent end or made
away with himself, though, indeed, if I was
writing a book, it would be a grim thing to
say that the wicked Frenchman came back
in the dead of night and stabbed him therein
the old library, which was really the
haunted room of Owl's Koost, on account of
a murder honos aofo committed. But, as I ama
truthful person, though I am afraid writers

of romance are not, I cannot say such a tragic
event happened.

My master's luggage was in the hall, and
Clitheroe told me he had received instructions
to send it up to London next day. My
master himself left the house as soon as he
had written that letter to me, which I am
now going to copy in here.

Cojvj of letter written to Deborah Clitheroe,
March Srd, 1867, his Errol Gladdening , Esq.,
of Old's Roost :

Deborah,

I am going to put a great trust in
you. Years of faithful service in our family
have proved your worth, and there is no
other living soul to whom I can turn in this
dire strait, save yourself I came back to
my old home a few hours ago, thinking that
at last I had tasted of happiness. I go from
that home to-night a broken-hearted man.
Heaven knows if I shall ever set foot in it
again. . . . My hasty marriage amazed you
all. I will briefly relate how it happened.

When I was at Nice I made the acquaintance
of a French gentleman, by name the
Comte de Foreze. He was a singular man.
He had married an English lady, had been
left a widower early in life with one child, a
daughter. He had sent her to be educated
in England when she was about thirteen,
because his greatest desire was that she
should grow up as much an Englishwoman
as possible. He then sold the property he
had in France, and for years travelled about,
visiting different parts of the world. He was
coming" back to England, to see his daughter,
when I met him at Nice. He was in great
distress about her. A relative of his  an
unprincipled, reckless spendthrift  had made
acquaintance with the young lady, and written
to ask his permission to marry her. The
schoolmistress had foolishly permitted his
visits, as he stated they were authorised by
the father, and produced a letter to that
effect. It is needless to say the letter was a
forgery. Pierre de Volens is an unscrupulous
man, and worse. As I had taken a

strong liking to the Comte de Foreze, and

was at that time thinking of leavings Nice

myself, I went back to England with him.

We parted at the London terminus  he to

go to his daughter, I to an hotel. I gave

him my address at parting, begging him to

come and see me when he had leisure. Fora

week I heard or saw nothing of him.

Then, one evening, he called. I started when

I saw him. In that one week he had grown

into an old man. He apologised hurriedly

 for his long absence, stating that he had been

occupied with business matters. I asked him

about his daughter. He said she was welland

happy ; that he had managed to settle

the troublesome cousin, and, fortunately, bring

the young lady to reason.

 " Her heart was not in the affair," he
said;  and all Pierre de Volens cared for
was money. I told him I had no fortune to
give my daughter, and he at once withdrew
his offer for her hand."

I did not pursue the subject, seeing that
it troubled him. He remained an hour or so

with me, then gave me a pressing invitation
to dine with his daughter and himself the
next night. I accepted it, moved, I confess,
by a strong curiosity to see the young lady
who had caused all this trouble and anxiety.
I saw her. I will confess, Deborah, that I
had come to her presence prejudiced and cold.
I left it, knowing to my cost that love was
no fable of poets, that that pure, cold, lovely
face would haunt me all my life long. From
that day I was like a man in a dream. I
was perpetually at her father s. Some spell
drew me there too strong for mortal resistance.
The old man noticed my infatuation,
and was well pleased. As for Mdlle. de
Foreze, she was always calm, and gracious,
and serene. If she suspected my passion,
she did not seem to notice it. She moved in
another atmosphere, she seemed too spiritual
and fair for the breath of this lower world.
Her father at last spoke to me on the subject.
He said nothing would please him better.
The sole desire and ambition of his heart
was that his daughter should marry an

Englishman. He knew my position and
family ; lie seemed nervously anxious that
I should expedite matters, or let him arrange
the marriage French fashion. To this I
objected. I wished to win her for myself,
and to do so by my own unaided efforts.
Some weeks lead drifted by, too happily forme
to notice their passage. One morning I
went to the hotel by appointment. We were
all going on an expedition for the day  the
Count, and his daughter, and myself. I was
a little before the time. She was alone in
the sitting-room. We spoke a few words,
then she went over to the window to look
for her father. She said he had merely gone
over to the jeweller's, opposite the hotel, to
fetch his watch, which had been left for
repair. In another moment we saw him
come out of the shop. He glanced up at the
window, and when he saw us both there, he
smiled and waved his hand. I can never tell
how it happened. In another instant there
was a shout, a crowd, a host of moving
figures, and plunging horses. I rushed

down the stairs and into the street. The
porter at the hotel and two other men were
bringing in a man's crushed and lifeless
body.

That was all that I ever saw again of the
Comte de Foreze. . . . The poor child was
well-nigh frantic with grief Oh, the terrible
days  the terrible time that followed ! All
the arrangements devolved on me  the
horrors of the inquest and the funeral. He
seemed to have no near relative, and I did
not feel justified in sending for Pierre de
Yolens. I found no will among the deadman's
papers, and no clue to his family or
friends. There was a letter for me, enclosing
a small, hard parcel, sealed and addressed to
his daughter, and written on it were the
words :

" Not to be opened by Nancette until she
has reached the age of twenty-one."

There was a small balance of three hundred
pounds at his banker's, which I drew
out for his daughter at her desire. She still
remained at the hotel. I tried to persuade

VOL. I. 3

hei' to return for a time to her schoolmistress,
but she seemed to have a horror of doing
that, and I could only advise, not enforce.
At last her loneliness and desolation gave
me courage to plead my suit, and strengthen
it b} her father's wishes for its success.

She listened silently. I saw that she was
much moved.

' You are sure," she said, ''' that he wished

it r

'''It was his great desire," I said; 'but
do not let that influence your decision if your
heart does not wish it."

For a moment she hesitated, and looked
at me with those deep, solemn eyes that were
like wells of mystery. Then she stretched
out her hands.

" I have not a friend in the world but
you," she said. " I will be your wife if you
wish."

I was too bewildered and too happy to
ask her for other assurance. I knew nothing
of women. My life had always been that of
a recluse. It seemed to me no woman would

give herself to a man unless she loved him
with all her heart and soul.

A month later we were married.

I come now to the events of to-niofht.
You know who Pierre de Volens is  the lover
of my wife ; the man whose character and
principles were such, that her father declared
to me he would sooner see her dead at his
feet than wedded to such a scoundrel. Nan-cette
had written, telling him of her intention
to marry me. His answer was his appearance
here to-night.

Deborah, when I saw his face and hers, I
knew I had been deceived. I knew that she
had loved, and did love this man, despite her
father's denial, despite her acceptance of me.
When I went up to her room I asked her if
my suspicions were correct. She refused to
answer me. She said I had no right to inquire
into her past  I, her husband. Heaven
knows if I was cruel or passionate in my just
reproaches, I only know that suddenly she
swayed forward, and had I not caught her in

my arms, would have fallen to the ground. I
laid her on the couch, I dashed some water
on her face, and loosened the clasps of her
dress. As I did so a scrap of paper fell out.
It was a fragment of an old newspaper ; there
was an advertisement printed on it. Wondering
why she should conceal such a thing about
her, I looked at the words.

Deborah, old and faithful servant as
you are, I can't tell you more. . I only
want to hide my shame and misery henceforth
from every mortal eye. To your care
I confide the wretched girl who is my wife in
the eyes of the law, but who never can be
wife to me in auoht but name. No one knows
of my marriage save just you of my household.
Deborah, no one must hioivf Let her live
here. See to her comforts ; serve her withall
service of your tender, womanly heart ;
but to any inquiries, let it appear she is only
an orphan left to my guardianship  no less,
no more. I have written her briefly to the
same effect. She will obey my wishes for
her own sake.

 All arrangements as to money matters I
will write about from London. Also respecting
my two wards.

Do your best for me, Deborah. Hide
my folly from prying eyes ; and remember
that the doors of my house are for ever closed
to Pierre de Volens.

'Errol Gladdening.'

When I read this letter, I was, as one may
say, dazed.

I could not understand the mystery a bit.
Deeply as I pitied my master, I thought, in
my heart, he was very foolish to run off in
this fashion because of a schoolgrirl's flirtation-think's
mioht have all come rioht if he had
waited ; but now  well, what wife would like
to occupy such a position as he had assigned
to this poor, lonely girl ? No ; I could not
think he had acted right, but then, also, I
did not know the mystery of that scrap of
paper.

That was evidently the clue to his conduct.
There must be something more than a mere
schoolgirl fancy connected with that mysterious
advertisement.

No woman is without cariosity, and, for
the matter of that, no man either. I would
have given a great deal to know what that
newspaper had contained, but, with no clue
to dates or events, it was impossible to find
out. Nothing remained for me but to accept
the situation, and trust to time.

Not a soul knew of my master's marriage.
His long absence had weakened people's
memories of him. Very few in the neighbourhood
ever came to Owl's Roost, and in
the strange position my lady was to occupy,
I scarcely thought she would care about
visitors. The most difficult part of the business
was to manage the servants.

They all knew of the marriage. They
would all know of the sudden departure of
their master. I scarcely knew what to say.
I took counsel with Clitheroe. We both
agreed it would be best to connect Mr. Glen-denying's
departure with business of importance
relative to the strange visitor, who had
summoned him abroad. In a week's time I
persuaded my lady to come up to London

with me to make some purchases. A more
centle creature I never did see  that I will
say for her.

When we were there, Clitheroe gave out
that we had gone to meet the master on his
return from the Continent. Then he next
gave notice to the whole of the servants, pay-inch
them their month's acres, and stating as
how Owl's Koost was going to be shut up fora
year or more, as Mr. and Mrs. Gladdening
were going to have abroad.

I engaged some new servants in London 
a cook and two housemaids, a gardener and
coachman, and a man for the stables. Then
when the house was clear, my lady and I
went back.

 She did not seem to feel the strangeness of
her position at first. She and the boys were
much together, and Mr. Basil was her devoted
slave. They accepted their guardian's departure
with perfect content ; they were too
young to be very curious about the circumstance.
My lady was always very quiet and
very sad. Some deep trouble lay at her heart.

She seldom left the house, though the boss
tried to persuade her. No one ever called,
and I doubt if anyone in the neighbourhood
knew anything of her presence save and
except the rector. He called, but she would
not see him.

I told the boys not to mention that their
guardian was married, and they promised to
obey. I suppose they did obey, as I never
heard any inquiries on the subject, even from
the rector. But he was a quiet, studious
gentleman, and he had no wife.

As time went on there were changes.
Master Basil and his brother went to school,
and Mrs. Freer came as companion to my
lady. She was just as nice a lady as ever
stepped in shoe-leather. She had been used
to live as a girl in a queer old house on the
coast, with a crotchety old father who had
been an admiral. She and Mr. Errol had
been great friends once. Then Miss Myra
got married all of a sudden, and went away
to some foreign country. She was left a
widow, and came home to the Old Hulks, as

the Admiral had named it. 1 think Mr.
Errol must have asked her to hive with his
wife, but she did not seem to know anvthinij:
of her story. She questioned me at first, but
I had little to tell, only what I've written
here now. Perhaps it may be useful one
day.

Dear me, what a world of trouble this is,
and what a deal of worry folks do give themselves
! I often have thought that if Mr.
Glendenninof hadn't sone off so sudden-like,
things might have been explained. I'm sure
my lady was the sweetest creature, and everyone
took to her ; but he didn't write to her
but once  always to Mrs. Freer or to me.
And, to my knowledge, he's never set foot in
Owl's Roost since that night.

I have put all this down at odd times for
Mrs. Freer's satisfaction. I have had
troubles of my own since the day Mrs.
Freer came here, and bitter sorrow, too.
She has been like an cano-el to me, and I have
learned to love her well-nigh as dear as my
lady.

Looking at this that I have written, and
remembering things as they were, I find my
old brain puzzling itself as to w-hat will be the
end.

My poor husband's affliction has been a
sore trial to me. I told Mrs. Freer that,
from the time she and my lady left the
house, he had failed and failed until this
stroke took him, and set him apart from us
all, as a mere piece of living childishness
But it is Heaven's will, and we have all
our troubles to bear.

Here is a whole family made miserable for
life by reason of a scrap of paper !

Will a day ever come when the cloud weill
lift off my master's heart and home, and the
sunshine of peace and love fall over the darkness
of Owl's Koost ?

I pray for it every day I live.

CHAPTER I.

Two boys were sitting in a large, old-fashioned
and dingily-furnished room.

Itwas their own special eden.' There was
not much in it left for them to spoil, and that
was its only disadvantage.

By the time they had inked the walls and
covered them with caricatures, kicked off the
rails of the chairs, notched their leofs and
arms, carved initials over the window-seats,
and decorated the carpet with ink-splashes,
the room looked as if it could not be improved.
Bats and balls, fishing-tackle, and bows and
arrows, were hung about the walls. Shelves
of books in various sashes of untidiness filled

the recesses on either side the window. That
window itself, with its low, broad seat, and
its outlook on the kitchen-garden, was their
favourite nook. Here had they counselled
and disputed, quarrelled and made friends,
over and over again. Here had they sat
concocting plots and schemes with a view to
devastation, assault and battery, and general
mischief. Here they sat now watching the
rain as it descended in a dull, monotonous
downpour, their bright young faces disconsolate
and strangely grave.

Well,' said the elder of the two, at last
breaking silence, ' it's a rum go. What can
be the matter \ I don't know much about
marrying  I know it's a thing people do 
but to start off and leave your wife almost as
soon as you've brought her home  I shouldn't
think it was usual, should you, Stewart V

The younger brother looked grave.

It must have been the Frenchman,' ho
said.

I expect so,' said the other reflectively.
' They're our natural enemies as a nation.

'They're a dirty lot. What can you expect of
people who cat frogs V

I wonder when we shall see her aofain V
said Stewart, passing the question as to his
expectations of a nation whose culinary tastes
were so in advance of his own. * How pretty
she is ! She's French, too, isn't she, Basil '

Only half, so Deborah said. Her mother
was English.'

Do you think,' hazarded the younger
brother, somewhat timidly, ' that she'll want
to eat fro Of s V

Oh, very likely ! We shall have to
collect them for her. I've a mind to bring
her that fine old fat one out of the pond.
He ought to be in prime condition by
now.'

What are we to call her V asked Stewart.
She's got a French name, Debbie says.'

I know what Fm oroinsf to call her,' said
Basil coolly; 'I made up my mind last
night : the Ladyee Nancy e. Isn't she just
like her V

Both pair of eyes turned instinctively to a

picture in the dark recess. It hung above
the book shelves. It was the picture of a
woman. All the background was dark and
sombre. She seemed to be looking down an
avenue so dim, and shadowy, and mysterious
that nothing could be clearly distinguished.
She was clothed in loose and flowing white,
and her face was white, and her eyes dark
and sombre, and full of fear.

The two boys looked at each other
again.

It's awfully like her,' said Stewart under
his breath.

I think it is her,' said Basil, ' or her spirit
come into the world again in the body of
another woman.'

When I saw her come down the stairs I
felt frightened said Stewart. 'Wasn't she
white V

She was so,' said Basil, nodding his head
emphatically. Then he rose and looked at
the clock. ' Ten !' he said. ' I don't mean
to go to old Chasable's this morning. We'll
have a holiday. I think it's our duty to try

and amuse our Ladyee Nanc3e. Let's ask
her if she'd like to look over the house.'

Stewart never dreamt of opposing a suggestion
of his brother s. He had been always
used to look up to him as a leading spirit.
He, therefore, rose with alacrity, and the
two little fellows presented themselves a few
moments later at the door of a suite of rooms
in the opposite wing to where their own door
was situated.

Basil's knock was firm and decided, like
most things about him.

A low, soft voice bade him come in, and
the two boys found themselves in the presence
of a slight, girlish figure. She was standing
by the window looking out on the desolate
grey sky and the sweeping rain. She did
not look round as they entered.

Basil went up to her.

Good-morning,' he said politely. ' I hope
you have slept well.'

She started and looked in bewilderment
at her youthful visitor. Then she seemed to
recollect him. Her face grew a shade whiter.

Ah, it is you !' she said. * I had forgotten.
You Hve here, then V

Yes,' said Basil frankly, ' at present. I
hear our guardian's gone away. It's rather
funny, but, of course, you know all about it.'

Her hand went suddenly to her bosom as
if to clasp something hidden there. A faint
colour stole into her white face. It was a
lovely face, but so delicate and pure in colouring
and feature that it scarcely looked like
flesh and blood.

The boys watched her curiously.

I know,' she said unsteadily, * he had to
leave here  on  on business. It was very
sudden, but he will write and tell you.'

Oh,' said Basil graciously,  he needn't
trouble. You'll do very well as a guardian,
I'm sure. I didn't think I should like Mr.
Glendenninof to brings a wife here, but Stewart
and I don't mind now we've seen you. We'll
take care of you, don't you fear. That's what
we've come to say.'

Yes,' she said, looking a little puzzled as
she met the frank, boyish eyes, ' that is very
VOL. T. 4

kind. This seems a dull, dreary house,' she
added with a shudder. * I was thinking how
dreary it was when you came in.'

Oh, it's not half a bad old place when
you get used to it explained Basil. ' We'll
show you all over it, the haunted room and
all, if you like.'

The haunted room V she said, and shivered
suddenly. ' Oh, I hope that is not true.'

We've never seen the ghost,' said Basil
eagerly. ' We'd like to, but she doesn't
come. We've tried all sorts of dodges to
draw her out, but it's no use. I think shea
fraud myself. But will you come and look
over the house V

Yes,' she said with an effort ; ' I should
like to see it.'

I don't know about these matters,' remarked
Basil, as he led the way, ' but I
should fancy the husband ought to be showman
on these occasions. However, Mr.
Gladdening was always different to everybody
else. If you haven't found that out,
you soon will. By the way '  and he

stopped abruptly and surveyed the new
mistress  ' aren't you cold in that white
dress V

No she said ; ' the stuff is thick. I
always wear white.'

Stewart and Basil exchanged a rapid
glance.

 Isn't it queer V whispered the younger of
the two ; ' so did the other one.'

It was two hours later before the tour of
the house had been completed. Then the
boys took their new friend into their own
special sanctuary. A huge fire burnt in the
wide, open fireplace. They drew an old-fashioned
leather armchair up before it, and
made her sit down.

Whenever you feel lonely, or in want of
a chat, just come in here,' said Basil ; ' we'll
put you up to no end of larks, if you like.
I'm sure you'd be more at home here than in
any other part of the house.'

 I think I should,' she said, half-smiling,
as she looked at the flushed, eager faces of
her young hosts.

42 

In strict confidence,' said Basil, dragging
up a stool, and sitting down at her feet,
I don't mind telling you that I look upon
Mr. Gladdening as a failure, in the shape of
a husband. Perhaps he'll improve, but he
has certainly not begun well. I, in his
place, should have arranged all business
matters before I married. Then I could
have looked after my wife, you see. Still,
we'll do our best for you. Won't we,
Stewart V

Stewart agreed with alacrity.

First, though,' went on the loquacious
Basil, ' I must tell you we don't think much
of foreigners. You, I expect, are pretty glad
you're half English. Still your name's foreign,
isn't it r

My name,' she said,  is Nancette. My
mother was an Englishwoman, my father a
French nobleman.'

 We won't go into particulars,' said Basil
loftily. 'All I've got to say is, we don't
mean to call you Nancette. Nancyee is better,
and has an old English flavour about it. Ladyee

Nancyeeee if you like, but certainly Nancyeeee.
You don't mind  do you V

Not in the least,' she said smiling. ' I
like your name better than my own.'

It might be your own,' said Stewart
timidly ; ' only you've forgotten ; it's such a
long time since you were on earth before.'

Since I was on earth before ! But what
is it then you mean V exclaimed their new
friend amazed.

Shut up, Stewart 1' muttered his brother.
You see,' he explained, turning to Nancette,
he's got an idea you're like a picture of
someone, and that her spirit's come back in
you.'

Oh !' said the girl somewhat mystified ;
that is drove for a fancy. Who was the
lady ?'

There's the picture. You can look at it
if you like.'

She followed the direction of his hand,
then rose and went up to the strange painting,
and looked at it long and earnestly.

Like me !' she said below her breath.

Again her hand went to her heart with a
sudden involuntary movement. * Am I like
that ? She looks so desolate, so heart-broken,
so alone. See how her eyes gaze down, down
that avenue, watching for someone who never
comes.'

That said Basil, ' is the Ladyee Nancyee.
She was wife to one of the Glendennino-s in
the time of the Pretender. Her husband
was killed in battle. She is supposed to be
looking for him, or news of him. That's our
avenue, you know.'

The girl shivered and turned away.
It is a sad picture she said. ' I am sorry
you think it resembles me.'
Then she resumed her seat.

Listen she said slowly, * you are only
children, but perhaps you will understand.
It is my fault that your guardian, Mr. Glen-denying,
has gone away like this. He mays
not come back for a honos, longs time. It is
his wish that I should stay here, and I am
his wife, and I must obey. I think it best to
tell you. You have been so kind to me this

morning, and yet, to you, I am only a stranger,
and not even a countrywoman. Your name
for me is prophetic. My fate here may he as
unhappy as that of your Ladyee Nancyee, there.
I  I want to tell you both that it is all my
fault  it is not Mr. Gladdening's. You owe
him love, obedience, gratitude. You owe me
nothing ; I am only an interloper. I cannot
hold up my head and take my place here, and
I am quite friendless in the world. Now,
that is all my history. I do not think it is
quite right, perhaps, that you should be
friendly with me, or care for me. I am
grateful to you ; you could make me happier ;
but still Mr. Gladdening might not like
it.

Then,' said Basil, taking her hand, and
looking frankly and fearlessly into her troubled
eyes, ' Mr. Gladdening can do  the other
thing. Stewart and I are going to be your
champions, your knights, and all that sort,
you know. We knew there was a screw loose
somewhere, but wee put it down to the Frenchman.
However, you cheer up. It'll all come

right some clay. Meau while, we'll take care
of you.'

Yes,' said Stewart, rising and taking her
other hand ; * Basil always does what he says.
We'll take care of you !'

You haven't been out for a week, Ladyee
Nancyee. Come along this morning with us.
We'll have a look at the sea. It's only a
mile and a half to walk, and it will do you
good.'

Basil said this, standing at the boudoir-door,
cap in hand, his handsome boyish face
flushed and rosy with exercise. He and
Stewart had been racing each other down the
avenue.

The Ladyee Nancyee,' as he called her,
lifted her head, and looked out of the
window.

How is it you're not at school V she
said.

It's Saturday. You always forget Saturday.
Don't you know old Chasable has to

write his sennoii  I mean crib it. He
couldn't compose an original one if he
tried;

Basil once wrote a; sermon for him,' interposed
Stewart, who, as usual, was close to his
brother. ' It was very short, but the rector
wouldn't have it.'

What was it about V asked Nancette
curiously.

She had reached down her hat from a
peg, where it was hanging, and now put it
on.

The text was, ' And when they rose up
in the morning they were all dead men," and
Basil said : " This is a mistake, dear brethren.
If they'd been dead they wouldn't have got
up and seen each other, could they, dear
brethren ? Consequently someone's wrong.
I don't say Who. I think you'd better ask
the Bishop about it, dear brethren. He'd be
sure to know." '

Was that all V asked Nancette in surprise.

It was quite enough said the young
author. ' I don't hold with long: sermons.

I told old Chasable that. But he still writes
them. I see you've got on your hat. I
thought all woaien had to look in the class to
put their hats on. You never do.'

The girl smiled.

I can feel if it's straight,' she said. ' That's
all it wants.'

They left the room, and went down the
broad stairs, and so out into the fresh, cool
air. and brilliant sunlight.

I wish you wouldn't mope so much,' said
Basil presently. ' You look so white. I
can't make out whether you're pretty. I
suppose you'd be considered so, but I like
more colour than you've got.'

I am always pale,' said the girl with a
faint sigh. ' I am not like your rosy English
maidens, you know.'

Deborah thinks you very pretty,' said
Stewart eagerly. * She often says so.'

Do you think it matters much about one's
looks V asked Basil. ' Do all girls want to
be pretty V

At school they were always talking about

beauty,' said Nancette. ' They seemed to
think a great deal depended on it.'

Oh, husbands, of course,' scoffed Basil indignantly.
* Just like girls  always bothering
their heads about men. I've no patience with
them.'

You don't know any,' remarked Stewart
wisely.

Well, I hear enough about Jago's sisters
and cousins.'

Who is Jago ?' inquired Nancette curiously.


The other boy who goes to old Chasable's,'
answered Basil. ' Such a duffer ! He boards
there because he's delicate. His place is
twenty miles off. He's always bragging
about it, and he's been in London. He
thinks no end of himself for that.'

He's bigger than Basil, but Basil can lick
him easily,' said Stewart.

I should think so,' said the handsome

boy, lifting his fair curly head defiantly ;
and then, he cries.'

But you know, dear,' said Nancette

gently, ' all boys are not strong like you.
Even Stewart is different. You outfit not
to bully them if they're timid and weak.'

I bully !' exclaimed Basil, flushing up
indignantly. * T wouldn't do such a thing,
Ladyee Nancy e.'

No, that he wouldn't,' agreed Stewart.
Jago's a bully, and a sneak too. Basil
only fought him because he'd never let me
alone.'

Boys are very funny,' said Nancette with
a sigh. ' I suppose they wouldn't be happy
if they hadn't someone to fight.'

Do you know said Basil eagerly,  I've
been breaking in the little mare for you ?
I want you to come riding with us. Will
you?'

But I can't ride,' she answered.

Well, I'll teach you. It's awfully easy.
I wanted Debbie to practise the mare a bit,
but she wouldn't. She said she was too old.
When she was a girl she eras a rare one to
ride. Old Clichy says so. What a pity
people get old, isn't it V

Yes,' agreed Nance te ; ' only they seem
more content than when they're young.'

Well, you're young enough,' said Basil
patronisingly ; ' and you must learn to ride,
and drive, and skate, and all that, you know.
It will do you a world of good. Why, Mr.
Gladdening won't know you when he comes
back.'

The girl's face seemed to grow whiter and
more sorrowful at his random words. She
did not answer them. The two boys rattled
on, however, plunging recklessly into subjects
and out of them. Nancette was always a
quiet companion, but, nevertheless, she made
a very sympathetic one.

At this time,, and with the heavy burden
of her life's error to bear, and bear alone, no
society would have been tolerable but that of
the two frank, loyal young knights who had
devoted themselves to her service.

Strange as her position was, its full strangeness
had not dawned upon her yet. Her
marriage had been a fatal mistake, she had
discovered that even in its first early days ;

but as yet she only felt the relief of her husband's
absence. He had told her to remain
in his house, and she did so. Friends she
had none. Society she had none  except
the boys. But she was altogether ignorant
of the world as a judge and an inquisitor ;
and it had not yet occurred to her that her
position was ambiguous, and would necessitate
explanation.

A sort of lull had descended on her life
after a terrible storm of woe and sorrow.
The peace was so tranquil and so sweet that
she did not care to question its possible duration
or extent.

Some day, of course, her husband would
return. Some day, things would be explained
 or she might die and set him free.
It had never occurred to her that he loved
her very deeply. He was not a man to
wear his heart on this sleeve. He had been
a true, and tender, and loyal friend, and her
father  knowing her past secret and its folly
had counselled her to marry him. In her
sorrow, and loneliness, and desolation, she

had turned to him as to a rock of strength.
Insensibly she had drifted too far to retreat.
Then she learnt what he had a right to
expect  what she, alas ! could never give 
or so it had seemed to her then. An avalanche
of doubt, shame, and torture had
descended upon his life. He had said bitter
and cruel words to her, but she had listened
patiently, knowing too late that they were
well deserved.

She thought of him often  thought of him
with regret, but never with lonc/inof. Passion
seemed dead in her  frozen by a bitter experience,
slain by a treacherous hand. Life
was henceforth to be a cold and empty existence.
That was her fate. About his  the
man she had wronged, she did not think.
Her heart was still too crushed and too
sorrowful.

Had she been able to read that other heart,
she would have shrunk appalled from the
suffering's she had dealt. There was no balm
for his wound  the wound that small, white,
woman's hand had given. It had cut its

way deep down to his heart ; it must bleed
and bleed un stanched till life should end.
All that could make life desirable or dear
would flow out with that flowing blood 
energy, hope, love, joy, peace, desire, all were
over for him. Life was looked on only as a
torture-chamber ; each phase could but hold
fresh agony. Yet it must be lived through,
without help or pity from any living soul.

Had he seen her now  the woman who
had given him this living death to bear  he
would have judged her, perhaps, more harshly
than she deserved. She was still so younof.
and the boys' merry voices, and jests, and
anecdotes had won her to laugh at, and with
them.

The springtime was at its best and
brightest. The dark tree stems were covered
with tender shoots of green. Now and then
a bird's sweet, full-throated song quivered
through the air, rich with glad thanksgiving
for its young, free life. In every nook and
rocky cranny were hues of wild-flowers, and
opening fronds of ferns. The wind was fresh

VOL. I. 5

and cool, bringing the keen breath of the sea
on its wings.

The girl was running a race with her two
companions up the rocky slope, from whence
the first view of the sea could be obtained.
Light of foot, and quick as a young fawn,
she easily distanced them. She reached the
summit, and, taking off her hat, waved it in
triumph to Basil, who was still some distance
off. The wind caught her hair, and ruffled it
into little rings and tendrils all over hero



delicate temples.

The rapid run had brought colour into her
cheeks, and Hight into her eyes. As she
stood there, with the wind blowing the loose
white folds of her gown back from her slight
3oung form, and the sunlight on her hair,
she made a lovely picture.

The boys shouted out that they were going
to scramble down the calf by another way, so
she turned her face towards the sea. The
long, slow rollers, fringed with foam, were
breaking noisily and majestically on the rocks
below, but even as her eyes rested on them,

a shadow fell across her path, and a fio-ure
stood between her and the flashing sunlight.


She looked up, and a low cry escaped her
lips.

Pierre !' she cried. ' You !'
He seized her hand, and looked down at
her paling face and trembling lids.

At last !' he murmured passionately 
at last ! Oh, Nancette, is it a thousand
years since that cruel night ? It seems
so. dear ; and you  you can smile and laugh
still 1'

Slowly she drew a step or two away ; but
he still held her hand firmly in his clasp, and
his eyes seemed to devour every feature of
her lovely face.

But for her the warm spring air seemed
suddenly to grow chill ; a great terror seized
her as in a grasp of ice ; the very sun seemed
misty and indistinct.

Nancette, won't you speak ? Have you
no word for me V pleaded her companion.
I have watched for you  hungered for sight

h'2

of you this month past. 1 heard you were
alone here. Is it true ?'

Yes,' she said, finding voice at hist ; * Mr.
Glendenninof left me that nicjht.'

That  night !' His voice sounded hoarse
and unsteady. ' Then I had my revenge,' he
said slowly.

She looked at him.

Oh, Pierre she faltered, ' why did you
come ? I prayed you to keep away. You
forget my father's command.'

Your father is not here to part us now,'
he said  his voice had a ring of triumph,
and his eyes looked down into hers with a
burnings, easier lioht that made her tremble
and turn faint  ' nor your husband either,' he
added below his breath.

The wrong is just the same  even though
they do not knows it,' she faltered. ' Both of
them have forbidden your presence.'

In the house  yes. But we are under
the free roof of heaven, and no one can
prevent my speaking to you here. And I
must speak, Nancette. You have misjudged

me, and wronged me. You would not hear
me when  when I pleaded '

She shrank back.

Hush !' she said ; ' you forget. You lured
me on to take a false step. Afterwards,
when you heard I was poor, you told my
father you could not marry me ; he said so.
And then that week  oh, Pierre, that terrible
week ! How could you so trap and
deceive me '? I was only an ignorant schoolgirl,
steeped to the lips in romance I I believed
all you said  and then, oh, you don't
know what cruel truths my father told me,
and that  that woman !'

Curse her !' he muttered fiercely ' It
was all her fault.'

You have spoilt all my life,' went on the
girl piteously.  I loved you, and I believed
in you  yes, against all I had heard and
been warned about, I believed in you. And,
after all, it was only mcuiey you cared for 
not me !'

I cared for you, above and beyond all
things in the world I' he answered vehemently.

You know that. I did not lie. I love you
to my own misery, I know it. Your
father was determined to part us. He told
you one story  he told me another. There
is no truth in yours, that T swear ! Certain
legal formalities had to be gone through.
Before they were arranged you were discovered
 drafted from me. I only heard
of you again when you had married this
Englishman  your father's ally and friend.
The man who helped to steal you from
me!'

His face was white with passion ; his eyes
flamed with a wrath and scorn that terrified
the girl.

Doubts began to awaken once more within
her heart. He was her girlhood's lover, and
she had been torn from his arms. That was
all she remembered.

Suddenly the shouts and sounds of boyish
voices from the rocks below, started and
aroused her. Instinctively she drew farther
from the edge of the cliff, and drew him. with
her.

 They must not see you !' she said in
horror. * They will tell their guardian. Oh,
go  leave me now, Pierre. Whether you
are in the wrong, or I, it is too late to alter
anything ! I am another man's wife. Law
and duty dart us once again. It is all wrong,
and cruel, and terrible, I know ; but it is too
late to alter anything now 1'

The hurried words, the imploring voice,
did not move him to pity her, but only to
serve and aid himself and his purpose.

If I go now,' he said, 'you must see me
again ;  I will not leave you like this.'

I cannot disobey my husband,' she faltered
; ' you remember what he said.'

I have no desire to cross his threshold ;
but see you I must and will. Meet me here
tomorrow, at noon. I have a riofht to see
you, and I demand to see you ! Will you
come, Nancette V

Piteously, affrighted  like a bird might
look at its captor  she looked up at him.
Her fluttering breath came and went in pitiful
entreaty.

Pierre, don't ask me  don't persuade me !
It is wrong  you know it is wrong !'

Promise,' he said inexorably  'promise to
meet me, if only once more.'

Only  once more V she faltered. ' You
are sure  sure you will not force me to do
so again V

He smiled ironically.

No ; I will leave you then  if you desire
it.'

Again the voices from below sounded clear
and shrill on the soft spring air.

She shuddered and drew away.

I must go,' she said.

He drew her suddenly into his arms and
kissed her on the lips.

Till noon tomorrow, cousin,' he said.

Will you come with us to church this
morning, Ladyee Nancy T asked Basil, as he
rose from the breakfast-table and sauntered
over to the chair where Nancette sat, presiding
over the meal and the two boys ;
you've never been yet.'

To church !' Her eyes drooped suddenly.
Oh no. Not to-dav,' she said. 'You must
go with Deborah

We always go with Deborah,' said Stewart
discontentedly.  I wish you'd come for a
change.'

How long does the service last V asked
Annette. The bright spot on either cheek
had deepened in colour ; her voice was hurried
and anxious.

We never get home till half-past one,'

said Basil. ' I thought you knew that.
We've been nearly every Sunday since you
Averse here. Don't you ever mean to come
to church V he added anxiously.

Yes  oh yes,' she said nervously  'only
not to-day. It is all so strange, your country
churches  everyone stares so. I know that.
I  I have not courage yet.'

 They will only think you're another ward
of Mr. Glendenninfy's/ urored Basil. 'I'm
sure you look young enough. How old are
you  sixteen V

Seventeen,' she corrected gravely.

 Four years older than me said Basil,
gravely surveying her ; ' not that you look
it. Well, what will you do all the time we're
away  mope V

I  I shall read, or go in the grounds,'
she said nervously.

She could not meet the boy's clear eyes ;
her guilty secret weighed heavily on her
mind.

Well,' he muttered discontentedly, ' if
you won't, you won't. It's a beastly

shame 1 I did so want you to hear old
Chasable.'

She rose from the table.

You shall take me for a walk this afternoon,'
she said.

'We'll go to the Smuggler's Cave, then,'
said Basil eagerly ; ' that's a fine place. Do.
you know, it runs inland from the sea for
nearly a mile ? The smugglers used to have
a fine time of it there, J. should fancy.'

But Nancette was not listening. Her
eyes kept turning anxiously to the clock.
At last she left the room, and the boys
went oft" to old Deborah, who was waiting for
them, stiff and prim, in her Sunday attire.

Won't my lady come V she asked, as
they entered her room.

 No,' said Basil ; ' she's afraid of being
stared at. Deb, I do wish you'd tell us
what the row was. Doesn't Mr. Glendenninoc
really intend to come back T

The old woman  a faithful servitor in the
household  looked gravely at the curious
young face.

Mr. Basil, I told yoa that something had
gone wrong between them,' she said; ' I can't
say more. Only time can right it. I pity the
poor young thing  with all my heart I pity
her. But she ouoht never to have married
Mr. Glendenninsr.'

The boy was silent. Young as he was,
his chivalry and devotion had all gone out
to this lonely, friendless girl, whose fate
seemed at once so strange and inexplicable.
He wished he could help her ; he was always
wishing it, but it did not seem possible.
Perhaps some day, he thought, she would
give him her confidence, and then he would
understand this dark mystery. At present
it was hopeless.

With his usual boisterous spirits strangely
subdued, he got into the waggonette which
was to take them to church. From the
window of her room Nancette saw them
depart, and saw, too, the upward glance and
disappointed look of the bright young face,
as it filled to meet her own.

A sigh of relief escaped her ; she looked

again at the crock. Half-past ten ! It was
an hour's walk to the trysting-place. She
lead still half an hour's leisure.

She took off her pretty morning-gown,
and put on an outdoor dress. It was a
thick, creamy fabric, simply and plainly
made, as all her dresses were. Then she
twisted her lovely hair into a loose, soft knot,
and put on her hat.

These preparations complete, she stood
and looked ?ct herself. This would be her
last tryst  perhaps her last meeting with
the lover she had so passionately loved. It
did not seem to her that she was committing
a wrong now  that she was
breaking her husband's command in the
spirit, if not in the letter. The strange
force of attraction which this man had
had for her drew her resistlessly towards
him.

She scarcely looked upon herself as a wife.
Her husband had faded like a shadow from
out of her life and heart. A few curt words
of farewell, a cruel sentence, and a lonely

fate  these were all that reminded her of
her strange marriage-day. And in contrast
there bloomed again before her the passionflower
of her girlish love. The man who
had been her ideal of chivalry, tenderness,
and devotion, was again at her side. She
did not ask herself what chivalry that could
be, that only sought to ruin and deceive ;
what devotion could live in the selfishness
of a baffled passion ; or what tenderness lurk
in a pitiless pursuit of helplessness, and ignorance,
and faith.

It was not possible for her yet to see her
idol as he was.* The halo of a girls romance
still shielded him and kept him holy. They
had both been persecuted and wronged, he
most of all ; and she told herself she owed
him some amends for all the pain she had
dealt out. Therefore had she consented to
see him to-day, to taste the bitter-sweet of
explanation and farewell. They could not
part thus ; it was not possible ; and her
thoughts grew saddened and confused ; and
all the time the clock ticked on, and the

minutes passed, and the time drew near
when she must keep her promise.

Hurriedly she glanced around. The sombre
magnificence of the room struck cold and
chill on her excited fancy. It was like her
own life, she thought  rich in all outer
appearance, but dark, and dreary, and
desolate within.

With a shudder she turned away, then
opened the door and hurried down the stairs,
and passed out into the grounds by the
window of the library.

The bells were chiming softly in the distance
; the air was cook and warm, and
balmy as summer. All around was so still
that she almost fancied she could hear the
sound of the sea, the low, monotonous murmur
of its tireless voice.

She took the path the boys had shown
her. Her white dress flickered in and out
of the dark trees. The lovely air, the songs
of the birds, the rustling of the leaves,
seemed to gladden and delight her. Her
feet scarcely seemed to touch the ground ;

her heart Alas beating Yilclly and excitedly.


The way grew wilder and more rocky as
she approached the shore. The swell of the
sea was loud and distinct. She moderated
her pace then, with that unfailing woman's
instinct which teaches concealment of what
it most desires.

He was there already, and he hurried down
the cliff to her side.

Let us go on the shore,' he said, drawing
her hand within his arm. ' We can sit
down there and talk.'

The absence of any formal greeting, the
calm, even tones of his voice, reassured her.
How natural it seemed to be ruled and
directed by him ! How it brought back the
old girlish dreams and hopes, and turned her
sorrowful present into gladness once again.

In silence they went down the steep and
rocky path. The wide sweep of blue sea
lay before them. Here and there a bird
fluttered over its expanse. The fringe of
the waves left a white line upon the glittering

shingle. The tall cliffs towered above.
It A'as a quiet enough retreat, and the girl's
eyes took in its beauty with something near
akin to pain. She thought what such a
scene and such companionship might have
meant for her once. Now  alas ! alas! what
could anything mean for her, in her spoilt
and ruined life ?

She seated herself on a rugoed block of
rock that looked as if it had been hurled
from the cliff. He took his place beside
her.

I was half afraid you would not come
he said, by way of prelude. ' I thought
you might have had one of your conscientious
fits.'

Don't speak like that !' said the girl
gently. ' It is like you in your bad moods.'

She looked at him as she spoke, and
thought what a perfect face it was  this
face of her maligned and persecuted cousin.

The wavy brown hair, the large, melting
eyes, and curling lashes, the beautifully-shaped
features  how well she knew them

VOL. I. 6

all ! The mouth alone marred the face  it
Alas hard, and cruel, and sensual ; but it
Alas carefully hidden by the thick moustache,
and the face carried its attractions fearlessly
and almost insolently'.

Beauty is a great power, let men say what
they will. If it had not been for Pierre de
Volens's handsome face and magnificent
figure, he would not have been the success
of Parisian salons. He could not have robbed
women under the guise of chivalry and misfortune,
or levied black-mail in a thousand
specious ways on all classes and communities
of frail and fashionable life.

His debts were enormous, his extravagances
the theme of many tongues. He
had gambled, and speculated, and raced
away a fair fortune, and been reduced to
living by his wits and not over scrupulous
talents. Men had trusted, and women loved
him, to their cost. Friendship and love
were alike to him, but the means to an end,
or a variety of ends.

Being utterly unscrupulous, he never paused

to consider low others might suffer, so long
i as his own immediate comfort was pros
cured.

This was the idol that Nancette worshipped
; this the man for whose sake she
had well-nigh broken her father's heart, and
ruined her husband's life. Only her ignorance
and innocence could plead her excuse
that, and the fatal fascination of a man
only too well skilled in the arts that attract
women  a man in whose hands she had
been malleable as wax, and trustful as a
child.

He met her glance, and saw with triumph
how the colour sprang into the clear pallor
of her face, how shyly her eyes drooped
before his own.

I am not in one of my bad moods,' he
said .gently ; ' but I am very unhappy.'

And so,' she said, ' am I.'

He drew a honors breath. He was wondering
whether he dared speak all that was in
his heart.

I am sick of my life,' he said slowly ;

62

it has never been the same to me, Nancette,
since I lost you.'

She was silent, but she trembled greatly.

If you Avould tell nne how it really
happened,' she said. ' My father always
blamed you. It was not my fault  you
know that. I was ready to be your wife,
even though he forbade it ; but it was
you who gave me up, Pierre  that you
know.'

I could not help myself,' he said bitterly
It meant ruin for us both at that time.
But I thought you would be true  that you
would wait, or your father would relent. I
vas not prepared for  for what followed.'

The dangerous break in his voice stabbed
her gentle heart. How could she tell it
was an actor's trick  the successful result of
long practice ?

But that is not what I wish to speak
about to-day,' he went on, as she remained
silent. * You have made a fatal error, and
spoilt both our lives ; but no doubt strong-pressure
was put upon you. And, in spite

of sour English education, your father's will
was law in a question of marriage. You
thought my absence and silence sufficient
23 roof that I no longer loved you. That is
so like a woman. I thought of you every
hour of every day that we were parted. I
could not come to you, or reach across the
barrier that separated us ; but I thought
you would be true to me. So much trust,
at least, I had in you, and now this cursed
Englishman has taken you from me.'

'Is it only to say this over again that
you have forced me to meet you, Pierre V
questioned the girl. ' We knew it all before.
I told you my story. I told you also what
my father said of you. Without a fortune
you would not marry me ; he had none to
give me ; so we parted.'

I do not believe him,' said Pierre de
Volens, slowly ; ' I am sure he was rich.
It was the Englishman who made him tell
that lie.'

It is too late to mend it now,' said the
girl, hopelessly. 'I know I am very wretched,

and I think, too, I must be very wicked, but
1 cannot help it.'

I don't want you to help it, sweetheart,'
he said passionately ;  but it is not too late
to be happy. That is what I wanted to say
to you. That is why I Ravished to meet you
here, Nancette. I have a story to tell you.
It is of two people, unhappy as ourselves,
yet bold and brave enough to take Fate into
their own hands and shape it to their will.
Will you listen V

His voice had sunk to its tenderest and
Inmost persuasive tones  the voice that spoke
the language of .her own country in the
language of her own heart. The dreamy
spell of the day and the scene, and that
fatal presence, were round her like a web of
doom. She leant back against the rocks,
her eyes half-closed, her colour wavering fitfully,
as she felt the burning glance that
sought, yet repelled her own.

I am listening,' she said.

Pierre de Yolens drew a long breath. AH
ignoble passions and desires were afc work
within his breast. It seemed to him that his
hour of revenge was at hand.

Beyond the rocky headland a boat lay idly
moored. Farther off a white sail gleamed on
the blue width of water. The girl leaned
back quite still, and, as he thought, content.
She' was lulled to dreamy rapture; of right
or wromx she did not think.

His voice broke across the stillness. It's
soft, persuasive music thrilled her heart and
stayed its power of judgment.

'My story,' he stud, * is short, but it is
true. A man and woman loved  as we do.
Like us, also, they were parted by a cruel
fate. She married a man to whom she was

only a shadow ; a rich old imbecile, to whom
her parents sold her. And he  he put the
width of half the world between them, and
for years tried to forget. But, Nancette,
: man does not forget the woman he has
once loved. The world says so, but the
world lies. And after years they met again
suddenly and strangely  without warning.
Then they knew what time had done for
them. A look broke down the barrier of
years, a word  just one brief word told a
life's history, for honour and duty are no
food for craving hearts, and the world's poor
barriers are puny indeed before the water-flood
of a great love. " You are wretched,"
he said, " and I  I am a lonely, haunted
man. Love, let us make our own happiness.
There are other countries to fly to. The
world is wide, and our world is each other.
We have tasted the bitterness of barren
years, the emptiness of vain longings and
struggles, and starved and empty days Let
them end at last. If love were not more
than ail these things it would have died out

of our hearts ere this. If it is for life, shall
it not also bless life ?" Are you listening,
Nance te V

'Yes.'

The burning colour surged up to her brow.
Her eyes were hidden still.

She  she listened also, and her heart
spoke as any woman's heart speaks  when
she lets it. Where a great love is, there is
always trust. Nancette  there are no two
people in all the world happier than those
two of whom I am speaking.'

For a moment she was silent.

And  and her husband X she asked faintly.

Oh,' laughed Pierre de Volens, with a
laugh that jarred upon her sensitive nerves
like a discord in music, ' he was soon consoled.'


'But the  the other? Did he never
blame her, never say that she was wrong
in so forgetting duty, honour, self-respect V

Those words are the cant of virtue,
when it is too fearful of outside blame. She
had given up all for him. Why should he

blame her? Nancette, low little you know
men !'

She might have said 'Yes to her cost,
with such a man beside her, with such
tempting and treachery assailing her ignorance,
and weakness, and belief. But his
voice and presence had lulled her to forgetfulness.
And, in a o-irl's dreams, what is her
lover but a hero and a god ?

I only know  you,' she said softly. ' You
came into my life and changed it from peace
to storm  from content to suffering  from

 From stagnation to love, and joy, and
knowledge,' he interpolated. ' Have you
suffered by the exchange ? Would you have
the old peace and quiet  the dull, commonplace
round of duties back, and give me no
place in sour heart or thoughts again V

No,' she said, growing white in her passionate
earnestness. ' I would not, Pierre.
When I knew I loved you '

Don't speak of it in the past,' he said.
You love me still  you cannot deny it.

Let us look the truth in the face to-day for
the last time. The world is full of strains
and hypocrisies. Experience and advantage
are the enemies of love. But I have shown
you that love can conquer every difficulty
and every barrier that the world and its false
code of honour sets up !'

You know the v.'orld/ she said timidly.
I  I am only an ignorant girl, whose life
has all gone wrong, and through you, Pierre.
I can only remember my father's warnings,
and  and my love, that will not be stamped
out or conquered, try how I may. But
something tells me it is WTonof to listen to
you. Though mv husband is only a name 
a shadow, yet he gave his honour into my
hands.'

A mere form of words cannot make him
your husband,' said Pierre de Volens stormily.
Why is he not with you ? Why does he
insult you by an absence so unwarrantable V

I I have his letter. Will you read it '
she said, drawing a folded paper from her
dress. ' I could not quite understand it, but

he thinks I have deceived him, and '  she
added, with a hot, shamed bhish  ' he is
right;

The young man took the paper. Its contents
were very brief. He began to read
them with a clouded brow, but a look of
triumph flashed in his eyes as he reached the
end.

What could he have seen V he asked the
girl 'Your father never told him about 
about that week V

No ; I am sure of that she answered.
He told me he would not breathe the secret
to living soul, and he never broke his word.
I cannot make it out she went on as she
took the letter back.  It is all a mystery.'

I am very thankful for the mystery said
Pierre de Yolens, dropping his voice and
drawing nearer to her. ' It seems to leave
you still my own. There is only a shadow
between us, and that shadow a word from
you will dispel. Oh, love, don't shrink from
me like that ! This day  this hour Avon't
come to us again. When I left your presence

on that miserable nicrht, I thought I

Avould never set eyes on your face again.

But something drove me back  something

stronger than my will, more faithful than ni"

faith. And that something sent you to me

once more, and so we met, and to-day I have

decided that Fate is too strong. You won't

hold an empty sound dearer than a man's

whole heart  weill you, Nancette ? That

letter divorces sou from the man you were

foolish enough to wed, as surely as any

human laws could do. He will not call you

wife, he will not return : and I  Nancette,

think of me ; of mj loneliness  my uselessness

 my despair. Surely my love could

console you for what you lose in the eyes of

the few dio know your story ? Besides, the

world is all before us. We can live for each

other. Oh, love, don't look like that ! Is it

so hard a thing I ask ? Think of our dreams

realised, our hopes fulfilled, our happiness

too full and complete for one regret to soil it.

our hearts, our souls as one, our *

She held up her hand.

Listen,' she said.  The barrier that first
parted us still exists. Pierre, you know
what your life has been, better than I do.
When I could have been your wife, you let
that barrier part us. Now'  she turned
aside her Avhite face  'now,' she added
brokenly, ' you best know what it is you
offer me, when I am so friendless and so
wretched that despair alone urges me to
listen.'

His eyes went out to the white speck on
that glittering blue of the sea.

I offer you,' he said,  freedom, happiness,
love. You need never go back to that
dreary house again.'

She rose and looked at him then ; she
seemed to see his face, and his alone, between
two worlds of blue  the mingling
blue of sea and sky. All other thoughts
and feelings passed vaguely into space, and
she looked into his heart and read only a
love that answered to her own.

She stood on the threshold of destiny.
This was the one supreme moment of her

life, and by it lie must rise or fall. Yet
some instinct \varncd her against self-abasement.
Something held her back almost
against her will, and kept unuttered the one
fatal word that would have sealed her fate.
He knew every sign of trembling, of hesitation,
of fear. This was no first experience
for him, as she in her innocence believed.
He loved her with that supreme selfishness
of passion that seeks its own aim and object
at any cost, and he was resolved to bafEe
Fate at last.

To win her meant not only his own
triumph, but triumph over a man he hated.

Won't you speak V he said at last. ' Your
silence is torture. If you send me from
you now, what weill your life be ? And
mine '

Briefly she reviewed the possibility, her
eyes downcast, her heart beating stormily
and nervously, despite the quiet of her attitude
and face.

Might we not be friends V she said hesitatingly.


His scoffing laugh cut short that feeble
quibble.

Friends ! A woman's paltry suggestion !
the offer of a stone for bread. No, my
cousin ; it is too late for subterfuge. I will
have love or hate. We shall be all in all, or
strangers. I want no middle course, no
playing at platonic. They may suit your
tame, cold Englishmen, but I am '

A De Volens and a scoundrel !' burst out
a clear, shrill voice, so close behind him that
he sprang aside as if from a blow.

 Basil r faltered the girl, pale and trembling,
as she met the angry indignant glance
of her young champion.

Yes  Basil !' said the boy, coolly pushing
the young man aside, and taking his stand
beside her. ' Now, you sir,' he went on,
flashing like a vouni lion upon the astonished
Frenchman, ' perhaps you'll tell me
what right you have to insult this lady ?
Mr. Glendenninir left her in mv care. I
heard him forbid you the house. I suppose
you've waylaid her here. 1 heard what you



were saying to her. Be sure Mr. Gleri-
denning shall hear of it too !'

Get out of my way, you young cub !' cried
Pierre de Volens furiously. ' What do you
mean by interfering with my cousin ? If you
don't take yourself off, I'll pitch you into the
sea yonder ! Do you think I am to be
bearded in this fashion by a foolish boy X

Oh, hush, Pierre  hush !' cried Nancette,
clinging to the boy's arm in terror. ' Remember
he is but a child in comparison with
you r

Child or not, let him take himself off as
quick as he came, or it will be worse for
him !' hissed Pierre de Volens with rising
fury.

Basil only laughed.

I'm not afraid !' he said. ' I don't quite
understand your lingo, but I suppose you
want to fight. I'm quite ready. I know
you want Nancette to run away with you.
I heard you ask her, but I should think she
has too much sense.'

No, no ; I am not going !' cried the girl

VOL, I. 7

wildly.  Oh, Basil, take me home  take rae
home! I was mad to come here  mad to
listen! Pierre,' she went on passionately,
you did not mean it. You would repent as
as I should. I can't break my trust. My
life may be dreary  hopeless, as you say; but
I must bear it. Oh, forget what you said !
Let us part, even if it is for ever. I have
done one wrongs. Don't ursfe me to commit
a greater.'

He drew back, an evil light in his handsome
eyes, a sneer on his lips.

 I have no wish to urge you,' he said.
Your consent was given. A moment more,
and we would have been on our road to freedom.
If a child's voice has so much influence
with you, I must have greatly mistaken your
feelings.'

The tears gathered in her eyes ; she looked
from the treacherous face she had loved, to
that bold and truthful one of her boyish
champion.

You know my heart,' she said ; ' to my
bitter cost I can say that. If my life were

my own to deal with as I pleased, I  I might
only remember that I loved you. But it has
other claims and other duties.' Then her
voice broke. She turned to Basil and clasped
his arm convulsively. ' Take me home,' she
cried ; * oh, take me home ! I can't bear
more.'

A man's soul seemed to leap into the boyish
eyes as they flashed defiance at the mean and
cruel scoundrel, to whom a woman's weakness
meant only a plea for her destruction.

you hear!' he said. 'It is her wish to
leave you. Have you anything to say V

For an instant Pierre raised his hand, as if
to silence with its strength this audacious
young defender of his cousin's honour.

But Nancette stayed him.

Touch him if you dare V she said. ' It
wall neither help your cause, nor alter my
decision.'

Let him do what he likes,' said Basil
haughtily ; ' I'm not afraid, big as he is. But
perhaps he won't care to face your husband.
He's on his way here.'

72

Pierre de Yolens turned ashy pale. He
gave one rapid glance up at the cliffs and the
rocky path. Then, without a word of farewell,
he turned away and went rapidly along the
shingly beach to where the little boat lay
moored.

Nancette stood and watched him  her eyes
anxious and full of pain, her hands clasped
tight against her breast.

It seemed to her he must look back, give
some sign of remembrance or secret  he
whose burning words seemed yet upon the
air, and echoing again and again in her ears.
A strange revulsion of feeling shook her.
Could they part thus  they for idiom life
now was as a blank and dreary desert ? Part
coldly, cruelly, knowing of days to come when
heart should crave for heart, and face for
sight of face. Surely he would look back
once  only once !

His steps quickened. He was on the rocks,
crossing from group to group towards the
little boat. Suddenly she remembered it
must have been brought there for her  to

bear her to freedom, life, love, delight  all
that he had painted and promised.

A low cry escaped her lips ; she tried to
call, but her voice was husky and indistinct.

It is good-bye for ever she said ; ' forever
! Oh, the pain  the cruel  cruel pain !'

It is better than his love,' said the voice
beside her. ' Oh, Lady Nancyee, can't you
read him better ? He is a selfish coward 
not worth a thought. No, don't cry like
that. Your tears are too good to be wasted
on such a brute.'

Don't !' she cried passionately. * What
do you know  a boy like you V

His face flushed.

Yes,' he said, * I am only a boy to you.
I ought not to feel angry at your folly, I
suppose. But I think you'll be glad one day
that only I know of it.'

Oh, forgive me V she said, weeping passionately
now. ' You have saved me, Basil
I know it ; but I am not even grateful. I
am a wicked woman. I am not fit for you
to associate with !'

You are nothings of the sort said the boy
gently and decidedly ; 'and I love you just
the same, and I'll stand up for you always.
But you must dry your eyes, and look like
yourself, for Mr. Gladdening is waiting to
speak to you. He won't go to the house,
and I promised to bring you.'

Where did you see him ? I thought you
were in church,' she said, bewildered and
frightened at the news.

I was on my way there, when I had a
fancy to come back and look after you,' said
the boy coolly. ' So I had a sudden fit of
toothache, got out of the \Yaggonette, and
came home. I found you'd gone out, so I
followed. In the woods I met Mr. Gladdening,
looking like a wandering ghost. He
said he wouldn't go to the house, he washed
no one to know of his visit, but could I
bring you to him ? Thereupon I started
to look for you, and stumbled on you
here.'

She had dried her eyes now. She was
pale and trembling, but composed.

Let us go,' she said, and put her hand in
his, and with one shuddering glance at the
distant speck on the wide, blue waters, went
slowly and silently up the rocky path.

If a wall of ice had been built up round her
heart, Nancette could not have felt colder 
harder  stranger than she did. Her brain
seemed numbed and dazed. She was like
one walking in semi-consciousness after a
heavy blow.

The boy looked anxiously at her again and
again. Her intense quiet, the strained lookin
her eyes, the rigid pallor of her face,
frightened him. In silence he dared not
break he walked beside her, till they reached
the wood which formed the boundary of
Owl's Roost.

Pacing to and fro between the dark tree-stems
was a man of some five-and-thirty years.
He was tall, but he stooped slightly ; his face
was worn and delicate  the face of a student

and a dreamer. Now it wore a look of repressed
suffering, a look that changed to a
mom en tar" anguish as he saw that slender
figure coming towards him, with the delicate
tracery of leafy shadow upon her white gown
and down-bent face. He stood motionless
waiting for her to approach.

He gave her no greeting, only turned to
the boy with a chill sternness that awed
him.

Go home now he said, ' and remember
your promise.'

The boy drew back a step, looking
anxiously from one to the other of those two
strangely mated beings. Then he lifted the
cap from his fair curls, and moved slowly and
thoughtfully away through the narrow wooded
glade.

Nancette stood before her husband like a
culprit before a judge. She could utter no
word. She only waited to hear what he would
say.

I sent for you,' he began abruptly, ' because
I am leaving this country altogether,

for  for a long time. When I wrote to you,
I told you I would do all that was necessary
for your comfort. I have placed a sum of
money in your name, in the county bank.
You can draw on it as you please ; for the
rest all household arrangements will be in
Deborah's hands. The boss are going to
school. They are too old to run wild here
any longer ; but they may come home for the
holidays  if you wish.'

She broke the spell of constraint then.

Must they go away V she cried piteously.
It will be so sad  so lonely without them.'

I cannot help that answered Errol Glen-denying
sternly. * I have a duty to fulfil to
them, and I must obey my trust. Whatever
your life is he went on, looking at her with
cold and wrathful eyes, ' remember, you have
brought its sufferings on yourself Why were
you not open with me ? Do you think, if I
had known your secret, I, or any honest man,
Avould have made you his wife ? Your father
deceived me ; so did you. I was a fool, and
I suited your purpose, no doubt. So you

chose me for that purpose, without regard to
the life and hopes you were ruining.'

She did not speak. Her head was half
turned from him. The beautiful profile, cut
clearly as a cameo, stood between him and
the wavering shadows. He could not read the
acute pain, the set and heart-broken anguish
of the sad 3'oung face.

You accepted me for your husband,' he
went on bitterly, ' knowing that you held
locked within your heart a shameful secret.
1 gave you my whole heart in full trust, and
how did you repay me ?'

Stop !' she said, turning round, and facing
him with sudden desperation. ' You don't
know all ; you don't know how I, too, was
trapped and deceived ; how '

He silenced her with a gesture.

You have condemned yourself,' he said.
I do know all. I know that I can never
look upon you as my wife, and yet, legally, I
see no way to set you free. My promise to
the dead binds me ; my vows to you bind me.
I must shelter you, protect you, defend you

alike from the man who has wronged you and
the man you have wronged. Pierre de Volens
was a villain and a cheat, yet to this villain
you have given your heart, and in his keeping
is your secret.'

 If I had foreseen this hour,' she murmured
brokenly ; ' if only I had been less
ignorant, less trustful '

Heaven knows I can echo those words
from the bottom of my heart he said ; ' but
the regret is as useless as the reproach.
I served your purpose, and  his. I only
stand before you as a shadow. Yet I tell
you that a day will surely come when you
will know your either s judgment was correct
that you would be happier in your coffin
than as the wife of this man. But my words
won't carry much weight now. I know that
to my cost. It was not you that Pierre de
Volens sought, but your fortune. To baffle
him I was made your father's tool. I am
the guardian of that fortune and of you. In
three years' time you will be of age. On the
day you are twenty-one I will be here to

deliver my trust into your hands. You will
then be free to act as you please. Nor shall
I compel you to live under my roof unless
you desire it. This is what I came to say to
you to-day. No doubt your life will be dreary,
but for that you alone are to blame. I cannot
introduce you to society as my wife,
knowing v/hat I know. I cannot suffer shame
and scandal to attach themselves to an
honoured name, even for sake of the infatuation
that has broken my heart and home.
We are man and wife by the laws of heaven
and man, but in all else we stand apart as the
veriest strangers. If you rebel against your
own fate, remember to what you have condemned
me. You chose to keep your secret,
but chance discovered it to me. For sake of
your treachery we both must suffer, till death

cuts the knot for one or other.'

She bent her head on her clasped hands ina

sudden storm of tears.

You are very hard on me,' she said. ' My

youth, my ignorance, might plead excuse

with you as they did in my father's eyes.'

Nothing,' he said sternly, * can excuse
deception.'

Perhaps,' she pleaded, amid her broken
sobs, * if you knew all '

I do know all he said, growing deathly
white. ' That night revealed it to me.
Clearer proof is not necessary. Had it been,
I could have procured it from  Julie Lamenting.'


Her hands fell. She looked at him in
terror.

From  her !' she gasped. ' How did you
know of her V

That he answered bitterly, ' is my
affair.'

Have you seen her  did she tell you '

She told me he interposed coldly and

'relentlessly, ' all I wished to know ; she told
me enough to make me reo-ret, to the last
hour of my life, the fate that made me your
father's friend.'

She shivered as with sudden cold.

He was right, then,' she said slowly ; ' he
told me if anyone ever knew '

Again that sudden, passionate gesture
stopped her.

Don't put it into words,' lie said ; ' the
truth is horrible enough.'

She did not answer, only turned her head
aside, while the hot colour stole up to her
brow and crimsoned even the delicate shell-like
ears that were alone visible to him.

After a moment's silence he spoke again.

Although I condemn you,' he said, ' I
pity you. I pity you all the more, because
I know what manner of man has won your
heart, and made me the cloak of his vile
designs. But, no doubt, in your eyes he is a
hero still. Women are so blind where they
love. So much trust I have in you that I
believe you will respect my wishes, and close
my doors against this man. Perhaps these
years of absence may plead as desertion in
the eyes of the law and give you back your
freedom with your fortune. In that case
you may still be happy in your own way. 1
can do no more for you.'

Oh,' she cried between her bitter sobs,

*you have done too niueli already. I see
my folly and my blindness now. Have pity
on me. You are a man, and strong, and full
of purpose. I  oh, I am so pitifully weak.
Only to-day I have deceived you again. I
know your doors are closed to him; but for
all that I have seen him. We met by the
sea not two hours ago. How can I escape
him ? He is relentless, and  you  you leave
me alone.'

For a moment he turned white as death.

You mean to tell me,' he said, ' that 
that man has been here to-day V

She bent her head ; she could not speak
now for weeping.

'And you met him  not accidentally, but
with full purpose, knowing what has been
between you  knowing that I have forbidden
his presence V

I met him,' she said brokenly, ' for the
last time. I have parted from him for ever.
Oh, be generous enough to pity and forgive
me ! Let me try to do what is right and
what you wish. I was motherless from my

cradle  I have had no one to love or help
me. And you  you call yourself my husband,
yet you forsake me too !'

He stood there quite silent, battling with
a storm of outraged pride, and crushed love,
and hopes now doomed to be for ever unfulfilled.


Yet that piteous appeal  that sight of
weak and suffering womanhood  wrung his
very heart.

It is true,' he said, and his voice shook
with emotion. ' I am your husband. It is
my duty to help and protect you, if you
claim it '

Oh no  no !' she broke out passionately.
 I claim nothing  nothing. I am not
worth a thought of yours. I have done
you a cruel Wrong. It is but just I should
suffer.'

Your sufferings he said bitterly, ' can
scarcely equal mine. But let that pass. I
will not leave you alone. You shall have a
friend to stay here with you, and keep you
company in your loneliness. Besides, it will

VOL. I. * 8

be some protection. Will you trust me to
arrange this V

Yes,' she answered unsteadily. ' I will
obey whatever you desire

Except with regard to your cousin,' he
said sternly. 'There your powers of obedience
seem to fail you altogether.'

They never will again,' she said, and
turned her white, despairing face to heaven,
as if registering there a vow her heart had
sworn. ' I promise you never again to meet,
or speak to him, of my own free will !'

Until, as I said before, you are of age to
dispose of yourself and your fortune,' he
answered. ' By that time I hope you may
have gained some judgment and firmness of
purpose. I  I think now there is no more
to be said. The lady I v/ill send you as
companion is a widow  a young, and graceful,
and accomplished woman, and a woman who
will be a true friend. ' From time to time I
will send you news of me and my welfare.
You may answer my letters or not, as you
please. For the rest, I bid you farewell now



until the day mentioned in your father's
letter to me.'

She looked timidly, almost entreatingly, at
him.

If you could only say,' she pleaded, ' that
you trust me, or will try to trust me, I think
that would give me courage.'

As he met that piteous gaze, the hard
crust about his heart seemed broken through
as with the scorch of fire. How he had
loved this girl ! he thought ; and yet, as he
met her eyes, he only looked into a soul that
had never met his own  that now, it seemed,
never could meet it, while life should draof its
days of weariness along the path their feet
must tread.

I cannot say it,' he said. ' For I cannot
trust you.'

Her eyes looked sorrowfully back to his

I cannot blame you,' she said. ' I shall
nut blame you even in my years of penance.
I  I feel I have treated you with unspeakable
cruelty. I don't ask or expect you to
forgive me. I will pray that freedom may

82

come to you. I do not want to live. I am
so unhappy. If I could only die young as
my mother did I'

Those words smote him to the heart.
For long years they were to haunt him as
memory recalled his life's mistake and all
its bitter suffering. But he answered her
coldly :

Do not wish for death ; it is unwise.
When most desired, it never approaches.
And now  good-bye.'

She stretched out her hand. Her eyes
were red with weeping ; her face looked
almost terrible in its tragic pain.

He touched her hand, but it seemed as if
a wall of ice were between them. No life or
warmth was in that chilly pressure. Then,
without a word, he turned away, and was
lost in the shadows of the wood.

She stood there quite still, and watched
him till he was out of sight. The tears were
still wet upon her lashes ; her mouth seemed
set in a line of rigid despair. The events of
this one day had taken all the youth from

her face, though they could not destroy its
beauty.

At last she turned away and went homewards.
A sort of lonmno had come over her
to escape from the mocking sunlight, the
clear sky, the glad trills of the birds.

She craved for solitude, and darkness, and
rest. Her brain seemed on fire, her heart
throbbed tumultuously.

Existence seemed to her like an awful
burden laid upon unwilling shoulders, and
she found herself dimly wondering how her
strength would be equal to the task of bearing
it.

She stood on the threshold of life, and yet
that life had all gone wrong. It was her
own fault. She had only herself to blame ;
but that thought did not help her in this
hour, nor would it in any hour that was yet
to come.

As she hurried through the hall she met
Basil. He was waiting for her. He stepped
forward, but she waved him hurriedly
aside.

Not now,' she said. ' I can't bear it. I
must be alone.'

The boy stood motionless. Her face frightened
him ; but he did not attempt to resist
her appeal. She almost staggered as she
went up the stairs in that frenzied, feverish
fashion. Listening;, he heard the door of her
room closed and locked ; then all was silent.

I suppose he said half to himself, ' she is
crying. All women cry when they are in
trouble. But I wish  oh, I wish 6'Ae
wouldn't r

Something rolled down his own face on to
his hand. Not a tear  for the pride and
sake of dawning manhood, it could not be
that !

But the boy's heart was sore within him
as he went sadly through the corridor to
the old shabby playroom, where Stewart was
patiently awaiting him.

That long miserable Sunday was drawing to
a close.

Basil had kept his word religiously. No
one knew that Mr. Gladdening had been in
the neighbourhood ; no one knew of that
strange interview in the wood. Nancette had
kept her room. The boys had dined alone,
and spent the afternoon in aimless wandering
about the grounds.

Stewart saw that something had affected
his brother's usual spirits, and kept him subdued
and anxious, but as Basil declared
nothing was the matter, he felt in duty bound
to accept that statement as correct. They
had tea with Deborah, and listened to her as
she read out the ' Pilgrim's Progress ' as an
unfailing Sunday treat ; but even she noticed

how listless and dispirited the elder boy was,
and audibly expressed a fear that he was
sickening for something.

It was cettino' dusk. The blue of the skv
had turned to sober grey. The birds had
all sought their nests for the night.

It was too dark to read, and Deborah was
talking softly to Stewart in the corner by the
fire. Basil could bear the suspense no longer.
He stole quietly out of the room, and went
to that locked door about which his thoughts
had lingered all these hours, and stood there
listening. Not a sound was audible. The
silence frightened him. Once before he
remembered he had stood like that before a
closed and silent chamber. When it opened,
they had told him his young mother lay
within dead.

In sudden desperation he knocked. Fora
moment all was still. Then came the faint,
soft rustle of a woman's dress over the carpeted
floor. The door was opened. He saw
the room all dark and shadowy, and a white
figure standing motionless before him.

Don't be angry' he said imploringly. ' I
felt I must see you. I couldn't bear it any
longer. May I come in V

She moved aside.

Yes,' she said, faintly and wearily. ' I  I
intended to 'send for you, only somehow I had
not courage.'

He closed the door behind him, then took
her hand and led her to the broad, old-fashioned
window-seat. There was no fire in
the orate, nor anv light in the room save that
from the pale grey sky, where now a star or
two was shining.

Have you been crying all day V he asked.
And you've had nothing to eat. Don't you
think you're very silly V

'Deborah brought me some tea,' she said.
 I can't eat  food seems to choke me.' She
laid her burning forehead against the boy's
cool hands. ' You are very good to think of
me,' she said. ' I wonder what I shall do
Ashen you leave me V

'I'm not going to leave you,' he said
sturdily ; ' I've told you so, often and

often. Someone must take care of yon,
you know.'

But your  I mean Mr. Gladdening, said
that you and Stewart were to go to school 
somewhere away from here.'

To school !' he cried, aghast at the information.
' Oh, surely he can't mean it ! What
a shame ! And just as we were all going to
be so jolly together. Tell me he added,
dropping his voice, * is he coming to live here
again V

She sadly shook her head.

No ; and it is all my fault. Oh, Basil, if
I only could live my life over again  if I only
only  could !'

The boy was silent, too startled for words,
yet vaguely conscious that he understood why
that yearning cry had escaped her  why she
looked out on life, and saw it blurred and
blotted by a first mistake.

I think,' he said at last, ' you had better
give up all thoughts of that other fellow.
He's a mean cur ! He's no business to come
sneaking after another man's wife, even if

there is a screw loose between them ! Some
day, things are sure to come right between
Mr. Gladdening and you. He's no end
of a good fellow, when you know him.
But, if sou encourage that cousin of yours,
there'll be mischief. Take my word for

itr

 I have promised never to see him again 
of my own free will,' she said despairingly.
You are too young to understand all this ;
but I am grateful for your sympathy. I don't
know what I should have done without you
to-day.'

Yes,' he said with a short laugh ; ' my
toothache came in useful. But, oh ! I wish I
wasn't going to school. Won't you be awfully
dull all alone here ?'

'Mr. Gladdening said he was going to
send some one to live with me,' she answered.
Some widow4ady  a friend of his. Do you
know who it can be V

 Not unless it's Mrs. Freer ; but I can
hardly believe that.'

Why, is she old, or ugly, or disagreeable V

asked the girl listlessly. ' It will not matter,
even if she is.'

Oh, she's all that, and more !' laughed the
boy. ' Wait till you see her. I hope I'll be
here when she comes. Did Mr. Glen denning:
say when we were to go to school V

No. He is to write to you. Probably
you will hear tomorrow.'

Can we come home for the holidays V

I believe so. Oh, surely if you wish it.'
Wish it ! I should just think I did. Will
you write to me sometimes, Lady Nancyee V

'Yes, dear,' she said gently. 'You know
you are my only friend  my brave young
champion. I wish I had had a brother like
you. I might have made a better thing of
my life.'

You must let me be your brother,' he said ;
then after a pause he added :  Lady Nancyee,
did you tell Mr. Gladdening about  about
meeting your cousin to-day V

Yes.'

I'm glad of that,' he said quickly ; ' I
shouldn't have any secrets from him, if I were

you. I'm quite sure I wouldn't like my wife
to have any from me.'

Your wife !'

The girl's white lips quivered faintly, but
she was too weak and too heart-sick for mirth.

I should like to marry someone just like
you,' he went on.

As pale,' she asked, ' and as wicked V

I don't believe you're wicked  I'm sure
you're not.'

Indeed I am,' sh said drearily ; * very,
very wicked.'

Then,' he said, calmly, ' wicked people
must be nicer than good ones.'

You are a droll boy ; but you always cheer
me up,' she said, smiling faintly. ' But now
I am going to send you away. I am too
tired to talk more. I wall go to bed and see
if I can sleep for once.'

 Don't you always sleep V he asked anxiously.


No ; very seldom of late. But to-night I
am worn out. I only want to rest, and not
think.'

Shall I send Deborah V ho asked, rising
and looking at her with those honest young
eyes, which she loved yet feared.

No,' she said ; ' tell her I have gone to
bed. I do not want her, or anyone.'

She held out her hand to him.

Kiss me, my little knight,' she said. ' I
wish I could tell you how grateful I am 1'

She did not say for what, but he knew well
enough. Knew that but for his intervention
she would not have been sitting here now
sheltered, safe, even if unhappy and
alone.

He bent down. The shadowy dusk hid
the flush upon his cheeks as his lips touched
her cold brow. He did not speak, his heart
was too full. That kiss was as a seal set
upon his life, to keep it pure, and chivalrous,
and reverential to all womanhood for sake of
one.

Heaven bless you, dear !' she said.

But he was silent. For the second time
that day the smart of tears was on his eyelids
as he left her presence.

A week had passed.

It was close on sunset, and the two young
Glendenninos were sitting: astride the stallion
gates that shut out the precincts of Owl's
Roost from the main road. Their faces were
full of expectation.

I am sure I heard wheels,' remarked
Stewart for about the twentieth time in the
course of as many minutes. ' Yes, this time
I am right. Look there it comes. I see her
face.'

In a second he was down, and had flung
open the gate and fastened it back. The
carriage stopped, a lady looked out of the
window.

How are you both V she said. ' Have
you come to meet me V

Of course,' said Basil ' Get out of the
carriage and walk up the avenue with us, will
you ? We've such lots to tell you.'

The lady spoke to the driver, and then
opened the door and came up to the boys and
kissed them warmly.

How well you both look she said ; ' and

how you've grown ! Now what's all this
Wonderful news ?'

You know, of course,' said Basil,  that
Mr. Gladdening's married V

Yes,' she said, and a sort of constrained
look came over her face ; ' he told me that.'

But why he should have got married at
all, I don't see,' went on Basil, ' for he's never
stayed here, and now he's gone off for years,
I believe. Did he tell you why, Mrs.
Freer V

'No ; only for reasons that were imperative,'
he said.

I can't make it out,' said Basil. ' And
she's such an angel.'

What is she like V asked Mrs. Freer, not
curiously, but with that same constraint of
face and voice that had marked her previous
question.

Like ! Well, she's very young, and very
white, and '

She's just like the picture of the lady
Nancyee in our playroom,' said Stewart eagerly.
Basil calls her that. And she's very sad

always. But Basil is awfully fond of her,
and she is very good to us.'

 And Mr. Gladdening's going to send us

to school, and we have to leave tomorrow,'



said Basil ; ' and what she'll do without us I
don't know. It's a shame. That's why I
wanted to see you, Mrs. Freer  just to put
you up to what you ought to do, you lvnow\
Because, of course, she doesn't know you like
we do, and she's so unhappy, and so  so
different to anybody else.'

Is she V asked Mrs. Freer, somewhat
listlessly. 'I imagined that for myself

Quite different went on Basil. * But
you're sure to like her, and I know you'll bea
friend to her. Did Mr. Gladdening tell
you there was a screw loose X

'A what?' she exclaimed, standing still In
sheer astonishment to look at the boy.

A screw loose  something wrong between
them. I don't, of course, know anything
about married people, but I should imagine
they didn't behave quite like these do.'

Mrs. Freer's face flushed.

VOL. I. 9

Perhaps,' she said, ' Mr. Glenclenning only
married her out of pity former forlorn condition,
and then found out he had made a mistake.'

Basil shook his head.

No,' he said ; ' he was very fond of her.
I can't make out why he left her almost as
soon as he brought her here.*

He  he did not tell me that said Mrs.
Freer in a low voice.

Perhaps he was ashamed of himself,' said
Basil loftily. ' I know I should have been.
However, perhaps things will come right
some day. No one knows he's married yet,
and '

Do you mean,' she interrupted, ' that it is
a secret ? That no one knows this  this girl
is his wife V

That is exactly it. The servants have
been sent away, and only Deborah and old
Clitheroe know of the marriage. The others
think she's a ward of Mr. Gladdening's, like
we are.'

'It is very extraordinary,' said Mrs.
Freer ; ' very extraordinary !'

Oh, you'll cheer her up, I've no doubt
said Basil hopefully.  Women, of course,
understand women. I've done my best, but
this whim of sending us to school has spoilt
all my plans. So I must just trust to you.
I know you're awfully good, and I'm glad
you've not gone out to America, as you
threatened. Did your affairs come right,
and did you get your dollars V

Some,' she said, smiling faintly. ' Enough
to live on. I won't trouble about the rest.'

And are you going to live here, now V
asked Stewart.

I have promised Mr. Gladdening to
stay with his wife until he returns,' she
answered gravely ;  unless, of course, she
wishes me to leave her. But I hope he will
not be away more than a year.'

Perhaps,' suggested Basil, ' you can find
out what's gone wrong, and bring them
together again.'

That,' she said, flushing faintly, ' is my
earnest wish and desire. Life is too short to
be made altogether wretched by a mistake,

92

and it can be only a mistake that has caused
this  this estrangement.'

Of course said Basil loyally. ' Nothing
else in the world.' Then he looked at her
admiringly. ' You are just the sort of
woman,' he said, 'to do her good. Mr.
Gladdening says you are a " universal
helper." '

You seem to have constituted yourself
her champion, at all events,' said Mrs.
Freer. ' I hope she is duly grateful. I
suppose,' she added, looking anxiously at the
house, which was now in sight, ' she expects
me to-day f

 I heard her telling Deborah about your
room,' answered Basil. " You are to have the
room next hers. She was putting flowers
there this morning.'

That was nice of her,' said Mrs. Freer
thoughtfully. ' How strange the house looks
with that crimson light on it !' she added ;
as if it were in a sea of fire.'

Or blood,' suggested Basil.

What a horrible idea !' she said with a

shudder. ' Oh,' hurriedly, ' who is that
standing there all in white V

That,' said Basil proudly, ' is my Ladyee
Nancy e. She's coming to meet us.'

With the red glow of the sunset upon her
uncovered head and the floating folds of her
white dress, Nancette advanced to meet her
visitor.

Had she known with what strange interest
Myra Freer regarded lier it might have
made her more nervous than she was. She
greeted her shyly  almost coldly. She was
wondering how much of her history this
woman knew, and what she thought of it.

In five minutes' time she had forgotten
she had any peculiar history for her to know.
Mrs. Freer had that greatest of feminine
charms  a sympathetic manner. Looking at
her, on first acquaintance, no one would have
thought of calling her beautiful  conversing
with her for ten minutes, anyone would have

decided she was ten times more attractive
than any merely beautiful woman. She was
tall and slight, and very graceful. She had
large, clear, grey eyes, that often looked black
under the shadow of their long lashes Her
mouth, nose, and complexion were ordinary.
Her hair was of soft, warm, chestnut-brown,
and waved back from her forehead in a natural
rippling line ; her eyes and hair formed her
only claim to beauty. She was serious but
not melancholy  grave but not gloomy.

Nancette found herself looking at her
again and again, as they walked up to the
house. She half wondered how she could
feel so cordially disposed to an utter stranger,
and a woman who, for the sake of her friendship
with Mr. Gladdening, might be passing
harsh and critical judgment upon his wife.

I will show you to your room she said
as they entered the hall. ' I hope you will
like it. But all the rooms here are gloomy.*

That is the penalty one pays for an ancestral
residence,' said Mrs. Freer, with
that soft, grave smile ujoon her lips that gave

its sweetest expression to her face. ' I never
possessed one myself, unfortunately. It is
always a comfort, therefore, to discover they
have draw backs.'

I  I am not fond of gloom,' said the
girl seriously. ' I thought this whole place
terrible when first I saw it. Of course, I am
more used to it now, and the boys make it
lively sometimes. It will be very melancholy
when there is no young life in it.'

There is 30 ours !' said Mrs. Freer involuntarily.
But as she met Nancette's quick,
pained glance, she felt she had said the
wrongs things.

They did not speak again till they reached
the bedroom.

You have done your best to banish gloom,'
Mrs. Freer then said, looking round at the
flowers, and lace, and feminine decorations.
Why did you take so much trouble V she
added, taking the small white hands in her
own, and looking straight into the shy and
sorrowful eyes.

Trouble !' echoed Annette. ' Oh, if you

only knew how dreary it is  low long the
days are !'

We must alter all that,' said Mrs. Freer
gravely.  I have come to be a friend to you,
my dear ; and I mean to be one. A woman
always understands a woman, and when both
have known sorrow, it helps them to get on
better, I think.'

Nancette went over to the window, and
stood there looking out. The dying glow of
the sunset still lingered over the trees ; but
her eyes never saw it, or indeed anything.
Her heart was beating too painfully for
speech.

Myra Freer had taken off her bonnet and
travelling-cloak, and washed the dust of her
journey from her face and hands, before the
girl turned to her again. She met a face and
smile that seemed to her almost divine in
their beauty, and tenderness, and compassion.

I  I beg your pardon,' she said timidly.
I should have asked if you required anything.
I forgot myself for a moment.'

That was a long thought,' said Mrs.

Freer. ' But I am glad you do not intend
to be ceremonious. I should not like it, and
I am not used to it.'

Shall we go down and have some tea V
asked Annette. ' I expect the boys are
getting impatient. It is their last day, and
they want as much of me as they can get.'

I am quite ready,' answered Mrs. Freer.
How fond Basil is of you !' she added.

Yes,' said Nancette with a sigh.  And
he is such a nice boy. I wish he was not
going away.'

'If he were not a nice boy,' said Mrs.
Freer, ' there would be nothing to regret in
the advent of school-life. But you are right.
He is delightful as boys go, and you can't
help missing him.'

She looked at Nancette as she spoke with
highly critical attention. She was marvelling
at the girl's beauty, and the strangeness
of her fate.

It must be something very grave that a
husband could not forgive  her,' she thought.

A wood-fire burnt in the open fireplace of

the great hall. Tea was waiting, so were the
boys and their two rough terriers, Floss and
Boss, who for this last day had been privileged
to go wherever their young masters
went.

We're quite ready for tea,' said Basil,
setting his Lade Nancyee's chair opposite
the tray. ' I told Debbie to bring plenty of
hot cakes. I thought Mrs. Freer would be
hungry.'

Of course it was only Mrs. Freer's appetite
that required consideration,' said the
visitor ; ' schoolboys are never addicted to
such weaknesses as cakes.'

I'll tell you when I am one,' said Basil
coolly, as he brought her her tea. ' Won't
you two just be longing for Midsummer 
that's all.'

Why Midsummer V asked Nance te, looking
at him wonderingly.

Because then we shall have holidays said
the boy.

you seem to pity us very much for the
loss of sour society,' said Myra Freer. ' I

don't know that it is quite an unmixed evil.*
Then she smiled at the boy's handsome face.
You are rather conceited, Master Basil.
School will soon take that out of you.'

I wonder what it will be like,' said
Stewart musingly.

Well,' said Myra Freer, ' there are schools
and schools. At some you learn nothing, at
others a good deal. I have heard of fathers
paying at the rate of four hundred a year
that a boy may learn to discriminate in the
matter of cigars and hats.'

Oh !' said Basil thoughtfully. ' Well, I'm
not fond of grinding, I must say. Stewart's
the one for that. Besides, they teach you
such a lot of unnecessary stuff. Look at old
Chasable now. All he thinks of is Greek,
and Latin, and Hebrew. What's the good
of it V

 A necessary part of the education of a
gentleman,' said Myra Freer demurely.

Basil pulled Boss's ears reflectively.

I'd like to be an explorer,' he said ;  I
can't stand irrindhigf at desks or work. The

wilder the life the better I should like it.
Did you ever see a prairie when you were in
America V he asked abruptly.

'America,' said Mrs. Freer, Ms a large
country. I was only in New York. I never
went West. But I would have made an
effort to see a prairie she went on, setting
down her cup and looking gravely at her
young questioner, ' if I had thought it would
be a matter of importance to you.'

One reads about them, you know,' said
the boy. * I should like to hear from someone
who has seen them, if the books are
correct.'

Books are always correct,' said Nancette
gravely.

No,' said Myra Freer, looking quietly at
the delicate, pale face, ' not always. Intentions
are good, but sometimes fall short in
the carrying out. Adventurous life has been
greatly exaggerated. It is not wholesome
reading.'

It is the only reading I care for,' said
Basil, taking his cup round to be replenished

for the third time. ' If I were Mr. Glen-denying,
I should go straight off to the Rocky
Mountains and shootgrizzlies and wild Indians,
and have no end of a jolly life.'

There was an awkward pause. Then Myra
Freer spoke in her soft, low voice :

Your future will doubtless be very different
to what you now imagine or desire,' she
said. ' The young are always irrational. But
you may be very sure that you will never
choose at thirty what you would at thirteen.'

'Thirty!' cried Basil. 'Oh, but that's
awfully old.'

She smiled. She turned her beautiful
calm eyes upon him.

I,' she said, ' am thirty.'

The boy flushed hotly.

Are you ? Well, of course you're not old.
I mean you don't look it. But it does seem
a long way off to me now, you know.'

No doubt,' answered Mrs. Freer gravely.
And sometimes I feel as old as you fancy
you would. But it isn't the years that age
us,' she went on in her low, even tones ; ' it

is vhat those years bring. Troubles are sure
to come, but the capacity of bearing them
varies much. To some it is very, very hard.
If you have a sensitive conscience, and
emotions, life is harder for you. It seems to
go wrong so easily.'

I don't see why anyone's life should go
wrong,' said Basil sturdily. 'We can do
pretty much as we like with it.'

Ah,' said Mrs. Freer quietly, ' you will
perhaps make a different confession when
sou, too, are thirty.'

There was a short silence. Nancette rose
from her seat almost abruptly. The boys
looked uncomfortable. They finished their
tea, and then Stewart suggested they should
see if Deborah had packed up their books.

Nancette and Myra Freer were left alone.

 Come and sit down here,' said the latter,
pointing to a low and softly-cushioned chair
beside her. ' Don't ring for lights yet. Let
us have a talk.'

The girl took the seat at once. Her face
looked intensely sad in the light of the dim

wood fire. Her hands were listlessly folded
upon her knees.

If we are to be friends,' said Mrs. Freer
gently, 'as I trust and hope we shall, I must
be perfectly candid and open with you. I
have known Mr. Gladdening since I was a
girl, though my marriage parted us for years.
I went to America with my husband ; he
remained here. When I was left a widow, I
came back to my old home. It is some miles
away from here  a mere cottage facing the
sea. I was quite alone in the world. Mr.
Gladdening and I resumed our old friendship.
When he told me that he was about
to put that friendship to a test, I Aas glad of
it. He said that circumstances he could not
explain obliged him to leave his young wife fora
time  that it was very lonely for her here 
that she needed not only a companion but a
friend, and in all the world he knew of no
one who would be both to her, and yet respect
her secret, and the sorrow that was her portion.
I listened, and my heart went out to you, for,
oh, child, I too have drunk the cup of sorrow

to its dregs, and I thought my own experience
might help sours.'

She paused. Nancette still looked at the
fire ; she felt as if she could not trust herself
to speak.

I said to him, '' Do not tell me anything;
I will oro to her if she will have me." '

She paused again. Nancette turned her
head, and looked at her, but she did not
speak. It almost seemed as if she were holding:
herself back for fear that words would
break from her despite herself.

I have come to you,' went on the tenderly
modulated voice, ' because you are in a strait
which only a woman can understand  because
you have neither mother, nor sister, nor friend
because you stand on the threshold of life,
and all your future happiness depends on the
step you take. But,' she added gently, *you
shall tell me nothing that you do not wish.
I don't make my friendship or my help the
reward of a forced confidence. You are only
a child in comparison to myself  only a child,
and yet '

VOL. I. 10

'And yet broke in Nancette, her voice
trembling and broken, ' how I have suffered
oh, how I have suffered !'

It is a woman's lot said Mrs. Freer,
and we cannot evade it !'

'Then said the girl unsteadily, 'you
too '

I, too,' interposed Myra Freer, ' have
had my experience. It might have made
me hard. I am glad it has only made me
pitiful

I think said the girl sorrowfully, ' I
could bear mine better if I did not see so
clearly it was all my own fault. There is
nothing palliating about it. It is only foolish
and humiliating.'

Most mistakes are,' said Mrs. Freer,
'when we look back upon them. We don't
see their true nature till then.'

The tears rose to Nance te's eyes.

You have done me good she said. ' I do
not want to get hard ; but I should in time
if I were alone. Some day I will try to tell
you ; I can't yet. It is  oh, it is much

worse than you think. All good women
would turn from me if they knew. My fault
is beyond forgiveness. Did not my husband
tell you that V

 If he had said Myra Freer gently, ' I
should not have believed him. Looking at
you now, I cannot believe you.'

Indeed, you are too charitable,' said the
girl, while the slow tears dropped one by one
on her clasped hands. ' I have no right
here, and my sin has driven him away.
Only that I am too cowardly and too
ignorant to face the world, I would not
remain. But,' she added hopefully, ' it is
only for three years. I shall soon be
eighteen, and on the very day I am twenty-one,
he will set me free !'

Set you free !' echoed Mrs. Freer in a
puzzled voice.  But he cannot ; you are his
wife r

He says three years' desertion will be a
plea in the eyes of the law,' said the girl.

Desertion !' cried Myra Freer indignantly.
' He  Errol Gladdening  the soul

102

of honour, capable of so forgetting duty and
morality ! Impossible ! Why, child, if you
bad been the worst of women, he could not
have humiliated you more ! There must be
some terrible mistake here. Why do you
not clear it up V

Because,' she said, ' it is hopeless ; you
would say so if you knew all.'

The worst mistakes can be put right,'
said Myra Freer gently ; ' and the greatest
sins may be forgiven. I never thought
Errol Gladdening was a merciless or a harsh
man  far from it she added, with a faint
flush stealing over her eager face. ' He is
the very soul of chivalry and gentleness.
His nature is very sensitive, I know ; but
it is serious and deeply tender, and if he
loved you '

He did,' said the girl sorrowfully ; 'that,
I think, is what makes it so hard.'

When one loves,' said Myra Freer, ' forgiveness
should be easy if it is sought in the
right way.'

I did not seek it in the ri'sht wav,' said

Nancette sadly. ' I think I was frightened
when I saw what I had done.'

Tell me one thing,' said Mrs. Freer,
bending forward in the firelight, and looking
anxiously at the girl's white, sorrowful face.
Did you love him V

No,' she said quite simply, but a faint
shiver shook her slight young form ; ' oh no,
I did not love  him.'

Then,' said Mrs. Freer, drawing back
and flushing hotly, 'there was some one
else V

Yes,' answered Nancette, her face hidden
now by her clasped and trembling hands ;
there was  some one else !'

Five o'clock !' shouted Basil, throwing a
pillow across the room at his sleeping
brother. * Do wake up ! You know" we
have to make our pilgrimage.'

Stewart opened his eyes and yawned
sleepily. The sun was streaming in, and he
lay for some moments blinking at it, and
lazily watching his more energetic brothers
proceedings. They had made a compact the
previous night to rise early and take a farewell
of all their favourite haunts and pets
and belongings.

Some half-hour later they were in the
stable-yard, the two dogs following at their
heels. The thought that this was the last
morning, for a long time to come, when they
should wander at their own sweet will, somewhat
sobered the boys.

Basil was unusually silent, and Stewart's
heart was too full for anything but tears.
They fed the pony, and stroked his glossy
coat with gentler touch than that they
usually bestowed. The pigeons came flocking
round them, strutting to and fro in the sunlight
with their pretty rosy feet. The rabbits
in the hutch rubbed their soft noses against
the hands that gave them their early breakfast.


They left the live-stock at last, and went
into the kitchen-garden, and thence into the
wood, still damp With dew, and odorous with
the breath of spring flowers. The warm
spring sunlight was streaming through the
boughs ; the birds were chirping and twittering
in the trees, giving vent to glad thanksgiving
for the beauty of the fresh, sweet day.
The boys seated themselves on one of the
low branches of a spreading oak, and soberly
and gravely surveyed the scene.

It will seem a honos time to Midsummer
said Stewart mournfully.

Yes,' said Basil. ' I dare say school won't

be so bad, but it's the breaking off here I
don't like. Things never seem the same once
you leave them.'

I think,' said Stewart, nodding his head in
the direction of the house, ' that if  she 
had not come here we should never have
been sent away. Nothing has been the
same since.'

I  I don't mind that,' said Basil loyally.
She's worth putting ujd with bothers for.
No ; I think it's some fad Mr. Gladdening
has taken up. I dare say he'll be sorry some
day.'

He might have let us remain here,' murmured
Stewart plaintively. ' I never wanted
to go away. Old Chasable taught us quite
enough.'

Perhaps,' said Basil, laughing, ' he suggested
school by way of revenge. We've
plagued him a good deal lately.'

I should think Jago will be very dull
without us,' said Stewart. ' He'll want to
come to school too.'

Debbie has promised to send us a hamper

once a week said Basil more cheerfully. ' I
told her to be sure and put in some of her
home-made cakes, and lots of that toffee we
showed her how to make. That,' with a
sigh, ' will be something to look forward to.'

Why, good gracious I' cried Stewart
hastily, ' here is your Ladyee Nancyee coming !
She must have seen us.'

 So it is !' cried Basil, colouring with delight
and surprise. * Let's go and meet her 1'

They were off their perch, and tearing over
the ground like young hares in another
instant.

I saw you from my window,' said Nancette,
I thought I should like to join you. You
do not mind V

Mind ? No !' cried Basil, delighted.

We've been making a pilgrimage,' he added.

We had to say good-bye to all our pets.
Isn't it horrid leaving a place V

I promise to look after them all for you,'
said the girl gently ; ' and I will write every
week and tell you about them.'

Will you really ? That's awfully good,'

said Basil. ' Of course I'll write to you,' he
went on, after a moment's silence ; * not that
I'm much good at letter-writing. In fact, I
hate it, but I'll do my best. And now,' looking
gravely at her, ' how do you think you'll
get on with Mrs. Freer V

I like her very much,' said the girl candidly
; ' she is quite different to what I expected.
Why looking at him reproachfully
' why did you say she was old, and prim,
and disagreeable V

In order to give you a pleasant surprise,'
said the boy, laughing. ' I thought if I said
she was nice, you would be sure to think she
wasn't ; but if you were told she was horrid,
you'd be quite pleased to find her different.'

Was she a great friend of your guardian's V
asked Nancette somewhat timidly.

The boys had taken an arm on either
side, and they were all walking now through
the dew wet glades that were sweet and fresh
as flowers and sunshine could make them.

I think so,' said Basil ; ' I don't quite
know. I believe he knew her when she was

a girl. Then she got married and went out
to America, as you know. We've only seen
her now and then this last year. She lived
in a queer, ramshackle old house, away down
on the coast. Her father left it her. She
used to ask us over for a day, and Mr. Glen-denying
would come up in the evening and
fetch us back. It's about twelve miles off
where the house is. Only herself and an old
servant lived there. Why,' with a laugh, ' it
will seem quite lively here after it. I thought
you'd like her, and I thought you'd befriends.'


I do not think I make friends easily,' said
the girl sadly. ' But I hope  yes, I do hope
she will be one. I feel so terribly alone.'

Stewart here dashed off to look at a squirrel's
nest he had discovered. Basil still
walked beside her, his arm linked in hers.

Ladyee Nancyee,* he said gravely, ' if anyone
can put things straight, she can ; but take my
advice, tell her everything, and, above all,
don't you see that Frenchman again !'

They had made a tour of everything  the
kitchen-garden, the paddock, the orchard, the
wood, and the old shabby schoolroom.

The boxes were packed and in the hall ; and
breakfast had been partaken of in a depressed
and nervous manner. Mrs. Freer had done
her best to raise the spirits of the party, but
Nancette's sad face, and Deborah's weeping
one, and old Clitheroe's maundering forebodings,
had counteracted her good intentions.


At last the waogonette came round, and
with very white faces and a poor effort at
composure, the boys gave their last kisses
and landscapes.

'Don't forget to write to me,' whispered
Nancette as she laid both hands on the
shoulder of her young knight, and looked
with brimming eyes at the bright handsome
face, now so pale and tearful, despite the boy's
resolute efforts to appear manly and heroic.
'And don't forget me,' she added below
her breath.

'That I won't,' he said earnestly; and,

with one last handshake, he sprang into the
waggonette, followed by the weeping Stewart.
Then the coachman drove off at a quick
trot, and the two women stood sadly there in
the entrance, watching for the last wave of
Basil's handkerchief, and the last sight of the
two young figures that seemed to take with
them all the brightness and mirth of the deso-

CD

late old house.

Now,' said Myra Freer, turning to the
girl beside her, ' now we have to " make
company" for each other, as the children say.
To begin with, let us be as much as possible
in the open air. The year is at its best, and
earth and heaven are kinder than humanity.
With air and sunshine, and flowers and freedom,
and youth and health to enjoy them,
life cannot be such a heavy burden, after all.
Unhappiness doesn't last for ever.'

I will do whatever you wish,' said Nan-cette
gently ; * but my unhappiness is too
deeply rooted for Nature to ease.'

When we know the disease a great point
IS gained,' said Mrs. Freer. ' You are the

patient ; I am going to try and find a remedy.
You will take it when I do ?'

The girl looked at her thoughtfully. The
shadow of a smile seemed to touch her pale
lips.

'Yes,' she said, when you dor



Chapter I.

FRxiGMENTS FROM A JOURNAL KEPT BY MYRA
Freer DURING HER STAY AT OWL's ROOST.

I CAME here to-night with strange and conflicting
feelings. I had a hard struggle with
myself before I could give in to Errol 's
wish. How strangle it seemed that
he should ask me to be a friend to his wife I
His wife !

The memory of many bitter years lay
heavy at my heart. They had changed me,
I think, more than I fully recognised ; but
when I thought of the lonely girl in that
lonely house, and saw the pained and altered

face of my old friend, I seemed also to see a
duty before me, and I bent my unwilling
spirit to its acceptance.

Some painful mystery is at work here.
Something, cruel as sin, yet intangible as a
shadow, has parted Errol Gladdening from
his wife. It must be my task to learn it 
to help them  to leave them happy and content
ere I go back to my own life of loneliness
once more.

She is very young, and very, very lovely.
As she came to meet me in her simple
white dress, and with the red sunset light
on her beautiful hair, I felt almost afraid
of her loveliness. It was like nothing earthly.
But she is too serious and too sad. I wish
she were the girl that her years should make
her. I wish there was something bright and
fanciful about her. But she carries a heavy
burden, that is plain, and she needs sympathy,
and love, and help.

I won a confession from her to-night.
Passionately as Errol Gladdening loves her

(I read that in his face and voice when he
spoke of her), she does not care for him.
His absence seems a relief ; her heart is
absorbed by another feeling. There is just
the chance that it may be an unworthy one
the chance that a girl's fancy has been,
caught by a temporary infatuation  the
chance that time may heal the wound, and
give her peace, and strength, and comfort.
But if it is not so  if something has gone
out of her life as  as once it went out of
mine  how hard it will be, how terribly,
bitterly hard !

How funny boys are ! Basil giving her
over to my charge and care in a solemn,
protective fashion would have been comic
but for his earnestness. He is quite devoted
to her, and she to him. I am sorry the
boys have gone. They gave some element
of brightness to this dull and gloomy place.
For though Owl's Roost has a beauty and
grandeur of its own, there is no doubt that
gloom predominates. Everything in the

VOL. I. 11

house itself is old, and dark, and faded.
The dingy tapestries, the faded velvets and
satins of the curtains, the funereal beds, the
dim old portraits  all have a gloomy and
depressing effect upon a stranger.

Eight years ago I knew them all so well.
Eight years  it is a large slice out of a
woman's life !

And now I am here, living under his roof,
and expected to be the friend of his wife.
She needs a friend if ever a woman did.
Her confession to-day told me that.

So there is  another.' She only said
teas, but I will not put ' it in the past
tense yet. It must have been something
connected with that discovery that has sent
Errol Gladdening into voluntary exile.
That is so like a man I Why did he not
stay here and win her heart for himself,
and oust his rival out of her fancy ? She
is too young for a first romance to be more
to her than fancy. He has wedded her
hurriedly and inconsiderately, discovered
the fancy for 'another,' then left her here

alone in her youth, and ignorance, and
sorrow.

I thought Errol Gladdening would have
been more chivalrous and less harsh of judgment.
Men have a tendency to repress
emotion, or, rather, a display of emotion, as
if it were a breach of good manners to
possess feeling. When I saw Errol Glen-denying
last, he was full of repression. I
drew my own conclusions, therefore, and
imagined that his feelings must be very
deep and his sufferings also. This seems a
cold-blooded way of writing it down. I
wonder sometimes if I am getting cold-blooded.
I hope not  oh, I hope not ! buta
long, long heartache must tell upon one
in time. Mine has been with me for very
long. And now

I broke off here last night. I don't want
to drift into retrospect or self-analysis. It
is a dangerous habit. You dissect yourself
morally ; you classify your sensations, and
peer into your feelings and are always

112

examining and adjusting your inner mechanism.


I have been wandering about the woods
with Nancette. She is depressed after parting
with the boys. Errol Gladdening might
have let them remain here a year longer.
It would not have harmed them, and I do
not think it wise to separate his wife from
all that is bright and young. But I suppose
men will never understand women.

The more I see her, the more I wonder
what the mystery can be. She is too young,
and certainly too innocent, to have committed
a very serious fault.

I asked old Deborah to-day what had
happened to change her master so terribly,
but she knows little more than I do. There
was a lover, she says, and he came down
here on their wedding night, and was very
indignant, and very wrathful ; but, although
Errol Gladdening forbade him the house,
he did not seem to blame his wife for this
episode  not at the time.

Yet still he separated himself from her,

and, according to Deborah, has not seen her
since. Now, from what I know of Errol,
he is too gentle and chivalrous to act in
such a manner without strong provocation ;
but here my researches end, unless Nancette
herself chooses to enlighten me.

Two more days have passed. I think
she begins to trust me, and, I hope, like
me.

Last night as I sat by the fire in my
room, which adjoins her own, a knock came
at the door, and I heard her voice asking if
she might come in.

 I know I shall not be able to sleep tonight,'
she said ;  may I sit with you a
little while V

Her face was as white as her dressing-gown
; her lovely rich hair was unbound,
and hung in one long loose plait almost to
her feet. She looked like some visitor from
another world with those pure, colourless
tints, and starry eyes.

I am, and always have been, a great

beauty - lover. I never tire of watching"
Nancette's face. I placed her in a low,
deep chair opposite my own, and stirred the
fire into a blaze.

This is very nice,' I said. ' We will sit
here and talk till you feel sleepy.'

'That will be a very unusual circumstance
she said, with that faint smile that only seems
to touch her lips and leave them.

It ought not to be I told her gravely ;
*you are too young to be troubled with
sleepless nights and wakeful hours.'

I shall have to try sleeping-draughts
she said, linking her small, pretty fingers
one in the other, and letting them rest idly
on her lap. ' I sometimes think I should
like to go to sleep and not wake for years,
and years, and years ! I wonder what would
have happened by then.'

Do you want anything to happen V I
asked her curiously.

For a moment her eyes flashed, then the
white lids hid them.

'Yes she said, 'one thino-/

I hope,' I said, ' it is the one thing that
would make your Kfe complete.'
She looked at me gravely.

It is not what you think,' she said, ' nor
anything that you could guess. But,' with
a sudden chancre of tone, ' it does not matter
it never could happen. Things don't easily
come rio'ht in this world.'

Perhaps,' I said, ' that is only because
they don't come in our own way. That is
one of our mistakes.'

Life is full of them, is it not V she said
wearily. ' You told me so once.'

I am afraid it is,' I answered. ' Human
nature is very foolish and very impracticable

I think some people must be born to be
unfortunate,' she said. ' I am one. Whatever
I have done turned out wrong ; whatever
I wish to do seems impossible. I often
think it must be a strange sensation to be
happy.'

*Do you mean to say,' I asked, startled
by her words and her voice, ' that you have
never been happy V

Never !' she said, looking at me with her
large and serious eyes. ' I cannot remember
the feeling. I thought once I had experienced
it, but it was only a fearfulness and
uncertainty  a looking forward to some
shadowy prospect that faded away before I
had actually seen it.'

It is all to come,' I said gently. ' No one
is destined to be always unhappy.'

She leant back in her chair ; her hands
were trembling

should be afraid to be anything else,'
she said. ' I could not understand it. But
do not let us get morbid. I did not want to
speak about myself.' She hesitated a moment,
clasping and unclasping her restless fingers.
1 want you,' she said,  to tell me about my
I mean about Mr. Gladdening when you
knew him long ago. I know so little of him.
I scarcely seemed to know him at all before 
before I married, and since  well, since then
everything has gone wrong between us.'

He ought to have told you about himself;'
I said, wondering how two words in that

speech could have sent so sharp a thrill of
pain through my heart. ' Long ago !' Well,
it seemed lonc enough ago now.

I summed up courage. T told her of the
lonely boy whose fate had been so sad, of the
accident that had made his boyhood only a
penance, and his manhood a thing of dread and
pain, and set him apr.rt from his fellow-men,
even more than his own proud sensitiveness.
He was not in any way brilliant. His cleverness
was not superficial, but deep, studious,
and thorough, as indeed was his whole nature.
He was not addicted to friendships, or
sociality, yet no one could call him a misanthrope.
As for women, it had always seemed
to me that he only looked on them as abstract
phenomena of nature  creatures with whom
he could have no possible concern. I told
her all this, but I did not tell her how that
calm indifference had been used to irritate mein
my passionate and restless youth ; how
once I would have given worlds for power to
awake the inner fire that slumbered in that
grand and lonely soul. I think he himself

hardly knew it was there, but I knew it, and
I wondered for whom it would one day burst
into flame. His was a nature to waken
slowly. It was always distrustful of its own
power over others, and its own charms and
strength. Beincr unused to love and tenderness,
it had, in a way, assured itself of
independence. It said : ' I shall be always
alone. I must learn to be self-sufficient.'
Up to a certain day and hour this had been
possible. I saw the wonder and the fear in
Nancette's eyes as I told her that she at last
had broken the spell, and opened the floodgates
of that passionate tenderness. Her
voice broke across my words with a little low
cry of terror.

I hope,' she said  'oh, I hope you are
mistaken ! Surely he does not love me like
that !'

You must judge for yourself,' I said.
I have only told you what I know. The
Errol Gladdening who came to me some two
weeks back was not the Errol Glendenninof
of other days. His life had been uprooted

from all its calm content. He was a dreamer
no longer, but a man, strong to love, to suffer,
to endure.'

She shivered as she sat there in the warm
blaze of the fire.

He does not care for me as much as you
fancy,' she said slowly. 'How could he?
He knows so little of me.'

When a man loves,' I said, ' he thinks
he knows enough. And he told me that
he loved you; but, of course, you know
that.'

I am afraid I did not think of it much,'
she said slowly ; ' but I always thought he
was very good and steadfast.'

*That is just the word to express him I
said. 'He is very steadfast. It will not make
life any easier for him. I am always sorry
for people whose memories are faithful.'

I wish,' she said, almost passionately,
there were no such thing.'

As steadfastness V I asked.

No  as memory.'

But it would be sad to have no remembrance

at all,' I answered. ' One must take
the bitter with the sweet.'

Should you think,' she asked suddenly,
that I was a wicked woman  too wicked
and hardened for a man to forgive her V

I started.

No !' I cried with vehemence. ' Who
said you were '?'

I myself,' she answered sadly ; * and Mr.
Gladdening thinks so also. Does not his
conduct prove it V

He is hurt and angry now,' I said ; ' but
he will relent, and forgive you. It is his
duty, and duty is easy where love is its
counsellor.'

 Love I' She shuddered, and her hands
trembled more visibly than they had done
before. * Oh no  no ! That is all killed and
dead for ever We shall be strangers all our
lives long  all our lives long !'

For a week Nancette has been very ill. I
suppose the long strain of secret unhappiness
has told upon her at last. She seemed to
break down completely. She could not eat
or sleep, or do anything save lie in a
darkened room, with closed eyes and fevered
limbs, shuddering at every noise, and  so it
seemed to me  haunted by some fear she
could not, or would not express.

The first thing that roused her, and seemed
to bring her back to life again, was a letter
from Basil. He had written once to tell us
of their arrival, but the second letter was so
characteristic that I feel tempted to copy it
here. It began as follows :

*Dear Lady Nancyee,

I write to tell you how I like school.

which is not at all, and I'm afraid I shan't.
The first thing the boys did was to fight me
all round. I licked three of them the first
day. I did not mind that. They took my
best hat and made a target of it. (Pes.  I
don't quite know how to spell that, as I've
not written it before. I'm better at writing
Latin and Greek than English. That's how
old Chasahle taught us.) They also took my
watch, and opened it to see how the wheels
worked. Some of the wheels have got lost,
and the others don't fit. I'm afraid the watch
will not be of much use this term. It doesn't
go now. There are fifty boys here. Last
night they all went out, except me and
Stewart, into the covered courtyard, which
is the playground in wet weather. It was
not wet, and they ought to have been in bed ;
but they wanted to play at being Zulus.
They had scarcely any clothes on, and had
some old saucepans and fire-irons to make a
noise with while they danced their war-dance.
The masters heard them, and locked them
out. When they tried to get Un they could

not. I think they got frightened then.
They were locked out in the cold stone yard
for a long time. The masters said if the
ringleaders would confess they would let them
in ; so they promised. But, the moment the
door was open, they rushed in like mad, and
knocked down the masters, and up to the
dormitories, and got into bed. It was a great
lark. Next morning the whole school was
caned. Also Stewart and me. That was
not a lark. We said we had not been out
of bed. One boy said I was a sneak to say
so. I fought him. He says he will not call
me a sneak aofain.

I am in the third form. I mean third
from the first. Stewart is in the sixth.
Stewart says he does not like the food. It
is not wholesome. The meat is raw and
stringy, the tea is only hot water, and the
butter is rancid. (Pes.  That is another
word I have not written before, so please
excuse mistakes.)

They have bolster-matches in the dormitories.
We are going to have one in our's

to-night. Some of the boys tie knots in the
towels, and flip our bare legs with them. It
hurts. I dare say I shall not mind school
when I get used to it. I play cricket in the
second eleven. I wish it was midsummer.

Dear Lady Nancyee, I hope you are welland
the rabbits, and the dogs, and my pigeons,
and Bob, the pony. Have you tried to ride
him yet ? I miss you very much. I often
think of you. I am glad Mrs. Freer came
to stay with you. Please write me a long
letter, as long as this. I think I have told
you everything. Tell Debbie to send some
more cakes and toffee. It does not last long
when you have to share it with fifty boys.
The boys are always very kind to us when we
get a box. Stewart sends his love. Good-bye.
'From your affectionate friend,

'Basil

We laughed so much over this production,
that it quite roused Nancette from her languor
and depression. She answered it the same
day

It was not a cheerful day. The rain had
been falKng steadily and persistently. The
outlook from Nancette's room, where she
lay on a couch by the window, was very
dreary.

Do you never have any visitors V I asked
her suddenly.

No, of course not ; no one knows I am
married.'

But you might let it be known. Wouldn't
you like some society ? It seems to me that
this seclusion is telling upon your health as
well as upon your spirits.'

She shook her head.

Mr. Gladdening did not wish anyone to
know of our marriage, and I don't think the
people about here would interest me at all.'
Then she looked at me with her wonderful
deep eyes. ' I don't want any other society
than yours,' she said softly ; ' you have done
me so much good.'

I wish,' I said, ' you would get well and
strong, and come down to the sea. That
Avould do you good.'

VOL. I. 12

The sea !' she shivered and turned very
white. ' Oh, I cannot bear to go there. I
feel as if I could never look at it again.'

Why ?' I asked, astonished.
Her eyes drooped; a strange repressed look
came over her face.

I am ashamed to tell you,' she said ina
low, unsteady voice ; ' and yet, if you are
ever to understand me, I might as well tell
you the truth. It was by the sea that I last
met the man whom I had the misfortune to
love. It was by the sea that the first real,
terrible subtlety of the word " temptations
became a tangible and vivid thing. It was
by the sea that my life was wrecked, and my
heart broken. Its sound will always be a
terror to me now.'

I am glad,' I said gravely, * that you say
the man you lead the misfortune to love."
It is a thing of the past, is it not ?'

The love,' she said ;  but not the pain 
not the pain !'

 Would it hurt you,' I asked, ' to tell me
of him % Some sorrows grow easier when

shared, and I think you know my sympathy
is all your own.'

Everyone was against him,' she said piteously.
' His whole career has been unfortunate.
I think I pitied him so much at first
because of  of that ! And he was so handsome
I I have never seen such a face. It is
always haunting me. And when he said he
loved me I was so proud  oh, so proud. It
seemed as if the world did not hold his
equal.'

You were free then V I asked.

Yes. I was at school. He is my only
living relative. He came to see me there.
My father was away at the time, but I wrote
and told him. He seemed angry. He said
I must not encourage these visits. Then I
knew I loved him. It was such a shock to
even think of not seeing him and meeting
him any more.'

And then ?' I asked, as she paused.

My father saw him, and made him promise
to give me up. He told me that. We were
parted  I thought for ever. I was in 



spain. Then I met Mr. Gladdening. My
father said he loved me and wished to marry
me. I told him I could not accept him, but
he did not speak to me himself. Then came
the accident and my father's death.'

I know of that,' I said, in a low voice ;
and you were friendless, and alone, and
poor.'

I thought I was poor,' she said ; ' but I
know now that I was nOt. I had been deceived.
My father had simply confided his
fortune to the care of Mr. Gladdening. If
if Pierre de Volens had known of that, he
could have married me.'

 Could r I interposed in amazement. ' Was
it for sake of money, then, that he forsook
you V

That is what they say,' she answered; 'but
they judge so harshly. You  can you not be
more lenient ? Pierre de Volens could not
marry a fortuneless girl. It would have been
his ruin.'

If he had loved you,' I said resolutely,
he would not have yielded you up so easily.

Love does not reason as to suitability or convenience.
It acts on its own impulses of
tenderness.'

 Still,' she said, ' I think he loved me.
Fate was very hard on him.'

You are obliged to make excuses for him,'
I said. ' That shows that he needs them. A
great love will conquer Fate, or die in the
attempt. Ah, my dear, all men are selfish,
more or less. Perhaps your imagination has
led you astray. You see this man only as
you wish to see him  not as he really is !'

Everyone is against him,' she said mournfully,
' even you.'

Is that why you make him a hero V I
asked. ' I do not wish to judge him harshly.
Let me hear some more about him. You
have seen him since you married. Did he
speak of  of the past V

Yes,' she answered, growing very white.
I have seen him three times since I was
Errol Glendenninp's wife. The first time
was on my wedding-night, when he came
down here. It was terrible  that scene. The

second was on the cliffs  by accident. The
third was by the sea, when  when Basil saved
me !'

Basil saved you !' I echoed. ' How V

I think I was beside myself with unhappiness
she said mournfully. * I seemed to have
probed life's deepest bitterness. My husband
had forsaken me  I was quite alone. And he
he was by my side once more ; and with
his presence my pulses throbbed to living joy,
and all my dreams came back. I could only
think of how T loved him, and how he  loved
me.'

She bent her face on her hands. Her voice
was broken by tears.

My arm stole round her  the poor unhappy
child who had been so sorely tempted.

And he took advantage of that hour of
weakness and loneliness to tempt you into a
sin that all your life's regret would never
wash away ?' I said bitterly. * That is like a
man !'

I vas only too ready to listen,' she said.
Do not blame him. His boat was there,

waiting to bear me to freedom and to bliss.
I looked at him, and thought of the sweetness
of ' to-day," and the bitterness of the tomorrows,
when I should have sent him from
me. I listened to his pleadings. I thought
in all the wide world there was no other to
love me as he would love ; and then  Basil
came.'

Thank heaven,' I said, below my breath.

Her hands fell ; a faint red flush stained
her cheeks.

I was ashamed,' she said. ' The boy's
frank voice and clear eyes struck home to me
like a spoken truth. I knew right from
wrong. I knew if T chose the wrong, there
would be no palliation. I  I sent him from
me. Then something seemed to fall from
my eyes. I looked at the blue sky and the
blue water, and his face seemed to fade into
them, and a great cold weight fell on my
heart. I have never been the same since that
day  I do not think I ever shall. That cold,
strange deadness is always on my heart. If
I saw him now I do not think I should care.

I seem to have lost the power of feeling anything
but unhappiness.'

That power will come back,' I said, * when
something worthier recalls it.'

She sadly shook her head.

I do not think I wish for it,' she said.
It is a think' one cannot Hve over twice. I
have learned enough.'

My dear,' I said gently, ' you must listen
to me. I am an old woman in comparison
with yourself, and I, too, have had an  experience.
It is different to your own, but it
was quite as hard to bear. The world is full
of women who suffer as we suffer,, but we
think no pain is like our own pain. What
you have told me of Pierre de Yolens convinces
me that he was in no way worthy of
your love. A pure, steadfast, chivalrous love
never seeks only its own selfish ends. He
sought only that. I think if you had made
a friend of Mr. Gladdening  if you had told
him the whole truth  he would not have
been so hard on you ; but it is a terrible fate
for a man to give his whole heart and trust,

and find no return. A man like Errol Glen-denying
could not be content with bare duty
and respect. He must have loved intensely.
I cannot think you were right in deceiving
him.'

I did not deceive him she said. ' He
knew about Pierre. My father told him.'

'Knew about it,' I said, 'and married
you !' 

Yes.'

I can't understand it,' I said. ' From
what he told me, I supposed he only discovered
the truth too late  the very day you
were married ; that the shock and grief drove
him from you in utter desperation. Was
there  are you sure there was nothing else V

She turned deathly white.

There was  something,' she said ; 'but
he could not have found it out that night  at
least '

She hesitated and broke off abruptly.

Ah,' she said, ' I remember now ; I
fainted, and when I recovered my dress was
unfastened, and the paper was gone.'

The paper I' I said. ' What paper T

He must have found it,' she went on
hurriedly. * My father said I must never
tell a living soul, or  or no man or woman
would respect me again. It was my  my
secret, that I must always keep.'

Your father knew it, then V I asked.

Yes,' she said. ' My poor father !'

 Was it,' I said sternly, 'a secret that gave
Errol Gladdening the right to act as he has
done ? Tell me that.'

She bent her head. Again that faint,
shamed flush coloured the clear pallor of her
beautiful skin.

It nearly broke my father's heart,' she
said.

And for sake of it I said bitterly, ' sou
have broken your husband's, and sent him
out into the world a bitter and despairing
man.'

She looked up at me with her white face
and great, sad haunting eyes.

I told you,' she said, * I was very wicked.
You had better believe it, and leave me like 

like the others. I seem to bring misfortune
wherever I ofo.'

Then a revulsion of feeling shook me to my
heart's depths.

I shall not leave you,' I said ; ' I mean to
help you to put your life straight again. This
fancy  this wild passion of yours will die out.
It is an unworthy one. You will suffer for
it ; but the suffering will not be for long  I
am sure of it. This man has done his best
to wreck your life at its very outset. He
must not glory in his success. He is a selfish
coward  of that I am sure  and you thought
him a hero. Dear, wee are two women who
have suffered and sinned. That should make
us pitiful to each other. Let me help you to
Wain back happiness. Only tell me one
thing : if  if your secret where known to
your husband, would it part you irrevocably
V

Her clear, lovely eyes looked straight into
mine.

I never thought so,' she said ; ' but he
said it.'

I was silent ; a thousand thoughts and
emotions were busy in my brain.

You think,' I said at last, * that he discovered
it accidentally on your marriage-night.
Have you seen him since ?'

I saw him,' she said, * on that day I
told you of. He would not come to the
house. I think nothing would induce him
to sleep beneath the roof that I have dishonoured.'


Not that /' I cried entreatingly. ' Oh,
surely not that !'

He said so she answered with a sort of
despair. ' I could not think or reason clearly.
I seemed to have reached a crisis in my life.
Everything had happened that could happen
on that one day. I felt like ice. His grief
did not touch me, nor his generosity, for he
has been very generous.'

It is his nature,' I said stupidly.

I felt too bewildered myself now for clear
reasoning.

Yes she went on, * very generous and 
and thoughtful. He sent you. I sometimes

think I cannot be quite bad, or he would not
have done that

I think I said, * you are mistaken. Your
fault may have been one of thoughtlessness
or ignorance, but not of guilt.'

I was very ignorant,' she said, ' and I am
not strong:  I mean of nature. I think I am
easily swayed by my feelings.'

It is a dangerous nature,' I said.

It is a poor and pitiful one,' she said in
sudden, passionate condemnation. ' I deserve
my punishment. I cannot blame him  I
never have blamed him. I know he does not
understand me. All my sorrow came upon
me so early, and I had no mother, and no
friend, and no one to counsel me ; and my
father  I know he loved me, and was proud
of me, but he seemed to think I had no right
to feel or remember, and I could not help
doing both.'

You would not have been a woman
had you not,' I said in that sudden, broken
pause that was an effort against the weakness
of tears.

But she went on,  men do not think of
that, and they are unmerciful to weakness.
Oh, I have been weak  horribly weak. I
see it all now, when it is too late.'

It is not too late,' I said slowly ; ' and
ErrolGlendenning is the last man in the world
to be unmerciful to a woman's weakness.'

You are a staunch champion,' she said,
looking suddenly at me. ' You  you ought
to hate me for spoiling his life.'

You have not spoilt it irretrievably,' I
answered calmly.  That is why I hope. If
you can only convince yourself of the unworthiness
of that other, you are on the way
to recovery. Love is only an. illness like 
like any physical disease. It has its remedies
and alleviations.'

It is a foolish thing,' she said passionately
; ' an irrational thing. I wish to
heaven I had never  never experienced
it!'

Then she lay back on her pillows, and cried
bitterly and long.

FIRST LETTER FROM MYRA Freer TO ERROL
GLENDENNING.

Owl's Roost,

'April, 187.
My dear Friend,

 I came here to please you, but I fancy
I am staying to please myself. I feel most
deeply for you and for your wife ; but I
cannot help thinking that you might make
matters better if you would. I think men
are somewhat inconsistent, and I know perfectly
well that, they can always find good
reasons for following their own inclinations. If
your inclinations led you from your home and
your duty, I can only suppose your reasons
are sound. To me it seems as if they were
irrational.

The more I see of life, and men, and
women, the more convinced I am that most
of them make fatal mistakes in marriage.
It may be the fault of sentiment, of weakness,
of accident, blindness, folly, obstinacy  but
all the same it is a fault. Perhaps a marriage
of sentiment is the most disappointing
of all  for women are not angels, and men
are not demi-gods. When they discover this
fact individually, they become tragic ; they
don't reason, they don't look at facts by the
light of logic and experience  they usually
rush into the opposite extreme, and declare
each other to be  well, what you please to

SU2f2fest.

I am a practical person, as you know. I
think 1 never had much sentiment in me.
You used to say so in your poetic youth,
when I ventured to disagree with various
high-flown and imaginative sonnets addressed
to mythical beings, the like of whom certainly
never graced this sphere of ours. Being a
practical person, I don't like to see other
persons who are not practical, voluntarily

condemning themselves to lifelong misery on
account of a fancied wrong.

You will, of course, say your wrong is not
fanciful  that it has struck at the roots of
your life ; and I am inclined to think you
really believe it when you say it. But, from
what I can gather, there is every hope that
this wrong may be righted, and that a day
may yet come when you may rather happiness
and peace from that tree of life you now
regard as seared and dead ! To go from
poetry to plain facts, you have seriously misjudged
your wife. You married her in ignorance
of her real feelings, and at a time when
grief had numbed and paralyzed her energies.
She is a young, beautiful, passionate, romantic
creature  as easy to guide as a child. Her
first romance has been a wretched and most
prosaic one. The springs of her life seem
broken. She is morbidly sensitive, and accuses
herself of sins of whose very meaning
she is totally ignorant.

She wants help, sympathy, encouragement,
a strong nature on which to lean, and

VOL. I. 13

a gentle heart in whose tenderness to trust.
Who should iwe her these but you, her
husband  and you forsake her ! I think you
are wrong  seriously wrong. She did not
love you  and worse, she loved some one
else ; that is what you plead as excuse. It
is no excuse, since you married her with your
eyes open  since you were in her father's
confidence, and knew the fatal fascination
this man had for her.

You leave her now completely at his
mercy, and give him the power to use the
strongest possible argument in his favour 
the argument that she is an unloved and forsaken
wife. My friend, you are doing her a
great wrong, and yourself also. It is not
like you  in fact, it is so utterly unlike you
that I fail to recognise in this cruel and unchivalrous
action anything connecting it
with my previous knowledge of Errol Glen-denying.


I am speaking plainly, because I feel
deeply. A woman can read a woman as no
man can. Your wife may have been weak

and foolish, but she is not a wicked woman,
and she does not deserve to be treated as if
she were. In her ignorance and inexperience
she has fallen a victim to an infatuation for
an unprincipled and fascinating man  a man
apparently only too well skilled in the art of
deluding women. But I am certain that this
feeling has not taken deep root in her heart.
Her nature is still undeveloped ; it has
charms, and gifts, and capabilities of which
you are ignorant, and which you alone might
call forth and enjoy, if it pleased you to take
the trouble.

I have written frankly and fully on this
subject because I am deeply interested in it,
and because it seems to me you are wilfully
wrecking your life's happiness at its most
critical moment. Trust a woman's judgment,
and a woman who has your welfare most
deeply and sincerely at heart. Come back
to your own home and win your wife to yourself,
while you can yet do so.

To set up this barrier of years and absence
between you is absurd. You cannot

132

give her back her freedom without a stigma
on her name and your own. Would you
drag your wrongs, as you call them, before a
public court, and call the world's notice to
your own folly I I thought you were old-fashioned
enough to look upon marriage as a
bond, to accept and reverence its obligations,
and not seek to nullify them at the first shock
of trouble. I might ask you if you should
not have inquired a little more closely into
you wife's past before she became your wife.
You acted hastily, if trustfully, and now you
make that haste and trust an excuse to forsake
her, young, friendless, helpless, as you
know her to be. The world will always condemn
a woman  rarely a man. You do not
even allow her to use your name. Everyone
here is in ignorance of her position.

My friend, this is all very wrong. She
is in a false position ; yet she is the mistress
of your house, and has a right to your name
and acknowledgment. She does not heed
this, or notice it, but I do, and so will others.
She says this is to go on for three years. It

is preposterous ! You must have been mad
to suofQfest or ao-ree to such a think:. You
must do something, unless you wish to throw
her straight into the arms of the man who is
your natural enemy, and hers  if she only
knew it. What is there to hold her back if
he summons her to his side ? Bare duty and
self-respect. We all know how weak they
can become in the fire of a hopeless and
despairing passion. Duty, honour, right 
all demand that you should protect her  that
she should preside here as mistress, and be
acknowledged and recognised as such.

Oh, foolish man ! do you not see that the
tie that binds her to you, your interests and
responsibilities, weakens the hold of the past,
and strengthens your claim on her heart ?
Surely  surely I have said enough ? Enough
to bring you back from Timbuctoo, or Asian
or any of those wild regions whither you
may have fled for consolation. Believe me, you
will only find it here, in your own home.
'Your ever faithful friend,

Myra Freer.'

I wrote this letter after that last conversation
with Nance te. I wrote it hurriedly,
passionately, earnestly, brimful of eager excitement,
and suppressing with a strong hand
that innate selfishness that prompted me to
use weaker arguments.

I wrote it and closed it, and then  then I
leant my head upon the table and cried as
if my heart would break.

It was very feminine to do that, and I
might have made a dozen excuses for doing
it, but I knew the real one well enough. I
knew it years ago. I thought it had ended,
but it seems there are things that have no
end  for a woman.

It was a sentiment then ; it is only a
miserable, undignified thing now. But it is
wonderful what a hold some feelings have
over one. I said to myself once,  A year or
two will do it,' but I was wrong. Yes, I was
quite wrong. And yet how glibly I can
reason with that pretty, heart-broken girl I
How wise I seem, even to myself! But I

am not wise at all. Only a foolish, suffering,
wounded woman, who will can with her to
her grave a secret that no other living soul
knows, or suspects.

LETTER FROM ERROL GLENDENNING TO MYRA
Freer.

Genoa,

May 1st, 187.

My dear Myra,

Your letter came safely to hand. I
can only thank you for it, and your good intentions
in writing it. You will say I am
very obstinate when I tell you that your arguments,
clever and convincing as they are,
have in no way altered my decision. I cannot
come back to OavI's Roost. You know certain
facts, and you reason by the light they
give you. But you don't know all. I have
been duped and deceived in a different manner
to what you imagine. Heaven knows I would
not be hard on a young girl's ignorance and

weakness ; but there is a secret in Nancette's
life, and, had I known it, I would never have
made her my wife. She may tell you of her
love for this villain and of his fatal power over
her, but she will not tell you more. Do you
think I am unacquainted with the witchery
of her angel face, and voice like music, and
her solemn mysterious glances, that seem to
say what a beautiful soul lies in those starry
depths ? No  to my everlasting sorrow, no.
They haunt me still, and will haunt me till
my miserable life shall end. I was deceived
by her father for his own purposes. He confessed
as much in the letter I found after his
death, in which he entrusts Nancette and her
fortune to me. He bade me not read the
letter unless she became my wife  a wise
proviso. I am rightly punished, as you say,
for my rashness and my trust ; but both were
the outcome of an intense and chivalrous devotion
to the beautiful, friendless girl whom
Fate had left to my care.

More I cannot tell you. I thank you for
well-meaning efforts, bat they are useless.

The barrier between my wife and myself
is one that nothing can break down, save
a miracle, and we are beyond the age of
miracles. Still, I would do her every justice,
as you suggest. She may use my name;
she may, if she chooses, visit, or go among
such neighbours as enliven our county. I
withdraw my objections so far. But she
must put up with the remarks and questions
my absence will draw down upon her,
and make what excuse she likes. Fortunately,
I have always been counted an eccentric
man.

I am leaving here for Persia next week.
You may address me there, if you care to
write again. But please spare me the pain of
useless arguments, and believe that, however
mistaken my conduct looks in your eyes, it is
more than justified in my own.

Yours ever faithfully,

'Errol Glendenxixg.'

Obstinate ! Yes, I should think he is
obstinate. This letter was quite a shock tome.

I had so hoped and looked forward to
better things. Of course I had said nothiiiix
to Nancette about my writing, and she is
evidently not well acquainted with her husband's
telegraphy, for she made no remark
when she saw his letter to me.

She is certainly better. I will not suffer
her to get morbid. Neither do I ridicule or
resent the fact of that cherished romance.
That is not the way to cure it. Rather would
I lead her on to speak of it, showing by small
facts and details that her own imagination
has coloured the incidents of her unhappy
love  that she has seen this man by its light
instead of in his o wn. How he would hate me
if he heard me speak of him as I do !  not
that his hate or regard would trouble me
for a moment.

I wonder often where he is now. Nancette
has not seen him or heard from him, since the
day she escaped his subtly-laid snare. How
I bless Basil every time I think of that day !
Providence must surely have sent him to the
spot just in the very nick of time.

By the way, here is another letter of his,
nearly as funny as the first, so I have copied
it in my journal :

'Dear Lady Nancyee,

 Thanks, awfully, for your letter. It
was very nice. We like school better ; still,
wee are counting the days to the holidays.
They cook blackberries in the soup. I don't
think it can be wholesome  nor does ifc look
nice. Debbie would have fits if she saw our
dinners. One day there is boiled pork and
fly-pudding. The boys call it fly-pudding,
because the currents  is that riofht?-  are
scattered about so few, that you see about
one in every square foot of pudding. You
wouldn't like to eat it, 1 know. Stewart used
to get awful sick at first, but he's better now.
The boys don't want to fight us as much as
they did. I have grown two inches ; my
trousers have got too short. I had to buy a
new hat with my pocket-money, because the
boys made mine into a target, as I told you
before. 1 have only threepence left. I wish

Mr. Gladdening would send me some more.
One boy here owes me eighteen pence. He is
not coming back to school, so I do not think
I shall get it returned. He says he will send
it ; but he is not a nice boy, and he tells
stories. Do not send me any money unless you
can quite spare it. I don't know if Mr. Glen-denying
has given you more than he did us.
I think it would be awful jolly if you and I,
and Stewart, went off to the prairies together.
What do you say ? I'm sure I could take care
of you, and go trapping and hunting, and all
that. It's the proper sort of life, take my
word for it ! Give my love to Mrs. Free re.
Do you ever see old Chasable ? I wouldn't
mind grinding with him again. There's a
French master here  such a rum old chap ;
but I like him. The boys call him '' Beetle."
He is always talking of his discoveries in
natural science. He is very clever, only no
one will believe it. They make fun of me
because I like him ; I don't mind that. His
name's Mr. St. Jean ; I do not think it is his
real name. Has your Frenchman turned up

again ? But I hope he's not 'your" Frenchman
any longer. I remember our talk that
Sunday. This old chap has given up his
name, because his family might be hurt at the
idea of his turning teacher ! Rum thiner,
pride ! Don't think I've got any. Stewart
is writing also ; but he always wants to know
what I'm putting, and then copy it. I say,
what's the good of two letters beinor both the
same '?

Your loving

Basil.

'Pes.  The cakes and tofiee have all gone.
I suppose Debbie couldn't send us a round
of beef? I was going to send you a piece
off ours, that we had to-day. Talk of stringy
my word ! But it might grease the letter,
so I chucked it out of the window. It fell
on the head of the head-master. He didn't
like it, judging from his face. Good-bye
again. Hurrah for Midsummer !

Pass. Pass. So glad Mrs. Freer rides
the little mare. You must really have a try

on Bob. He's as quiet as a lamb. He won't
hurt you, I assure you.

'B. G.'

The days are running on. This morning
I persuaded Nancette to go to church with
me. It was the first time she had been
since she came to Owl's Boost. I wonder
what people will think when they hear who
she is. For I mean to take Errol Glen-denying
at his word, and tell everyone she
is his wife. The fact is certain, and what is
the use of concealing it ?

It was a warm, sunny day. She wore her
usual white gown, and looked very lovely,
though too fragile and delicate to please me.

We had to run the gauntlet of many
critical eyes as we walked up the aisle to
our seat. Jeannette was not so conscious as
myself.

One never feels how thoroughly respectably
solid and devout English people are,
till one has made the round of a series of
country churches. The country-people are

modelled on the usual excellent pattern. So,
I fear, is the rector, Basil's friend, Mr.
Chasable. He belongs to the old school of
preachers  prosy, dry, and safe. He chose the
subject of Balaam's ass as a suitable sermon
for a sleepy congregation on a hot summer
day. After listening to him for a while, I
became too confused to discover which was
the offender, the ass or his master, but am
thankful to say I was pulled out of this pit
of difficulty by strong pulleys of symbolical
and mystic explanations which resulted in
convincing me that everything meant something
else, and must be regarded as abstract
to the main question of the ass and his
powers of speech. The next moment, however,
I was plunged into a doctrinal chaos,
which, gratifying as it might have been to
the preacher, was slightly mystifying to the
congregation  at least, to such as were
awake. The majority were not. I confess
my ideas were not illuminated, nor did I
perceive that such sermons were quite an
unmixed blessing. In the end I fear my

view of the ass differed somewhat from that
of the preacher.

A few people spoke to me when we came
out, and I took the opportunity of introducing
Nancette. The great lady of the
neighbourhood, Lady Bosistow, whose husband
is our M.P., was very gracious to
the young mistress of Owl's Koost, though,
of course, she asked more particularly for
Mr. Gladdening. I said he was absent
just now on business. As he was at no
time a church-goer, and renowned throughout
the neighbourhood for unsociability, no
one seemed much surprised. We got into
the carriage and drove home, I congratulating
myself that the first ordeal was over.

That was a strange sermon,' said Nan-cette,
as we bowled along under the green
shade of the trees, now fully clothed in
bright and luxuriant verdure. * Yv hat did
it all mean V

I doubt if Mr. Chasable himself could
explain that,' I said. ' I think he got entangled
in a web of his own spinning.'

VOL. I. 14

One expects peace and promise from the
Church,' she said ; ' not mystification.'

Ah,' I said, * I wonder when the Church
will learn that. Tt seems as if, in its own
self-glorification, it could not believe in the
worth of calm and repose. It is always
exhorting, bullying, wailing, lamenting 
cramming philosophies and creeds down
people's throats  giving vent to arbitrary
assertions, taking from us our primal right
to comfort and content  and offering in their
place disturbing theories and imperfect doctrines.'


What sort of church would you attend
if you had your choice ?' she asked.

I smiled.

Nature's  most of all I answered. * But
we are tied and bound by conventionality. I
often look round on a congregation and wonder
how many among them would like their
real motives for attending church, revealed.'

'Perhaps she said, 'some of them have
no motives. Nothing fits so easily as habit.'

True,' I said ;  and if there is one habit

on whii'li the British nation strides itself
more than another, it is that of regular
church attendance. It is the ' regular " :
upon which it lays the greatest stress.'

I used to think that at school,' she said.
Oh, the weary, dreary, respectable Sundays
how dreadful they were ! How I used to
long for my bright sunny France then.'

You are half a Frenchwoman at heart, I
think,' I said, looking closely at her.

Yes she answered with a faint sigh ; ' by
religion as well as birthright. I prefer our
Church to yours. It has more life  more
soul  more poetry and beauty. It seems tome
that yours is stripped of everything that
sweetens and beautifies the faith you worship
and the church you attend. It may be
prejudice  I don't knows  but so it seems.'

I dare say it does seem so I answered ;
English people always connect religion with
gloom, and penance, and sacrifice, and general
discomfort. It is a prejudice, I suppose ; but
they cling to it just as the Puritans of old
did. To my mind there is something deeper

142

and holier in the teaching of Nature, would
we but listen to it. But we think it too
simple. Yet it would be sweet to lie in that
tender bosom and listen to the comfort of
that universal voice. To let slip the sense of
our worldly cares and sorrows  our strife,
and narrow hopes, and vain strivings  to feel
that the warfare of flesh and spirit was at an
end, for a time at least ; and that the hand
of eternal goodness and wisdom rested on
our world-weary brow.'

She looked at me with her beautiful sad
eyes.

That is better than a sermon,' she said.
I have been wondering why you were so
anxious for me to go to church. I should
have been happier in the woods with you. I
I tried to pray, but thought seemed stagnant.
Out here I feel my soul leap into
one rush of sudden thoughts that spring to
heaven ; but there it was all dull, and heavy,
and spiritless as death. Does that sound
wicked ?'

It does not sound  conventional I said.

Let us get out here and walk through the
wood home. It will do us both good in our
present mood.'

Yes,' she answered, ' I think it will.
Only '

Only what V I asked gently as we moved
on under the arch of trees that canopied the
soft green turf

Only I am not in tune with Nature as
you are. I sometimes think what would I
not give for your changeless serenity.'

/ The sky that has been swept by storm is
always the brightest and fairest,' I answered
gravely. ' I have not been always  serene.'

I wish,' she said hesitatingly, * you would
tell me your story I know you have one.
Is it  was it as painful as mine V

Quite as painful,' I said, ' to me. But I
cannot tell you of it now. I want you to
have a draught of peace, if not of Lethe.'

It can't be possible,' I said, ' that visitors
are coming ; yet I certainly hear chariot-wheels
!'

We were sitting in the room designated by
Deborah as my lady's boudoir' when I made
this remark. ' My lady ' herself rose and
glanced in alarm through the curtained
windows.

Some one is certainly coming,' she said.

That is the effect of church-ofoino\'

They have taken two days to decide
whether you may be called upon,' I answered.
' Let us look upon it as a matter of
course.'

She sat down nervously and in evident
trepidation. Her face almost matched her
gown in its colourless tints. Presently the

door opened. Old Clitheroe, with a new and
important sense of the family dignity, announced
* Mrs. and Miss TresylUan.'

I was tolerably well acquainted with the
neighbouring ' successes,' but am happy to
say I was not on intimate terms with any of
them. I had been away so long that I
seemed to come back to my old, ramshackle,
desolate cottage as a new inhabitant, and
certainly a very unsocial one.

Mrs. Tresyllian and her daughter were not
favourites of mine. They swept into the
room with portentous rustling skirts and
nodding plumes, and gave a general effect
of there not being sufficient space for
them.

Nancette rose to greet them with a certain
quiet dignity that pleased me. I shook
hands also, and then we all sat down, and
there was a faint, deadly pause.

I  I really must apologize,' began Mrs.
Tresyllian soothingly, ' for . not calling before.
But I had not the slightest idea  not the
very slightest idea  that we had a Mrs.

Glendennino' among us. You  you have
only just arrived, I suppose V

I have been living here for nearly three
months,' answered Nancette.

Dear me ! So long ! And your good
husband ? I quite long to renew my acquaintance
with him. He has been so very
retired ; we have really scarcely seen anything
of him at all. But I suppose things
will be altered now.'

I don't fancy they will,' I put in at this
juncture. 'Mr. Gladdening is not addicted
to festivity in any shape or form. At
present'  and I glanced at Nancette  ' at
present he is away from home on business.
His absence, of course, prevents Mrs. Glen-denying
from entertaining. It is a matter of
regret. Let us hope the regret may only be
temporary  like the cause.'

She looked at me through her gold eyeglass.


'Are you staying here?' she asked somewhat
insolently.

1 am,' I replied. ' You know it is not

good for man to be alone  still less for woman.
I am taking care of Mrs. Gladdening during
her husband's absence.'

'And you have been here nearly three
months,' pursued the estimable dame. 'Dear
me  three months! And to think I should
not hav known it ! Has  has Lady Bosistovv
called on sou yet V

We are expecting her to-days I said
tenaciously. ' She has only lately returned
from London.'

Yes  yes ; I know,' she said a little
uncomfortably, for she and the ' great lady '
were not on visiting terms, and a deep-seated
animosity existed between them. ' I hope,'
she added presently, 'Mr. Gladdening's
business will soon be arranged. We shall be
so delighted to welcome him among us again. 
You really must,' she added with ponderous
playfulness, turning to Nancette  'you really
must insist on his becoming social and  and
ah  convivial. He was quite a hermit, I
assure you  quite a hermit.'

It requires certain inducements to become

convivial, does it not V I asked, offering the
suggestion in an innocent and speculative
fashion for her due consideration.

There are many reasons, and  ah  inducements
here,' she said, still contemplating her
hostess, and only presenting me with a sight
of a rubicund profile and a set of nodding
yellow plumes. ' I am sure Mrs. Gladdening
will acknowledge that when she knows
us better.'

Nancette murmured something ; I can't
exactly say what. She looked very bored.
The stony daughter sat frigidly in her chair,
taking no part in the conversation. Presently
the mother turned to me again.

And how did you like America ?' she
asked, with a flattering appearance of interest.

America !'

I looked at her in placid bewilderment. I
was to all appearance strenuously endeavouring
to collect my thoughts, and turn them
into the channel she directed.

Yes,' she said somewhat nervously ; ' it
was America you went to  wasn't it X

*Ah, of course it was,' I answered with
pleased alacrity ; ' only I have been back so
long that I really scarcely remember how I
liked it;

Her complexion assumed resplendent tints
of dusky purple.

' I  I really was not aware  time passes
so rapidly  so very many calls upon my time
she stammered.

I  I hope you are not apologizing for an
inadvertent forgetful ness,' I said. 'I never
have regarded myself as a person calculated to
exact attention from my neighbours. Socially,
I have not the position to be a success. Individually,
I have not the inclination.'

That is a pity,' said Miss Tresyllian, in a
sudden, sharp, metallic fashion that startled
us. It was so unexpected.

I regarded her with polite attention.

I venture to disagree with you,' I said. ' I
don't compassionate myself. I certainly have
not the vanity to compassionate society.'

'Is it true,' asked the mother abruptly,
that American women are all vulgar, and

say **1 guess" sand "I alternate" every sentence
? And do they all eat with their
knives?'

There are vulgar American women,' T
said, *just as there are vulgar Englishwomen.
Their tastes are as loud and overstrained in
some things, as ours are in others.'

She turned up her lofty nose with a lofty
scorn that was meant to be impressive. If
she had hissed out ' Hateful woman 1' it could
not have been more audible to me than the
mute expression of her face and gesture.

When people go abroad she said rebukingly,
' they seem to acquire a reprehensible
habit of ridiculing everything in their native
land. I am thankful to say I have never
travelled.'

'It is a good thing for widening one's
powers of observation all the same,' I said.
No doubts  reflectively  ' it my have its
disadvantages.'

I think if English people travelled more
they would not be so narrow-minded,' interposed
Nancette coolly.

That was the last straw. The metallic
daughter gave utterance to a peculiar * click'
like the shutting of a lock, and the portly
mother, bristling with outraged British
dignity, rose from her seat, and hinted at
departure. We were politely regretful that
they should so soon deprive us of the pleasure
of their society, but we were only regretful,
not pressing as to its continuance. I think
that became clear to them by the time they
reached home.

As their carriage drove down the avenue,
it met Lady Bosistow's driving up.

My arrow, shot at a venture, has hit its
mark,' I said, laughing, as I turned to
Annette. ' The country is really going to
take you under its protection.'

Lady Bosistow was followed by Dr. and
Miss Jago  an old bachelor and his maiden
sister, round, rosy, plump, kindly people, who
took Nancette under their kindly wings like
two fussy, clucking old farmyard hens might
take a forlorn chicken. Lady Bosistow
was gracious and suave, and the advent

of tea drew us all together in a friendly
circle.

But when they had all gone, and we were
alone, the girl turned to me with a bewildered
and half-terrified look.

What does it all mean V she said. ' I 
I did not think Mr. Gladdening wanted
anyone to know  I mean, that he wished me
to be received as his wife. He will not like
it, and in time, when the truth comes
out '

What truth V T asked. ' The truth that
he has had the bad taste to leave you for a
while ? My dear, do not trouble about that.
I have his own permission to release you
from the ambiguous position you occupied
here. It could not have lasted. It was a
shame and scandal to you both.'

It was my own fault,' she said bitterly,
'and I fail to see how the acknowledgment
of my marriage improves my position.'

But I do,' I answered confidently. ' You
are so young and so unworldly ! Why, you
are little better than a child ! Let me give

3011 the benefit of my superior knowledge.
There is no earthly reason for you to hide
your head under a load of shame and suspicion
; still less to place yourself in a false
position, and live on here as Errol Gladdening's
unacknowledged wife. Nothing can
alter the fact that you are his wife. It is
madness to suppose it. It is a logical deduction,
arrived at by the knowledge of certain
conditions leading to results. No good can
be obtained by letting the outside world into
the secrets of your inner life. I am iudfifinof
this case as you cannot judge it, and I ama
woman like yourself. I hope you trust
me sufficiently to feel sure I would not
advise you to do anything injudicious or
unwise V

She looked at me steadily for a minute or
two with her clear, beautiful eyes.

I think she said, half turning away,
that it is a thousand pities Errol Gladdening
did not marry  you.'

The remark was so unlooked-for and so
extraordinary that for a moment I seemed

fairly to lose my breath. Then the colour
rushed in a hot wave all over my face.

Nonsense !' I said sharply. ' Such an
idea never entered his head. In marriage it
is always 'Mike to unlike," you know. That
is the irresistible law of attraction ; you can't
arorue against it

I have no wish to arose against it,' she
said wearily. ' It is too late ; but it was
a terrible mistake  a terrible mistake !'

Tell me,' I said presently, when voice and
face were once more under control ; ' tell me,
are you not beginning to forget a little ? He
has made no sign. Your refusal that day
made it all look final. Does that fact not
give you resignation V

I am trying my best to forget she said
simply. * It is my daily task. But it is not
easy. I try to school my heart  to hold it
down. I know that  that time is over
for ever. Nothing' could brinsr it back :
nothing could make me as I was that day by
the sea. But the effort makes me cold to
everything. The spring seems all gone out

of my life. I shut my eyes against
his presence, but I can't shut my heart
against recollection. It still comes at
times.'

That,' I said, ' is to be expected, but it
will be less frequent and less painful. Believe
me, it will. Duty seems a hard and unlovely
thing, but if we follow it we are repaid in the
end.'

*Ah,' she said bitterly, 'it is so easy to
talk ! I feel strong because I am untempted ;
but if he crosses my path again, if he looks
at me with those sad eyes that hold so much
unhappiness '

I don't believe he is unhappy,' I said
restive. ' I am sure he is not. I have no
doubt if you could see him now you would
be thoroughly disillusioned. He is probably
eating, and drinking, and dancing, and
gambling, and entering into all the frivolous
pleasures of Parisian life, as if no thought of
you had ever troubled his reason  I won't
say his heart. Frenchmen have passion, and
sentiment, and vanity. I don't think love

VOL. I. 15

is ever more to them than an episode,
calling one or all of these emotions into
play.'

You are prejudiced,' she said with a faint
smile.

On the contrary I said quickly, * I am
impartial. If I were not I could not
reason.'

If you loved,' she said sadly, ' you would
not care to do  that.'

I might care I said quietly. ' But I
know very well I should not be able to.'
Then I laughed. ' Can you fancy,' I said.
Miss Tresyllian a slave to the tender passion?
Poor thing I I wonder if she is sufficiently
feminine for sentiment or emotion V

She is very metallic, I think,' said
Nancette.

That,' 1 said, ' expresses her exactly.
You Avill have to undergo the ordeal of
returning all these calls next week.'

Oh,' she said with a shiver, ' how dreadful ! ,
Must I really V

'You must,' I said with vigour, ' if you

wish to be a social success. The entertaining
will come later on.'

And do people really like this sort of life ?'
she asked anxiously.

Apparently I said. ' Some ambitions
have no wilder boundary than admission to a
certain " set "  invitations to a particular
house, or the reputation of giving the best
dinners in their special circle. It seems odd,
and poor, and a sad waste of time to other
people whose views are broader, whose
experiences are wider, and to whom life hasa
great and serious aspect.'

I don't think I should like that sort of
life she said gravely. ' Does it also come
under the head of duty V

It may be a pleasure to you one day,' I
answered ; ' there is no saying how your tastes
may develop now the " successes" have taken
you up.'

'Why have you not become like them?'
she asked suddenly ; ' you have lived among
them honos enough.'

Oh I said, laughing gaily, * you forget I

152

have been in the land of freedom and enlarged
views of woman's rights. That makes all the
difference.'

If it has made you what you are,' she
said simply, ' I am glad of it.'

There cannot be much, to chronicle in the
life of two women living in a dull country
neighbourhood, where the routine of each day
is almost unvaried. We have drifted on a
year further since I began my journal.
Basil's letters and the holidays were almost
the only things that roused or amused us.
Yet I think Nancette is certainly better in
health, and more tranquil in spirits ; perhaps
this restful pause in her life has done her
good. She never voluntarily mentions Pierre
de Volens's name now, but I am not sure, in
my own mind, that that is altogether a good
sign.

By aid of the coachman's and my instructions
she has learnt to ride, and she and I go
out early in these warm, bright mornings,

and scour the country for miles round. We
never meet or see anyone but the farm-labourers
or the cottagers.

Having returned the county's visits, we had
done as much as was necessary. To accept
invitations was as impossible as to give any,
until such time as Errol Gladdening chose
to put matters on a different footing.

I have not heard from him since he went
to Persia. I scarcely think he would have
stayed there during the hot summer following
his letter. But he never writes.

It is now June. The woods are darkly
green, the lawns and hedgerows full of deep
and lovely colours, of wild roses and honeysuckle.
The sea is no longer stormy and
gray as I catch sight of it sometimes from
some high inland point, but blue and clear,
with gently heaving swell, and faint lines of
foam that fringe the shingle or the low-lying
rocks.

Nancette can look at it now without
flinching, but we do not ever go near the
cliffs. I think sometimes that the day she

agrees to do that will be a day when she has
scored a great victory over herself.

Most of the great folks have gone to
London for the season. The good old doctor
and his sister trot over occasionally to see us,
but Mrs. Tresyllian and her daughter concluded
honor aofo that we were not desirable
acquaintances. They never paid us a second
visit.

There is one good thing about us I
remark casually to Nancette ; ' we don't bore
each other, trying as our position is. It is
trying, you must acknowledge.'

If you were bored,' she said, ' I am afraid
you would be too polite to tell 'me.'

'I should not, indeed,' I answered. * Plain-speaking
is my strong point, I assure you ; I
should find it terribly hard to say anything I
did not feel, or think, or mean.'

 But you can show consideration,' she
said.

And something in her uplifted eyes touched
my heart very deeply.

That I said, as lightly as my feelings
would let me, * is not so much a merit as the
outcome of the natural restrictions of civilized
life.'

She looked at me a moment, then suddenly
a rush of colour came over her face. She
clasped her hands round my arm.

Tell me,' she said, ' do you think it would
be possible to go away from here for a little
while ? I feel  oh, don't think me foolish 
but I feel sometimes a sort of horror of the
place. It is not that it is dull, or dreary, or
desolate, but it seems haunted by so many
memories, and full of so much reproach. I
feel as if I had been long, long years in it.
If, when the boys come this time, we might
all go away  I don't mind where  only out
of this  away from here !'

I looked at her, amazed. All her self-control
was broken down. She was trembling
like a leaf

There is no reason why you should not go
away,' I answered soothingly. ' It might
have occurred to me before. There are lots

of pretty places along the coast ' Then

I stopped abruptly. ' But you don't like the
seal' I said.

I want to hear the voices of my own land,'
she cried passionately. ' The longing is like
a sickness that devours me. I want to look
on faces that are not set, and stiff, and prim
as these English faces here. Oh, Myra, you
don't know what it is.'

I think I do,' I said gently. ' I felt like
that myself  once. I was in America then.'

She dropped my arm and stood there
perfectly still.

You always understand me she said.
 Tell me, can it be done V

 I think it might,' I answered, after a
moment's reflection. ' We do not know
where Mr. Gladdening is, so we cannot
ask his permission. But I don't see why
he should object. Where do you wish to
go?'

Do you know the Channel Islands V she
asked. ' I went to Guernsey when I was at
school ; I often think I should like to brother

again. It is all so French there, and
yet so quiet, and so pretty, and quaint.'

It is only a dot of granite I said, smiling.
No ; I have never been there. By all
means let us go. But,' looking at her
gravely, ' I hope it will be safe ? No chance
of meeting someone there V

She flushed as red as a June rose.

If there were,' she said, * I would not
have asked this of you. Nothing is farther
from my wishes than such a meeting. Can't
you believe it V

'Nearly two years,' I said, 'and no >Yord

no sifjfn.

No,' she said steadily. * How wisely you
judged him !'

And in another year and a half I said,
your penance will be over. Errol Gladdening
must come back then.'

She grew very pale.

He will never forgive,' she said. * I
could not expect it. I have had ample time
to think the subject over. It looks even
worse than it did at first. I sometimes hope,

for his sake, that he may be able to set me
free.'

You should not wish that,' I answered.
'You don't know what a terrible stigma it
would leave upon your life. Marriage is nota
thing to be lightly set aside.'

Or lightly entered upon,' she said wearily.
Oh, if I had only thought  only known ;
but all the regrets in the world won't alter
things now.'

No,' I said ; ' that is what I am always
telling you. But it may yet lie in your
power to alter the course of both the lives
that now look so hopeless and so sad.
Reparation is possible.'

She sighed.

Sometimes I think I am cured,' she said.
It all looks so senseless, so foolish. If I
could go back, and take my life up and begin
all over again from  from that time, I do not
think I should be here alone, and my husband
banished.'

'My dear,' I said joyfully, 'that is a charming
confession. I wish your husband were

here to have heard it. Not,' I added gravely,
that he deserves such a reward. I consider
he has acted very injudiciously, and neglected
you most unpardonably.'

No she said ; ' I deserved it all. Remember,
you don't know all the story

yet.'

Shall I ever know it?' I asked somewhat
anxiously, as I looked at the young sad face,
so grave, and fair, and colourless.

You shall know it,' she said, ' on the day
that sees me reconciled to my husband, and
cured for ever of the folly that has made
shipwreck of both our lives.'

I shall be content to wait,' I answered.
And all shipwrecks are not fatal, even
though disastrous.'

The following day the boys came home.

It was always delightful to have them back.
They were so full of life, health, spirits, they
seemed to animate the whole place, to sweep
like a very whirlwind through its quiet and
repose, and dusty, unwholesome desolation.

Basil had grown very tall, and handsomer
than ever.

Stringy beef and beetles have not injured
your looks,' I said to him, as we all sat out
on the lawn that afternoon, drinking tea and
eating' Deborah's home-made cakes, * nor
Stewart's either. He looks much more
robust than he did last term.!

Would you both mind spending your
holidays away from here V asked Nancette
rather timidly. ' I want to go away for a
change, but I would not leave unless you
came also.'

Mind !' shouted Basil. ' Good gracious !
We should be delighted ! Where do you
want to go?'

To the Channel Islands I said.

Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, and Sark,'
quoted Stewart. 'How jolly! How do we
get there ?'

By sea, of course, duffer !' laughed Basil.
No wonder you are the bottom of the class-for
geography 1'

And so are you for mathematics,' returned
Stewart with brotherly frankness.

Oh, hang mathematics ! We won't talk
of them now,' exclaimed Basil impetuously.
Guernsey is a better subject. When do we
go, Lady Nancyee V

As soon as we can,' she answered. ' We
can start to-morrow if Mrs. Freer likes.'

Mrs. Freer is quite willing,' I answered.
We can go up to London tomorrow, make
a few necessary purchases  our wardrobes,
my dear Nancette, are very unfashionable 
and start on Thursday for Guernsey. I may
remark, en iKirenthese, that it will be very
hot there.'

I love heat !' exclaimed the q{y\.

Her face looked animated  almost happy.
I had never seen her look so brilliant.

 And so do I,' said Basil. 'Can we go
about in flannels and straw-hats ? I shall do
lots of boating there.'

Isn't it Guernsey that the old Beetle goes
to T asked Stewart suddenly. ' I'm sure it
is. Don't you remember he told us about

his granddaughter Leone  the clever one
said she was a better scholar than himself?'

Yes, I believe it is Guernsey he goes to
said Basil. ' What a lark ! Won't he be
astonished to see us !'

Is Guernsey really an island V asked
Stewart. ' Water all round, I mean. I
know they say England is one, but I never
can believe it. There seems too much land
about it, somehow. My idea of an island is
to stand somewhere about the middle of it,
you know, and see the water all round you.'

'We'll get a few of the inhabitants of
Guernsey to chuck some cartloads of stone
into a heap as near the middle of the island
as possible,' said Basil ; ' then you'll be
able to see the water if you stand on the pile.
I know it's very small  so small that it's
confidently expected the water will sweep
all over it one day, and the place that knows
it shall know it no more.'

Don't be profane,' I said rebukingly.

I think,' said Stewart, rising, ' I'll go and
study the map.'

Do,' said his brother encouragingly ; 'and
just mark the spot where you'd Hke that stone-leap.
It will be a guide for us when we get
there.'

The bare thought of change and movement
in oar quiet stagnant life was enough to excite
us all. That evening sufficed for packing and
arrangements. Old Deborah seemed amazed
at the idea of our flight, but gradually sobered
down, and accepted it as inevitable.

We took no maid with us, nor did we
burden ourselves With superfluous luggage. I
was an experienced enough traveller to know
the disadvantages of that proceeding.

Early the next day we were off" to London.
Our purchases, which consisted mainly of a
few cool cambric, and ribbons, and straw-hats,
were soon concluded. The next night
we were crossing: the blue waters of the
Channel, and after a ten hours' passage we
found ourselves tired and safe in the best
hotel in Guernsey.

We had determined to rent a small house

(if we could find one) for a couple of months,
and the first two days of our stay were spent
in searching for a domicile.

We succeeded at last in discovering a small,
pretty cottage with a straggling, unkept
garden that was a delicious wilderness of
roses, heliotrope, and carnations. From every
window, and from the widest creeper-festooned
veranda, one could see the dazzling diamond-like
glitter of the sea, sweeping away to the
rim of the hazy blue horizon.

A huge cedar tree fronted the house, and
shaded Avhat should have been the lawn.
The golden sunshine; the scents of the flowers,
the deep shades of the old gnarled trees, and
the far-reaching blue sweep of water, made a
picture altogether delightful after the gloom
of Owl's Koost.

Nancette was enchanted. So were the
boys. So was I in a sober, well-advised
fashion. I engaged the cottage, and two
French servants, had our boxes sent over
from the hotel, and then we settled ourselves
comfortably to enjoy Guernsey.

VOL. I. IG

It is the Beetle himself said Basil.

We were all sitting on one of the points of
the Guernsey cliffs enjoying the sunset when
he made this remark. Heaven knows how
we had come there ! By some tortuous and
ingenious method best known to the boys, but
not calculated to improve either our dresses,
or appearance.

A cool, delicious breeze was blowing over
the sea. The sky and air were crisp, clear
tints of blue and gold. Faint wafts of hay
and clover scents reached us from far-off
fields ; low, melodious notes of birds fell
across the stillness.

I felt thrilled to the heart's core with keen
physical delight. The scene, and the air,
the colour, and warmth, seemed to bring

back youth, and hope, and fair dreams,
and all sorts of sweet far-reaching possibilities.


When Basil's voice broke across the
stillness it jarred on me. But I followed his
glance. I saw a small elderly man standing
on the edge of the cliffs some short distance
off. Beside him was a small childish figure
in a dress of blue and red cotton. She had
taken off her hat, and was swinging it in her
hand. Her dark hair was simply plaited in
one long plait down her back. Neither of
them Alas speaking. They stood quite still
watching the sunset.

I'll go and speak to him,' said Stewart.

 Don't startle him too suddenly, or Leone
will be an orphan,' said Basil with thoughtful
consideration. ' He's rather rickety on his
pins, and he's just about as near the edge of
the cliffs as he can go in safety.'

Thus cautioned, Stewart slowly advanced.
We watched him lazily. Before he had
reached the old gentleman, a shrill little voice
broke out in explanation :

162

Mais, elite done. II y un petit msieu,
Mon pere, entendez-vous T

The old man turned round ; blank amazement
was written on his face.

Mais pas possible, mon eleven ! Ici T

Now, listen to Stewart's French whispered
Basil. 'It's lovely.'

'Yes, monsur,' said Stewart, very slowly
and distinctly. ' Nous shines a Guernsey
payment. Nous ponies ecrrivay  there
are two jours since our arrival. Mademoiselle
est  est votre grande fille ; nest-ce
pas f

Mais oui said the old man seemingly ;
and then considerately lapsing into English,
he went on : ' My grandchild  my little girl
of whom I have spoke, she lives here with
her gixtndmere what time I away am in
England. And you stay here for the
holiday ? And msieu your brother, do I
behold him also ?'

Yes ; he is with those ladies,' said Stewart,
nodding in our direction.

May I be honoured T asked the old man

politely, as he took off his hat and advanced
towards us.

Basil rose to greet him, and Nancette and
I did the same. In another moment she
Tas talking fluently and unrestrainedly to
him in her native tongue, while the boys
amused themselves by taking stock of Mdlle.
Leone. She was a rather slim, ugly child ;
she might have been any age from twelve to
sixteen. Her eyes were dark and large, but
too brilliant and restless to be beautiful.
She had a keen, clever face, but not a
prepossessing one.

Can you speak any English at all V asked
Stewart bashfully, ' because I  je ne satis pas
hcaiicoup le Frangais/

She nodded in a quick marmoset fashion
peculiar to her.

Yes,' she said. ' I know it  some. There
are plenty English people here. My idioms
are not good, perhaps, but I understand,
and I know many words for conversation.'


That's all right,' said Basil. ' It's very

hard to keep on talking long in a foreign
tongue.'

Then we all sat down once more and
conversation became general. We learnt a
great deal about the island from the little
girl. She seemed familiar with every part
of it.

I have lived here all my life,' she said.
1 wish I could go away to some big city.
Perhaps I shall some day.'

No doubt,' I answered. ' But ' all your
life " is not a very long span as yet V

I am sixteen,' she said gravely,

And do you really know Greek, and
Latin, and mathematics, and all those dry old
things, as your grandfather said you did V
asked Basil, regarding her with unfeigned
wonder.

'Mais Old. It is not so strange, is it ? I
like to learn. I wish I were a man. 1
would go to college then, and become a great
professor. That is my ambition. Mais
helps ! it is not possible.'

I don't see what women want to be

learned for,' said Basil. ' They ought to be
content to be pretty and agreeable, not stuffed
with dry and useless sciences

Dry ! Useless !' Her eyes flashed Hke
sparks. * Ah, what do you know ? You
are but an idle English schoolboy. I know
your type. The pauvre grandee, he tells
me when he conies back for the holidays
what a life it is you lead him ! You only
think to " shirk work "  that is your English
slang  not do it. T  oh, I have never enough
to do !'

Haven't you V said Basil in surprise.
By Jove ! what a rum idea ! I wish you'd
do some of mine.'

The small fury regarded him with supreme
contempt.

'What will you do with your life, your
future, mon petit msieu T she asked scornfully.
' You will have to think of that.
The battle is not always to the strong, though
you think so.'

'My ideas on that subject are of the
vaguest,' laughed Basil. ' I should like to bea

great hunter or explorer. One doesn't
need book-learning for that  certainly not
classics or mathematics.'

You would want to know the science and
laws of measurement even if you were an
explorer,' said the girl decidedly.  How
can you talk such hetise T

What a little termagant you are !' said
the boy coolly.  You pitch into me worse
than Mrs. Freer does.'

Her eyes turned to me in a half-apology.

Am I not right, madame V she said.
Is it not a sin to be idle, and to waste
opportunities V

 Most decidedly I answered ;  and one
can never know too much. I agree with sou
there. It must be satisfactory to work up to
the highest improvable point if you have an
ambition.'

'All lives should have that,' she said
decidedly.

Well, I have told you mine,' laughed
Basil. * We can't all have the same. It
would be a waste of money to send me to

college. Now you, mademoiselle, would
appreciate it. So will Stewart. He wants
to be a clergyman. I  oh, give me life, air,
space, liberty  better things than books, any
day.'

Do you think so V she asked with evident
contempt. * That is the opinion of the
animal world also.'
- Basil coloured.

Then it shows their wisdom,' he said,
rising, and marching off to the edge of the cliff.

The girl turned to Stewart.

And so you want to be a clergyman,' she
said. ' I have often wondered what an
English clergyman was like.'

The naivete of the speech and her grave,
intent survey of the boy were delicious. I
laughed outright.

My dear,' I said, ' Stewart will probably
change his mind a dozen times before he
decides on a career. A boy's nature matures
more slowly than a girl's. Haven't you discovered
that V

I do not know any boys,' she said. 'I have

only old people as acquaintances, and one or
two priests. Grandee does not visit or
entertain ; she says she is too old.'

Your life must be awfully dull,' said
Stewart compassionately.

I have my books she said gravely. * I
am never dull with them.'

A little stir, a sudden exclamation, made
me look round here. I saw that Nancette-
was very pale and agitated. I rose quickly
and went over to her side.

'Are you ill? What is it?' I asked
hurriedly.

Madame is fatigued  she is faint,' said the
old Frenchman with deep concern. * The
walk has been too long for her.'

No, it is nothing. I am quite well,' said
Nancette.

The colour came back to her face and lips.
She smiled at my anxious looks, then rose to
her feet and took my arm.

I think we outfit to be returning,' she
said. ' See, the sun has set, and it is a long
walk.'

The old Frenchman turned away to call his
granddaughter and the boys. For a moment
Nancette and I were alone and out of earshot.


What was it?' I asked her anxiously.

Do you remember,' she said, * in one of
Basil's letters that he said 'est. Jean " was
not his French master's real name ?'

Yes ; has he told you its

He has told me enough,' she said. ' I am
sure  I am convinced  that he is Pierre de
Volens's father.'

Good heavens f I cried ; ' and the child V
She shuddered, and turned pale.

T do not know she said hoarsely ; ' I
dared not asks

CHAPTER VIII.

We all walked home in the cool summer
dusk.

The old Frenchman, and I, and Nancette
in front, the boys and Mdlle. Leone behind.
The old man was a courteous and intelligent
companion. I liked his formal phrases, his
polite speeches, and gracefully turned compliments.
I began to think that French
people had a knack of putting you on good
terms with yourself that their insular neighbours
could never acquire.

VOL. II. 17

He and I had most of the conversation
to ourselves. Nancette was silent and self-absorbed.
I knew she was brooding over
her discovery. It was annoying and perplexing.
I could only hope that the scapegrace
son would keep out of the way. There
certainly was nothing in this remote and
quiet little place to tempt a worldly and
dissolute man to visit it, unless, of course,
he heard of Nancette's presence here.

I felt that Fate had played us a scurvy
trick. The peace and enjoyment of our visit
were threatened by a new catastrophe. When
we parted with our new friends, which was
close to our own domicile, I felt it incumbent
on me to say I hoped for the pleasure of
future meetings, but I fear the speech was
not so sincere as it might have been, or
would have been, but for that whisper of
Nancette's as she stood beside me on the
cliff.

After our simple supper was over, and the

boys had gone to bed, Nancette and I went
out into the garden. It was all dusk and
dim, save for the light of the young June
moon, showing clearly in the purple-blue of
the sky. Delicious scents of roses, and lilies,
and heliotrope, and verbena reached us from
every nook and corner of the fragrant wilderness.
We paced up and down, silent at first,
but gradually giving vent to thoughts that
we instinctively guessed were shared, even if
unspoken.

Do you think there is any chance of his
coming here V I asked hesitatingly.

No,' she said almost sternly ; ' he has
been a bad son. It is for his sake that
poor old man has to work so hard for his
living. He told me he had not seen him
for years.'

And you,' I said. ' Did you tell him
anything V

She shook her head.

No, I could not.*

172

* But he is a relative of yours ?' I said.

Yes, my grand-uncle. But as he has
chosen to hide his name for many, many
years, I do not like to claim relationship.
My father was not on good terms with him
when he was young.'

How did he betray his identity ?' I
asked.

It escaped him accidentally ; he was talking
of some place in Normandy where he
used to live.'

 It is unfortunate,' I said, His meeting.
Supposing Pierre de Volens did come here X

I think I should be able to meet him as
Pierre de Volens,' she said.

I looked at her. Her face was turned sea-wards.
I could only see the soft, sad curve
of mouth and chin.

I am glad to hear it,' I said. ' But we
cannot measure our force of resistance until
we are tried.'

There is no resurrection she said, ' for a

love that has died the death of un worthiness.
Every day I live tells me that.'

You are quite right,' I answered. ' But
how have you learnt the lesson V

From you, I think she said, with a
sudden glance at my face. * And partly
from my own researches. You don't know
you can't imagine how different things
look to me now to what they did even a
year aoo. Am I fickle, do you think V

Far from it I said quickly ; ' you are
only wise. I cannot understand a woman
loving a man whose every action proclaims
him selfish, mean, trivial and dishonourable -
I mean continuing; to love him  wrecking'
life, honour, and future for his sake. The
whole course of conduct pursued by Pierre
de Yolens has shovvn him to be a contemptible
and worthless man. If you will
look at his behaviour to you by the light
of reason and common-sense  not of passion
and devotion  you will see I am right.'

I know you are right,' she said with a
faint siih, ' and I do not shrink from meeting
him.'

*Has his power over you really evaporated
V I asked. ' Do not be too sure. If
he stood here now  this moment  could you
greet him without a rush of the old overmastering
feeling  the throb of pulse and
heart  the agony of remembrance that
dignifies even trifles ?'

Yes,' she said quite calmly, ' I could.
I told you something had gone out of my
very heart that day by the sea. Nothing
he could do or say would ever bring it back
nothing. It was the end for me.'

But supposing,' I said, ' it were not the
end for  him ? Supposing he should persecute
you again ? You see I do not dignify
his love by any very grand title. Supposing
he should appeal to you by the memory of
that youthful love; that  that secret you
share  what then V

She shivered a little, as if a breath of fear
had touched her.

It would not alter me now,' she said.
I seem to have grown cold and hard to
every memory. There are a hundred things
mean, false, and paltry  that have come
back to me stripped of their glamour, and
they all say the same thing. Ah, if I had
only been wise enough to believe my father's
words.'

It is better to be wise late than never,'
I said. ' If it is final, as you think, I do
not see what you have to fear. All the
same, I hope it may not occur to M. Pierre
to pay his father a visit. I wonder what
he has been doing these last eighteen
months V

More things to regret than to be proud
of, perhaps,' said Nancette sadly. ' Sometimes
I feel sorry for the girl who had such
grand and perfect dreams of her hero. A
hero,' she laughed bitterly, ' who powdered

his fjice and curled his hair, and was only a
sawdust doll after all !'

I am glad you discovered that in time,'
I said.  Women's greatest fault is that they
will idealize men. It is such a mistake.
Then the day of disillusion comes, and with
it comes bitterness, hatred, despair ! I sometimes
think it is better to strike too low a
key than too high a one. The disappointment
has a chance of being the other way.'

She sighed again. Her eyes went out to
the calm sea and the rippling line of silver
left by the moonlight.

Doesn't it seem a little sad she said,
 to gaze on such a scene alone ? Don't you
feel a longing for love and comprehension 
for something that is not an aimless dream ?
When you touch a chord there is an
echo '

 Yes,' I said as she paused, her eyes wide
and pained in their straining, passionate
gaze.

Bat the echo can never be caught or
held. It is sweet and clear, bat no more
tangible than the longings that fill a woman's
heart, and which, for want of a better word,
the world calls romance. It is subtle,' she
said, '' and dangerous.'

A cynic once said that at seventeen a
woman is in love with love ; at twenty, with
her lover ; at thirty, with herself. Yoa, my
dear, should be only in the first stage.'

Love ! love ! love I Always the same
story !' she said impatiently. ' I wonder if
it is an experience of every life V

I fancy so I answered. ' No exception
has been chronicled. Sooner or later, every
man or woman loves wisely, or foolishly. It
is a law of nature.'

She turned to me and laid her hand on
my arm caressingly.

I wonder,' she said, ' whom you loved ?
Was he good, noble, clever ? He ought to
have been.'

T am very susceptible to flattery,' I said
vitli a light laugh. * He was, of course, all
that ; otherwise, I could not have loved
him.'

Then,' she said anxiously, ' you were
happy r

Naturally,' I said. ' With such a hero,
could I help being in a state of bliss V

'And did it last? I mean Oh,

Myra, I beg your pardon, 1 forgot. But
at least you are happy in a memory so noble
and true.'

Yes,' I said, somewhat unsteadily ; ' it
is something to have a memory to worship,
considering: that women must have some
sort of an idol. Even if they are broken, we
keep the bits  just as in our childish days
we kept our dolls' broken limbs. No wonder
men can't understand us !'

Nor we them,' she said with another
sigh.

Which is one food and sufficient reason

for patience and toleration in married
life. It ought to be specified in the
service.'

Your married life did not show that
she said, looking at me in the clear pale
moonlight; 'you confessed as much. You
were singularly fortunate.'

My married life V A red flush rose to
my cheeks.  I never spoke of it to you I
said  ' nor to anyone 1 added bitterly.

She looked puzzled.

Was not that  that hero of yours, your
husband V she asked.

I hesitated, but those frank, compelling
eyes seemed to force the truth from me despite
myself.

No I said ; ' it was someone I knew
Ion a-  honos aoo.'

But not your husband. And yet you
married V

That was my sin I said, ' and my
punishment. Believe me, I am not the

only woman who has proved cause and effect
in a similar manner.'

It seems very sad,' she said ;  very sad !'
 Oh,' I cried with sudden unreasoning

passion, ' is not all life sad ? You begin it
so hopefully  you think everything is to
come; then in a few years you find nothing
is to come. You would like to sit with
veiled eyes and weep over all that is false,
and fickle, and heart-breaking, but you can't
even do that. Life pushes you on  on, remorselessly
to the end  the bitter end o/ the
grave. Then you are forgotten, poor little
unit in the vast sum of humanity. Your
place is filled  the place that seemed to you
so all-important here ; and then a voice may
speak pityingly or disparagingly your name,
and that is all.'

It is not like you to be so bitter,' she
said gently. ' I scarcely recognise you in
such a mood.'

I scarcely recognise myself,' I said with

an effort. ' Perhaps we are but hypocrites
after all  even to ourselves. That solves
the mystery, does it not ?'
She shook her head.

You are no hypocrite,' she said softly ;
but I think sou are a woman who has
loved and suffered.'

'You are right,' I said, with so near a
tendency to emotion that it frightened me
for my cherished self-command.

Do not let us drift into pathos,' I went on,
or personality. Moonlight and sentiment
are dangerous things for women whose lives
are lonely, whose hearts are young. Weare
safer, and wiser too, in the sunlight and
with the boys.'

She smiled somewhat wistfully.
No doubt you are right,' she said ; ' let
us be prosaic, and go indoors.'

On the table in the little sitting-room a
white packet gleamed. I took it up. It was
in old Deborah's handwriting. An enclosure

fell out a foreign letter. I knew the
Avritino: at a Dance.

It is from Errol I' I exclaimed.

She grew very white. She stood near meas
I read it. I seemed to see the strained
anxiety of look and attitude. The letter
was very brief As I laid it down I met
her glance.

Is he coming home V she asked eagerly.
I shook my head.

No I said. * He is as obdurate as
ever. Will you read it V handing her the
letter.

No she said, with sudden passion ; ' it
is not to me, nor meant for me. Why
should I V

Then she left the room. I gathered up
the letters and folded them together.

The ice is melting I said to myself.
She grows jealous and resentful, instead of
indifferent. Who can fathom the contradictions
of a woman's nature V

It does not take one very long to know
Guernsey. In two weeks we seemed quite
familiar with the wild coast, the pretty tiny
bays, and the lovely little water-lanes. We
had made excursions to the fort, to Leans
Common, to St. Peter's Valley, and
the old castle and church. But the lanes
were our favourite resort. They were so
cool and shaded, so picturesque and delightful,
in these hot summer days, with the drip
of water from the rocks, and their great
spreading ferns, and thick-leaved trees, and
the breaks thrush which one caught the
gleam of sea, or islet, or cliff, like a bright
surprise of sapphire and sunlight.

We paid visits to the market, and listened

to the odd dialect of the country-folk, and
made incomprehensible bargains with them
fen' fruit and vegetables. We also went into
foolish ecstasies over the orchids, and ixias,
and sea-stock, so novel in their natural growing
state to our English eyes. We recklessly
plundered ferns, and wild flowers, and the
curious horned poppies, and beautified and
decorated our cottage parlour with these
spoils. We discovered that the magnolia
was a tree, not a shrub, and that the myrtle
could spread itself over house-walls so
lavishly, that its height was only limited by
the roofs.

Every day was occupied ; every hour was
idly pleasant, or pleasantly idle. We went a
good deal on the water, being all of us excellent
sailors. We made excursions to Herm,
with its pretty stretch of sands, and to Sark,
that Basil declared ought to be named
Mahomet's Coffin, because it always looked
suspended between sea and sky ; and we

grew very friendly with M. Jean, and enjoyed
his courteous, clever talk as much as
Leone's sharp little speeches.

It has done Nancette good to be drawn
out of herself and her morbid griefs, and
to pass these long sunny days in the glorious
air and sunlight, and cheerful companionship
of that youthful trio. For the girl and the
two boys are always with her when possible.
I have to make company for M. St. Jean.
I jot down little fragments in my journal to
tell of how the days go. They are very
uneventful, but very pleasant ; and as one
follows another my dread of a catastrophe
lessens. Nancette's name conveys nothing
to M. St. Jean. He calls her  Madame
Nancy's in preference to her long, hard
marriage-name, and Leone does the same.

It is still a mystery to me who Leone
is. I have heard of no son or daughter with
the exception of the mysterious son in Paris,
who has been such a source of trouble and

VOL. II.  18

anxiety to the old man. I often wonder if
Ldonie is the daughter of Pierre de Volens,
or if Pierre de Volens had a wife at some
period or other of his life. I have heard
Leone say that her mother died years ago
when she was a small infant, and she seems
to have no recollection of any other home
save this with the old people.

Madame St. Jean is a taciturn, grim old
lady, highly religious, and with a strong prejudice
in favour of convents that neither her
husband nor Leone shares  happily for the
latter. It is hardly necessary to say that our
excursions are not countenanced or accompanied
by her.

Something occurred to-day that has greatly
puzzled me. We were all walking up the
steep harbour road, when we saw in advance
of us a stout womanly figure toiling along in
the hot sunshine.

We soon overtook her, and as Nancette

passed I observed her glance round incuriosity.
Then, to my surprise, she uttered
a quick, sharp exclamation, and stood there
gazing at the woman as if terrified.

The woman looked with equal astonishment
at Nancette. She was a dark, stout
Frenchwoman of some forty or forty-five
years, I should imagine.

She advanced and said something in a low
voice. Nancette signed to Leone and the
boys to walk on with me, and then stayed
behind talking to the woman for some four or
five minutes.

Then she rejoined us, looking pale and
disturbed.

Who was your friend V asked Basil, laughing.
* Kum-looking old party. Wish she'd
give me her recipe for moustaches.'

She is some one I knew in London,' said
Nancette ; ' a French lady.'

You don't say so !' exclaimed Basil
ironically. * We should all have taken her

182

for English. We are very much wiser
now.'

The girl looked at him, half perplexed, half
sorrowful.

Do not tease,' she said. ' I can't tell you
more about her.'

'Well, so honos as she is neither near nor
dear to you, we will excuse your reticence he
said lightly.  We were afraid she might constitute
herself your chaperon.'

But Nancette did not smile, nor did the
troubled look leave her face. Presently the
boys went on with Leone. We heard them
laughing and jesting in their usual fashion.

'What has troubled you?' I asked Nancette.

You look so changed.'

Do I V she said, as she pushed back the
hair off her forehead with a tired little gesture.

I dare say. That meeting was so unexpected.
It brought back things I had almost forgotten.'

That woman  is she a friend, really V I
asked.

A friend I' She looked round. Her face
was white and scared ; her lips trembled.
Did I call her that V she faltered. ' I should
have said the worst enemy my life has ever
known. It would have been nearer the
truth. Don't look at me like that, Myra,
and, oh, don't ask me more ! I can't tell you
I can't tell anyone.'

My deal,' I said, ' tell me nothing that
you do not wish. I am only sorry that a
chance meeting has been able to spoil your
pleasure here.'

She clasped her hands together passionately
; a strange white line came round her
close-set lips.

I am never to know any pleasure  any
peace,' she said in a strange, hurried way.
Fate is against me. The moment I
begin to forget, to enjoy, to feel a little
light of heart, a little hopeful, then something
or some one appears, and it is all
spoilt.'

I was silent. I could only look compassionately
at the flushed misery of her face. I
did not care to utter commonplace consolation.


We reached the shady winding road leading
to our domicile. The cool shade was delicious
after the hot glare of the sun. Insects were
humming in the dry, short grass ; the leaves
were swaying in a lazy, indolent fashion ; the
clear treble of a lark's song thrilled suddenly
from the sea-blue vault of sky above us. She
paused and looked up.

Oh she cried below her breath, ' if it
were only possible to shake off earth, and its
memories, and necessities, and pains, and take
flight like that !'

It is not possible,' I said, ' and you must
try to learn that. A few years hence  who
knows ?  you may feel very glad that your
wish had not wings.'

A few years hence.' She smiled a little
bitter smile.  You credit me with too much

fortitude,' she said. ' I could not live through
many years such as this last has been.'

And as I looked at the delicate, wistful
face a thrill of fear touched me. I felt that
the isolation and suffering of her secret-burdened
life might indeed be too much for
her to bear.

Do not say such things I entreated.
We are not tried beyond our strength. We
see that when we look back '

Oh she said with a shudder, ' do not say
more I Before one can look back, think how
much one mays have to live through. It is
that  that fear, that saps all my strength.'

So this day, begun so well and cheerily
is on its way to join the memory of other
days. 1 have not seen Nancette since the
morning. She went to her room, and excused
herself from joining us again on the plea of
severe headache.

1 have passed the evening writing up my

journal and despatching a brief account of our
journey here to Errol Gladdening. His last
letter to me was from Mexico. Why, in the
name of everything wild and improbable, he
had gone there I cannot imagine.

In writing, I once more urged upon him
the folly of his conduct, the strange slur cast
upon his wife and home, the more than
certainty that rumour and speculation would
set all sorts of stories afloat to his own and
his wife's discredit. I also told him that her
health was far from strong, that unhappiness
was sapping the springs of youth and hope,
and all that her fair young years should
know. But even as I wrote I felt how hopeless
my entreaties were, and was more inclined
to tear up the letter than to send
it.

When I had finished writing I went out
into the garden. It was quite deserted. The
boys had gone off somewhere on their own

account. I walked slowly to and fro in the
soft dusk. My mind was busy and preoccupied.
I came at last to the gates, and
stood looking out on the white, stony road
in an absent fashion. Presently I heard
voices. They were loud and angry, apparently
raised in some discussion. They
were speaking in French, but too rapidly and
excitedly for me to follow.

I drew back a little into the shade. The
speakers passed the gates. I saw them distinctly.
One was the stout, swarthy-faced
Frenchwoman who had spoken to Nance te ;
the other was a man. I could not see his
features, they were shrouded by the drooping
felt hat he wore ; but he was tall and
splendidly made, and his voice was singularly
musical.

It is here  you are sure of it V I heard
him say in his rapid French, and with a
gesture towards the cottage.

But, yes,' answered the woman ; ' she

have herself told it me. You can call  ask
see for yourself.'

Not possible,' he said as they passed on ;
she would not help me now.'

Not help you !' screamed the shrill voice
of his companion. ' Nom de Diei! she would
give you her last farthing. She is fool enough
still.'

Then they passed out of earshot.

I stood there trembling and disturbed. Of
\vhom had they spoken  of idiom could they
have spoken save Nancette ? Yet this evil-looking
woman, this strange man  what had
they in common with my beautiful, ill-fated
girl ? I grew sick at heart with a sudden
dread. I turned away, and went towards the
house. Mid-way between it and the dark
cedar-tree I saw a white figure. It was
Nancette. She came hurriedly towards
me.

Where are the boys ?' she asked.

I told her I did not know.

Probably,' I added, ' at M. St. Jean's.'

Babette has just come in, and told me
there was a rumour in the town that a mad
dog had broken loose. I hope they are not
there.'

Not likely,' I said cheerfully ; ' they are
sure to be home directly. I never knew them
in later than nine.'

Let us go to the gates and watch,' she
said, and took my arm.

I turned at once. We opened the gate, and
went a few yards down the road.

There they are,' I said, as I caught sight
of the two young figures hurrying up the
road in the clear, pale moonlight.

What makes them run so fast V she said
suddenly.

It is one of their races,' I answered.

But then, even as I spoke, a spasm of fear
seemed to catch my heart. No schoolboy
racing this; something of fear or terror surely
lent wings to those flying feet, and set its

impress upon the white young faces. Like a
whirlwind they came upon us.

In  for Heaven's sake, in !' shouted Basil,
and seized my arm.

I was off my feet before I knew anything
more. Stewart was just on my heels. The
gate clanged.

Nancette 1' I screamed. ' Oh, Heaven,
look at her !'

For, like one paralyzed and immovable,
that white figure stood in the centre of the
moonlit road, and rushing straight at her,
with open fangs, and foaming jaws, and
bristling hair, was a huge mastiff. I shut
my eyes. I felt sick with sudden horror as I
reeled against the iron bars of the state. The
next instant the air seemed rent with shrieks,
and hoarse and terrible sounds. I looked, i
saw a lithe young form spring arrow-like
before that motionless figure, and, with
superhuman strength, it seized and closed
with the terrible brute. Then a crowd of

shouting, rushing figures shut them both
from sight.

Oh, Basil, Basil ! He . will be killed !'
cried Stewart's voice of agony beside me.

Even as he spoke, a shot rang through the
air  clear, sharp, distinct.

The crowd seemed to part and sway aside
In an instant I was among them. I had a
confused sense of faces, voices  a stain of
blood on the white road  a motionless form
outstretched in harmless savagery ; and then
then through them all strode that pale
young hero. One arm was hanging down ;
a bright crimson stain was on the loose white
flannel sleeve.

Don't touch me,' he said, as Nancette, with
a low, faint cry, stretched out her trembling
hands. ' It's nothing  only scratch ;
but I'm going to M. St. Jean. He'll put
me right  he's got a system of his own for it.'

Then he turned away and ran full speed in
the direction of the Frenchman's cottage.

Nance te turned to me.

He was bitten,' she said ; ' he will die !
and for me  for my unworthy sake ! Oh,
don't bold me, Myra ; let me go to him. It
is all I can do.'

She wrung her bands in desperate misery.
I still held her firmly.

You can do nothing I said. * But he was
right. If anyone can cure him, it is M. St.
Jean. He was telling me his system the
other day. Stewart,' I went on hurriedly,
follow him at once  see M. St. Jean. Tell
him I will be there presently  that I remember
all he said. We trust to him.'

My voice broke as I looked at the white
agony of the boy's face. He did not speak ;
he only drew his cap low down over his eyes
and hurried off.

The crowd were still about us. I heard
voices murmuring confusedly of the bravery
and courage of the boy, but muttering of
ominous results all the same.

Who killed the dog ?' I asked at last, drawing
back from that sickening stream of still
flowing blood.

 I, madame  his owner,' said a soft, courteous
voice.

Some one came forward from under the
dusky boughs, came forward and raised his
hat, and stood looking at me and at Nancette
in the clear, luminous June night.

She, as she heard the voice, started and
looked up, and I saw the blood fade from
her cheeks and lips, and leave them gray and
ashen as the hues of death.

Her hand clenched convulsively on my
arm ; she shuddered in every limb, then
grew rigid as stone.

You /' she cried. ' Oh, it is too much 
it is too much 1'

Then, suddenly, without sound or warning,
she fell across the white moonlit road like a
dead and stricken thing.

Ix a second those strong; arms had raised her
from the ground.

Permit me to take her within said the
musical voice of this stranger.

I had no choice but to obey, so I followed
him and his helpless burden. The gates
closed behind us  closed on a tragedy that a
few brief moments had seen enacted. Sick
and trembling with fear for Nancette, for the
brave boy  for our whole joint peace and
welfare  I crossed the lawn and entered the
house.

Bring her here I said, opening the .


He obeyed, and laid her gently on the

couch, and stood there silently looking on, as
I sprinkled her face with water and loosened
the folds of her dress at her throat. She
soon opened her eyes and sat up. He withdrew
a little into the background as she leant
her head against me.

Myra,' she whispered faintly, ' has he
gone, or was it fancy V

I grew somewhat embarrassed.

 The gentleman,' I said, ' who killed the
dog, is here. He brought you home.'

The blood flushed to her face in a burnings
glow. She rose, and stood there with one
hand clasping the loosened lace at her throat,
the other steadying her against the couch.
He stepped forward. I saw their eyes meet
like a flash of challenge and defiance.

This meeting is a surprise, M. de Volens,'
she said coldly. ' I thank you for your service,
but I must beg you to excuse me now.
The shock, the horror of that terrible
scene '

VOL. II. 19

She shuddered, and grew as white as her
dress.

I have to offer a thousand apologies,' he
said, ' for the misfortune of owning that dog.
I am deeply distressed at the catastrophe,
but your young relative was so impetuous.'

He saved my life,' she interrupted passionately.
' At what a cost  at what a
sacrifice Heaven only knows !'

She clasped her hands before her eyes, as
if to shut out the horrors of that scene. I
thought it was now my turn to interfere. I
looked straight at the cool, watchful, handsome
face.

I am sure you will excuse us,' I said.
Mrs. Gladdening is very much upset, and
I am all anxiety to see after our young
hero.'

He bowed low. There was a chill, cruel
smile on his lips.

 I am desolated to withdraw,' he said.
But under the circumstances I feel it is my

duty. The young hero has my deepest commiseration


Yet I seemed to know, even as if words had
framed it, that in his own cruel heart he was
rejoicing that the boy should suffer now for
the vengeance he had sworn on him at their
last meeting. I seemed to breathe more
freely when that hateful presence had withdrawn
itself. I went with Nancette to her
room, and persuaded her to lie down.

I will tell you all that M. Jean says,' I
said to her again and again. ' You can dono
good by going there. I know he has a
pet theory of his own for treating such cases.
He has spoken of it as infallible. We need
not fear. The boy is in safe hands.'

Gradually she seemed convinced. The
horror of the boy's possible fate seemed
to have obliterated all softer memory of
Pierre de Volens.

At last I left her.

How T reached M. Jean's cottage I hardly

192

know. It was some half-mile nearer the
town than our own. But, panting and
breathless, I found myself there at last.
Stewart met me in the doorway, his eyes
red and swollen with weeping.

No one can see him he said. * M.
Jean is going to keep him here for forty
days.'

Then a little dusky-figure crept out into
the dark hall.

It is horrible !' she said.  But oh, how
brave, how noble of him ! How stroud I
feel ! Do not you V

I shuddered there in the warm summer
niolit.

'Is it you, Leone ? Can I see your
father V I asked.

Yes ; he said he would see you. You
would be calm and sensible. Stewart,' she
added contemptuously, ' does nothing but cry
as if tears would help one !'

Is that Madame Freer V said the voice

of the old Frenchman. * Will she have the
goodness to enter V

I entered, sick at heart and trembling.
My courage seemed all gone, now that I
must hear the doom of that bold and bright
young life.

M. Jean led me into a small room like a
study, and shut the door.

Be seated, madame he said kindly.
Why, how white and trembling you look !
I thought all English ladies so brave, so
strong. Now do not speak ; I know all you
would say. I will do all I can. Everything
is in his favour. First, to commence, he was
in a profuse heat. Bon ! He is young,
healthy, strong. Also good. He have run
all the way the moment he was bitten to my
house. Still more good. He came here in a
great perspiration. Nothing could be better.
I have give him the vapour-bath at thirty
degrees centigrade. It was strong to suffocating.
But we will see  we will see. I keep

him here under my own eye. I know every
symptom. It may be forty days or less
before the malady shows of itself. If not by
then, he is safe. You need have no more of
fear.'

The tears were rolling down my cheeks ashe
finished. I felt utterly unnerved and unstrung.
It seemed so horrible to contemplate
that brave young life sacrificed to a fate so
cruel.

Do you think,' I asked feebly, * that he
had better remain here, under your own roof?
Won't it inconvenience '

Inconvenience !' he burst in indignantly.
Of what is that ? I like him, I honour
him, I admire him. It is to my credit and
happiness to save him  and save him I will.
But if he go to you  to crying women, all
fussy, and nervous, and trembling at every
look and movement of the boy, he will be
frightened of himself. No ; he shall see but
me and Leone. Leone is brave ; she will

lauofh at him. Never will she show fear :
and then, a month  six weeks, and I send
him back to you cured. Viola P

But,' I said, ' did you not cauterize the
place ? I thought that was the safest
plan.'

He shrugged his shoulders with contempt.

 Engleesh/ he said ; ' not my method 
not my treatment. It stand to reason the
poison is not in the one place ; it go straight
through the blood  everywhere. You cannot
burn it out. It must be forced out of
the system. There is no way so effectual as
the lain vapour. I give him that every day
for several days. I keep him here undermine
own eye, quiet, and rational, and composed.
Are you agreed V

I would agree to anything that would
save him !' I cried passionately. ' Need you
ask V Then I rose. ' Can I see him V I
asked timidly.

No,' was the firm rejoinder ; * it is best

not. You will agitate him. He is best in
his own chamber  quiet.'

Was he very badly bitten V I asked again.

Not so bad as might have been. It is
the wrist. There will be always a scar. Do
you know  can you describe what sort of
dog V

A mastiff,' I said ; ' a big, ferocious-looking
creature.'

Then I stopped, and coloured in confusion.
I could not say the owner was his son, yet I
thought it strange if Pierre de Yolens had
come here to the island that he should not be
under his parent's roof. I saw more complications
arising, our pleasant intercourse
threatened, our friendship at an end, since it
was not possible that Nancette and Pierre
could meet and associate with each other.

*Ah, a mastiff!' said M. St. Jean
thoughtfully. ' That is bad. What wonderful
courage ! Sublime  astonishing ! That is
like the English boys  what you call daredevil.

I know at the school  ah, their
tricks, their games, their sports, all dare-devil
all dare-devil ! But he saved madame's
life, nest ce ]jas f That was brave  that was
fine. Ah, when he go back to school, but
how they will regard him  lui vrai hero !
It is true. He will be the king of all the
dare-devils there !'

This hopeful view of the case somewhat
roused my spirits. I said good-bye to the
kindly little man and Leone, and then left
with Stewart. As we went out at the gate,
a window was suddenly opened in the room
above the porch. I caught a momentary
glimpse of a face, then something white
flashed out and fell at my feet. I looked,
and saw it was a letter addressed to me. It
was written in pencil in Basil's large, bold
hand. When I reached home I read it.

'Dear Mrs. Freer,

Don't worry about me, and don't let
Lady Nancyee worry either. I'm all right,

and there's nothing to fear ; only I must give
in to old Jean's crotchet, or he'll never forgive
me. It was only a scratch after all ;
and when I think of Iter, and what it might
have been, I'm as pleased as anything. I
kept the brute off her. Do you know who
shot it? Ask Lady Nancyee. Tell her, if
she loves me, not to have anything to do with
that sneak of a Frenchman again. She'll
know what I mean. I suppose I can't come
home for a few days. I might begin to bite.
Love to you all. Don't be duller than you
can help.

Yours,

'Basil.'

The note was so characteristic of the boy
that I laughed despite my foolish tears as I
read it ; and then, with it in my hand, I went
to Nancette's room. She was lying down
clad in her loose white wrapper.

Her anxious eyes sought mine with feverish
eagerness.

Good news !' I said cheerfully.  He is
all right. And M. Jean thinks he will
remain so. But he is to stay there for the
present under treatment.'

She drew a deep breath of relief. The
tears came in a swift flood to her eyes.

My noble boy !' she said ; * my noble boy !
Oh, I was not worth such a deed.'

Indeed, you were,' I said, ' and he
evidently thinks so. See what he has
written. Perhaps the sight of his handwriting
will convince you that he is safe and
well.'

She took the note from me and read it
eagerly. I saw the colour flush her white
cheeks with a sudden vivid glow. She laid
the letter down at last, and turned to me.

What am I to do V she said. * You know
who it was ? He is here. How can I avoid
him ? The same roof that shelters Basil will
also shelter him. Oh, Fate is too hard  too
hard!'

You must leave here,' I said ; ' there is
no other way.'

 But the house  you took it for two
months V

True,' I said ; ' but that cannot be helped.
We must give it up.'

And Basil '

Basil,' I said,  is under the care of
M. Jean. He must remain there for several
weeks. We can do no good by staying.'

She rose suddenly and walked across the
room and seated herself by the open window.

No, Myra  no,' she said. ' He is suffering
for my sake. I cannot leave him for
my own selfish convenience. This man is
nothing to me  nothing. Why'-  with a
sudden flush and a strange look of passionate
resentment, ' do you know he was nearer tome
than Basil ; he say my danger even more
clearly, yet he did not move. He  he was
afraid. This is the second time Basil has
saved me. My gratitude to him outweighs

a hundred times the force of an unworthy-fancy.
I will not leave him till I know that
all danger is past.*

For a moment I was silent.
Do you think,' I said at last,  that you
have the strength ? Remember to-day.'

It was not an emotion,' she said,  so much
as the shock and horror ; the sight of Basil
with that brute's teeth fastened on him, the
streaming blood, the sickening fear of something
still more terrible. Ah !' clasping her
shuddering hands over her eyes, * shall I ever,
to the longest day I hive, forget it V

'You need not forget it,' I said, ' neither
need you wilfully run into danger.'

Do you think,' she asked, meeting my
eyes with a quiet surprise in her own, ' that
there is danger  now V

'1 know,' I said, 'that in an area limited
to thirty miles  is it not thirty miles ?  it
will be difficult to avoid meeting this new and
unwelcome visitor. I know that such meetings

must be painful as they are undesirable.
I wish you to understand this fully. It will
be of no use to come to me when too late,
and say I did not warn you.'

What do you dread V she asked, looking
at me quietly and directly, without flush or
tremor now.

Everything,' I said impulsively. ' I am
afraid of that man  of the woman who was
his companion to-night, of his fatal attractions,
of the possibility of his resuming his
lost power over you, of '

She stayed me with the light touch of her
hand upon my own.

You need not be,' she said. ' If there was
any danger  any fascination  I would be the
first to yield to your counsel. But it has
died out of my heart for ever. You can't
recall the flame to dead ashes. That wild,
foolish love is dead, and cold, and gray, as
they would be. Do you believe me V

I looked at her long and steadfastly  at

the dark, deep eyes that were so sad and
earnest, at the firm chiselled lips the whole
grave, serious meaning of the beautiful young
face.

I believe you,' I said at last ; ' but oh,
my dear, my dear, there is a base passion in
men that pursues the more hotly for coldness,
for denial, for the change that has turned love
like yours to bitterness ! I do not fear you,
h\xt for you. Pierre de Volens is not a man
to be thwarted or baffled with impunity. I
could read that in his eyes to-day.'

For an instant her self-command seemed
shaken. The pallor of her face deepened, and
a cold, gray shadow seemed to rest upon its
beauty.

It would not be so hard for me,' she said,
low and regretfully, ' if my husband were by
my side. But 1 drove him thence, and I
must fight my battle alone.'

I knelt beside her, and drew her cold hands
into mine.

Do not fight,' I said entreatingly ; ' take
my advice, and withdraw. Believe me, it
will be wisest  safest  best

Would you have me turn coward V she
said, with a faint, chill smile. ' How can I
tell the worth of my weapons if I do not try
them ? I wish to convince myself that I am
cured of my folly ; to retreat would be
cowardly.'

I said no more.

Three days since I have opened my journal I
That shows they have been uneventful  up
till to-day.

Basil is still quite well. That is the report
as Stewart and I go over every morning to
inquire. Sometimes we see his face at the
window, less bright and ruddy now by reason
of his enforced confinement to the house.
Once he opened it and threw out a letter for
Nancette. She has not accompanied us yet,
for Pierre de Yolens is here  under his
father's roof, and my worst fears are realized.
I have not met him, and Nancette has not
been out beyond our own grounds.

To-day, however, as I went down to St.

VOL. II. 20

Peter's Port, I saw him. He was talking to
the stout Frenchwoman with whom I had
been him that terrible evening. I began to
wonder what they had in common, these two.
She did not look like a lady  that I decided
quickly in my own mind  yet she seemed on
friendly and confidential terms with him.

Stewart was with me, and, as we passed
the two, he started visibly.

Do you see that man V he asked quickly.
He is the same who came over to Owl's
Koost, and Mr. Gladdening said he was
never to set foot there again. Fancy his
being here !'

Did you not know he owned the dog ?' I
asked.

What, the dog that bit Basil '{ No. I've
never seen him till now. Basil hates him,
I know. Does he know he's here V

Yes,' I said. ' But come, let us hurry
on. I don't wish him to see us.'

I think he has seen us said the boy, as

I quickened my steps. ' Yes,' glancing back
in the direction of the talkers ; ' he has left
that lady and is coming after us.'

I said nothing, but walked on at the same
pace. We turned out of the badly-paved,
irregular main street, and went on towards
the sea-wall.

The Esplanade was almost deserted. The
hot noonday sun was streaming down on the
glittering sea and the picturesque, irregular
pile of Castle Cornet. A few fishing-boats
lay idly moored in the harbour, and here and
there a sail gleamed far out on the quiet
waters. Tired and hot with our quick walk,
I sat down to rest. Stewart, boy-like, grew
impatient of quietude, and wandered off to
the edge of the Esplanade to watch the
boats.

A minute later a tall figure stood between
me and the level sundays. I knew instinctively
whose it was.

Madame will excuse,' said a voice in

202

tolerably good English. ' I have the honour
to inquire after the health of her friend. I
trust she is better.'
I bowed stiffly.

Thank you  yes I said. ' She is quite
well now.'

He hesitated a moment, evidently ill at
ease.

Is madame at liberty to receive visitors V
he said at last. ' I have wished to do
myself the honour of calling upon her.
May I venture to do so to-day, as I leave
the island tomorrow V

The news was so welcome that I fear my
face must have shown my relief. With an
effort I steadied my voice, and looked up at
him.

Handsome ?  yes, he certainly was handsome,
with the type of handsomeness that
wins a girl's beauty-loving eyes. To me his
face was almost repulsive. The brown waves
of hair were not guiltless of the hairdresser's

art ; the smooth, clear skin had faint traces
of bismuth ; the drooping moustache was
carefully waxed and curled ; the long lashes
betrayed a darkening touch that added to
the sombre beauty of the eyes, yet spoke out
the artifice of the toilet here in the pitiless
glare of the searching sunlight.

Make-up ' in a woman is barely excusable
; in a man it is revolting.

With a slight gesture of contempt, I drew
away from this artificial Adonis.

M. de Yolens,' I said quickly, ' as the
friend of both Mr. and Mrs. Gladdening, I
must frankly tell you that a visit from you is
both intrusive and undesirable. There is
nothing to warrant a renewal of acquaintance,
and Mrs. Gladdening most assuredly
does not wish it.'

He looked at me steadily and unflinchingly.


You are Mrs. Gladdening's friend V he
said with a slight impertinent raising of the

brows. ' Yes ? Very well. But permit me
to say that my business with her is a matter
of serious importance, and admits of no third
person's interference. You will convey my
respects to madame, and say I do myself
the honour to call this afternoon.
Year

I will do no such thing,' I said indignantly,
as I rose from my seat and faced him
there in the glow of sun and sea. ' You
have no right to ask it. I know the whole
sad story of Nancette's past life. I know
how you have been her evil genius  have
spoilt all the fresh fair years of her youth by
your selfish passion. I have her authority
for what I say. She will not see you or
speak to you again.'

I saw his lips grow white beneath the
shade of their thick moustache. He flashed
one quick glance of baffled rage and menace
at me, as, cold and self-possessed, I stood
there before him.

She has told you  this V he asked. * She
has commissioned you to say so to me V

Yes I answered.

For a moment he was silent ; then he
looked up and met my eyes, a flash of insolent
defiance in his own.

I do not believe you he said. ' No ;
much as I regret being rude to a lady, I do
not believe you. In the first place, she could
not have told you everything. There is a
secret between us which she cannot divulge.
It parted her from her husband ; it made her
marriage but a mockery. Think you I do
not know that he  this Englishman who
stole her from me  has never lived with her
for one single hour since he knew, or fancied
he knew, what led to her accepting him.
She has not told you that ? No ; I see it in
your face. Well, say this then to her : I
claim to see her again by right of our secret.
She will not dare to say me nay.'

A strange sick feeling stole over me as I

heard those words, as I read their meanings
by light of the cruel secret which had parted
Errol from his wife  which had kept her
silent even to me on this one point.

I drew myself up with what dignity I
could.

I do not understand you,' I said. ' But
I imagined it would not be necessary to tell
a gentleman twice that his presence was an
unwelcome intrusion.'
He bowed ironically.

'Madame is candour itself,' he said. 'I
regret that our interview could not be more
agreeable. I shall present myself at
madame's charming domicile this afternoon
all the same. It will be better that I am
received.'

He raised his hat, and passed on,
leaving me standing there helpless and bewildered.


For one swift instant my thoughts turned
with an overmastering sense of longing to

that absent friend, whose presence was becoming
daily more needful.

Oh, Errol  Errol,' I cried in my heart,
why don't you come back  why don't you
come back !'

I called Stewart, and we turned back from
the Esplanade, and took one of the carriages,
waiting by the landing-stage, home. I was
too tired and too upset by this interview to
walk.

The heat was sultry and intense. There
was not a breath of air. The roads seemed
parched, the very flowers drooped and sickened
in the scorching sunlight. There had
been no rain or storm since we had come
to the island. I glanced up at the brazen
skies with a sort of longing for one or
other.

T think there will be a storm before
night,' said the driver, as we reached our
gates at last.

I hope so,' I said mechanically, as I paid
him his fare ; ' we need it

Nancette was just within the gates, watching
for us. She wore one of her simple
creamy muslins, and held a large white
umbrella over her head. I sent Stewart on,
and took her arm, and turned aside with her
under the trees.

Something has happened,' she said
quickly. ' Basil  is he worse V

No  no,' I said ; ' it is not Basil. Only

I have seen '

Pierre V she cried breathlessly.
I nodded.

Yes,' I said ; ' he insists upon coming
here this afternoon. I told him you would
not receive him. He said you must.'

I midst /' she faltered. Then setting her
small white teeth together : ' I will not !' she
cried fiercely. * Do you hear, Myra  I will
not. Nothing shall induce me.'

I told him that,' I repeated. ' I might

as well have spoken to a stone 1 He defied
me to prevent it  he defied you to refuse it.
He is coming.'

Buff what can be his reason V she cried
desperately. ' There is no use, no sense 
nothing to be gained by forcing himself thus.
What does he require V

That I said, ' is more than I can tell
you. He did not favour me with his confidence,
but he was very imperative.'

She looked at me helplessly.

What am I to do V she said. ' It is not
that I am afraid, only  only '

I know,' I said. ' He has some right
over you, and he uses it unscrupulously.
Your position is an unfortunate one. If
your husband were here he would never dare
behave like this ; but he knows you are unprotected,
alone ; and he is a selfish, unprincipled
coward. Oh, Nancette, how could
you, even in the frenzy of romance, ever
have put faith in such a man V

She drew her breath sharply.

I am bitterly punished,' she said 
bitterly. 1 see my folly now more plainly
every day  every hour that I live.' Then
she turned to me, her eyes a flame of wrath.
He will drive me desperate I' she said. ' I
cannot bear to be persecuted like this ! It
is brutal, shameful, unseemly !'

It is what he is himself,' I said. ' Ah,
my dear, when we reap our harvests we
regret the seed we have sown.'

She looked at me steadfastly and long.

Myra,' she said, ' I will not see him.
You must tell him so. All that is possible
to say between us has been said. For the
rest, I do not see that my husband's money
should find its way to his pockets any longer.'

Do you mean to say ' I cried indignantly.


I mean to say,' she went on, her cheeks
flaming to scarlet, ' that it is money he
needs, and money his accomplice needs ; but

they shall have no more. Of that I am
determined.'

I took her hand and looked at her.

Oh, Nancette,' I cried,  how foolish you
have been !'

'Yes she said, 'I have. You can't say
worse of me than I say of myself. But I will
leave this as a written message for him. I
will have nothing more to say to him, or todo
v/ith him. My mind is made up. I have
nothing to fear now.'

Not  the secret V I said.

The colour left her face.

It has done its worst she said hopelessly
 * it has poisoned my life, and turned
my husband's heart from me for ever.
Nothing can undo that wrong. If I were a
stronger woman,' she added suddenly, as she
looked up at the burning width of sky  ' if I
were not such a weak, cowardly thing 
frightened of herself as well as of others 
I would have vengeance, not patience !

Heaven knows I have borne enough for this
man's sake I He might hold his hand
now.'

I was silent. What could I say that would
liL'lp her, or give her comfort in an hour like
this ?

She moved away, and I followed her into
the house.

A short time afterwards she came to me
with a note addressed to Pierre de Volens.

Will you give him that V she said simply.
I shall go over to Sark this afternoon. You
can say I have left here. He will understand.'


I took the note. We then went into the
parlour and had our luncheon. I wished
her to take Stewart with her, but she refused.


 I am not fit company for anyone,' she
said. * I had rather be by myself.'

Half an hour later, she left the house in a
hired carriage for St. Peter's Port. As I

kissed her at the door, a strange feeling came
over me. I could not analyze or express it,
but I felt reluctant to let her go away
alone.

'If you would only take Stewart,' I pleaded,
as I held her hand, ' I should feel so much
more at ease.'

She shook her head.

No  I am better alone,' she said ; ' and
the sea is so calm, there is nothing to fear.
You will see me back safe and sound this
evening.'

If there is a storm V I said doubtfully, as
I looked up at the burning sky. ' It is so
sultry, so oppressive. I am afraid the weather
will change.'

If it does she said, ' I can stay in" Sark.
There is a capital hotel there.'

I wish I could come with you !' I cried
suddenly. ' Could we not leave the note, and
both go to Sark V

 I would rather you saw him,' she said.

He will read the letter here. I want you
to be present, in case he has anything to

say

I did not arose more. Assail I kissed the
pale, lovely face, and then watched the
carriage as it took the steep, shady road
down to the town. When I could see it
no more, I turned back into the house. It
was only two o'clock. I wondered how long
I should have to wait. The window was wide
open, but not a breath of air stirred the curtains.
The heat was almost suffocating. I
felt oppressed as by a heavy weight. The
silence everywhere was so complete, that the
very rustle of my dress on the matting which
covered the polished floor sounded ominously
loud and irritating. I drew a large easy-chair
up to the window. The outside blinds
were down, and kept off the glare of the sun ;
the room was dark, and as cool as it was possible
for anything to be on such a day. I
took up some scattered sheets of paper, and

entered all the occurrences of the day ready
for my journal.

-5-55--SS--5

I have been writing for nearly two hours.
Still Pierre de Volens has not come. Perhaps


VOL. II. 21

Seven p.m.  The storm has come at last. For
three hours has the rain been pouring in
torrents from the heavy thunder-clouds that
have covered the sultry sky. For three
hours have I been in this room, too restless
for work, or books, or employment. In despair
I sit down to my journal again. I will enter
the account of Pierre de Volens's visit. That
at least will pass away the time till Nance te
returns.

It was but a few minutes after four when
Babette ushered him into the little drawing-room,
where I sat writing by the window.
Coming out of the light into this darkened
room, he did not seem to recognise me. He

walked up to the little table and bent down
to the figure sitting so quietly there.

Nancette,' he said, in a low, eager voice.

I rose to my feet. I took up her note and
held it towards him.

Mrs. Gladdening has left Guernsey,' I
said. * She desired me to give this note to
you. I am sorry you have had the trouble of
coming all this way for nothing.'

His face grew very white. Looking at
him in that dim light, I acknowledged that
he was strikingly handsome. He had made
the best of his natural advantages, and the
pallor of his face only gave a new charm to
the soft darkness of eyes and lashes.

Left Guernsey !' he said at last. ' It is not
possible !'

It is not only possible, but an accomplished
fact,' I said coolly, as I drew the
blind up to let some light into the room.
Her letter explains it.'

He tore it open without ceremony or

212

apology. At the same moment a low,
ominous roll of thunder broke the stillness
without. Glancing up, I saw that the sky was
dark with looming clouds. A few large drops
of rain fell pattering on the leaves of the
camellias and geraniums that grew outside the
window. I glanced at Pierre de Volens. The
note was very brief, but the baffled passion
and fury in his heart wrote themselves in
ugly living letters across his face as he took in
the meaning of its curt lines. He folded
it up, and looked straight at me as I stood
there by the open window.

I can guess whom I have to thank for
this,' he said, with scarcely-veiled insolence.
You are a true friend to monsieur the absent
husband.'

I hope,' I said calmly, ' that I should be a
true friend to any woman persecuted by a
cruel and unmanly man.'

Meaning  me V

Meaning,' I said, ' you  if you have the

sense to take it, monsieur. I warned you
this morning that it would be useless to
attempt to see Mrs. Gladdening again. You
see I was right.'

I see he said ironically, ' a clever woman
who has used her brains against mine to some
advantage. But I am not used to be baffled.
Your advice has simply altered my plans. It
will not be difficult to discover where Madame
Glendenninoj has fled. The world is never so
small as when one person is trying to hide
from another. We shall meet yet  do not
fear. I can wait  oh yes, I can wait !'

What do you want with her V I cried
passionately. ' What is the use of this senseless
persecution ? You have done her harm
enough. Can you not be content V

He smiled.

Madame is superb,' he said, ' when she is
a little what we call  enraged. But like all
her charming sex, she is not logical. I have
done no harm yet. I do not say what I may

do if put to the test. I have a matter
of business to settle with my fair cousin.
It must be settled. Then I make my
adieux.'

You want money,' I cried, losing all
patience now. ' You are one of those men
who trade on women's folly and weakness for
your own ignoble ends. Ah !' setting my
teeth firmly in a paroxysm of passionate
indignation, ' if I were only a man ! If
for five minutes I could be a man, to chastise
you as you deserve !'

He only smiled, though his lips shook a
little.

Do not utter a wish that would so punish
the sex you honour by belonging to it,' he
said sarcastically. *Your tongue can give
chastisement strong enough to please any
man. Be content.'

I was too furious to answer. I watched
him coolly fold up Nancette's letter and put
it in his pocket. Then he. walked to the

door. As his hand rested on the handle, he
turned his insolent face towards me again.

Yoii seem to be in sour friend's innermost
confidence,' he said. ' Pray has she
told you with whom she eloped from school
before ever M. Gladdening appeared on the
scene ? If she has, you may allow that I
have a little claim on her consideration.'

Then the door closed. I was left standing
there like one stunned, trying to fathom the
meaning of those insulting words.

Over and over assail have I said them to
the accompaniment of the falling rain and
the crashing thunder. Over and over again
have I assured myself they were but the
utterance of malice and baffled passion. Yet
I only seem to see more clearly the very
possibility I deny. I read by light of that
cruel taunt all the mystery and misery of
Errol Glendennino's marriage.

The secret to which Nancette has alluded
the oft-repeated declaration that the gulf

between her husband and herself can never
be crossed or closed  the power this man
wields over her  all these things startle me
with fresh conviction even as I bring against
them my own staunch belief in the purity
and innate nobility of Nancette's mind.

So the hours have passed  the long, dreary,
miserable hours. I am still sitting here alone,
while the storm rages without. I am still
battling with disbelief, and still listening
with longing ears for the sound of the wheels
that will tell me of Nancette's return.

8 p.m.  She has not come. The rain still
falls, a thick fog is sweeping over the sea, a
gray haze of vapour spreads between earth
and sky. I begin to hope she may not have
left Sark. I know the danger of these
Channel fogs. And she is all alone. Oh,
with what vain yearnings I long to be
beside her !

10 p.m.  Still no signs of her coming.

The storm is over now, but away out to

sea the haze is still thick as ever. I am
getting terribly uneasy. I sit here all alone.
Babette has gone to bed. So has Stewart.
There is not a sound in the house, and that
eerie sense of stillness and loneliness which
the night brings, is oppressively perceptible.

If she does not come home in another
hour, I shall know it is hopeless to expect
her. Probably the boat would not run in
this fog, and she must be staying in the
neighbouring island.

11 p.m.  She has not come. I have
grown tired of my own company, and of
waiting. I am going to close my journal
and betake myself to bed.

Is it only a day since I wrote that last
extract ? A day ! It seems to me like
years  long, terrible, agonizing years.

Nancette has not returned  nay, more,
she has not been to Sark at all. I have
exhausted every kind of inquiry  all in vain.
The driver says he took her to the harbour,
that she paid him, and then went down
towards the landing-stage. He drove oiF,
and saw no more of her.

From that moment she seems to have as
completely disappeared as if earth or sea had
swallowed her. I can find no trace of her
going on board the excursion steamer. There
is no trace of her at any of the hotels ; no

boatman appears to have taken any lady out
in his boat during the afternoon answering to
her description in any particular.

The whole day has passed, and I am well-nigh
frantic with my futile efforts. I have
called the services of the police to my aid,
but the legal arrangements here are so
cumbrous and unsatisfactory, that I cannot
reckon upon any efficient aid.

So many formalities have to be gone
through, that I declare a person might be
dead and buried before any steps could betaken
to ascertain the fact.

Night has fallen again, and weary and
exhausted I sit here trying to surmise and
invent theories for her absence, but miserably
conscious that my efforts are futile, and that
a dread and horror are slowly and surely
undermining my attempts at reasonable suggestions.


For Pierre de Volens has left the island
also. I learnt that this morning.

As I remember his look, his words, a sort
of horror seizes me. I know him to be unscrupulous.
I know that he was furious at
Nancette's letter, at her absence, which had
thwarted his intentions. Supposing they
had met *

But no. I shall go mad if I pursue that
train of thought !

It is nearly midnight now. I cannot rest,
I cannot sleep. The police officers have promised
to let me know the moment any news
is ascertained. At any moment some message
might come, and I must wait and hope
for it.

I think of her to-night as I never thought
of her before  I tell myself it is impossible
she could have deceived me. Surely 
surely Pierre de Yolens has lost his power
over her. Surely not even the dastardly insinuations
of his last words to me could form
the basis for such an inexplicable thing as

Nancette's flight  as Nancette's disappearance.


The dawn is breaking in the east  the clear,
pale, lovely dawn of a summer day. I seethe
rose-tints of the sky reflected in the sea.
I watch the mists as they furl themselves in
hazy vapour, and float mysteriously into the
mystic clouds.

Another day 1 What will it bring ? What
fate has befallen the young, sorrowful, tragic
life that has become so dear to me ?

I look down the familiar garden-path. I
seem to see her as she stood there yesterday
 the simple white dress falling in
its graceful lines around the slender figure ;
the beautiful, wistful face upraised to
mine beneath the burning haze of sunlight.


A tear falls on the page. My heart calls
for her as never it has called before.

The sun is mellow and golden in the soft

blue above. I hear the stir of the waking
birds in the boughs without. All things
external are so bright and fair, that they
seem a mockery to me in ray grief and ever-deepening
fear.

In despair I turn away. The shudder of
an inexpressible dread shakes me as with icy
cold. I think of her in her weariness and
sorrow and despair ; I think of her wasted
life and wasted love, and the relentless persecution
which had cursed even this brief spell
of peace.

Had she been tempted beyond her strength,
or tried beyond endurance ? Had the sea
claimed her secret for its own, and was

the tired heart at rest under those stormy

</

Waters ?

If I only knew  oh, dear Heaven, if I

only knew !

I take up my narrative a week later.
Nothing has been ascertained of Nancette's

fate. It is as great a mystery as ever. Not
all the services of procureur, and deputies,
and officials have been of the slightest use.
Considering that* neither bailiff nor jurats
nor even the impressive body called the
Elective States, has had the benefit of legal
education, this is not so surprising as it
might appear at first.

I am utterly disheartened and hopeless
now.

The favourite theory here seems to be
that the missing girl employed a cutter to
take her to one of the adjacent islands, and
that the boat must have been lost in the
fog, or run into one of the numerous rocks
that make the channels of approach so
dangerous. Another theory is also advanced
that she may have employed one
belonging to a boatman of the other islands
waiting for a return passenger, or the
property of some of the natives who had
come over to work at the vraie harvest,

which had recently commenced, and would
be in full swing until August.

I myself have been over to Sark, and
Herm, and Alderney, but no trace or sign
of her presence is to be found at any of
these places.

Sorrowfully but surely does conviction
come upon me that her fate is doomed to
be unknown. All that is possible to do I
have done. Inquiries, agents, money, have
produced no result. From the hour that
she went down the harbour road to the
sea her fate is involved in impenetrable
mystery.

At last, sorrowfully and heart-brokenly, I
write to Errol. I tell him that he may
come back now if he chooses, for never again
in all human probability will he see the face
of the ill-fated girl who has borne his
name, and lived in his home, and cast the
shadow of her tragic life upon his heart and
my memory.

August 30/. In tears and grief I write
these last records.

To-morrow I leave Guernsey with the boys
and M. St. Jean. Basil is quite cured ; nota
single bad symptom has shown itself. But
his grief for the fate of Nancette has made
him very ill. I could not have believed that
he would have taken ifc so to heart. We did
not tell him until M. Jean gave us leave.
He thinks that school-life and English air
will subdue the boy's sorrow in some degree,
so we are hastening back to Owl's Koost. A
very sad and dismal party we are.

Leone is coming to see us off. In her
brusque, cold way I think she is sorry for
our sorrow, but she does not say much. I
have beoun to regard her with a certain
distaste. She reminds me of that hateful
memory. I have ascertained that Pierre do
Volens is in Paris, and alone. I feel ashamed
of the unworthy suspicion of a moment, but
even as I know it is for ever set at rest, I

VOL. II. 22

feel the shadow of that sad and inexplicable
fate falling darkly, ominously over my heart,
and I close the pages that tell of it, in silence
and in tears.

SUSPENSE.

2 22

It was the dusk of a cold autumn day. The
last rays of sunset were faintly shining
through misty clouds ; the trees were showering
damp and faded leaves upon the ground ;
the quiet of the lonely woods was shadowed
and subdued by the melancholy influence of
the dying year.

A man was making his way over the leaf-strewn
path which led to the gates of Owl's
Roost. He trod it as one familiar and acquainted
with every landmark. His step
was somewhat hurried ; he scarcely glanced
around. He walked on steadily as one with
an object in view, and only stopped when
the tall iron gates that opened on the winding
drive arrested his progress.

Passion throuoli them, With a word of
explanation to the woman at the lodge, he
went on towards the house. The wind
rustled the boughs of the trees in the
avenue, and the leaves fell damp and cold
about his face, and fluttered to his feet.
Everything around and about him was
dreary, and chill, and inexpressibly gloomy.

The old house was so thickly shut in by
trees that it was scarcely visible. Only a
few lights gleamed from the windows, and
served still further to show up the gloom
that shrouded it like a shrouding curtain.

As the stranger advanced and ranof the
bell, he shuddered from head to foot. The
pain of remembered pain turned him cold
and faint. He was thinking of a past,
bitter with more than the ordinary bitterness
of life. He was thinking of one vague
dream that had illumined it briefly, only to
shroud it in deeper darkness for that momentary
light. He was thinking of efforts made

to balance and sustain that life amidst unreasoning
passion and cruel pain. He was
thinking of isolated years of youth and manhood,
and of drifting fancies that had faded
into dim shadows now.

Under the influence of such feelings and
such memories, he found that the door was
open, and that he was confronted by a strange
face.

I wish,' he said, ' to see Mrs. Freer.'

The woman looked at him as one looks
at a stranger. Then she led the way into
the hall, and across it to a small room curtained
off from the library.

A bright fire burned there ; a lamp was on
the table. By the fire a woman sat in a low
cushioned chair.

She started as the door opened, then rose
to her feet with a low, astonished cry.

Errol r she cried. * You ! Is it possible V

The soft folds of her black dress fell round
her tall, beautiful figure. The light shone

on her flushed cheeks, and the radiant glow
of welcome in her eyes. She looked a
beautiful woman still, though the first bloom
of youth had passed. The dark background
of rich colours in the room framed her face
and figure to wonderful advantage, and as
she clasped his hands in eager welcome,
Errol Glendenninor seemed to recognise for
the first time how fair a woman this friend
of his youth was.

For a moment both were silent ; then
their hands parted. The colour left Myra
Freer's face ; she sank down into the low
chair, and took up a small hand-screen, as
if to shade her face from the glow of the
flames.

You know all V she said, her voice low,
and pained, and unsteady. ' You had my
letters V

Yes,' he said. * I was very shocked and
and grieved. Has nothing more been
heard V

Nothing. I do not wish to reproach you,
Errol, but I feel more and more every day
that if you had only listened  if you had
only come back  this would not have happened.*


He had drawn up another chair and sat
down opposite her. He leant his arms on
his knees and bent his head down on his
hands. She saw that his hair had become
quite grey. The dejection and misery of
his attitude went to her heart.

I know you have suffered she said.

His hands fell. He looked at her with
such agony in his face and eyes as stayed
the words on her lips.

Suffered /' he said. * I think no one but
myself can realize how much.'

The deep eyes, the worn, haggard features,
the loose, thick waves of iron-grey hair, all
told a tale that no woman's eyes could read
unmoved. There was pity that almost
touched the borderland of anguish in hers.

as she read the history of that altered
face.

I am not so hard as you have thought
me,' he went on, his voice less firm and
even now. ' If I had loved her less I might
have forgiven more easily, but the Avrong
was one beyond my strength to bear. I
could not forego my own self-respect, even
for the sake of that love.'

Are you sure she asked earnestly, ' that
there has been no mistake? Mind  I have
seen so much of her  I have studied her
nature so closely, I could stake my life upon
her innocence and truth.'

He shook his head.

Did she ever tell you,' he said slowly,
why we parted V

No,' said Myra Freer gravely ; * but she
always blamed herself.'

He looked away into the blazing fire.

I thought the story would never cross
my lips,' he said ; ' but you judge me so

harshly that I feel I owe myself the right
of vindication. Do you suppose that, loving
her as I did, I would have voluntarily
banished myself from her presence had there
not been a compulsory reason for doing so ?
You know me well enough to be sure of
that. Myra, the truth is this : When the
Count de Foreze left me in London, ifc was
to go to the school where his daughter
lived. For a week after our arrival I saw
and heard nothing of him. At the end of
that time he appeared, changed as if by
years of sorrow and trouble. The secret of
that week I only learnt after Nancette had
become  my wife.'

He paused. The face opposite to him had
become very pale. The hand that held the
screen trembled so, that she laid it on her
lap and let the fire-flames dye her face as
they would.

When the Count went to the school,' resumed
Errol Glendennino\ 'he learnt that his

daughter was there no longer. Nor could
any trace of her be discovered. She had fled
one night, taking a few necessary articles of
clothing with her. For a week he sought her
like one distraught. At the end of that time
he discovered her by means of a newspaper
advertisement. She had left the school, and
fled with Pierre de Volens. She had remained
under the same roof with him, at the
house of a Frenchwoman who kept a low
boardinof-establishment, for that week. The
large sum offered by her father for news of
her tempted the woman to reveal her whereabouts,
and her father came there and took
her back instantly. The scoundrel who had
decoyed her thence, fled at the first announcement
of discovery, and opened negotiations
with the father for her hand  and fortune 
from a safe distance. The Count swore that
he should have no fortune, so intense was his
hatred of this man. Thereupon M. de Yolens
took himself off", leaving the field to me  poor

miserable dupe. I heard nothing of the
story, but the Count never concealed his
intense anxiety that I should become his
daughter's husband. The rest of the circumstances
 his sudden death, Nancette's forlorn
condition, our hurried marriage, all this you
know. But if you can fancy my horror at
this discovery  if you can picture what I, in
the first flush and fervour of my realized love-dream,
experienced, first by the appearance
of Pierre de Volens, then later on by the
discovery of that advertisement from the
Frenchwoman tellinof- the Count of his
daughter's whereabouts during that week I
had deemed her safe and innocent under his
protection, if you can fancy this  only you
cannot, no woman could  you might be able
to fathom in some degree the depths of misery
and degradation I sounded on that awful
night. Heaven alone preserved my reason
and my life. Truly they both looked valueless
enough then. At first I thought I could

not endure to live, could not drag this burden
of shame about with me for all the years to
come. I went away to London. I think I
was ill for a long time. I could not think
clearly. I could not tell what course was
best to take ; but I knew that I could never
live under the same roof with the woman who
had so cruelly betrayed me, who had taken
my name and honour into her unworthy
keeping, and left me bankrupt in love,
and faith, and peace, and home, for all
time.

'When I grew better and calmer I came here
once more. I thought matters must be put
on some footing between us. The very day
I came in my shame and agony to the home
her presence had cursed, she was with her
lover on the cliffs yonder. She had met him
again, and of her own free will. Then I
seemed to turn to stone. My love for her
grew bitter as hate, bitter as my scorn for
my own weakness. There seemed but one

thing to do. The law could not part us unless
I offered it a plea. Her fortune was in
my keeping, just as my name and honour
were in hers. I agreed to leave her. I
thought that three years of absence would
plead a just cause for separation, and that indue
course these terrible fetters might be '
broken from off my hands and hers. That
was why your letter did not move me, powerful
as its pleading was ; that was why
between your picture of her loveliness and
innocence crept always the black cloud of
treachery and shame ; that was why I had
neither will nor power to address her by any
word or in any form ; that was why my
home and country grew hateful in my sight,
and I sought travel, danger, excitement,
death, in any land or place that offered them.
Now and he drew a deep breath, and rested
his throbbing temples on his hand  ' now,
Myra, you have heard the whole shameful,
pitiful story, you can judge for yourself as to

who deserves most blame, or most compassion.'


If any alloy of baser feelings had mingled
with the pure gold of Myra Freer's noble
and generous nature, she would have been less
worthy to be the friend of the broken and
heart-weary man who had given her his confidence
at last.

That no such feeling did enter it, that no
throb of leaping pulse seemed to quicken into
life a long-dead dream that had once vivified
her lonely girlhood, were only surer proof of
the innate loyalty and sterling truth of her
character.

She met his eyes steadily, but with infinite
compassion.

I do not blame you  now she said softly ;
then I did, most bitterly. But, despite your
story, I cannot feel convinced of Nancette's
guilt. She was so young ; she could so
easily have been deceived ; she might, as you
say, have fled to this Frenchwoman's house

thinking her a friend who would protect her,
or give her shelter till the necessary formalities
for her marriage had been arranged.
Then came her father's discovery, his refusal
to sanction that marriage or give her the
fortune on which Pierre de Volens had so
surely counted. Think of her bewilderment,
her horror, of disappointed love and faith, of
the claims of duty, the shame that her father's
interpretation of her conduct brought into her
life, and chained to her future as a loathed
and hateful secret. Think of all this, and
ask yourself if she was after all not more
to be pitied than blamed  if her sufferings
have not more than atoned for the error that
you call sin.'

Errol Gladdening dropped his hand, and
raised his worn and haggard face.

Do you mean to say,' he said in a hoarse,
unsteady voice,  that you think I have misjudged
her  that she is not guilty '

I mean to say,' interposed Myra Freer,

VOL. II. 23

that I have lived for nearly two years under
the same roof that has sheltered her ; that I
have been daily  almost hourly in her companionship
; that I have studied her, watched
her, tested her ; that I have heard such
portion of her story as she could confide, and
now added to it is the sequel of your own  I
mean to say that with all this, I believe her
to have been infatuated by a foolish fancy 
misled, thoughtless, imprudent ; but, despite
all, she is innocent as you in your man's
reasoning have never believed her to be, since
you made that fatal discovery.'

He started to his feet then  amazed, perplexed
beyond the expression of mere words.
To and fro he paced the room in stormy and
defiant silence. She watched him, strong
still in purpose and intent  all the stronger
because of some faint woman's weakness
that whispered at her heart  all the stronger
because it would have been so easy to take
that other view, to yield up the very defiance

that cost her such bitter pangs  to say
to him :

You are right : any man would have
acted as you have done, for only a woman,
clear-sighted, generous, self-convinced, and
unreasoning, could read between the narrow
lines that separate a girl's mistake from a
conscious sin  could believe in the recklessness
of a romantic folly that yet held no guilty
secret in the background of its foolishness.'

Only a woman  and such a woman as
Myra Freer.

But she did not say this. She only watched
him in silence until at last he came and stood
before her again.

His deep, sad eyes looked back to hers
with a look they had not worn yet  in a
woman's eyes it would have meant the relief
of tears, yet they were dry enough, despite
the trembling of the faltering voice.

Myra,' he said, ' I have always thought
you the noblest woman that ever breathed;

232

but till to-night I think I never guessed what
possibilities of nobility remained for me to
discover. I thought all women were ready
to cast a stone at an erring sister ; but you
you are trying to bring back some of my
lost faith  to break up this hard and bitter
crust that has lain between my heart and all
other hearts since that folly cursed my life.
I wish  well, friend as you are I can't tell
you how" I Lavish, that I could share your
belief; but I can't. I seem to have lost all
possibility of trust in her.'

And yet,' said Myra gravely, ' you loved
her. Is it love to doubt so easily  to give
such grudging faith to the better things in a
woman's nature such ready credulity to the
worst V

It is a man's love,' he said. 'Men form
their ideal  they place it on high in a temple
of purity. Better death than that it should
be defaced, defamed, dragged through the
mire of shame, defiled by evil tongues  the

sport of base and unscrupulous passions ! I
had placed her so high above all others '

That,' said the grave, gentle voice, ' is so
foolish. Are you not more to blame for the
perfections you imagined, than she for falling
short of them V

He shook his head.

We argue,' he said, 'from a totally different
standpoint. But there is no need of
argument at all, her folly is expiated now.
Heaven forgive me if in any way I have misjudged
her, and Heaven rest her soul !'

The solemn words fell across the stillness
of the room like a prayer beside a death-bed
the requiem of an ended life.

The woman sitting there in the glow of
the waning firelight bent her head upon her
clasped hands in a sudden paroxysm of grief.

I have done my best,' she said, and a
faint sob broke from her and frightened
her with its threatened loss of self-command.


You have been the truest friend that
ever man or woman had he answered with
orave tenderness.

And yet  ' she sobbed brokenly, ' you
will not believe 1'

For an instant there was dead silence.
She looked up and met his eyes, then shrank
back startled and appalled by the tale they
told.

He folded his arms on the mantel-shelf,
and dropped his head on them.

Heaven help me,' he said, ' I cannot /'

The autumn night had sighed itself away in
faint gusts of wind and rain.

It was morning once more  a morning of
sunshine and clear sky, and fresh, sweet
scents of the late autumn flowers that still
held their own against the breath of comings
winter ; morning, and Errol Gladdening
and Myra Freer stood in the library at
Owl's Roost indulging in a somewhat stormy
dialogue.

 I can't bear to think of banishing you in
this unceremonious fashion,' he was saying ;
and to that dreary hole at this most dreary
season. At least stay here till I return from
Guernsey.'

She shook her head.

You know of old,' she said, ' I am very
determined. I must not offend the awful
Mrs. Grundy, even to please you. Besides,
you have been banished too long already,
and my old roost has been deserted nearly as
long. No, Errol, don't waste time in arguments.
I leave here this morning, whether
you stay or not.'

He looked moodily into the glowing
flames.

 I suppose you are right,' he said ; ' a manlike
myself can't even have a friend.'

*I think,' she said gently, 'you know I
shall always be tltat. I simply return to my
old home, now that you have no further need
of me.*

You have been very good,' he said  ' too
good. When I asked that service of you
I did not think how much it would cost
you.'

She might have said with truth that he

would never know its cost ; but lie had
learnt to school herself too well for any
rash admission  for any betrayal of a secret
guarded through long and patient years.
She only smiled brightly and bravely into his
face.

I have never complained,' she said. * Indeed,
I was most happy and content until 
until this awful catastrophe.'

I do not suppose,' he said, ' that I can
learn anything, or do anything more than
you, my kind friend, have done. But it will
be a satisfaction. I mean to engage a clever
detective in Paris, and get him to work out
the mystery. If she went out on the sea
that day, someone must have taken her, or
seen her. I shall have every one of the
neighbouring islands scoured and searched
I shall not rest until my own belief is
verified.'

'And that belief?' questioned MyraFreere
timidly.

Can you doubt it ? She must have
perished on that night in the storm.'

She could swim beautifully,' said Myra,
as if hazarding a new suggestion.

No doubt ; but think of those stormy
Channel waters  they would tax the endurance
of the strongest swimmer, and she was
only a delicate, fragile girl.'

It is sad  terribly sad, to think of such
a death,' said Myra Freer with a shudder.
I can't realise it  can't believe it, even now.
Yet, if she had been saved, she must have
made some sign  sent some word.'

Do you cling to such a hope V he asked
drearily. * I never did from the first.'

He thought of her last words to him on
that last day when they had parted :

/ do not leant to live ; 1 am so unhappy.
If I coidd only die young as my mother
did!'

She has had her wish,' he said sadly 
she has had her wish I'

 ' What was that V asked Myra. ' Surely
not  death ? She was so young, so fair, so
gifted ; and, latterly, she seemed so much
happier '

Until,' he added bitterly, ' that scoundrel
crossed her path again.'

But she had ceased to care for him
Myra said eagerly. * Indeed  indeed, she
had. She had begun to see him in his true
colours  to read the selfishness and brutality
of his character aright. I think her foolish
infatuation had turned to loathing and contempt;
nothing could induce her to see him.
The dread and horror of doing so were the
cause of her sad fate, if  if it be as we fear.'

For a moment there was dead silence.
Then, suddenly, Errol Gladdening seized
her hands, and looked searchingly down into
her eyes.

Myra,' he said hoarsely, ' for Heaven s
sake, answer me truly from your own brave,
honest soul ! Are you sure  sure in your

own mind, by light of all you have known
and seen, that she did not act like this to
throw suspicion off her real motives  that lie
was not concerned in her flight V

She wrenched her hands from his, and
faced him with such scorn and anofer that
he half recoiled, and for one brief moment
felt as ashamed of his suspicion as she was of
its suQorestion.

*No!' she cried passionately  'ten thousand
times no ! He had nothings whatever
to do with it. I am sure of it as that I live.
Oh, Errol, shame on you to mistrust her so !
Will you never believe  never T

A faith once broken is hard to mend he
said. * Think of these bitter years.'

 I have thought o'f them  more often than-you
perhaps imagine she said. ' But surely
you can believe in what I say V

I believe you have convinced yourself,'
he said. * But I am made of sterner stuff,
and this blow seemed to turn me into

iron. I was not a hard or suspicious man
before.'

No,' she said quietly ; * you were not.
Nor need you be now.'

He turned away and paced the room restlessly.
The feverish, bitter aching of his
heart stifled all softer pleading. Yet he
knew he loved that lost girl still  that every
memory of her that had burned into his soul
with its cruel pain had yet been powerless to
change that feeling. The more he denied
its existence, the more passionately it defied
his denial. But he was too proud to betray
that weakness. He guarded his secret too
well for even Myra Freer's keen eyes to
read it.

Do not let us speak of this more,' he said
at last. * Our time is very brief If  if I
am not back by Christmas, will you entertain
the boys here for me ? I promise you not to
intrude. I will scrupulously respect Mrs.
Grundy for the future.'

The beautiful face had irown somewhat
pale.

Yes,' she said ; ' I will do that gladly.
But you will go and see them before you
leave ? You will tell Basil your errand V

Is he still so devoted V he asked almost
bitterly.

Indeed he is. I never saw such fidelity.
He has never been the same since her loss.
It seemed so hard after his heroism, his
sufferings, after that noble deed, never even
to see her face, to hear her thanks. I Alas
quite alarmed about him once.

He is young,' said Errol Gladdening
coldly. ' The young soon forget. He has not
yet learnt the lessons of life.'

He has learnt one lesson,' she answered 
the lesson of a chivalrous faith. I do not
think he will ever forget that ; and now I
must leave you. I have my morning visit to
pay to poor old Clitheroe. He always looks
for it.'

Deborah has told me what a ministering
angel you have been he said gently. ' But
as I told you long ago, I think you are
one of the fe\Y good women the world
holds.'

How those words echoed in her heart as
she sat by the side of the bedridden old man I
How they set her pulses leaping as to the
music of remembered praise ! How, still
echoing and thrilling her with sweet content,
they followed her from the gloomy house withall
its tragedy of bitter love and broken faith,
and made her glad and trustful as few words
could have had power to do !

But how should he know that, being blind,
and self-absorbed, and having lived the best
years of his life in ignorance of a treasure
that needed but the outstretching of his hand
to grasp ? How should he know it, no ting-only
the calm friendliness of past days in the
frank, sweet eyes that had learned only too
well to guard a woman's secret ?

So they parted in the cold, faint autumn
sunlight, and the chill of loneliness and
desolation closed once more over the
deserted rooms and empty corridors of Owl's
Koost.

October rains were holding their sway over
the Channel archipelago. Chill north-east
winds sobbed among the poplar-trees and
oaks of Guernsey. Fields and copses were
shrouded in damp mists; the faint, sickly
smell of decaying flowers and leaves reigned
everywhere in place of the summer odours of
roses and heliotropes, and lilies, and magnolia-blossoms.


Among the rugged cliffs the petrel, and
cormorant, and gull circled, and screamed,
and fought for their finny prey. The sea
was rough and stormy  a mass of frothy
currents and dashing waves. It seemed all
inexpressibly dreary and mournful to Errol

VOL. II. 24

Gladdening as, after a rough and stormy
passage from the French coast, he found
himself at last safe at the Guernsey Hotel.

He was accompanied by a short, dark,
quiet-looking man, who had been recommended
to him by one of the chief commissaires
of police in Paris as a very able and
useful agent for those researches he had come
to make.

As their stay in the island was likely to be
uncertain in duration, Errol Gladdening
made arrangements with the landlord of the
hotel to board them by the week. It was a
bad time of the year for his researches, but
he felt that anything was better than remaining:
at Owl's Koost with this horrible uncertainty
hanging over his head. He had
determined to convince himself b} searching
inquiry and thorough investigation whether
a loophole of escape had been possible for
Nancette ; whether she might not have been
picked up by some stray boat, and be all this

while on one of the adjacent islands. There
were several, he knew, between Alderney
and the Casque rocks that were almost unapproachable
and almost uninhabited. Some
where supposed to be quite so.

Until he had searched these, as well as the
Inquirers and the Douvres, he felt he should
never be at rest.

The detective shook his head as they sat
together in their private sitting-room that
night, and Errol Gladdening produced maps
and charts, and explained his plans.

It will take you months,' he said. * And
at this time of the year it is almost impossible
to do anything by way of sea.'

I am going to charter a steamer,' said
Gladdening quietly ; * a stout, strong, seaworthy
boat. I will then be able to make
use of every glimpse of fine weather we get,
and be independent of wind and tide.'

Ah,' said Paul Lihou, ' that sounds very
well ; but I have been here before, you

242

know ; all my boyhood was spent in these
islands. No steamer can be independent of
shoals, and rocks, and reefs on this dangerous
coast. There is a line of sixty miles of them
from Granville to the Douvres. On the side
of the French coast they are impassable,
except for very small vessels. I know them
well. I was for ever on the water when I
was young. I could swim and dive like a
fish. The sea had no perils for me. Once I
took my boat out too far. A sea-fog came
on, and I was for a night and a day on one
of those islands. There was only a fisherman's
hut there. It was all rocks and caves.
Not a soul was there; the owner of the hut
only came over for the vraic season. I
lived on sea-birds' eggs and mosses. By
good fortune I had water and bread with mein
my boat. I shall not easily forget that
adventure. When I heard at the Bureau of

A seaweed found in large quantities in Jersey and
Guernsey. It is chiefly used for manure.

what you desired, monsieur, I said, '* I am
the man. I know every foot of that coast.
I have explored places that no other human
being has explored. If any trace can be
found, I will find it." But I tell you it will
be perilous ; it will cost much ; it will belong
; and it will be disheartening.'

 For that I do not care,' said the Englishman
calmly. ' My time is my own. Peril
has only a charm for me. Money is no
object, and I am too used to disappointments
to be heartbroken by one more. I would
sooner spend all my life in this search than
remain in uncertainty as to my wife's fate.'

The detective looked keenly at the grave
and weary face.

 He is anxious,' he said to himself; ' but
is it that he loved her so dearly, or that he
wishes to assure himself that he may replace
her without fear'? The minds of these
English are hard to read.'

For a week the weather rendered all sea

expeditions impracticable. Paul Lihou did
not waste time, however. He inquired into
the manner of investigation of the law
dignitaries of Guernsey, and listened to their
accounts of ' superhuman exertion ' with
scarcely-veiled contempt. Accustomed as he
was to the marvellous routine, the unexampled
proficiency, and tireless energy and
skill of the French police system, his opinion
of the legal constitution of the Royal Courts
was not a very flattering one, but he kept it to
himself in this early stage of investigation,
and used its officials as tools for his own
work, which already he knew would demand
all the coolness and acumen of a trained and
critical mind.

At the end of the week he had learnt no
more than Errol Gladdening already knew,
but he had discovered that there had been
several strange boatmen and fishermen about at
the time of Nancette's disappearance, many of
whom came to be employed in the second

vraie cutting, which lasts from June to
August. It was therefore just possible that
the missing girl might have taken one of
their cutters and gone off to Sark or Herm,
or even to one of the less known islands.
Certainly it seemed an irrational proceeding,
but as the Frenchman said with a shrug of
disdain : ' If one begins to question the
reasons for a woman's actions, where would
one arrive V

He had as yet only arrived at a conjecture,
and was about to work it out. The result
might be nothing, also it might be something.
Errol Gladdening was willing to run the
risk of improbability leading to a specific
result, and accordingly the next proceeding
in the plan of campaign was to search the
neighbouring islands. The steamer had been
chartered, and was at their disposal, and the
moment the weather improved they commenced
their researches. Gladdening's plan
was to go to each island, visit the various

hotels and inns, interrogate the officials at
the landing-place, the owners of boats or
fishing-smacks, or any small vessel that
might have been plying to and fro between
Guernsey and the neighbouring islets during
the summer months. This, as Lihou said,
was a work of time.

If it had not been for the Frenchman's
assistance Grlendenning would never have
been able to penetrate the innumerable
caverns, hollows, cliffs, nooks, and headlands
which abound in Alderney, Herm, Sark, and
the Chaussey Islands. It was close on
Christmas time when he resolved to investigate
these last. The search was as yet
hopeless and without result.

Before proceeding to the Grande lies,
Gladdening ran over to Guernsey for letters
and provisions.

At the hotel he found several letters,
awaiting him. One was from Basil  the
first he had addressed to his guardian for

months. The boy briefly stated that he
intended to accompany M. St. Jean and
spend his Christmas vacation in Guernsey
unless he heard from his guardian objecting
to such a proceeding. His object, he said,
was to assist in the search for Nancette or
definite news of her fate that Errol Gladdening
was prosecuting. The letter was brief,
earnest, almost tragic in its suppression of
grief, yet plainly betraying how faithfully the
boy's heart clung to its youthful idol. As
Errol Glendenninof glanced at the date he
saw that in all probability Basil must have
taken silence for consent and be here already.

He therefore sent a messenger to M. St.
Jean's cottage to ascertain the fact, and, if
basil should be there, to desire him to come
round to the hotel.

About an hour afterwards the boy arrived.

At the first glance his guardian started.
He saw before him a tall, handsome youth
changed almost out of all likeness to the

wild schoolboy be remembered. But a
strange look of suffering and repression
had come over the once frank, unclouded
face.

They shook hands silently. Both pair of
eyes met with a sort of veiled challenge.
The boy's chivalrous heart was still resentful
of the man's coldness and neglect towards
the beautiful, forlorn creature he adored.
He felt more ill-disposed than friendly towards
him.

How long have you been here V asked
his guardian.

I arrived last night,' answered the boy.
As you did not answer, I thought you
would not object to my coming here.'

No,' said Errol Gladdening ; ' I do not
object. I have heard of your devotion to 
to this poor lost girl. I am sorry I have
learnt nothing yet as to her fate. My long
investigation will soon be at an end. If she
were alive  if any accident had detained her

all these months in helplessness, I must have
discovered it. But her fate seems shrouded
in mystery.'

 Will you let me help you  accompany
you V asked the boy eagerly. ' Oh, sir, I
shall be so grateful if you will.'

You are quite welcome to come with me
on the steamer,' said his guardian. ' But I
understood you were on a visit to your
master. It will scarcely be polite.'
The frank young face clouded.
I think; he said, ' that M. St. Jean
would willingly excuse me. He knows how
anxious I was to come here  and for what
reason. '

We both owe M. St. Jean a debt of
gratitude for saving your life,' said Errol
Gladdening. ' I will call there tomorrow
and offer my thanks in person, and also
explain your anxiety to accompany me. I
am going to the Chaussey Islands now.
I should like to start early tomorrow, so

you had best go back to M. St. Jean and tell
him I shall pay him an early visit.'

The boy took up his hat, and, after a few
more questions and explanations, he left the
room.

Errol Gladdening paced to and fro, his
brow moody and clouded. What would he
not have given to hold the simple faith and
trust that this young, chivalrous nature held
to feel that, despite appearances, prejudices,
mistakes, he might yet love and adore that
beautiful and ill-fated memory ! But he
knew that mistrust had eaten into his better
nature, and that, he could not accept
this girl's history as her chivalrous young
knight, and her staunch and loyal friend
had accepted it.

In the midst of these reflections, a knock at
the door aroused him. It opened to admit
Lihou. Errol Gladdening's first glance at the
man's face showed him that something had
happened.

He stopped in his restless pacing. His
heart seemed to stand still as with some
sudden shock.

You have learnt something V he said
hoarsely, and he leant his hand on the table
as if to steady himself.

Yes said Paul Lihou,  I have learnt 
something. It is not anything like what we
expected or supposed. We have been on a
false track all along. In the first place,
monsieur, you have not been quite open with
me. You did not tell me that madame had
a lover.'

Gladdening started; the red blood flushed
to his brow.

I  I do not understand you,' he said,

I will explain,' said the man calmly.

He drew a chair ' to the table, and sat
down.

I have made acquaintance to-day,' he
said, ' with a lady staying at Guernsey for
the good of her health. At least, she says

it is for the brood of her health. The lady
has heard that an eccentric Englishman has
chartered a steamer here, and spends his
time cruising about, seeking for a missing
wife, popularly supposed to have been
drowned during the summer that is past.
Monsieur will excuse my bluntly stating
facts, for time presses. A steamer leaves
to-night for St. Malo, and I wish monsieur
to accompany me on a little excursion
there.'

To St. Malo !' faltered Gladdening.

He had grown very pale. He turned
aside, and drew up a chair to the table,
facing that of the detective.

Tell me all,' he said curtly.

the lady resumed the detective, 'is byname
Madame Lamontaine. Ah,' as Glen-denying
started, 'monsieur is aware of her.
She said as much. Madame Lamontaine
was in St. Helier's a brief time in the
summer, when the lamented catastrophe took

place. She was leaving by the night-boat
for St. Malo, when two passengers hailed
the steamer from one of the small islands en
route. They had taken refuge there from
the storm. They were taken on board, and
went to St. Malo Hotel de Creux. The
description of the lady is in all respects that
of madame for whom we search. The gentleman
was dark, tall, singularly handsome
'

For Heaven's sake,' cried Errol Gladdening,
hoarsely, 'stop ! I know the rest.'

I think,' said the detective quietly, as he
shut up his notebook, ' we can verify the
rest at St. Malo. If the landlord's description
tallies v/ith that of the lady from St.
Helpers the affair ceases to be mysterious 
in effect, it is simply an affaire honneur,
which monsieur must pursue as he pleases.
I regret that so much time and money
have been wasted. Had monsieur been frank
with me from the first '

Stop !' cried the tortured man. ' Spare
me any remarks. I  I never thought 
never dreamt of this 1'

The Frenchman rose. Hardened as he
was to terrible revelations, to domestic
tragedies, to crimes of all descriptions, he yet
felt a strange compassion for this grave,
self-contained Englishman who suffered so
terribly at the hands of a woman, and that
woman his wife.

I deplore monsieur's sufferings,' he said
gently ; ' though he is not the first by many
who has learnt, through me, of what a
Avoman's treachery is capable. Is it monsieur's
wish to accompany me to St. Malo V

Yes,' said Gladdening, after a brief
hesitation ; ' I will learn the worst, and
then '

Then,' said the Frenchman, shrugging his
shoulders significantly, * I have done my
duty. I leave the affair in monsieur's hands,
to be concluded as he thinks fit.'

An hour later they were at sea once
more.

Errol Gladdening had completely forgotten
Basil.

VOL. II. 25

The sea beat stormily aoaiiist a bold and
ruorcred line of rocks that rose some hundred
feet sheer from the bosom of the waters, and
then grouped themselves in strange shapes
and confused masses, as if hurled and piled
together by some Cyclopean hand. Egress
or ingress seemed alike impossible. Nothing
but fierce eddies and dangerous shoals seemed
to defend the shingly banks, yet a boat with
a single occupant was making its way through
a narrow channel of deep and comparatively
smooth water, and finally forced itself through
the opposing defences and ran aground amidst
the shingle and seaweed.

The occupant was Basil Gladdening. The
fact of his guardian's sudden departure had

left him stranded on his own resources. The
day was calm and peaceful, the sky without
cloud, the steamer chartered by Errol Glen-denying
lay idle.

He went straight to the captain and saithe
owner had placed the steamer at his disposal
for the day, and something in his calm
assurance and authoritative manner had convinced
the man of his truth. In any case, he
had taken him out to where he had directed,
and the boy had gone off in the boat used by
his guardian for landing purposes, and declared
his intention of exploring the strange
groups of islands that had long ago attracted
his fancy. What had brought him to this
special one he could not say. Something
stronger than mere curiosity  a feeling that
prompted him to explore this wild and lonely
spot, though the captain had assured him
that no one ever landed there or lived there :
that the island was quite uninhabited, and
full of unknown dangers.

252

To the bold, exploring-loving nature of the
English boy nothing could have been more
delightful than the thought of proceeding
thither. As he stood now on the damp,
slippery piles of seaweed, and watched the
slow flight of the great gulls, the lightning-flash
of finny scales, the whole tremor, and
trouble, and mystery of sea-life, here frothy
and fierce, here broken into deep, smooth
channels of glassy calm, he felt a strange
glow of pride and enterprise thrill his
veins.

Drawing the light boat high up on the
shingle, and fastening it securely in case of
the tide rising, he proceeded on his journey
of research.

Skirting the base of the cliffs, he came at
last to a place where they were broken
through by a stretch of water, almost as
deep and calm as a lake. Two walls of
rough and jagged rocks shut it in on either
side ; the sky formed its roof; the sunlight

illumined its glooai. Innumerable birds
roosted in its crevices and ledges, and flew
screaming out now at the intrusion of
humanity.

Rough and difficult as the passage was
along the margin of the water, Basil followed
it undeterred. Light and sure of foot, the
slippery rocks and narrow formation of the
ground had no terrors for him. For some
quarter of a mile he skirted this winding
sheet of water ; then he felt the ground
rising steadily upwards, and momentarily
growing more narrow. Stopping for a moment
to examine the appearance of the cliffs
above, he saw what looked like a faint track,
worn by the tread of feet. It wound upwards
in a sloping direction, and seemed to
lose itself amidst the coarse grass, and furze,
and broom that alone clothed the soil.

Some one must live here,' he said half
aloud, and steadied himself against the wall
of rock and looked around.

There was nothing stirring save the birds
that screamed and wheeled about below.

After a moment's rest he proceeded up the
cliff. The track grew fainter and more difficult
to trace, and finally ceased altogether.
By this time he had reached the highest
point. Standing there he could see all
around him, and down into the blue depths
beneath. The steamer lay at anchor in a
tiny bay close to one of the neighbouring
islands. The sun was already low in the
western horizon ; the birds looked like a
Hying cloud above the spray and foam of
the broken water. He threw himself down
on the coarse, scanty grass, and took in all
the wild and lovely scene with keen enjoyment.


Rising at last somewhat reluctantly, he
took another survey of the limited extent of
the island, his eyes keenly alert for a sign of
smoke from any fisher-hut that perchance
had an inmate in this lonely region.

He could see nothing. The top of the
cliffs was apparently broken into hummocks,
covered with the same coarse, scanty grass.
Brambles and furze were the only vegetation.
There was not a sign of a tree anywhere.

'It is a veritable desert island,' he said
to himself, and then started off in the opposite
direction to pursue his investigations
further. He was too excited, and too heeds
less also, to take account of time. His boat
was safe ; the steamer would await his
pleasure ; he did not trouble further. He
had reached about the centre of the island,
when he paused and drew out his watch.
As he did so his glance travelled carelessly
round. He looked at the time, then replaced
the watch in his pocket. The action
altogether could not have taken more than
half a minute, yet as he again looked round
he started, and stood transfixed with an
amazement little short of terror, for there,
perched on the edge of the cliffs where he

had lately sat, stood a solitary figure outlined
against the burning colours of the sky,
and the hazy, melting background of surrounding
water.

If it had sprung from out of the earth it
could not have appeared more suddenly, and
with more startling effect.

The boy stared, bewildered at its unexpected
appearance. It looked so airy and
indistinct that he found himself wondering
if it could be a real, living, human creature.

Seeing that it remained motionless, curiosity
prompted him to retrace his steps. He
had come thither with a purpose, and that
purpose might be better served by questioning
one of the inhabitants of this apparently
deserted spot.

Throwing off the unreasoning terror that
for a moment had mastered his energies,
he rapidly advanced in the direction of the
motionless figure.

He was within a reasonable distance of it,

when the sound of his steps must have
become audible. Suddenly it turned.

The look of terror and strangeness in the
face seen in the indistinct light of the rapidly
sinking sun, was not yet so strange or so
terrifying as the feeling that seemed to
curdle the warm blood in Basil Glen-denying's
veins. For an instant the shock,
and surprise, and incredulity held him
chained and breathless there.

Then he sprang forward, a cry on his lips,
wild, and eager, and passionate as hope and
joy could make it.

The echo of that cry, ringing out over the
quiet sea, was not more strange and startling
than its result.

The figure vanished as suddenly as it had
appeared.

The boy stopped as if a blow had struck
and paralyzed him. He was quite alone.
The burning sun sank like a ball of fire.
The track of its passage lay mirrored in a

broad line of crimson and gold upon the
surface of the sea. The birds still screamed,
and called, and wheeled in circling groups
among the rocks below.

Vision, dream, reality  what was it that
had peopled the empty place into which
those young, bewildered eyes gazed strangely,
fearfully, doubtingly ?

He could not say. He only knew that
he stood on the margin of the rough and
rugged headland, and that not another creature
was in sight. The little narrow track
by which he had ascended, wound its way
like a dark ribbon to the water's edge. Nota
flutter of dress or echo of step betrayed
the existence of the woman he had called on
by his own fanciful title  the woman whose
fate lay sealed in mystery  whom he had
prayed to behold, living or dead, and could
have sworn he had so beheld a few brief
moments before. With beating heart and
throbbing pulse he hurried down the narrow

pathway. A false step would have plunged
him into that deep, dark lake that wound
through the cavernous tunnels of the cliff,
but he neither cared for nor thought of
that. Suddenly the light faded ; the grey
chill dusk fell curtain-like over the swelling
sea. It was with difficulty that the boy
made his way through the vaulted archway''
springing recklessly from rock to rock
that were swept and damp now with the
rising tide.

His boat lay idly rocking on the foam.
He saw the water was sweeping rapidly in
through the archway by which he had
entered. Mechanically he entered the boat,
unloosed the rope, and pulled out again to
sea. When he was clear of the shoals and
currents he rested on his oars, and his eyes
swept anxiously the rugged headland where
he had lately stood.

A feeling of awe, the like of which he had
never known, crept over his bold young heart.

Is she really dead ? Was it her spirit
that came to tell me so V he thought. * It
could not have been herself, and yet how like
herself it seemed !'

The deepening dusk of the wild December
evening warned him to make his way back
to the steamer. Mechanically he raised the
oars, his strong young arms impelled the
boat over the smooth rolling swell of the
sea.

It was almost dark when he reached the
steamer and stood safe and sound on the
deck.

I trust monsieur is satisfied with his
island,' said the captain, advancing towards
his young passenger with a smile. ' It is
wild  it is ugly  it is bare. There is no
human creature living on it ; is it not so V

I am not quite sure,' said the boy
evasively. ' I hadn't time to see half the
place. I mean to go again tomorrow if the
weather holds

The weather will hold, I do not doubt ;
but surely monsieur is not in earnest. That
is a place of ill-repute. Besides, it is dangerous
 most dangerous. They say the sea
sweeps through it in several underground
caverns. Some day it will be all destroyed
undermined.'

I mean to go there again tomorrow,' was
all the boy answered.

It was quite early. The mists were just
lifting off the sea, the cold, clear, morning
light glittered on the rocks and cliffs, the
fringe of foam, the great wet piles of seaweed,
the gleam of some white sail far out
near the dim horizon line.

Basil Gladdening had risen with the first
break of day. He had passed a restless,
feverish night, haunted ever by one dream
or vision.

He always saw himself standing on the
brink of a precipice above a fiercely-breaking
sea. There was a blood-red glow on
the water and in the sky. Suddenly a
shadow seemed to rise and float before him,

beckoning him to follow. But at the first
step he felt himself falling, falling into space,
with that vanishing form still far beyond his
reach, and the veiled face turned towards his
own, bathed in the lurid glow of the sunset.
He never could see the face with any distinctness,
but he seemed to know whose it
was, and with the cry of that ever-haunting
and beloved name on his lips, he awoke.

Three times he slept, and three times he
saw that veiled form, and the lonely cliffs,
and the blood-red light of the dying day.
At last he could bear it no longer. He
sprang up, and dressed, and ordered the
boat to be lowered, and floated out on the
wide space of heaving water, feeling that
there alone could he breathe freely and at
ease.

A sort of natural breakwater surrounded
the mysterious island which he had visited
the previous day. He skirted it cautiously,
for the water was rough and dangerous.

Beyond the swirl and rush of its current
the sea was comparatively calm. He rested
on his oars, and let the boat rock as it would
on the honos rolling swell. The silence, the
pale, drifting mists, the cool, rosy morning
light breaking up the clouds and showing
depths of blue beyond, all soothed and lulled
his feverish energies, and served to banish in
some degree the almost superstitious dread
that he had felt of again approaching the
island.

He set his brain to work at conjectures
that were alike possible and impossible.

His senses were acute, his physical energies
strong and active. There was nothing
dreamy, idealistic, or romantic about him.
Withdrawn from the influence that had
alarmed and bewildered him, he felt able to
reason more clearly.

It must have been a human figure he
told himself. ' And, being so, it proves that
the island is inhabited.'

True, the sailors called it uncanny, and told
weird stories of things seen and heard there.
Not one of the men on board the steamer
would have ventured to set foot on its shingly
banks, or penetrate its mysterious caves. But
here in the cool, glad dawn, amidst the breaking
foam, the swelling waves, the flying birds,
all fears and superstitions fell from him like a
discarded cloak whose weight had been too
oppressive.

Cradled in the mighty arms of the great,
bright, beautiful sea, he felt strong, and daring,
and resolute once more. He made up his
mind that he would explore every inch of
ground on that deserted spot before he would
rest convinced that what he had seen there
was not an actual presence.

Cautiously and slowly, he now sought the
little channel which had favoured him for a
landing-place the previous day. He ran the
boat ashore, secured it firmly, and then made
his way to the vaulted archway.

VOL. II. 26

The little narrow track was plainly perceptible.
Regarding it scrutinizingly by the
clear, bright daylight, he became convinced
that it had been made by human feet.

He followed it slowly and carefully through
the cathedral-like cave with its roof of cloud
and sky ; by the deep, still waters that had
fretted the walls into strange shapes and
carvings ; and up the sloping, irregular cliff
through piles of rock and gorse and furze, till
once again he stood on the summit.

He drew a long, deep breath as he glanced
around. The sunlight poured itself in a flood
of liquid gold over the gleaming waters, and
on the coarse herbage and broken hummocks
of the cliff.

As on the previous day, he sat down a
short distance from the cave where he had
seen the mysterious figure. He was trying
to invent some theory for its disappearance.
When he had rested sufficiently, he approached
the spot once more, examining the

ground inch by inch. In one place a huge
bush of gorse spread itself amidst the broken
fragments and boulders of mingled sandstone
and granite that composed the cliffs. He
went up to it in the course of his investigations.
The soil was soft and broken here,
and as he made a spring from one to another
of the scattered rocks, he missed his footing,
and landed on a little hillock of grass and
furze. As his feet touched it, he suddenly-felt
the earth give way, and he fell straight
through into sudden darkness, and to a depth
of several feet.

Springing up, bruised and shaken, he found
himself in a sloping, underground pathway,
that seemed to stretch away into the darkness,
and yet was illumined here and there by a
slanting ray of sunlight.

Enterprise was strong within him. He
shook himself free of the clinging earth, and
started forward to explore this passage. It
occurred to him suddenly that the disappeared



ance of that mysterious figure was accounted
for now, and that this sloping, irregular way
might lead to some cavern in the midst of the
cliffs. As his eyes grew accustomed to the
dim light, he saw that it was a natural arched
way he trod, hollowed in the midst of the
cliff, and that at the further end of it was a
dull red glow, which he took to be daylight.
The soil was damp and mossy, the air chill.
He hurried on, his footsteps making no sound
on the soft, moist earth. Suddenly he paused,
and stood still, while a strange, curdling
horror seemed to chill the blood in his
veins, and still the bold, quick beats of his
heart.

He saw before him a small rocky cave.
From the opposite end to where he stood
came a glow of firelight. The floor was
covered with rough skins ; a few implements
for household use were visible : a charcoal
brazier, a shelf containing books, a wooden
table, some metal pots, a swinging lamp that

was fed with oil and hung from the carved
and fretted roof But the thing that had
startled and held him spell-bound was a
strange, tall figure, clothed in dusky black
garments, with a flame-coloured girdle round
the waist  a figure weird and awful as that
of any sibyl of old. She stood gazing silently
down at a pile of the same rough skins that
carpeted the floor of the cave, but on. them
was stretched another figure  the figure of a
woman, whose white garments gleamed like
light in the dusky shadows.

She lay there as if in deep sleep. The light
fell faintly over her face and on the loose
masses of her unbound hair. Basil, creeping
nearer step by step, with bated breath and
throbbing pulses, saw that the face was indeed
the face which had lived in his memory
so faithfully and well for all these weary
months.

Cold and trembling, he rested against the
rocky sides of the tunnel. He saw the dark-robed

woman move softly away, and presently
return with something that looked like an
iron lamp. She placed this on a rough slab of
rock that did duty as a table, and, bending
over it, scattered some powder on the flame.
A dense vapour spread itself around, for a
moment hiding the figure of the strange
woman and the light of the lamp. As it
cleared away, the boy saw that the recumbent
form on the couch of skins had risen to a
sitting position. The face was turned towards
him. The loose, veiling hair fell cloud-like
round its delicate beauty, but the eyes were
closed as if in deep sleep.

A thrill of joy and expectancy ran through
his veins. He had been rioht, after all.
Nancette was alive, safe, within call and
reach, at last! His lips parted; he was
about to spring forward, when something
stayed him.

The strange woman was speaking. She
stretched out her hands towards the swaying

figure. Imperious, resolute, her voice rang
through the stillness. Basil's acquaintance
with the French language had considerably
improved since he had first known Nancette.
Leone and her father had brought him to a
tolerable degree of proficiency. He knew
well enough that this woman was speaking in
that language, but he could not understand
what she said. She seemed to be questioning
Nancette, and the girl answered in a slow,
measured voice, too faint for Basil's ears.
Suddenly she seemed to grow restless ; her
body swayed, her head turned from side to
side.

There is some one here !' she cried, and
rose to her feet, and stretched out her arms to
the shadowy passage where, trembling and
awe-struck, Basil stood.

He advanced rapidly, fear and wonder forgotten
in the joy that swept over sense and
soul.

Nancette !' he cried ; ' Nancette !'

As though she had been a dead creature
called back to Hfe, the girl started and
shuddered convulsively, while a low cry of
terror left her lips. Her eyes opened.

Clear, wondering, amazed, they looked
around. The boy threw himself at her feet,
clasping and kissing her dress, her hands, ina
very delirium of joy.

You are not dead !' he cried ; ' you are not
dead ! And I have found you  I ! Oh,
Heaven be thanked !'

A strong hand seized his shoulder and
almost flung him aside. Springing to his
feet, he found himself confronted by a tall,
majestic figure with pale face and flaming
eyes. Their look, at once fierce and
mystical, thrilled him almost to pain. The
warm current of his blood grew suddenly chill
and cold.

Why are you here V she asked.

Her voice was firm, clear, sonorous, unlike
any woman's voice he had ever heard.

With a strong effort he steadied himself,
and answered in the same tongue :

I came to search for her pointing to
Nancette.

The dark face grew stern and wrathful.

What is she to you ?' she demanded.
You shall not take her. I claim the right,
for I alone can give her back life. The sea
brought her to me dead  she is dead still to
all and everything I will. Look  see for
yourself ! She does not know you  she will
never know you, or any friend on earth
again.'

Basil shuddered with horror as, obeying that
imperative gesture, he looked at Nancette.
Her eyes were closed ; her face looked as
if carved in marble. She stood there like a
statue  immovable, unmoved  a shape of awe
and dread, with no semblance of humanity
in the mute lips and sightless eyes.

Rage and fury mastered even the terror in
his heart. He sprang towards her.

What have you done V he cried passionately.
' She is alive  she knew me a
moment ago. Nancette, speak  look at me !
You do know me, do you not ? I am Basil,
your friend  your little knight, as you used
to call me ! Tell me you hear me  you seeme
; that you're not  not dead !'

But then with a low, shuddering cry he
recoiled, for without word or glance the figure
swayed, like a statue from its column, and
fell on the rough couch, where it lay frozen,
and motionless.

It is as I said,' fell mournfully on his ear ;
she is dead  dead to all save my will. Dead
to earth, and love, and memory, unless I bid
her live ! Go your way ; leave us. You are
not wanted here.'

He recoiled a step or two, striving manfully
to conquer the sense of alarm and horror
which this strange being aroused in his
soul.

His eyes wandered from that pale face,

with its snow-white hair and flaming eyes,
to the silent fissure on the rude couch of
skins.

Whoever or whatever you are,' he said
boldly,  I shall not leave here until I take
her with me. Dead or living, she belongs to
those who have stronger claims than yours.
And I am sure she is not dead.'

You are sure V said the woman with a
strange, slow smile. ' Oh, foolish and ignorant
youth, strong in its bold assertion of its own
belief! Go to her, touch her, speak to her.
If she wakes for you, she may go home freely,
unrestrainedly ; but she will not.'

In a sudden wild burst of passionate grief,
the boy threw himself down beside that
motionless form. He called on her by name,
he kissed her cold hands, he implored her to
open those close-sealed lids and look at
him.

He might as well have implored an image
of marble.

She did not stir, she did not look, she did
not breathe. The dead itself could not have
been more cold and still.

With a smothered cry he rose to his feet.,

Is it sleep or death V he cried. * A
moment ago she lived  I am sure of it I
Her hands were warm  her eyes knew me I
What is it you have done V

Again that slow, cruel smile came over the
mystic face.

She is dead. I told aou she was dead.
The sea brought her to me, and I took her
in here, and by my power I breathe into her
the semblance of life. When I withhold my
will, she is as you see her now. I have
wrested the secrets of nature from their
source. I know the occult sciences of life
and spirit ; I have spent my days in their
study. I have a key which opens the inner
temple of mystical and spiritual force. To
you such things are unknown and unimagined.
I cannot expect you to understand

that this form you see here is mine,
by right of those laws which endow it with
spiritual life at my will and desire. To you,
or an} other mortal, it is but dead flesh  a
corrupt, soulless mass that the grave must
hide. Go your way, and leave her with me.
Tell those that seek her, she is dead  dead
as any fleshless corruption that they thrust
with loathing from sight and sense!'

Her eyes flamed. Her tall figure seemed
to tower almost to the roof of the cavern.
The dull glow of the ashes shone fitfully on
her dusky robe, her snowy hair, her strange,
wild face.

Basil felt that cold thrill of horror stealing
through his veins once more. He looked
from the terrible livings face to that still
more terrible dead one.

A numbing fear held his senses in momentary
paralysis. He felt speech and action
alike impossible. A drowsy, confused feeling
stole the power of will from his brain 

a sense of something fighting with and
dominating his mental and physical faculties,
was all of which he was conscious.

Involuntarily he stretched out his arms
to the starless form that seemed beckoning
him to some shadowy region, cloudy and
obscure. Then a great darkness overwhelmed
him. He knew nothing more.

Time flowed on. The sun was sinking in the
west. The sea Alas tinged with ruddy flame.
The air was still, and mild, and without
sound, save for the monotonous breaking of
the waves upon the bank, or the weird cry
of a sea-bird flitting from rock to rock.

When Basil Gladdening awoke, he found
himself lying beside his boat on the damp
piles of seaweed that covered the shore. He
rose to his feet in a dazed and dreamy way.
It seemed to him that he had been asleep for
long, long hours. A confused sense as of
some terrible dream oppressed his brain. He
sat down and tried to think clearly and
calmly ; but it needed an almost superhuman
effort to do so.

Gradually things began to come back to
him. And with them the shock and horror
of that terrible discovery.

He bent his face on his clasped hands and
almost groaned.

She is dead !' he said over and over again.
She is dead !'

A sort of longing came over him to see
her asrain  a longing; so soul-felt and intense
that it seemed to master every other
thought and feeling.

Silence fell like the pall of night around
him. He scarcely heard the beat of the
waves or the sigh of the faint, chill wind that
was slowly rising as the sun declined. With
his head still bowed in that sorrowful forgetfulness
of all save his misery and her fate, he
suddenly became conscious of a sound  now
far, now close at hand  the rustling of a
woman's dress, the faint echo of a woman's
footfall. His hands dropped ; he looked up.
A white figure stood beside him; a face,

where terror, pain, suffering, dread, threw
varying shadows of emotion, looked back to
his own, as the light faded over the purple
waters, and the chill breeze swept over the
rising tide.

Cold and trembling, the boy started to
his feet. He did not speak, he scarcely
breathed ; he only looked and looked with
wide and terrified eyes at the silent figure,
and the face turned sadly up to his beneath
its veil of shrouding hair.

She came nearer. She laid her hand upon
his arm ; its touch was like ice.

Take me away,' she said in a frightened
whisper. ' Take me away ! You called me
I felt it, even there,' with a shuddering
backward look to an outlet in the rocky cliffs.
You can save me if you will  tell me you
will !'

Life, courage, the strength and fierceness
of a young lion, seemed to leap like living
fire through Basil Gladdening's veins. He

VOL. II. 27 *

seized her hands. He did not waste time in
unnecessary words.

In a second he had placed her in the boat,
loosed the rope, and pushed off into deep
water. Then, seizing the oars, he rowed
with strong and rapid strokes through the
trough of the swelling waves, and out and onto
the glad, free sea beyond.

By sheer instinct he took his way to the
steamer. He never spoke, nor did she.
With drooping head and sad and wistful
eyes she sat there as if carved in stone, but
Basil knew well enough she was alive, and
that thought made his brain almost reel with
joy and triumph.

The steamer was reached, the rope thrown,
the ladder lowered.

Can you get up ?' he asked her breathlessly,
as he assisted her to keep her position
in the rocking boat.

'Yes  yes,' she cried, and seized the rope,
and, watched by his eager eyes, ascended

quickly and safely to the deck of the
steamer.

In an instant Basil followed.

Weigh anchor 1' he shouted to the
captain. ' Let us get back to St. Helier's
as fast as steam can take us.'

Monsieur has succeeded, then, in his
search,' cried the bewildered Frenchman.

Yes. Thank Heaven !' said the boy
simply ; but the tears rose in his eyes as
now, all danger past, he looked at the trembling
figure by his side. -

Come down into the cabin,' he said
gently. * You are safe now. Neither mannor
woman, nor witch, nor devil shall take
you again from me.'

Proud, elated, happy, Basil Gladdening
led his precious charge into the cabin, and
begged her to lie down and rest while he
procured her some refreshment. She was
still very cold. He hurriedly gathered

272

together two or three rugs and spread them
under and over her ; then he went to the
steward and bade him bring some hot tea as
soon as possible.

This done, he came and sat down by the
girl, and taking her cold hand in his, he
began to question her as to the strange
events which had sealed her fate in mystery
for so long.

Her hand lay listless and passive in his
own. She lifted her eyes to his face, but to
every inquiry he made, she only answered :

I do not know

For a time the boy smothered his disappointment.
He thought she must be
weary, spent, harassed, so he ceased to
trouble her with questions.

The tea came, and he poured it out, and
she drank it in the same passive, obedient
manner, and ate the biscuits he gave her, and
then lay back again on the pillows, inert and
silent, with an apathy towards himself that

made him feel like a stranger, and sent a
curious thrill of fear and disappointment
through his heart.

Would you like to sleep V he asked at last.
We shall be in port in a couple of hours. I
will call you then.'

Yes,' she said ; ' I am very tired. I
thought when one was dead one never felt
tired again, but I do  often.'

The strange words, spoken as calmly and
clearly as if they were all that was reasonable,
horrified the boy. He stood there
gazing at her almost in terror.

You are not dead !' he cried. ' What do
you mean ? You are alive  well  safe !
You are going home with me  with Basil.
Don't you remember me, Ladyee Nancyee V

The familiar voice, the familiar name,
touched some chord within the numbed
brain, the tortured heart. She rose to a
sitting position. She pushed the veiling
hair from off her brow. As she did so,

Basil saw a red scar traversing the riofht
temple  a cruel, jagged mark that had never
disfigured its snowy beauty in the days of
old.

A look of pain and bewilderment came
into her eyes. She shook her head.

No,' she said ; ' I do not remember. I
have been dead a long, long time. I do not
think the dead remember.'

Then something seemed to stab the boy's
heart with pain. The truth flashed across
him in one moment of sharp and cruel
agony.

All his youth and boyishness seemed to
die out of him, leaving him cold and grave,
full of serious thought and anxious fears.

He had found Nancette, but she was no
honore the Nancette he remembered. Beautiful,
sad, harassed by sufferings, cold to all
feeling, with no memory of the past, no care
for the future  this woman who lay like a
fallen statue against the rich and sombre

colouring of the rugs, was but the shell, the
ghost of the woman he had worshipped with
boyish adoration.

He felt choked ; he could not speak ; he
could scarcely breathe. He went out of the
cabin, and up to the deck, and in the cold,
faint gloom he paced to and fro, taking
counsel with himself, trying to fathom this
mystery  to piece together the puzzle of that
broken life, which now was helpless as a
child's  to which existence could henceforth
be only a negative blessing.

Then grief gave way to fear. Fear for
her, her personal safety, her liberty, her
peace. If they landed at St. Helier's, and
went to an hotel, her strange aspect and conversation
would arouse suspicion. A madwoman
! He shuddered as he thought of it.
What could he do ?

The one longing in his mind was to take
her home  to hide her from all eyes  to
keep this sorrowful and mysterious life safe,

and untroubled, and free from the desecrating
influence of investigation and inquiry.

Could he do this ? Was it in any way
possible ? He thought of a plan, but it
seemed very hopeless.

He glanced at the sky ; it was clear and
faintly lit at intervals by stars. There was
no fog or mist. The wind had died down ;
the sea was comparatively calm.

He took courage, and went to the captain
and made his proposition.

It was received with great outcry, as he
expected.

To England ! Mais moiisieiir, it is impossible
!'

It is quite possible,' Basil said. ' Tide
and weather are in your favour, and I will
give you fifty pounds to do it.'

Fifty pounds.' The man looked doubtful.
It is not so much, and your guardian  what
will he say V

He will be so pleased at my discovery of

the lady that he will probably give you fifty
more,' said Basil coolly. ' Come, make up
your mind ; you can run us to Southampton
in ten or eleven hours. What is that ? And
you know you have been engaged for another
month, and you'll get off it, and be paid all
the same. Then think of the service you
render to the lady.'

Ah,' said the Frenchman, laying his
hand on his breast ; ' there monsieur has meat
his feet. I am weak on all points connected
with the too charming sex of madame.
I and my boat are at her service in proof of
my devotion.'

And fifty pounds,* said Basil with a
smile, as he turned away. ' Though how in
the name of Vvonder I'm to get it,' he added
to himself, ' is more than I know. I've only
a few pounds, and I'll want them for the train.
But I'll telegraph to Mrs. Freer the moment
we get to Southampton, and we can remain onboard
till the money comes, and she with it.'

I STARTED the instant I had your telegram.
I have travelled all night. For Heaven's
sake, Basil, tell me what has happened !'

This was Myra Freer's greeting as she
stood in the coffee-room of the Royal Hotel,
Southampton, in the foggy gloom of the dull
December day. Basil Gladdening, grave,
pale, anxious, changed out of all likeness to
the bold, bright boy she remembered, drew
up a chair for her near the Window, and
seated himself opposite.

Breakfast will be ready in fifteen minutes,'
he said.  The moment it is over I will take
you to her.'

But why is she not here V asked Mrs.
Freer wonderingly.

The boy's voice grew lower ; he glanced
furtively around.

She is not quite herself; he said ; ' she is
oh, Mrs. Freer, I think she is  mad !'

Mad !' Myra Freer recoiled in sudden
horror.  What are you saying '? It can't
be  oh, it can't be !'

It is he said mournfully.  She has no
memory. She doesn't know me, and she
persists in saying she is dead. Oh, Mrs.
Freer, it is the saddest, most terrible thing
you can imagine ! I  I sometimes think
it would be better if she were what she
fancies.'

Tell me all,' said his companion sharply.
When and how did you find her V

He told her the story in brief, plain words,
while her pained, bewildered eyes met his
own.

It is like some horrible dream,' she said.
What can that woman have been V

A witch or magician, I'm sure.' said

Basil. ' And it is my belief she has
frightened Nancette out of her senses. She
has declared her to be dead so long that now
she believes it is a fact.'

I never heard of such a elinor. Poor
child  poor girl ! But perhaps it is not as
bad as you imagine. How did she bear the
voyage V

She slept for twelve hours without ever
waking. She is as gentle and calm as a
child ; but, oh, it makes my heart ache to see
her, and hear her ! You can't think how
terribly changed she is.'

And your guardian V asked Myra suddenly.
' Where is he V

I haven't the slightest idea Basil
answered.  I was to accompany him on
the expedition to the Inquirers. When I
went to the hotel, I learnt that he and the
detective had gone off by the mail-boat to
St. Malo. I thought it was a pity the
steamer should be idle, so I persuaded the

captain to take me for a cruise. We remained
out two days. On the second I
discovered her in that cave, as I told you.'

But if she came to you, as you describe,
of her own free will, she must have remembered
you said Mrs. Freer.

He shook his head.

She may have remembered I had been
there, some feeling may have impelled her to
seek me ; but she certainly does not know
who I am, nor does she recollect Owl's Roost.
I have asked her questions till I'm tired.
She has but one answer for all  '' I do not
know." It is heart-breaking. I haven't
dared take her to an hotel ; I was so afraid
they might see something was wrong, and
insist upon a doctor being called in. That's
why I asked you to bring the money. Did
you ?' .

Yes,' said Mrs. Freer ; ' though I was
puzzled to think why you wanted so large a
sum.'

It is to pay the French captain. He
brought us here

In Mr. Glendennino's steamer?'

Yes. He went off, so I didn't suppose
he wanted it. It will go back at once now I
can pay for our passage. If Mr. Gladdening
has come back to Guernsey it will be all right.
The captain can tell him why I did this. I
can write, you know, and explain. Why,
Mrs. Freer, you're not going to faint ! How
white you look !'

Do I V she said with evident effort.  No ;
I am not faint  only '

I know,' he said in a low, troubled voice.
You think it is worse even than death  so
did I at first. But she may recover. People
do, don't they? She is just as gentle and
sweet as ever, only she has this strange fancy.
But if she has lived all these months with
that terrible woman, I'm not surprised at her
losing her senses. She nearly terrified me
out of mines

It is the most extraordinary tale I ever
heard,' said Mrs. Freer thoughtfully. * I
almost dread seeing her. I wonder if she
will know me ? I think we must have a
doctor to see her in London, Basil. He
could tell us whether there is hope for her
recovery.'

But if he should say she must go to 

to Oh, Mrs. Freer, I can't bear to

think of it 1'

He would not say so,' she answered
gently. ' Unless there was reason to fear a
stage of violence. Even then we could have
an attendant for her ourselves. But I wish
oh, I wish Errol were here !'

He has never troubled much about her 
that I know very well,' said Basil indignantly.
 If he had behaved like a proper-minded
husband, she would never have come to this
awful state.'

Myra Freer looked sadly at the young,
indignant face.

My dear,' she said, ' you do not know the
story. You cannot judge between there.
He has told me all. It is very pitiful  very
sad, and this will make it worse.'

The boy sighed, and turned away. Just
then the waiter entered with the breakfast.
They spoke no more on the subject Awhile
they made some poor pretence of drinking
the coffee, and eating the hot rolls and ham
and eggs Basil had ordered.

It was a relief to both when they were out
in the open air  dull and murky as it was.

A few minutes afterwards, Myra, with
beating heart and trembling limbs, stood in
the presence of the woman she had loved so
dearly, and mourned so faithfully all these
weary months.

Nancette was sitting in the cabin gazing
wistfully before her  her hands folded, her
whole expression one of passive listless -
ness.

Myra felt the scorch of tears in her eyes

as she looked at the changed, pathetic face ;
she placed her hands on the girl's shoulders
and gazed longingly at her.

/Nancette,' she said gently  'dear Nan-cette,
how glad I am to see you again !'

A strange, clouded look came over the
quiet face.

Are you dead, too V she asked.

Myra's hands dropped.

Prepared as she was for the shock, it terrified
and pained her.

Don't you remember me V she asked at
last, when she had regained her self-command.


Nancette looked at her and shook her
head.

No,' she said ; ' I remember nothing of
when I was alive except pain  a long, long
dull ache. But the waters covered it, and
they swept it all away. There is no more
now.' She clasped her hands on her bosom
and looked up at the pitying face. * Sit

VOL. II. 28

here,' she said, ' by me, and I will tell you
how I died.'

Myra seated herself with a heart-broken
look at Basil.

He turned aside.

The sound of that plaintive voice wrung
his heart whenever he heard it.

I was out in a boat,' said the girl presently
; * it grew dark, and I heard the
thunder rolling in the sky. There was
water everywhere. I liked it. I did not
mind. I loved to feel the dashing waves,
the salt, soft spray  to see the lightning
chasing its owen flashes through the black
sky. The boat carried me on  I did not
care whither. It grew darker and darker;
the gusts of wind where like blows. The boat
rocked and reeled, but it flew on swiftly and
more swiftly. There had been someone in it
with me. I do not know when I first found
I was alone. Then came a bright flash as of
flame. I saw huge rocks towering above me.

I saw a great wave curling upward  then a
weight as of falling water was upon me.
My eyes closed. All was dark  dark 
dark. That was death !'

She paused for a moment and put up her
hand to the cruel, disfiguring scar.

They are very kind she went on, ' to the
dead. I was warm and sheltered, though
the earth was cold about me. Sometimes I
seemed to wake, and there were strange
forms around and about, and one seemed to
rule them all. At her will we woke, or
slept, or dreamt, or moved. I had many
strange dreams. She told me I was dead.
She taught me strange things. I could goto
all parts of the earth Space and distance
were as nothing. I was afraid of her, but I
knew I must obey her. I could sleep,
breathe, move, but as she wished. Sometimes
she took me to seas of blood and bade
me cross them, and to strange temples, where
the dead worshipped the powers of good and

282

evil. I learnt and saw the immeasurable

mysteries which are the sources of life, and

death, and fate. Then suddenly, one day,

something called me back. Her power was

strong, but this was stronger. Her force

held me in sleep, but this had power to

awaken me. I found myself alone. The

shapes and shadows had all fled, and the

voice that woke me summoned me to meet it,

and I left the earth that had buried me and

went on and on till I found who had spoken.

Then I saw the sea once more  the cruel sea

that had taken my life  but I was not

afraid, and the woman was not there, and the

voice led me on by force and strength of its

will that had vanished hers. I follow it still.

But when it questions I cannot answer, for I

know that I am dead, and the dead lose all

memories of the living. That is why they

are happy.'

Her voice ceased, like a low and plaintive
strain of music that had come to an end.

Again her hand wandered to her forehead
with that pathetic gesture. Something
seemed trying to force itself into the clouded
brain, but it escaped and left her disturbed
and restless instead of calm.

Gently Myra Freer approached and
touched the wandering hands.

Will you come with me V she said. * 1
will ask you no more questions, but I will try
to make you happy.'

She rose at once.

'You must take me,' she said, 'where
the woman cannot follow. She troubles
me.'

She shall not trouble you again, rest
assured said Myra soothingly. ' Come.'

From place to place  from town to town,
Errol Gladdening pursued the shadowy-phantom
evoked by the words of Paul
Lihou.

The landlord of the hotel at St. Malo
confirmed in every particular the story of
Madame Lamontaine. On the mornings of
that special day, two people, answering to
the description of Pierre de Volens and
Nancette, had landed by the mail-boat; the
boat had been delayed by the storm. The
lady was ill and weak, and went at once to
her room, where she remained all day.
They left by the night-train for Rouen. That
was all he knew.

Extol Glendeiming listened in rigid silence,
with perfect self-control. Yet his heart was
rent and torn by anguish. The mockery of
his marriage stood out in cruel, vivid
colours.

When he had heard all, he simply waved the
garrulous landlord aside. Perhaps his faith
in his glib story might have been shaken
had he known that the man was a brother
of Madame Lamontaine  that a certain letter
from that lady rested warm and safe in the
breast-pocket of the garrulous landlord's coat,
containing certain instructions to be carried
out and liberally paid for.

But knowing' nothing' of such matters,
Errol Glendenning had to bear his suffering
and shame in silence that gave no sign of
self-betrayal, that Paul Lihou involuntarily
admired.

What shall we do next, monsieur T he
asked.  Follow them V

'Yes,' said Errol; *I must have actual

proof with my own eyes that they are
together. We will go on to E-ouen.*

Rewarding the landlord for his information
with a generosity that made him open
his Breton eyes to the utmost, they left St.
Malo and proceeded to Rouen. There,
however, the traces grew indistinct. ' It
was so long ago ;' ' so many ladies and
gentlemen had been coming and going all
through the summer ;' the name of Pierre de
Volens was certainly not in the books.'

These and similar vague statements were
all that could be obtained.

From Rouen they proceeded to Lovers,
and thence to Paris.

Paris is rather a vaofue address : but it is
also the very home and centre of a perfect
system of criminal investigation.

With infinite labour did Lihou toil through
hotel and lodging-house registers and directories,
and at last he discovered the name he
sought.

Accompanied by Gladdening he went to
the address  not an aristocratic one, in the
Rue Crozier. A fresh disappointment
awaited them. M. de Volens had lived
there for two months, from July to September
of that year, but he had left at the end
of September for Vienna.

Alone T inquired the detective.
Quite alone was the answer.

And the apartment  had that also been
occupied by M. de Volens only V

But, yes  certainly,' answered the concierge.
 Monsieur had been ill most, of the
time  of a fever, brought on by cold and
exposure in a terrible storm while crossing
that too atrocious Channel. As soon as he
was well enough to travel, he had left Paris.
He stated that he had an appointment 
official or government  in Vienna. No more
had been heard of him since.'

Half faithless, yet half relieved, Errol Glen-denying
turned away, and walked with rapid,

uneven steps down the slushy, dirty street,
and turned into the neighbouring boulevard.

A drizzling rain was falling, melting the
snow that had fallen the previous day.
The mud was nearly ankle-deep. But
the fever in his veins, the restless desire
for action or movement of some sort,
prevented him from engaging any of the
loitering cabs that seemed entreating a fare.

You see it is all ended now,' he at last
exclaimed, as he glanced at Lihou's gloomy
face. * She has not been here  that is certain,
or else we were on the wrong track.'

The detective felt his dignity impugned.

 The evidence is strong, monsieur, as far
as Rouen,' he said. ' But he may have left
her, or she him, before he came to Paris.'

Gladdening was silent. For the first
time doubt seized hiu]. He felt weary of
this humiliating chase  this will-o'-the-wisp
that escaped him at every turn. He said no
more to Lihou, who also seemed absorbed in

speculations and theories. When they
reached their hotel he went at once to the
reading-room. Paul Lihou, however, took
himself off to see some of his colleagues.

Gladdening felt ill and worn ; his limbs
ached, and his head seemed in a whirl. Since
he had left Guernsey", he had been in a constant
state of repressed excitement, his nerves
strung to the most acute tension, his physical
and mental energies taxed to the uttermost.
Now the long strain seemed to snap.

Utterly exhausted and worn out, he sank
down on a chair by the window wondering,
in a vague, dim way, what was the matter
with him. His clothes were damp with rain,
his boots soaked with the mud and slush of
the melted snow. But he felt he had not
the energy to change either one or other.

The voice of a waiter roused him at last.
He was bringing in a pile of journals and
papers. Seeing Galuinani on the top of the
heap, Errol mechanically stretched out his

hand for it. His eyes glanced in a dull, unseeing
fashion over the English news, the
political and Parisian notes. Then a strange
dizziness came over him. The lines and
columns seemed to run into a strange, blurred
mass. With an effort he roused himself as
one does when sleep is creeping unawares
over the brain at an inadvertent moment.
He looked round the room. It was quite
deserted. It was warmed, and lit, and comfortable.
A deep-cushioned lounge stood by
the fire. Impelled by some idea of reaching it,
he rose to his feet, the paper still in his hand.

Again that dizziness and drowsiness seized
him. He shook it off with an angry and
resentful effort, and reached the chair, and
sat down. As he did so his eyes for a
moment rested on a column in the paper he
still grasped in his hand.

Something familiar in the words arrested
his notice. He found himself reading them
again and again :

If this should meet the eye of Errol Glen-jennings
Esq. of Owes Boost, he is entreated to
return home at once. Nev's.'

Return home !' ' News !' What could
it mean ? Only that something had been
heard of  of whom ? Who was it he was
trying to seek ? The thought and the name
escaped him. That strange dull drowsiness
swept over him once more. Things began to
array themselves before him in a blind, disconnected
way. Once he heard himself laugh.
The sound was so horrible and so startling
that it forced him to sit up and look half-fearfully
around, in case anyone else heard
it. But he was still alone. Then something
seemed clanging and beating in his brain.
The noise deafened him. He held up his
hand entreatingly.

Don't !' he cried with piteous entreaty.
 You stun me. I can't hear ; and I must
go home ; they want me  she wants me. I
must go home  I must go home.'

Between the faltering words he had risen
to his feet, with some vague idea of getting
out of the room and out of the house. But
ere he reached the door he stumbled like a
helpless child. With one last effort to keep
himself from falling, he seemed to plunge into
a great black void.

[more extracts from myra freer's journal.]

December 29tJi, 187-.  Back again at Owl's
Roost. Back again, and more sad at heart
than when I left it.

It seems strange that Basil has succeeded
where we all failed. Strange that he should
have found our poor lost girl. Once he
saved her life. Aofain he has rescued her
from a fate that was but death in life. The
more I hear from her of that strange creature
who has held her captive for these past
months, the more weird and horrible the
story seems.

As far as I can judge, Annette, on that
fateful day, found she had missed the ex-vol.

II. 29

version-steamer, and walked for some distance
along the shore, and away from the harbour.
Presently she saw a boat lying idly in one
of the little nooks between the harbour and
Increase Bay. A stout fisher-lad was mind-ins:
it. She asked him to take her out on
the sea, and he did so.

They went towards the Outlet Rocks.
A strong breeze was blowing from the land,
and the boat flew along very rapidly. They
were a long way from Guernsey when the
storm broke, and the lad thought it best to
make for the nearest port. From her description
he must have tried the water-passage
between Giulio and Brecon. But the
force of wind and water were too strong to be
combated. The boy was swept away, and
she nearly shared the same fate.

From this point she loses all coherence.
She declares she was drowned, that she
found herself buried in the earth, that a
strange shape stood before her, and called

Lier, and sent her here and there at will,
sometimes chaining her in long sleeps, sometimes
sending her spirit on strange and
mystic errands.

I began to think of all the curious things
I had read and heard  especially in America
about mesmerism, magnetism, and clairvoyance.
I knew there was a race of beings
to whom occultism and mysticism were actual
sciences, studied to their deepest depths, absorbing
every interest of life and soul. Had
Nancette met some such being, and fallen
under her influence, or was it only another
delusion of the poor, ill-balanced brain ?

Then came Basil's story, corroborating her
own. He had found her in a cave, on one
of those dreary, desolate, rocky islands that
are supposed to be uninhabited, and lie in a
dark, forbidding chain between the French
coast and the Douvres.

The woman who lived in this cave had an
evil reputation, and was supposed to be a

292

witch. None of the fisher folk would approach
it, which was naturally the very
reason why Basil determined to explore it
first.

Accident divulged the hiding-place where
the solitary creature lived and studied her
strange arts. He had been terrified by her,
and almost convinced that Nancette was
dead, as she declared. Then, suddenly and
unexpectedly, the girl herself appeared before
him. Seenig her alive and safe, and away
from that terrible creature in the cave, the
boy's first and only thought was to get heron
board the steamer that was waiting his
return. She made no resistance. In the
same way he brought her safely to Southampton,
where he telegraphed to me to come
at once, as she was found.

I came at once, totally unprepared for the
dreadful disclosure he had to make  totally
unprepared to hear my poor girl greet me asa

stranger,

And now we have brought her here. She
seems to have some vague memory of the
place, but it is a painful and uneasy one.
She seems confused and bewildered when we
question her; but she will talk freely and
unrest rainedl} of the events of what she
terms her death.

I have had the opinion of a doctor celebrated
for his treatment of mental cases.
He says Nancette's brain has been numbed
by some severe shock, following on the blow
that cut open her head when she was dashed
against the rock.

The shock, of course, must have been
dealt by the Mystic, who has kept her all
this time in the belief that she is dead.

The doctor seemed doubtful of her recovery.
His opinion was that another shock
would either startle the brain once more
into activity, or kill her outright. Such an
opinion alarmed me terribly. But as time
goes on I begin to doubt its accuracy.

Mental disorders are, of all others, the most
difficult to analyse and pronounce upon. Even
the greatest authorities sometimes find themselves
defied and defeated by a simple natural
force, set in motion by simple natural causes,
of which they have taken no count because
of their very simplicity. My opinion is that
if anyone can do Nancette good, or wean her
disordered fancy from its fixed belief, it will
be Basil.

With him she is always gentle and calm.
His power it was that broke asunder the
magnetic chains of that powerful sleep, and
brought her to his side. He it is for whom
she looks and watches in a vague, restless
fashion, that his voice or step at once dispels
and calms. He it is on whom her own
spirit depends, and by whom it seems led
to calmer and more rational channels of
thought.

In the interest of the girl and of Errol I
have resolved that he shall remain at Owl's

Roost, at least for a time, or until Errol himself
returns here.

Where he is I  cannot imagine. From the
hour he left Guernsey I have had no word
of his doings. I have written there again
and again, but to no purpose. The landlord
of the hotel states that he has not yet returned
from St. Malo, and all my letters
are waiting until he does, or gives me a new
address.

One day, Basil offers a bright suggestion.
He says :

Advertise in Malignant Journal. He is
sure to see that, wherever he is.'

I at once send to the London agents, and
make the necessary arrangements for putting
in an advertisement, and keeping it there fora
month or more.

Three weeks have passed ; there has been
no result.

January 20th.  Stewart has gone back to

school alone. I could not part with Basil.
His patience and gentleness pass all belief.
He has such hopes of Nancette's recovery
that he inspires me with the same. All the
boyishness, and mischief, and wildness seem
to have left him. He is, to all intents and
purposes, a man now, strong, capable, reasoning
 a young epitome of Errol himself, whom,
indeed, he strangely resembles.

But the dark curtain is still drawn over
Nancette's mind and memory, and the dull,
monotonous winter days pass on, each like
the other in its dreariness and gloom.

January Sol.  A month has passed.
Sadly indeed has the New Year dawned
for us. There is still no word from Errol.
I am growing alarmed, accustomed as I am
to his fits of absence and silence. Can anything
have happened ? Can he be ill ?

He has not returned to Guernsey, and I
know no way of making inquiries at St.

Malo. Basil might go, but then I fear the
effect of his absence on Nancette.

Day by day she clings to him more.
She walks, drives, and rides as he dictates.
Her bodily health is marvellously improved.
She has gained flesh and colour, and physical
strength ; but her memory is still void, her
delusion still unshaken.

January hist. Midnight.  A strange
suggestion has shaken me to the very soul.
Basil has been sitting here talking to me
for the last hour. The boy, it appears, has
been studying Swedenborg, Boehme, and
Heaven knows how many other dreadful
writers.

I call them dreadful, despite their genius,
for to my woman's mind there is something
terrible in this inner research of what is
veiled and secret  in lifting the veil from
the spiritual temple and analysing its essence,
its sources, its capabilities for the development

of occult powers. Filled with a miscellaneous
quantity of information on these
subjects, Basil proceeds to propound to mea
theory of his own.

It is evident, he says, that the woman, or
Mystic, or whatever she was, chained Nan-cette's
mental faculties into a sleep for certain
purposes of her own. Therefore, she alone
can unchain them.

In his belief, a certain portion of Nan-cette's
brain, or spirit, has been lulled into
a sleep from which it cannot awaken except
by the will of the person who has magnetised
it. He quotes strange stories and authorities
for this theory, showing he has studied mystical
literature to some advantage. To my
matter-of-fact mind these ideas seem preposterous,
and even the authorities he quotes
do not succeed in convincing me.

His idea now is to go himself to this
woman, and beg her to cure Nancette. The
scheme is so bold and so extraordinary that

it almost takes my breath away. But I
oppose it strongly. In the first place, I
fear that the boy's absence might have an
ill effect upon Nancette ; in the next, I dislike
the idea of being mixed up with anything
mystical and uncanny, and inexplicable
to common-sense and ordinary reason.

I don't believe in mesmerism and magnetism.
They seem to imply a morbid condition
of mind, worked upon by superstition, or
forced into a certain groove by power of a
stronger mind, equally ill-conditioned. Nervous
and hysterical people might possibly be
led to believe in such matters, but I most
assuredly never could.

If it were not for Basil's assurance to the
contrary, I should be inclined to think the
story of the Woman of the cave a myth
altogether. His testimony, however, agrees
so well with that of Nancette that I feel
compelled to give it credence. The idea,
however, of appealing to this mysterious

being fills me With horror. I point out to
Basil that she might choose to re-assert her
power over the girl, instead of releasing her
from its baneful effects. In that case, we
should be Averse off than before.

 In my own belief,' I said, 'you have
broken her spell by putting the sea between
you, and I really cannot consent to inviting
a Witch of Ensor here as a guest.'

So the boy gives up the argument, and
goes away, unconvinced. I think his new
studies are unsettling his brain, and I advise
him strongly to put them aside ; but they
are too absorbing and interesting  so he
says.

February both.  Nancette does not care
now for books, or work, or even music. She
likes being out in the open air, but no place
she visits  even the sea  seems to recall her
past life, or aid her in picking up the dropped
threads of memory.

I am obliged to deny her to visitors for
fear the secret of her condition should be
revealed. We are gradually dropped and
isolated, and I fancy Owl's Roost begins to
have an evil reputation. Once or twice I
have been to church, but it is plain to see
that I am also ostracised, so I give ujd doing so,
and even cease to wonder that our venerable
pastor does not favour us with his spiritual
visits any longer. The voices of the female
members of the congregation are evidently
too strong for him, poor man! We must
consider ourselves 'cut' by the whole county.

Oh, if Errol would only write or come I

February 10th.  Nancette has developed a
strange fancy the last few days. She sits in
the boys' old play-room, and gazes for hours
at the picture there of the ' Ladyee Nancyee '
the picture that so strangely resembles
herself, and by whose title Basil has always
called her.

We do not disturb her. We are in hopes
that it may prove even one link in the broken
chain that her mind seems powerless to
gather or connect.

After looking at it for a long time to-day,
she turned to me and said softly :

That was I  when I lived.'

I did not know what to say. The assertion
was so calm and confident.

 I forget my story she went on presently.
I was always watching for someone, I think.
There were trees, and a long, dark road, and
the sky was red ; but he never came.'

My heart began to beat violently. Was
memory returning? It seemed so, for she
was really relating the very story of the
picture.

He never came.' Was it her husband of
whom she spoke 1

I still sat there silent. I feared to speak,
lest it might break the delicate strands of
that invisible chain which linked her wandering
thoughts to a real memory at last.

She pressed her hands against her brow in
the old bewildered, painful way.

*I think,' she said, ''I have lived twice.
I seem to hear someone telling me so.'

She turned and looked at me.

Was it you V she asked.

No, dear,' I said gently. * Perhaps it was
Basil'

She shook her head.

'No,' she said slowly. ' It was a child, I
think  a little child. He'  and she looked
from side to side of the dreary old room  ' he
used to be here.'

My thoughts flew to Stewart. Was it
possible that she missed him ?'

He had gray eyes,' she said suddenly 
'gray eyes, and a pale, wistful face.'

That was Stewart,' I said. ' You remember
him V

The dull, clouded look came over her face
again.

Do the dead remember V she asked'
wistfully.

It was the old helpless question and the
old helpless look. I sat there watching her,
sick at heart with fresh disappointment. She
remained quite still, only looking ever and
anon at the picture in its tarnished frame,
and seeming to find in it an absorbing subject
for her thoughts.

Gradually the day began to close in. I lit
the lamp and stirred the fire to a brighter
blaze. While doing this my back was turned
to the door. I heard no sound of it behoof
opened or shut, but when I looked round
Nancette had disappeared.

Startled and alarmed, I immediately rushed
to the door, and looked down the corridor.
She was not in sight. We never left her
alone at any time. Basil or myself were
always with her. So I immediately started
in pursuit. I looked in the library and in our
usual sitting-room ; but she was not there.
Then I went upstairs to her bedroom. It
was empty. Basil was out, so I sought old
Deborah, and asked her if she had seen her
mistress.

No,' she said ; * she has not been here
to-day.'

Growing somewhat uneasy, I threw a shawl
round me and went out on to the terrace in
front of the house.

VOL. II. 30

It was quite dusk now, and a difficult
matter to distinguish anything.

A footstep suddenly sounded. I sprang
eagerly forward, calling her name. I found
myself face to face with Basil.

Have you seen Nancette V I cried wildly.
She has left the house. I can't find
her.'

Left the house ! By herself ! Are you
sure V he exclaimed.

Yes,' I said, and hurriedly related the
particulars of our conversation.

 If she has got that in her head,' he said
excitedly, ' I can find her. I told her the
story.'

Then, without another word, he was
speeding down the avenue, leaving me standing
there more puzzled and bewildered than
ever.

It might have been half an hour, or more,
before Basil returned. She was with him.

He whispered me to make no remark, so I
merely took off the white shawl she had
thrown over her head and shoulders, and put
her in her usual low seat by the fire. In a
few moments she went off into a deep sleep,
her head lightly pillowed on her slender
white hand, as she lay back in the chair, her
beautiful profile looking pale and wan in the
dull glow of the wood fire.

Then Basil beckoned me aside.

She thinks he said, ' that she is the
Ladyee Nancyee of the picture. She was
watching in the avenue, just like the story
says the  the other one did. Oh, Mrs.
Preere, she must have remembered what I
told her nearly three years ago ! Her mind
has gone back to the time she came here.
Isn't that something ? Who knows if in time
she won't recall it all, and then '

He paused. We looked at one another in
silence. The same thought throbbed in both
our hearts ; we did not need to speak it.

302

The next day, at the same hour, Nancette
did the same think:.

We followed her as she sped down the
avenue and paced to and fro under the tall
elm-trees, watching in a strained, intent
fashion for someone to enter the closed gates.
After half an hour's vigilance she seemed to
grow weary, and we approached and took her
unresisting back to the house. Then, as
on the previous day, she laid herself down
on the couch and went off into a deep
sleep.

To me this sudden phase of her disease
seems hopeful. Memory is slowly waking.
I believe that in some dim way she is watching
for Errol  that some faltering thought
keeps urging her to look for his return.

My resentment at his absence and silence
are slowly resolving themselves into despair.
My hands seem tied. I can tell him nothing,
and do nothing. Only be patient and silent
here, with this broken mind for companionship,

and my sad and hopeless thoughts as
friends.

The third day, and again, for the third
time, Nancette took her way to the avenue
as the dusk was falling. I attempted to stay
her, but she grew so restless, and seemed so
unhappy, that for fear of ill-effects I at
last let her slip away as if I did not
notice it.

When she returned this time, however,
there was a strained, eager look in her eyes
I had not before noticed.

She drank the tea I gave her, and then, as
before, threw herself back on the couch, and
went off into that sudden, strange sleep.

Basil and I drew our chairs up to the fire,
and sat there talking in low, hushed voices.
Strangely enough, the boy again alluded to
his idea about the mysterious woman. He
had been reading some more books, and
evolving some more theories.

I am sure,' he said, * if we could persuade
her to unseal the brain, to lift the mystical
weight from the spirit-forces, Nancette would
recover.'

My dear boy,' I said, 'if you go on at
this rate your own brain will give way. I
think you would be better at school.'

Yes,' he said ; ' no doubt. But I am
determined to cure her first. Mrs. Freer, I
wish you would read '

 I will read nothing,' I said obstinately.
Those books only bewilder and terrify.
They take away everything, and give nothing
or.'

I don't mean a book,' he said. 'I mean a
letter.'

A letter !' I said. ' From wiom ?'

From Leone,' he said gravely, and took a
thick packet from out of his pocket, and
handed it to me.

As I touched it the figure on the couch
stirred uneasily, a low moan as of pain left

her lips. We both looked at her. Basil
went forward, and laid his cool hand gently
on her forehead.

The moaning ceased. Her breathing grew
gentle and placid once more. She looked
like a lovely statue lying there in that deep
repose.

Basil then returned to his seat. I opened
the letter. I saw it consisted of many sheets
closely written. The flames were leaping
merrily in the wide grate. I bent towards
them, and besfan to read :

La Rocque, Guernsey, January 28th.

Dear Basil,

Your letter has surprised me very
much. We all thought you were with your
guardian all this time. I am glad  so glad
you found Madame Nan eye.

'Your tale reads like a story of witches
and the black art ; but I suppose it is all
true. I am sorry that your visit was cut

short ; but, of course, I see quite plainly that
you could not have acted differently. What
you say of Madame's loss of memory is very
sad, and your extraordinary theories about it
make me wonder if your mind is not also a
little deranged. Be not offended that I say
so. I have not, in the course of my studies,
ever taken up such strange works as those
you speak of; but I shall certainly try and
get them.

. . . I broke off here yesterday, as maman
wished me to go out on an errand. I thought
I would come home by our favourite bay. I
was walking along at my ease  not in any
haste, you understand  when suddenly I saw
before me the figure of a woman. She was
all in black, and very tall ; her hair was as
white as snow ; her eyes were large and
wild.'

I started. The letter dropped from my
lap. I looked up and met Basil's eyes.

'The same woman?' 1 said, below my
breath.

He nodded.

Read on,' he said.

I don't know where she sprang from so
suddenly,' went on the letter ; ' I only know
that there she was. I stopped and looked at
her, and she looked at me. She spoke first.

" You live here V she said.
 I answered simply :

" Yes, madame."

" Can you .tell me," she asked, '' if anything
has been heard on the island of a woman
dressed in white ? A mad ivomanJ'

I started ; I thought of your letter and of
Nancette. I answered evasively :

" I am not acquainted with anyone on the
island," I said. '' I have certainly not heard
of such a person being here. You had better
inquire of the police."

Then I tried to move on. I felt uncomfortable.

She motioned me to remain still ; her
eyes seemed to pierce me.

'*'You have a friend," she said; ''he is
young, and bold, and strong of will. Tell him
he has vanquished me once ; but my turn
"Nvill come. He has stolen the empty shell ;
but I have the jewel. He has the dead body;
but the spirit is with me. Some day his
vigilance will relax  the force of his presence
will be withdrawn. Then, at a word, the
body weill return to me to claim what I withhold.
His power is strong now  the power
of a pure, strong, unselfish love. But against
it I employ the power of a great and all-embracing
knowledge. Sea and space divide
us ; but my will could traverse them did I
wish. But I am content to wait. Tell him
I am content to wait."

Now, Basil, you will scarcely believe that
by the time she had finished this harangue 1
was really frightened. It was growing dark.
I was all alone, and this strange, wild creature

terrified me with her looks and gestures.
Every word she said seemed to burn itself
like fire into my brain. I could not forget
them, nor could I speak. When she ceased,
however, she moved slowly away, and went
down to the water's edge, and seemed to fade
darkly and indistinctly into the gathering
shadows of the falling night, and the hazy
outlines of rock and cliff. As for me, I simply
flew over the shingle and sand, and never
slackened speed till I reached home.

The good mamcm was at vespers. I was
glad she did not see me ; I looked so strange.
I sat down at once and added all this to my
letter. What do you think of it ? Certainly
now I shall read Swedenborg and those other
authors. I close this to catch the post. If I
hear or see any more of the strange woman I
will write at once.

Leone.'

As I finished, another low moan from

Nancette attracted my attention. I looked at
her. She was sitting up ; her eyes were wide
open, but with no look of actual sight within
them. She put her hands to her head, then
let them fall with a despairing gesture.

Again the low moaning cry escaped her
pale and quivering lips.

As I sprang hastily up, the scattered sheets
fluttered into the wide fireplace, and in a
second were blazing fiercely with the wood.
Basil and I Averse both too much alarmed by
Nancette's appearance to attempt to rescue
them. We approached her, not daring to
speak. We could see that the look in her
eyes was not one of reason or sense.

Quite suddenly, as the last scrap of paper
fluttered blackened and charred on to the piled
gray ashes beneath the grate, the strained,
terrible look died out of those unseeing eyes.
With a deep sigh of relief she sank back on
the cushions. The lids closed. A faint murmur
stirred her lips.

It is gone she said. ' Ah, the relief, the

joy !'

Basil looked at me with a strange triumph
on his face.

It was the letter he said ;  it is burnt,
and she has recovered. Perhaps you'll tell
me you don't believe in magnetism now V

Midnight.  1 have copied Leone's letter
from memory. It is strange that every
word of that woman's speech seems mentally
photographed on my brain.

Reviewing the whole facts of Nancette's
seizure, I cannot but believe it is no ordinary
one. Whoever or whatever this Woman is, she
evidently found in our poor, heart-sick girl a
good subject for her strange powers. She
forged chains for her memory that bound her
only to remember as she willed. She swept
away the past, lest its powers should thwart
her own. She dealt with her, in fact, as if
she were an entirely irresponsible being,
given over body and soul to her will.

It seems to me, however, that she reckoned
too much on her absolute control over the
girl. The force of another will, a will strong
and pure, by reason of a pure love, thwarted
her purpose, baffled her power, and drew the
victim away from the baleful spell of her
presence. A force mightier than magnetism
had all unwittingly come into play when she
least expected it. I think Basil's very unconsciousness
but added to his influence over
Annette. As long as she was with him, near
him, I felt she was comparatively safe, but
then reason prompted me to ask how long
such a state of things could be possible.
Tenderly and reverently as the boy loved
her, we could not expect him to waste his
life and energies in such a slavish fashion.
It would be too cruel to him.

The door between our rooms is open. I
can see the bed, and see Nancette's figure
lying there in the placid calm of deep slumber.

There is no egress from her room
except through mine, and T am in the habit
every night of locking the door and putting
the key under my pillow. Besides this, my
sleep is never sound now ; the slightest
movement awakes me. The uncertainty
caused by her state and mental condition keeps
me in perpetual dread. I have had high
bars put to both our windows, and yet, even
With these safeguards, and the key in my own
possession, I never feel that Nancette is safe.
Very often I sit here till daybreak, watching
her : oftener still, thinking over the sad
blow in store for Errol when he returns.

We often speak of the irony of fate. I
seem to recognise the full bitterness of that
phrase at last.

That I  I, of all women  should be thrust
into such a position  the keeper of this poor,
ill-fated, friendless creature, who is as dependent
as a child on patience and on love 1

I shudder at the dreary prospect, at the
long, hopeless struggle before me ; but never
for one single moment do I contemplate relinquishing
my charge ; never do I waver in
that resolution, made when first Errol Glen-denying
told me his sad story  to be the
friend of both ; to strive, so long as it lies inhuman
power, to smooth the hard path, restore
the lost faith, help him to * happiness,
and love, and joy once more.

The task was hard before  it seems almost
impossible now  yet I do not despair.
Strange and mysterious as are the two destinies
I love so dearly, sad and bewildering
as seems the tangled web of their severed
lives, I yet feel the assurance of help, the
hope of better, brighter hours. Surely I am
strong enough and brave enough to battle on
still.

I have been reading that letter over again ;
one sentence in it makes me uneasy. It is a

VOL. II. 31

sentence spoken by the Woman : * Some day
his vigilance will relax, the force of his presence
will be withdrawn ; then, at a word,
the body will return to me, to claim what I
withhold

There is something horrible about the idea
of this creature holding back the spiritual
essence which could once again restore light
and reason to our poor, distraught girl.

Yet, if she has such a power, would it not
be better to act on Basil's advice and either
try, or persuade, or force her to exercise it ?
The only thing is, perhaps she might be un-personable,
or she might use it for her own
bad ends, and take Nancette from us.

LETTER I. BASIL GLENDENNING TO Leone ST.

JEAN.

Fehmanj 8th, 187.
Dear Leone,

- Your letter was very welcome. The
part about the Woman in Black startled me
very much. I am sure she is the woman of
whom I told you, and who lived on that
strange island where I discovered my Lady
Nancyee. I am sorry to say she is no better.
Mrs. Freer thinks I had best remain at
Owl's Roost until we hear from my guardian,
for Nancette is fond of me, and will generally
do whatever I wish. This leads me to suppose
that I have some sort of influence over her.

31-2

Her memory is still a blank ; but lately she
has shown signs of remembering one incident
of her old life here, and that gives me hope
that in time she will remember others. I
read a great deal now. I want, as I told
you before, to get at the mysterious ' something
' which wraps this poor darkened
mind. It is a lonoincy like thirst. Oh, to
set her free  to make her happy ! I
don't think my life would want anything
else.

There's no doubt that we don't any of us
think half enough of these mystic and important
matters. We just live out our lives
from day to day, never troubling about
the source of happiness, the capabilities for
thought, or action, or good or evil, that makeup,
after all, our real nature. I believe, if
one thinks solemnly and seriously about
these matters and intensifies one's will, so
that one can look far below the mere fact of
living, and moving, and breathing, one is

capable of a strange power  an insight, as it
were, into things never dreamt of.

I don't express myself well, I know ; but
it is always hard for me to put my thoughts
into Writing. You have often said I was
stupid, and not a bit imaginative. I know
that is so, and I am afraid this will sound
rather like nonsense. When I talk to Mrs.
Freer, she says I am morbid, and read too
many of those dreadful books. The library
is full of them. She won't even look at one.
But she is so strong and so clever, I can't
wonder at her refusing to be the slave of any
feeling not perfectly explicable. And what I
feel, and what I know Nancette feels, is not
explicable.

If you see that woman again, would you
have courage to ask her why she persecutes
Nancette like this ? Whether anything could
induce her to release the poor girl from her
horrible influence ? I think we would do anything
 sacrifice anything, to have her cured.

Let me know if you like the books I told
you to read. I suppose you can get them
from the library. I cannot tell you anything
about your grandfather, as I have not gone
back to school this term, and Stewart is such
a lazy beggar at writing letters.

Your affectionate friend,

Basil.

letter ii.  from leone st. jean to basil
gladdening.

Dear Basil,

You do seem in a changed state of
mind. I can hardly figure to myself you,
the wild schoolboy, buried in that dull,
gloomy Owl's Boost, and with only books
(such books !) for company ; and that poor
reasonless Madame Nancyee as a friend.
But then I forget Mrs. Freer. She will be
able to keep you straight, I hope  I mean,
of course, in your senses, for you seem in a
fair way of losing them too.

Yes ; I have read some of those books.
They are more than strange. But I have
learnt more even than they can tell me. I
hare seen the Woman in Black again. Not
only seen her, but talked with her. What
say you, mon ami, to that ?

This, then, is how it happened. I was at
Leered this time, near the old cromlech.
She appeared just as suddenly as before.
But this time I was not so frightened. She
looked ill and haggard, and more sad than
wild. We looked at each other for a
moment ; then I spoke.

I am glad to see you,' I said. * I want
to ask you some questions.'

She seemed surprised, but she said
simply :

Proceed.'

I took a seat on a broken fragment of the
cromlech. I looked full at her, but my
heart, I confess, was beating very quickly.

In the first place,* I said, ' who are you V

For a moment her eyes flamed. I thought
she would have struck me for my temerity.
But presently her anger died out. She said
in a low, mournful voice :

I was of earth once, but my base passions
murdered the womanhood within me. I am
now only a force of concentrated evil. I
hate the happy, the pure, the good. I tread
a path of darkness from which there is no
escape. I know the secrets of life and death
my will can traverse space and read the
mysteries of the stars and the powers that
rule mankind. I withdrew myself from the
world. My real self has been dead these
many years. I live alone. My heeds are
few and easily supplied. The elements have
no power against me, since I have ceased to
be mortal. I come and go as I weill  by my
will. That is what I am. Are you satisfied
r

I was not satisfied. I thought she was
talking wild nonsense. Perhaps she read

my thoughts. I do not know, only suddenly
she flamed out :

 You do not believe ! Then why do you
yourself pursue these studies ? Why have
sou pored over the doctrines and theories
that first led me astray ? For such knowledge
brings its own penalty. The thirst of
the spirit cannot be quenched once the fever
to know " is fired in its essence. It goes
on, and on, and on. Its ambition becomes
infinite, its desires insatiable. It would be
as the Being whom it dimly worships, and
dimly pursues.'

And,' I asked, awestruck, ' are you not
ave V

Alive !' she said ; her eyes drooped, her
voice sank to a murmur. ' What is life V
she went on dreamily. ' A series of forces
currents set afloat in a miserable bodily
frame. I cast it from me long ago.'

Then she seemed to sink down on the
rough block of stone. Her black draperies

floated around her. Her head, with its
gleaming snow-white hair, dropped upon
her arms. Crouched there in that strange
attitude, she looked so weird and terrible
that I felt a feint thrill of alarm. Mastering:
it, however, by a strong effort, and now
awakened to a full and vivid interest in this
singular being, I again addressed her.

Will you tell me I said, * anything about
your life on earth ?'

She shuddered convulsively.

Not now she moaned ; ' not now. It is
all dark, horrible, torturing. There was only
one ray of light in it, but I lost that  I lost
that.'

Then she threw up her arms in a paroxysm
of despair.

 Oh, my little child I' she cried, in a voice
that thrilled to my very heart. 'My little
child !'

Then I began to perceive that the poor
mystic was, after all, only a mortal, that

keen and fresh in her nature was the mother-woe
of womanhood. Sorrow had doubtless
driven her mad, or learning, or perhaps both.
T murmured some words of pity. My
voice seemed to soothe her. She looked
up at me ; her eyes were calm and almost
gentle. She held out both her hands as if
entreating;; me to come to her. But I shrank
back. That movement of involuntary repulsion
seemed to turn her once more into the
weird terrible creature I had first seen. She
turned away without a word ; agahi she
seemed to melt into the dusk and dimness of
the falling night. I was alone.

Basil, I am determined, for my sake as
well as yours, to solve this mystery  to
discover the real nature and secret of this
strange being. She is a reality, of that
I am convinced. I no longer feel afraid.
Your faithful friend,

Leone.

LETTER III. BASIL GLENDENNING TO Leone ST.

JEAN.

Dear Leone,

Your last letter has put me into a
state of excitement. It seems to me that
you are destined to help us out of our difficulties.
I have come to your opinion about
the mind of this woman. I am sure she is
mad. How does she live ? Where does she
procure food, or how manage to get from one
of the islands to another ? Do any of the
people about Guernsey know her ? I wish
you could ascertain.

Nancette is no better. She always knows
when a letter comes from you, and I aren't
read it in her presence, it disturbs her so.
Is it not strange we have heard nothing of
my guardian all this time ? I can't imagine
where he can be. Have you seen Captain
Bee, and is the steamer still loafing about ?
It 1.3 awfully dreary here. You may well
talk about my being changed. What vvith

worry, and anxiety, and perplexity, I sometimes
feel as if I, too, should go off my head.
Tell me anything you can discover about the
Woman in Black (sounds a bit like Wilkie
Collins  doesn't if). A great deal depends
on her. Does she know where Nancette
is ? With her remarkable powers I should
reasonably suppose we could not keep that
fact a secret.

What do you think Mrs. Freer said the
other day ? I had been talking to her ever
so long about these matters, and thought I
had made an impression. ' My dear boy,'
she said, ' I think hydrophobia is developing
itself in you in a new form 1' There I
Affectionately yours,

Basil Gladdening.

letter iv.  leone st. jean to basil glen-denying.


Dear Basil,

I have seen Captain Bee. He has
had no news of your guardian, and the

steamer lies idle at St. Peter Port, awaiting
his return, or his instructions. I met our
mysterious friend the other night. I took
courage to ask her where she was staying,
but received only the unintelligible answer,
Where there is air and water.' I asked
our old servant, Jeannette, about her. . She
has lived in Guernsey nearly sixty years, and
knows everything and everyone here. But
she only crossed herself, and said no good
came of inquiring into mysteries that appertain
to the Evil One ! I can oet no information
about this woman except that she is
some uncanny, lonely creature, dwelling by
herself in a cave on one of those desolate
islands beyond or about Chaussey. She
sometimes visits one of the larger islands for
provisions or other purchases, and has a boat
of her own which will live in any storm, so
they say, but bodes ill to the sailor or fisherman
who sees it in any weather. You know
how the people here are superstitious ; in fact,

when I ask a question it is enough to scare
them ! I can only be patient, and wait for
my mysterious friend's own confidence. I
grieve to hear your Lady Nancyee is no
better. As for you, I say only, take care ;
meddle not too deeply with these dark, unwholesome
mysteries. No good will come of
it. You are young, mon ami, and this life is
not wholesome or good for you. It would
be better could you be the wild schoolboy of
old days. To me it seems there is only one
thing that could put us all right once more
the return of your guardian. You at Owl's
Roost are apparently becoming gloomy, nervous,
depressed. Even your bright, clever
Mrs. Freer is not the same. T, too, find
myself troubled and absorbed. This woman
haunts me. Her presence seems constantly
about, yet I seldom see it. When I do, I
am left more troubled and perplexed. Yet,
believe me, what I can do for you I will. I
am sorry I have no more to tell. She

seems fierce, restless, and uncertain. I must
wait.

Your sincere friend,

Leone.

LETTER V.

Dear Leone,

Something must be done, and soon,
or Nancette will be hopelessly insane ! Lately
she gets worse. She sits silent for hours,
brooding and melancholy, so that it makes
one's heart ache to see her. Mrs. Freer is
terribly alarmed. She does not like to call
in a doctor for fear he should insist upon her
being removed, and in the state of her nerves
and general health it would be an awful risk
to send her among strangers, however kind
or well-disposed they might be. Oh, L6onie,
can't you help us \ You are strong, and
courageous, and clever. Bring your arts to
bear on this terrible being whose influence
has been so baneful. See if she is not assailable

by any means. For I am absolutely
certain that it is her power that so
affects Nancette. I tell you she knows
when a letter comes from you if that letter
contains any news of the Woman. It is
singular, but it is perfectly true. 1 am most
unhappy  so is Mrs. Freer. I would run
the risk of having that dreadful creature
over here, if she would promise to cure Nan-cette
of her strange hallucination. Is she
persuadable, do you think ? I would fetch
or meet her, and we could get to Owl's Roost
unobserved. Desperate cases want desperate
remedies, you know. Pray write as soon as
you can, and let me know if you can do anything
to help us. Most of the servants have
left. Old Clitheroe is dying, and a report
has got about that Owl's Roost is haunted.
Imagine how lively all this is for me and
poor Mrs. Freer !

Yours, always affection lately,

Basil.
VOL. II. 32

letter vi.

Dear Basil,

It is a week since I had your letter.
What will you say when I tell you that I
fear the slight hold I had on this strange
woman has snapped  that in my own
opinion I do not fancy I shall ever see her
again ? I hardly know how to explain. It
is so odd, and yet it all happened. I will
describe it  exact. I sought her each day
for three days. In vain. I could hear
nothing, see nothing of her. The fourth,
quite suddenly, she came to me by the sea.
Vain had been falling all day. The air
was chill, and damp, and misty. She seemed
to step out of the shadows herself, with her
dark, sweeping garments, and her strange,
gleaming hair. I started, but I went forward
to welcome her, full only of your letter
and its current wishes. We said a few words,
then I put my hand in my pocket and drew

out the letter, as I thought. I wanted to
refer to something:. There was liszt enough
to see the writing, and I spread it open ; but
as my eye fell on it I saw I had made a
mistake. The letter was from my father. I
had received it that mornings. I began to
replace it in the envelope when suddenly the
woman seized my arm with her cold, steel-like
fingers. Her eyes were fixed on the
letter. She looked like a demon  so wild,
so enraged, so awful.

 Who writes to you like that V she hissed
in my ear. ' Is he lover or friend V

I was so alarmed at her face, her voice,
her furious words, that I could scarcely
speak. At last I said :

The letter is only from my father,
madame.'

She gave a low, strange cry ; she released
my arm ; she stood a few paces off, trembling
in every limb. I was too startled

322

for speech. I only stood still and watched
her.

Your  father !' she said at last. ' And
what is the name of your father ?'

Pierre St. Jean,' I answered in surprise.


She shook her head.

A he !' she said. ' His lie, and you
repeat it.'

Madame !' I stammered in amaze.
Her imperious hand silenced me.

What is your name V she asked, her voice
low and fierce, with something in its tones
that reminded me of the throb of the sea,
its passionate pulses held in check before a
coming storm.

'My name,' I said, 'is Leone.'

Then she gave a low, strange cry, as of some
dumb creature in pain, and tossed her wild
arms upwards to the stormy sky, and, hissing
out a curse that seemed to chill and terrify
me, she flew like a wild, hunted thing along

the shore and was lost to sight in a moment.
I stood there, cold, and trembling, and full of
wonder. She did not come back, and at last
I turned homewards. As I stood on the
cliff before turning inland, I saw a boat with
a red sail speeding swiftly over the rough
wild waters. The clouds were rent and
scattered ; the light of the stormy sunset
poured itself over the sea. The boat flew on
like a bird, mounting the weaves, or plunging
fearlessly into the grim trough of the dividing
waters. I watched it with a sort of
wonder. It was no nisht for a boat to be
out ; storm and darkness were already brood-ins:
over sea and land. Suddenly I heard a
voice beside me saying :  It is the witch's
boat. Heaven have mercy on the souls
that meet it !' I looked round. I saw a
fisherman standing there, his eyes fixed on
the little vessel as it scudded fearlessly along.
I did not speak. I only watched it with a
sort of horror and wonder. Then the red

light faded out of the sky. Darkness swept
down like a thick cloud. The wind arose,
and blew in swift, fierce gusts over the face
of the cliffs, and I heard the screams of the
cormorants and gulls as they whirled and
circled round the rocks below.

Then I ran swiftly home through the
rain and the mist, conscious  why I could
not say  that the weird woman had returned
to her own home in the deserted
island ; that I was powerless to assist you
now.

I have waited till the end of the week.
She has not been here assail. Sometimes I
think her boat could not have lived through
that storm, but they say her power is supernatural.
I cannot tell. This only I know
that though but a few miles of sea separate
us, I am powerless to reach her, or communicate
with her. So, mon ami, I send this
letter with a heavy heart and many regrets.

If she returns, be assured I shall speak
of your wishes, but I do not think she
will.

Yours faithfully and sincerely,

Leone St. Jean.

CHAPTER lY.

MRS. Freer's journal.

February 20th.  How slowly the weary
days roll on ! Storm and darkness without,
and fear and sorrow within. We hear the
wind howling round the old house in these
long, desolate nights ; the thunder of the sea
throbs like a dull echo through the air.

Old Deborah goes about sadly and with
trembling limbs, for her husband is dying,
and only one servant, an elderly woman who
cooks and attends to the few rooms in use,

VOL. III. 33

stays in the house. The younger girls left
a week ago, declaring the place is haunted,
and I have not had the heart to see about
getting others.

I think the change in Basil grieves me
more than anything else. He is pale,
gloomy, anxious, and restless ; changed out of
all likeness to the bright, merry, mischievous
boy of two years ago.

The unwholesome atmosphere of this life
weighs upon us all. I feel stifled, enervated,
morbid. All exertion seems an effort, and
day drifts after day, and only in some chance
hour like the present do I ask myself, * Is it
always to be so V

February 2lst.  Midnight in the lonely
house. Again I sit here writing ; again do
I see the slight, frail figure in the adjoining
room wrapped in deep slumber. It is all
very silent, and very still.

Sometimes, it seems to me, I see moving

shadows flitting to and fro, and hear strange
hustings and noises in the corridors without.
I rouse myself with an effort. I know that
even my strong nerves are beginning to feel
the effects of this long strain of anxiety, this
dreary life of repression and watchfulness. . . .
My pen has been tracing only idle lines ; a
strange sense of drowsiness oppresses me. It
seems no use writing in my journal to-night.
I think I will go to bed.

Two o'clock. I heard a clock strike. I
found myself still sitting here ; the pen was
by my side. I think I must have fallen
asleep. The fire is low, the lamp burns
dimly. I will close this, give a last look at
Nancette, and then  to bed.

* * r *

How long ago vas it that I left off
writing ? Weeks, days, hours ? I can
hardly tell.

I only know it is night again, and that all is

332

quiet and still, and my throbbing head is at
rest at last. I only know that my eyes are
wet with tears  that thought, and sense, and
feeling are merged into sudden peace.

And what has caused it ? Let me try,
now that calmness and reason have returned,
to put down the series of events a few brief
hours have brought about.

I woke up, as is written here, from a
short spell of sleep. I shut up my journal,
stirred the smouldering fire into a blaze, and
then turned to go into Nancette's room, as
was my usual custom before I sought my own
bed. I started. The dividing door between
her room and mine had been wide open, so
that from my writing-table I could see her
as she slept. Now it was nearly closed. Ina
second I was across the threshold, and had
thrown it back. The bed was empty!

I think for a moment or two I felt paralysed
with fear. I remembered I had locked
the door leading from my own room into the

corridor, and had placed the key on the table.
I rushed back. It was gone ! Turning
swiftly to the door, I saw it there in the lock.
In a second I had snatched up the lamp, and
was hurrying downstairs. The great door
was bolted and barred. Evidently she had
not gone out by that way. I rushed into our
usual sitting-room. The shutters were barred.
There had been no egress from there. I
paused for a moment, doubtful whether I
should wake Basil or prosecute the search
myself. Suddenly I remembered the old
school-room. The window was low, and
opened on the kitchen-garden. The boys
had often and often made use of it to escape
into the grounds. I hurried there. As I
opened the door a gust of wind nearly extinguished
my lamp. The window was wide
open.

Convinced then that Nancette must have
gone out by that way, I rushed upstairs once
more and awoke Basil. In a few moments

he had hurried on some clothes, and we both
ran down into the school-room. The sky was
bright and clear; there was sufficient light to
show us the gardens, and the paths, and the
dark belt of quiet woods beyond.

Perhaps she is in the avenue as usual,'
said Basil. ' Let us go there first. But we
ought to have a lantern.'

There is one in the housekeeper's room,'
r said. ' I will get it directly.'

He followed me, and lit it, and then we
hurried out into the orrouncls, throwing the
light here and there as we went along, starting
nervously at sound or shadow, but both
convinced of the same idea that we should
find Nance te in the avenue.

Suddenly, as the drive curved round beneath
the shadowy elms, I caught sight of a
white figure a little in advance. It was
moving at a swift, uniform pace, and involuntarily
the same cry escaped us both : ' It is
she!'

Don't let us frighten her,' said Basil in a
low, hurried voice. ' It is the same idea. She
will go to the gates and watch.'

Keeping her well in view, we followed.

She Event as usual towards the lodge. Before
reaching it, however, she turned and
stood as if listening. We also remained
motionless. I saw then that her eyes were
open, and had a strained, anxious look. I
whispered to Basil to advance and speak.
He moved forward a few paces. She held
up her hand as if to stay him.

Hush !' she said, ' I am listening for him.
He will soon be here.'

He will not come to-night,' said the boy
gently. ' Come home now, Ladyee Nancyee ;
it is too cold for you to be out.'

Usually she obeyed him like a child. Tonight
she stood immovable.

 He is coming she repeated. * I hear
him !'

Basil looked at me. I did not know what

to do. There was something new and determined
about her to-night. We both drew
back a little, and watched her. She never
moved, only stood there intent, still, earnest.
A moment or two passed. Then with a low,
strange cry she rushed to the gates and drew
back the lock and flung one of them open.
At the same instant a dark figure appeared
in the entrance. Basil sprang forward. The
light of the lantern flashed on the bent shoulders,
the haggard, grief-lined face of  Errol
Gladdening.

Stupefied with amazement I stood there,
but Nancette threw herself at his feet and
caught his hands in both her own.

you have come,' she cried, sat last  at
last  at last ! I knew you would. I watched
for you every day.'

He staggered back against the iron gates.
His face looked ghastly and bloodless in the
pale gray light of the breaking dawn.

YouP he cried.

That was all. No word of welcome, or
relief, or surprise, greeted her return to
life.

She rose slowly to her feet, and looked at
him with wide, sorrowful eyes.

 Will you not forgive me,' she said,  now
that I am dead ? For you may be happy
again, but I  I can never be happy anymore
I'

Then Basil took the piteous, outstretched
hands and drew her to his side.

For Heaven's sake,' he said passionately,
don't be stern and cold to her ! Wait till
you hear her story.'

Then I found voice and movement, too,
and came forward to the strange group.

Errol,' I said hurriedly, * you are thrice
welcome. But come to the house at once.
Don't waste time here. We have so much to
tell you.'

He left the gate then, and it fell to with a
loud clang. He did not look at, or speak to

Nancette, but came straight to me. I saw
then how terribly ill he looked, how feebly
he walked.

She is alive, then V he said.

'Yes,' I answered. 'Have you not had
my letters ? Don't you know '

I know nothing,' he said, and suddenly
leant upon my arm as if to stay his trembling
limbs.

I have been very ill,' he said. ' I was
taken ill in Paris with rheumatic fever. I
saw your advertisement in Malignant and
came here as soon as I could move. I  I
did not dream of  '

He shuddered and glanced at the white
figure by Basil's side.

Come away,' I whispered ; ' don't for
pity's sake speak coldly or cruelly to her
now !'

I drew him away. I knew Basil could
manage Nancette better than I could.

What is it V asked Errol. ' Her words

were so strange. She looks so different ;
like  like a sleep-walker, I thought.'

I don't know how to tell you,' I sobbed,
for strength and sense seemed deserting me.
Her brain is not  not quite right. The
shock  the grief '

He seized my arm. He turned his white,
agonized face to mine.

Good Heaven 1' he cried hoarsely. ' Do
you know what you imply? Is she  mad V

I looked back. I saw the slight form
clinging so helplessly and dejectedly to
Basil's strong young arm. In terror lest she
should hear, I urged Errol forward.

No, no,' I cried, ' not mad ; but her mind
is unhinged  astray. She is like a child.
She remembers nothing of the past.'

But she was here  waiting. She remembered
me r

Oh,' I cried, half weeping, ' how can I
tell you ! She fancies herself dead, and that
she is the woman in the picture  the Ladyee

Nancyee of the old Gladdening story, you
know.'

And this,' he said, his voice low, restrained,
but with an under-tone of fierceness
almost terrible to me in its strangeness and
wrath  ' this is what you urged me to come
home for ! This is the mercy that raised me
from my sick-bed, and led me back to life V
Oh, Errol don't !'

It was all I could say, for a storm of
weeping shook me, and the tears rained
down my cheeks, despite my efforts at self-control.


He saw I was unnerved and upset, and so
was silent as we hurried up the dreary avenue
in the chill dawn. We did not speak again
until we reached the house, and were all
together in the old schoolroom.

The only light was from the lantern Basil
carried. He placed it on the table, and I
approached Nancette.

Come with me !' I said gently. ' You

are cold and shivering. Let us go to our
own room.'

She threw back the white fleecy wrapper
from her head and shoulders. Her great,
mournful eyes turned wistfully to Errol.

 You have come back,' she said, but not
to forgive. She said you would never forgive,
even if I were dead. But it is cruel ; the
dead harm no one !'

He sank back in a chair, ghastly and trembling.


 For Heaven's sake he moaned, 'take her
away ! I cannot bear it !'

I put my arm around her, and drew her
from the room. Basil followed us to the door.

Don't leave her,' he whispered ; * I will
tell him all.'

He has heard it all now. The whole pitiful,
sorrowful tale has been told. Worn outwith
illness, and fatigue, and long-borne
suffering, he has sought his room at last.

Nancette lies here peacefully asleep.

The worst has come, I know, yet a great
weight seems lifted off my heart. Anxiety
and suspense are over. The day has
dragged its weary hours along till night
again has fallen, and all the day Nancette
has scarcely moved or spoken. She is like
one in a half-sleep. I have scarcely left her
for a single hour. She has never spoken of
Errol, or of last night; but I cannot rouse
her or get her to take any food, or show any
interest in what is going on around. Her
brain seems dazed and stupefied. I am
thankful Errol does not ask to see her.

As yet, no hopeful results have accrued
from his return ; but when I think he is here
actually under the same roof  a great
weight and fear seem lifted off my heart; the
gloom and terror flee away ; I say to myself :
All may yet be well. Ah, Heaven grant it
Heaven grant it T

February 2\st.  Errol and I have had a
solemn discussion this evening.

Of one thing he is not convinced, and that
is, that Nancette's disappearance had nothing
to do with Pierre de Volens. The French
detective had made a great error  it was a
very Hkely one to fall into  but, nevertheless,
he had led Errol on a false scent which
culminated in his illness in Paris.

The shock of seeing her here in his own
house, after those longs cruel months of suspicion,
was very terrible. A great pity and
tenderness for the unfortunate girl have taken
the place of the old bitterness. I think if
she were to recover

He says that is hopeless. Her mind has
gone. She is not mad or insane. Only she
is like a child. Something is missing in the
delicate mechanism of the brain  something
that cannot be recalled or replaced.

For two days now she has lain in this semiconscious
state, noticing nothing, remembering
nothing ; only lying there white and still,
like a statue of marble, with closed eyes and
scarcely-breathing lips.

It was after we had been watchings her fora
long, long time, that Errol and I went into
the little boudoir adjoining her bedroom, and
had our talk.

She looks to me like one in a trance,'
he said.  I saw a woman once under the
influence of mesmerism. That was just how
she looked.'

I felt somewhat uncomfortable.

You know,' I said, ' about the mysterious-woman
who had so strangle an influence over
her?'

Yes,' lie said ; ' Basil told me. And I am
inclined to support his theory. That woman
alone can cure her. The question is, would
she do it V

I am inclined to think not,' I said. ' Her
influence or power was only exerted on her
own behalf.'

He gave a somewhat melancholy smile.

Basil has been studying my books,' he
said. ' I once  in years that are past  went
in deeply for mystic science  the secrets of
psychical nature. I had to give it up at
last, because I fancied it affected my mind. I
don't like Basil taking it up. The boy is
completely changed.'

But,' I said, in surprise, ' do you really
believe in spirits, and mesmerism, and clairvoyance,
and all those extraordinary things V

I believe,' he said, ' in the existence of
spirits, just as I do in the immortality of the
soul. And it is absurd to set limits to the
degrees of Nature. To certain students she

VOL. III. 34

reveals more than to others. The patient, the
humble, the investigating, learn more than
the scoffer and the self-confident. I have
always regarded this world and our life in it
as merely preparatory to a far more interesting
and marvellous life to follow. The deeper
mysteries enfolding that life are not clearly
revealed  a sort of unwillingness and terror
stay the footsteps of investigation on its very
threshold. Here and there we have glimpses
of it, but always they are divulged with a
certain shame and reluctance, and received
with incredulity or scoffing. So we learn but
little.*

I was silent for a few moments.
Did you know,' I asked, 'that Nancette
seems to have had a presentiment of your
coming ? I left her sound asleep last night,
and when I woke I found her gone. She
must have got up and dressed and gone
downstairs in the dark, and found her way to
the schoolroom, then opened the window, and

gone out to meet yon. That does not look as
if she were unaccountable for her actions.
Something must have impelled her, and very
strongly too. And you remember her greeting,
just as if she had expected you V

Yes,' he said, while the old troubled look
came into his eyes ; ' I could not understand
it at the time. I cannot imagine why
she should have thought of me at all.'

She was always thinking of you,' I said,
before this happened. Has Basil shown you
the letters of Leone St. Jean V

No,' he said. ' Is that the daughter of his
French master V

The grand-daughter,' I answered, and an
uncomfortable feeling stole over me. I had
forgotten for a moment who her father was,
I rose from my seat. * I will call Basil,' I
said, * and ask for the letters. They are very
curious.'

What I am about to relate is so singular

342

and strange that, but for the evidence of my
own eyes, I should not myself believe it. I
write it down here exactly as it happened.

I had sought Basil, and he at once gave me
the letters I asked for, adding only one
caution :

'Don't read them in Iter room.'

I have described the situation of Nancette's
bed-chamber, and how it opened into mine ;
mine again opened into a small boudoir, which
we had fitted up and used since our recent
return to Owl's Roost.

It was in this boudoir I and Errol sat, he
reading the letters, I gazing idly and thoughtfully
into the fire. The room was half in
light, half in shadow. The door opening into
my bedroom was curtained by heavy velvet
'porters. I had closed it on re-entering the
boudoir, and sat now with my back turned
towards it. A piano stood in the opposite
corner, and in the darkest part of the room.
Basil, after giving me the letters, had followed

me in, and was sitting at the piano, softly
striking chords from time to time. It seemed
as if some ten or fifteen minutes had passed,
when something  a sound, a feeling quite unaccountable,
impelled me suddenly to look
round. Startled and amazed, I saw Nancette
standing in the doorway. One hand held
back the velvet porters, the other was
pressed against her forehead. The faint cry
I gave made Errol look up. Basil was still
playing. He had heard nothing. Errol
stayed the words on my lips with a gesture.

Don't you see,' he whispered, ' she is
asleep !'

For a moment she stood there, and in the
same attitude. Her eyes were wide open,
and yet they held no consciousness or recognition.
Her hand still pressed her brow.
Then suddenly it dropped. She looked round
wildly  affrighted.

I am here 1' she cried out. ' What do
you want with me V

Basil sprang to his feet. He would have
rushed to her side, but Errol held him back.
She came forward a few steps.

Don't ask me to cross the water she
said. ' It is all so dark, so wild, so deep I'
and, shuddering from head to foot, she sank
down on a low couch in the middle of the
room, and buried her face in her hands. Errol
rose then, and approached her.

I will speak to her,' he said.
A few paces off he stopped.

Where are you V he asked gently.

See, she comes !' she said. ' She has called
me there ; I must obey. Oh, how dark it is !
How the water roars !'

Who is there ?' resumed Errol.

The woman is there ; she has need of me,
she says. I must go to a great city ; I must
bring her news of one who has wronged her.
Oh, I cannot go  I will not ! Keep me
here ; do not let her have me ! Basil  Basil
where is Basil V

Stay !' said Errol sternly, as the boy
moved forward ; ' not yet ! I must hear
more.'

You are torturing her I' Basil cried fiercely.
* She is in the power of that fiend. Ah !'
with a cry of horror,  look  she is dead !*

She is not dead said Errol, advancing.

The girl's head had fallen back against the
cushions ; her eyes closed. She lay quite still,
like a child asleep. She looked so lovely and
so pure that he could not gaze on her unmoved.
I saw his lips tremble; a rush of
colour swept up to his brow. He drev/ back
a few steps, resting his hand against a chair,
as if to steady himself Presently he spoke
aofain.

Where are you now V he asked.
Her voice came faint and indistinct :

I am  there ! I see wide streets, and
rows of trees, and great white buildings.
There are crowds of people hurrying to and
fro. Ah !'  and she shuddered convulsively

' I see him at last. He has entered a
house ; an old man is with him.'

Can you tell me the name of the man you
see V asked Errol.

'It is Pierre,' she said faintly. *The old
man calls him Doorway. They are in a room
now. There are tables there, and cards, and
money  piles of money. They are all playing.
He sits down and plays too.'

Her utterance grew confused and indistinct.
There was silence for a moment or
two.

What do you want of him V she asked
suddenly. ' Xo  no ; he will not come. . . .
Ah, the cave  the cave again ! I cannot
stay  I will not stay ! I must go home \
Errol has come  my husband ! See, he is
waiting for me. Let me go  oh, let me go 
let me go !'

Her voice rose higher in each appeal.
With that last wild cry, her whole frame
shook as in convulsive throes. She seemed

struggling to free herself from some physical
restraint. Her eyes opened, but they were
terrible in their glassy, fixed stare.

I shuddered as I looked.

 Can't you do anything V I asked Errol in
agony.

He shook his head.

JSTot while she is under that other influences
he said. ' It would kill her.'

Gradually she grew quiet; her eyes closed;
her breathing became regular. We stood and
watched her anxiously.

The power of that woman is singularly
strong said Errol thoughtfully. * At this
distance, with nothing to remind her of her
existence '

The letters I' cried Basil suddenly. ' You
forget them. I told you she always knows
when I receive one with any information
respecting that woman. Let me take them
from the room, and you'll see she will
recover.'

He gathered up the scattered sheets which
had fallen on the floor, and slipped quietly
out of the room. As the outer door closed on
him, Nancette gave a deep sigh and opened
her eyes. She looked round in bewilderment.


I have had a bad dream,' she said.

Then she started to her feet and threw
herself into Errol's arms, clinging to him
convulsively.

Don't let me go,' she cried; 'she is calling
me now. She says I must come. But you
can keep me. I am yours  your wife, your
love. Oh, say you won't let me go  say you
won't let me go !'

Her voice broke into wild sobs. She clung
to him like one in desperate extremity.

And he  ah, thank Heaven !  he gently
soothed the terrified brain, he tenderly unclasped
the clinging arms, and murmured
gentle words, that stole to her ear like music,
and calmed her fears, and left her quiet, peaceful,

happy as a little child who is conscious of
love and pardon.

Then he bore her in his arms to her own
room, and so left her to my care.

A few hours later she was raving in the
delirium of fever.

March 2nd, 10 ][).m.  For a whole week I
have written nothing in my journal, for
Nancette has been so terribly ill that I feared
she would never recover. Errol telegraphed
for a physician from London, a specialist in
brain cases ; but he seemed very doubtful of
the results of the fever. Night and day he
shared the watch over the poor, distraught
girl. .

Seven long, weary days and nights have
come and gone, their hours filled with terrible
ravings or more terrible exhaustion.

To-niofht a change has come. She lies
wrapped in deep slumber, and I sit alone
watching her. To while away the time I

have brought out my journal and have been
idly turning its pages over, and reading its
various extracts.

What a strange story they make up ! I
think to myself, ' If this was in a book, who
would believe it V

A moan from Nancette. I lay down my
pen and listen.

Will you never let me go V she cries
plaintively. ' Oh, will you never let me
go?'

Then she sighs deeply, and again is still.

The house is very silent. More silent even
than usual, for this morning old Clitheroe
breathed his last.

A strange feeling of nervousness is upon
me, making me keenly alive to all around,
affecting me with thrills and shivers of
horror at every sound, even of falling ash, or
far-off footsteps, or rustling wind without.
The very sound of my pen on the paper seems
painfully audible.

1 think I will give up writing, especially
as I seem to have nothing to write, and try
to soothe my excited nerves by reading.

2 asia.  As much for my own satisfaction
as because of the extraordinary nature of the
occurrence, do I sit down now to describe the
events of that night.

Call it dream, fancy, vision, what I please
yet still I cannot get over the consciousness
that I have actually witnessed the scene.

I had taken a book and seated myself by
the fire in the large easy-chair. I commanded
a full view of the bed from there.
It lay in the shadow, as I had placed the
lamp on the mantelpiece with a shade over it
which merely threw the light down on myself
and my book. I was intensely, almost painfully
wide awake ; my nerves, in fact, in a
strained, tense state, the result of my
long borne and painful excitement and
anxiety.

I had been reading for an hour or more
when something  I cannot tell what  impelled
me to look up. My eyes turned instantly
to the bed.

Then I seemed to grow suddenly cold, and still
and immovable. To save my life I could neither
have spoken nor stirred a finger. I seemed
frozen into a numbed and horrified stillness.
For there, in the shadows of the curtains,
and half bending over the recumbent figure
on the bed, stood a woman in dark, flowing
draperies. She was surrounded by what
seemed a curious lambent vapour. This vapour
seemed to hover about her, and to my surprise
I could see through it, and clearly
discern Nancette lying back on the pillows,
apparently wrapped in the same deep
slumber.

I struggled to speak, cry, move, but in
vain. Chained and paralysed, I sat there
gazing like one spellbound at the strange
figure which I seemed to recognise at once by

means of Basil's description. The back was
towards me ; the face seemed bent over
Nancette.

It seemed to me that if I could only throw
off this weight of horror, and speak or move,
I might dispel that baneful presence. But todo
either was impossible.

Sometimes the figure looked dark and
obscure  sometimes light and transparent,
and still it never seemed to move, and still
the silence of the room was unbroken.

Gradually the strained, intense feeling
seemed to leave my brain. A strange
drowsiness crept over it. I seemed to befalling
asleep. The mysterious light enveloped
all the room. The forces Within
me that had warred against this mystical
presence subsided into dreamy languor. I
felt my eyes closing.

What awoke me ? A cry  Nancette's cry.
I started to my feet. She was sitting up in
the bed  her arms outstretched. I was at

her side, her arms were round me  clinging,
terrified arms, Hke those of a child wakened
out of a sleep by some fearful dream.

She has been here she cried. ' She says
she will save me  give me back to life,
love, fortune, happiness  all, on one condition
! MjYSi, I am not asleep nor mad
any longer. Oh, I feel so happy  so happy 1
It seems as if life had only now begun forme.


I held her close to my beating heart. I
looked in amazement at her face. There was
no care, or pain, or suffering in it now. Her
lips had resumed their tender curves, her
lovely eyes swam in delicious languor; a
delicate flush was on the rounded cheeks, and
a sort of radiance seemed around about her,
that I had never seen before.

And what was the condition V I asked,
trembling, half with fear, half with joy, as she
rested there in my arms, the lovely, living,
tender Nancette of old.

VOL. III. 35

That I give her back her husband and her
child,' she whispered very low.

You r I cried. ' How can you do that ?
Do you know them V

No ; but she is coming again to tell me
their names.'

I shuddered involuntarily.

My dear,' I said, ' this passes belief. You
cannot mean it.'

Yes,' she said solemnly ; ' I do mean
it. It is not a hard thing to do, when by
it I may find happiness and peace once
more.'

Then she sank gently back on the pillows.

I am going to sleep now,' she said. ' Tomorrow
I shall be quite well.'

Even to myself this reads something like
the delirium of fever, but I am perfectly convinced
of its truth. I am absolutely certain I
was awake, and I am as absolutely certain of
the actual presence of that singular being, as

I am of the fact of Nancette's extraordinary
return to reason and calmness.

Strange to say, all fear and horror have
left me. My nerves have subsided into
quietude. The shadows and solitude affect
me no longer.

March Srd.  Nancette slept on till noon today.
Then she awoke and asked for food. I
gave her some strong soup I had ready for
her. After she had taken it she wished to
rise and dress, but I insisted on her remaining
in bed.

I assure you,' she said, smiling, ' I am
quite well. But if you won't let me get up,
will you send Basil here to see me V

To this I readily agreed, though I wondered
she had not asked for Errol.

I arranged the pillows, and wrapped a
thick white shawl round her shoulders ; then
I summoned Basil.

He started as he came into the room.

352

Why, you look quite well !' he cried
gladly.

And so I am,' she answered. ' Only Mrs.
Freer won't believe it. I am tired of being
ill ; I want to get up and be out. How are
the pets, Basil ; and where is Stewart ? You
were always inseparable.'

Tears rushed to the boy's eyes. He tried
manfully to conceal his emotion.

He is at school,' he said. ' I did not go
this term. I  I was not well.'

Ah,' she cried suddenly, while a look of
horror flashed into her eyes, ' I remember
now ! That day  that horrible dog  and
how brave you were. Tell me, are you safe 
well V

Yes,' he said eagerly ; *' I was quite cured.
Do not distress yourself on that score.'

And are we still at Guernsey V she asked,
turning to me.

'No,' I said; 'you are at home  at Owl's
Roost.'

Then for the first time a troubled look
crept into her eyes. She put her hand to
her brow.

 Oh,' she cried, ' I should not be here ! I
have no right to be here. I must go back to
Guernsey.'

'But, dear,' I said gently, His is your
home  your own home. I am sure you will
stop here now you are well and strong once
more.'

But the flush of excitement deepened in
her cheek, and her eyes grew full of pain and
restlessness.

No,' she repeated ; * I have no right here.
I must not stay here ; I must go back to
Guernsey. And you,' she added, turning to
Basil, ' you must come with me. You must
not leave me now.'

I will certainly come if you wish it,' he
said earnestly.  You remember how often I
vowed myself to your service, Lady Nancyee.'

She smiled.

The old name,' she said. ' How long
it is since I have heard it ! Have I been
very ill V

Yes,' the boy answered gravely ; ' very 
very ill'

I suppose so she said dreamily ; ' for it

was summer-time ; and now What

month is this V

March; I said ; ' the 3rd of March.'

March !' Her eyes took a strange,
dreamy look, the colour wavered in her
cheeks. ' I have not much time left,' she
said ; ' for it must be all done before my
birthday.'

Basil looked puzzled.

What has to be done V he asked.

My task,' she said gravely.  The service
I must render, and for which health
and strength have been given back to me.'

Basil and I looked at each other perplexed.
She pressed her hands against her brow with
the old troubled gesture.

There was a letter,' she said presently.
I must read it ; then I shall be able to act.
You have it,' she added, turning to Basil.
Brings it to me here. It is a letter from
Leone. The last.'

Basil grew pale.

'Don't ask for it,' he said distressfully.
You always get ill when you hear or see
those letters.'

But I shall not get ill now,' she said
gravely. ' Everything is clear before me.
A weight has been lifted off my brain.
Bring me that letter.'

Basil left the room. Then she turned
hurriedly to me and seized my arm.

Myra,' she said, * is he here ?'

Who do you mean V I asked.

Errol  my husband. I dreamt he was
here  no longer cold and stern, but kind,
and loving, and gentle, as you have so often
described him. Was it he V

Yes,' I said. * He is here.'

She covered her face with her hands. I
could see the warm colour deepening in her
cheek and neck.

I dare not see him she said. ' Oh,
I am sorry he is here ! I need all my
strength.'

He would be glad to see you,' I said
soothingly. ' He has forgiven the past. He
knows how you have suffered and struggled ;
he is ready to '

She held up her hand.

No she said ; ' he is not. I deceived
him. He can never forget that. He was
told a lie  a cruel lie. Only the person who
told it can unsay it  can prove I was innocent,
as I said. I will make her do so  I
will force her to speak truth. Then he
will see I did not deceive him willingly  he
will believe at last.'

I looked at her in absolute bewilderment.
It seemed to me her brain still
wandered.

Then it was a  woman,' I faltered slowly.
I thought you were speaking of Pierre de
Volens.'

She looked full at me.

Of that coward I' she said, with the
bitterest contempt in her voice and face.
No. He did harm enough, but it was his
accomplice who told Errol Gladdening the
horrible lie which turned his heart against
me.'

Then again she put her hand to her brow.

As I lay here,' she said,  my whole past
life seemed to be mapped out before me. I
saw everything I had done, as clearly as if
I were reading the pages of a book. All my
folly  all my weakness  all my sin  all my
suffering. I saw, too, that I could not bear
it much longer  that it would kill me unless
relief came. Suddenly relief did come. A
cool hand touched my brow and quenched
the burning flames that filled my brain ; it
touched my heart, and its pain and agony

died slowly away into peace and restfulness.
The fever ceased to throb like liquid fire
in my veins. I grew calm and at rest. I
listened to the voice of my healer, and heard
it declare my task, and I woke up calm and
remembering, to see your face again, and feel
that the long spell of darkness, and dreariness,
and suffering, was over.'

I shuddered as I listened. I remembered
what I had seen  the strange figure, the
lambent flames hovering over the motionless
form upon the bed, the sense of horror and
immovability that had held me chained and
still, there in my seat by the dying fire.
Was it a vision, or reality ? If I had
dreamt it, how could it be known to Nan-cette
? Had not her recovery been almost
supernatural ? The previous day she had
been ravines in delirium. To-niofht she was
sane, calm, restored to health, and life, and
memory.

It was the nearest approach to a miracle

that I could conceive. I looked at her half
in doubt, half in fear. My wandering
thoughts found echo in speech.

It is marvellous,' I said ; ' I cannot understand
it.'

I don't want to understand,' she said
simply. ' 1 am content to know it is''

And I thought of the faith that is simple,
and childlike, and unquestioning, yet can
remove mountains of doubt.

We looked at each other, silently, thoughtfully,
absorbed in mutual theories and speculations.
Then Basil entered, pale and
awestruck, with Leone's letter in his hand.
He gave it to Nancette as she stretched out
her eaofer fingers. Then we both withdrew
to the fireplace and watched her as she
read.

She put the letter down at last, and seemed
lost in thought. Then she turned to Basil.

How soon,' she asked abruptly, * can we
leave for Guernsey V

He made a rapid calculation.

The boats run twice a week,' he said.
This is Tuesday. We could go on Friday,
if  if you were strong enough.'

I am quite strong,' she said gravely, * and
quite well. I must go on Friday.'

Won't you consult Errol first V I asked
her anxiously.

Errol ' she faltered, and grew very

pale. * No,' she went on rapidly ; ' I cannot
see him until my task is over. I will not

look in his face acrain until I can do so fearlessly
and without shame. I have been in a
false position ever since I came here. I
would not have remained an hour under his
roof had I known what I know now. I
would have first verified my right to his
respect, and then awaited his judgment.'

I looked at her aghast. I could not recognise
the simple, patient, martyred Nancette,
in this quiet, assertive, and calmly-judging
woman. I felt quite helpless, but I wondered
what Errol would say when he heard of her
whim, and how he would like this complete
ignoring of his own presence or wishes.

She folded the letter together slowly and
thoughtfully.

May I keep it V she asked Basil ; and he,
puzzled, and wondering as I myself at her
strange looks and words, immediately consented.
' It is the first light to guide me on
my way,' she went on presently, ' What is
to follow I do not know myself; but I shall

learn. Ah, yes ; I shall learn. And now,'
she added, after a short pause, ' leave me with
Myra ; I have a great deal to say to her.
And I must sleep and rest, or I shall not be
strong for tomorrow.'

He went up and took her outstretched
hand, and kissed it gently and reverently.
Then he left the room.

Come and sit here,' she said to me.

So I drew the chair to the side of the bed
and sat down by her.

I am going to try and  remember,' she
said slowly. ' Tell me if I am wrong. . . It is
hot, bright weather. There is no cloud in the
sky  no wave on the water. I leave you
and drive down a steep, stony road to the
sea. I idle about for a long, long time.
There is a boat moored under the shadow of
the cliffs. I get in ; the owner is only a
fisher-lad. He is asleep. I wake him and
persuade him to take me out on the water.
We go. Then I see another boat put off. I

know who is in it. I urge him to greater
speed. I promise him gold  any sum he
Kkes  only to take me on and away out of
reach. They are pursuing me. I know it.
I see the woman's malicious face, the man's
triumphant one. Their mocking voices reach
me over the water. '' Faster !" I cry.
** Faster  faster 1" . . . The sky is growing
darker now ; the wind roughens the water
all around. The boat Hies over the waves ;
my hand guides it. I feel mad  exhilarated
by the sense of danger and defiance. The elements
are my friends ; they serve me well.
The rower speaks at last.  No boat can
fight against such a storm," he says. *' We
must put in to land." I see a line of towering
rock, a fury of wild, dashing water ; then
all grows dark and silent. . . . Again T am on
the sea. It is clear, bright day. The boat
flies on. I see only a dark figure in the
stern, silent as the dead. Her white face,
her strange eyes startle me. I look, and

look ; then my own close ; I seem lulled to
sleep by a will stronger than my own. . It is
night again  darker, deeper night. Strange
fires burn amidst the inky darkness ; a towering
shape is before me ; I hear a voice that
questions from afar. I answer without will
or purpose of my own. I lose all count of
time  of night or day. Then one day I
seem to seek the outer air and feel the breath
of heaven. Yet not I, but something me
and within me, that leaves my body in its
trance of sleep, and sees and hears as one
who dreams, with perfect consciousness of
vision. It is always night, and life seems
vague and far away. Invisible bonds fetter
me ; I learn strange secrets ; I see things
horrible and full of dread. . . .'

She bent her head on her clasped hands ;
a convulsive shudder shook her frame.

I do not wish to learn those secrets, but
I am forced to do so. When I wake I have
but dim and shapeless memories. I am conscious

of horrible pain. My brain seems on
fire at one moment, or dazed and cold at
another. Then a voice calls me. I hear it ;
I struggle ; I see light ; I feel the breath of
heaven. Then again all grows dark for a

honos, honos time Now, what is this ? I

must watch for someone  I feel he is coming.
His thoughts are here lonas before his actual
presence. He has come. He does not know
me ; there is a barrier between us. Again
sX\ is dark and turbulent, and full of weird
dreams and feverish fancies. Give me your
hand, Myra. Ah, how your touch comforts
me ! I must be calm now ; I need all my

strength It is niofht, and all is dark

and still. I wake from long sleep, and see
you there by the fire. There is a book in
your hand; the light falls upon your face.
How pale and wan it looks ! I long to
speak, but my voice is only a whisper. You
cannot hear it. Suddenly a dark cloud floats
across the room ; I see you no longer ; but
VOL. III. 36

someone else is here beside me  a strange
form, shadowy, yet full of light. I seem to
know it, and a great fear rests stonily upon
my heart as I listen. You are asleep ; your
book rests idly on your lap ; you do not hear
the compelling accents of that voice.'

Here she broke off abruptly and looked up
at my face.

Are you frightened, Myra V she asked.
You need not be. I am well and safe. The
horrible spell is broken. But a little while
and my task is over ; and then '

She lifted up her radiant face ; her warm,,
clinorino hands were linked with mine.

You have been my friend so long she
said ; ' tell me you will be so still. Help me
back to love, and happiness, and peace, as
once you vowed to do.'

I seemed to grow cold, and still, and calm.
I could not realize this change that had
come upon her. Yet she was herself once
more. She had regained mind, health,.

beauty, and I seemed but the victim of some
strange and long-cherished delusion. Her
friend ? Of course I was her friend !
Nothing had changed that, or could change
it. Her friend and  his.

The thought of Errol was sharp and
sudden as pain. Perhaps my face changed.
I cannot tell.

I only know something leapt into her eyes.
A fear  a challenge.

Myra !' she cried. ' What is it ? You
have borne so much  you have overtaxed
your strength. I  oh, how thoughtless I
have been ! There, rest your dear head on
my pillow, and close those feverish eyes.
They need not look so sorrowful now. How
hopeful and brave they always were ! Do
not fancy I forget that.'

Oh, hush !' I cried passionately. * I  I
cannot bear it. My strength seems all gone,
and I must not give way now.'

No,' she said gravely, * nor will you.

362

UNIVERSITY Of

 

You shall rest your poor, tired head here,
and I will watch you. There is nothing
more to fear.'

Nothing more to fear /' With the echo
of those words in my heart, I seemed to sink
into a sudden, deep slumber.

When I awoke the sun was streaming in
through the curtained window. She sat
beside me dressed  radiant, bright with
health and beauty. No longer the pale, distraught
shadow whose wandering steps had
echoed through those cheerless rooms and
filled our hearts with pity and with dread.

I am so glad you are awake,' she said.
They have just brought some coffee. Basil
has been here. We have arranged to leave
by the mid-day train.*

I sprang hastily up.

There is not much time to pack I said ;
and all the maids have left. I must set to
work at once.'

You !' she said. ' Are you coming too V

Most certainly I answered. * Did you
suppose for a single moment I should allow
you to go alone V

Oh she said softly, ' how good you are !
How can I ever repay you V

'By making Errol Gladdening happy I
said.

She raised her calm and lovely eyes to
mine.

May Heaven help me to do it she said
solemnly, ' in that day whose dawn I await /'

Errol was sitting alone in his study when
I sought him. I saw by the first glance at
his face that Basil had brought him the
news. He turned quickly to me as I
entered.

'Is this true, Myra?' he asked coldly.
She has recovered sense and reason only to
leave here on some foolish errand ? I cannot
believe it.'

Yes I said, ' it is true ; but you cannot

judge her actions or fancies as you would
those of another person. She is under the
guidance of some mysterious influence. You
know how sceptical I was. Well, I am so no
longer. I am convinced Nancette must do
what she has been directed to do, if ever you
wish her to regain full health and reason.'

" Et tu Brute'' ' he quoted with a melancholy
smile. * What has changed you,
Myra?'

I told him of that strangle vision.

I could have believed I was asleep,' I
said ; * but when she told me of it, too, describing
what I alone thought I had seen 
describing also my own helplessness and
stupor under an influence altogether unaccountable
 then I could doubt no longer.'

And you are going with her on this wild-goose
chase V he asked. ' Is not that testing
your friendship too much, Myra V

No,' I said simply ;  you know I always
like to carry throuirh what I have undertaken.

I could not let her go alone, or only with
Basil, and you are out of the question.'

As I have always been,' he said bitterly,
as I always shall be.'

No,' I said eagerly ; ' I am sure you are
wrong. Something will clear up your error ;
you will find you have misjudged her. Wait,
Errol, only a little longer. Already I see
hope. The dark shadow is lifting slowly
from your life. It is not too late for happiness,
believe me.'

You are a true friend,' he said, looking at
me with those grave, sad eyes, unchanged
since boyhood in their expression of sorrowful
endurance. * But you know enough to know
that for me happiness is no longer possible.'


For a moment I was silent. Then T asked
him a question.

How long is it,' I said, * till the date
fixed for delivery to Annette of her father's
letter V

He thought for a few moments. Then he
said :

The 20fch of September next

*0n that day,' I said, ' Nancette will be
here  free, safe, justified. On that day let
us meet again. These years of penance may
surely plead pardon for a youthful folly. I
am sure it was no more. I am sure that
woman Lamontaine deceived you for a purpose
of her own. The tangled web of this
poor child's life needs careful unravelling.
She has been a tool in unscrupulous hands ;
they have wrung money, peace, and apparently
honour from her grasp. Let her
vindicate herself in her own way  let her
accomplish her own destiny unfettered and
unhindered. Then, whatever Fate has in
store for you, at least you need not blame
yourself

I spoke eagerly, vehemently ; I seemed
urged by some unseen power to do so. I
could not help myself, and I felt that truth

and jiiirpose were in my words. Errol
.looked at me for a moment in silence.

Then he drew his breath sharply.

I hate mystery and darkness,' he said.
But they seem around my every action
now. What can I say  what ought I to
say ? If I could see her '

She will not see you,' I said ; 'and it
would not be wise to force her. Let things
take their course. She is safe with me 
surely you know that. And, whatever happens,
rest assured that on the 20th day of
September we shall be here once more.*

 Do you know,' he asked abruptly, ' what
she purposes or intends V

I shook my head.

'No,' I answered ; * only that she insists on
going to Guernsey.'

You have been very good to her he said,
and to me. But wee have no riofht to tax
your life in this fashion. Why should you
be whisked off to Guernsey at a moment's

whim, and for a purpose altogether irrational
and unexplained ?'

Why  because I wish it I said, smiling ;
 and I am a somewhat obstinate person, as
you know.'

His face changed as he looked at me.
The tenderness, the kindliness, the pity of it
seemed to overwhelm me and make me
weak. For a few seconds the room seemed
painfully still  so still, I could hear the
quick, loud beats of my heart. I grew afraid
then.

I cannot stay,' I said timidly.  She is
waiting. May I tell her it is all arranged 
that you have agreed ?'

Tell her,' he said, ' whatever you wish.
My trust in you has never wavered, Myra.'

He lifted my hands to his lips with the
grave reverence of a courtier to a queen.

I trembled and grew faint now that success
was mine. So much had depended on his
consent  so much, and*it was won !

Good-bye,' I said, in a stifled, far-off voice
that almost frightened myself.

'But I shall see you again? he urged.
You don't leave to-day V

In an hour,' I said faintly.

This last page of my journal is disfigured
by stains of tears. I have written it long
after that farewell.

Our deepest tragedies are told in fewest
words. I alone knew what * Good-bye' meant
for me as the warm hand-clasp relaxed, as
those kindly eyes were blotted out from
sight by the mist that filled my own. I do
not know how I reached mv room. There
seemed an endless road between it and the
one where he still stood. But Heaven gives
women strange strength sometimes !

I found myself sitting quite still, gazing
out of window.

The room was full of the litter of packing,
but no one was there.

A voice roused me at last, calling mv name
clearly, sweetly, through the deep, hushed
silence. It seemed to brace my nerves, to
give back courage, patience, strength. There
was the rustle of a dress, the light sound of
footsteps.

Ah, you are here ! Have you seen
him V

Yes,' I said quietly.

And he is quite satisfied V

He is quite  satisfied,' I answered like a
dull, senseless echo.

DESTINY.

The sun was boldly dispelling the mists that
lay over the straggling frontage of St. Peter
Port. A few figures were idly sauntering
about the White Rock Pier, watching the
boat as it steamed into the harbour.

Among them was the slight form of a
young girl. Her attitude was listless ; her
dark, melancholy eyes had a far-away look.
She had come there with no settled purpose,
and was mechanically watching the steamer s
approach, with no interest in its possible passengers
of to-day more than those of any
other day.

Only a few disembarked. Among them
two ladies and a young man. The usual

stream of porters surrounded them, and fora
moment shut them from sight. Then they
came towards that Useless figure in the glow
of the warm March sun. The ladies were
thickly veiled, but the form of their young
escort seemed to flash in sudden and familiar
recognition upon the startled girl.

She sprang towards him, her hand outstretched
in eager welcome.
'Basil!'
Leone 1'

The ladies started and turned towards her.
There came a whirl of questions and replies.
They all walked on together full of wonder
and delight at the chance meeting.

Why did you not tell me you were
coming V asked the girl reproachfully. ' I
could have got rooms for you.'

It was a sudden decision,' explained Basil,
'and we are going to our old hotel, so there
will be no trouble.' He lingered for a moment
behind the two veiled fissures. ' Don't

ask any question  yet he said hurriedly.
I will explain all when we are alone. Can
you meet me at sunset at the little bay T
Yes,' she answered quietly.
Then they joined the others, and walked
up to the hotel.

'You must lie down and rest,' said Mrs.
Freer to Nancette. 'You look tired to
death.'

The girl threw back her veil. Her face
was deathly white. She submitted passively
to her friend's kindly services ; her heavy
traveling-cloak was removed ; her dress followed.
Then Myra Freer wrapped a soft
cashmere dressing-gown round the slender
figure, unloosed the long, thick plaits of
hair, and made her lie down on the bed
while she herself prepared to follow her
example.

Weary and spent with the long, rough
passage, they both fell asleep, and slept on
till late in the afternoon.

VOL. III. 37

A knock at the door awoke them. It
was the chambermaid come to say dinner
would be ready in a quarter of an hour.
Myra rose with a start ; there was a confused
sense of unreaht} about her surroundings,
the result of any sudden change. Nan-cette
was sitting up in the adjoining bed.
She looked less weary nor.

I have had a lovely sleep,' she said, and
rose, and went over to the window, and
looked out at the wide stretch of sea, all
gold and amber in the setting sun.

A puzzled, troubled look came into her
eyes.

It seems such a long time since I was
here,' she said wistfully. ' Such a long 
long time.'

Only last summer,' said Myra Freer,
coming over to her.

And you all gave me up for dead,' she
Event on wistfully. *The people here will
think I am a ghost T

Have sou any plans "?' asked Myra, a
little anxiously ' What are we to do now
we are here V

The girl was silent. Her eyes still rested
on the dancing waters, where the sunbeams
sparkled and shone. To westward the clouds
lay piled in rich masses of colour ; a scarlet
flow, intense and soft as the hue of the
pomegranate flowers, bathed them in splendour,
and spread, rosy and mystical as a
blush, over the sky.

The girl looked, and a sigh trembled on
her lips.

The world is very beautiful,' she said.
One would not think it was so hard to be
happy in it.' Then she roused herself with
an effort, and turned to her friend. ' Plans V
she said vaguely. ' No ; I have none. I
must only wait. I shall know what to do
when the time comes.'

Meanwhile, pacing slowly to and fro over

372

the sand and shingle of the little bay, were
Basil Gladdening and Lconie St. Jean.
Rapidly and concisely the boy was relating
the events of the last month.

It is hard to believe,' the girl said at
last ; ' but I suppose it must be true. I
wonder what will be the end T

I suppose,' said Basil, involuntarily dropping
his voice, * I suppose you have seen
nothing more of  her V

No,' said the girl, her eyes turning seaward
and resting on a far-off pile of rocket
that lay like a dark blot against the ruby
and gold of the bright horizon line. ' Sometimes
I wonder '

Her voice broke. She started, and the
colour left her face.

Look !' she said, and clasped Basil's arm
with cold and trembling fingers.

The boy followed her glance. A little to
the right of them the ground sloped gradually
upwards, and standing there, outlined

against the reddened glory of the dying
lioht, was a dark fissure.

To both it was too well known for terror
or surprise to greet its sudden appearance.
They stood and watched it in fascinated
silence.

It moved at last, yet rather seemed to
iioat than walk down the sloping* incline.
As it faced them the glow and fervour of
colour died out from the sky, the last ray of
light that linked the sun to earth was severed.
In the chill, gray twilight, the figure looked
spectral and weird, and Basil Gladdening
felt again that strange remembered thrill of
fear and horror.

Then the voice of the Woman broke
the silence. It sounded strangely gentle
now.

You need not fear,' she said to Basil. ' I
shall not harm her. Service for service, task
for task. She alone can do what I will
and wish. She has come, and waits my

bidding. Yet your love guards her like a
shield. For your sake I come to you now,
instead of bringing her to myself. Are you
content V

I am content,' said Basil gravely, 'if you
promise never again to throw her into that
strange delusion that held her brain in thrall
so long. Why should you tell her she is
dead V

I told her that to serve my own ends ; but
now the living woman can serve them better,
and she shall live.'

Basil grew pale.

What your strange power is he said, * I
do not know. It is as cruel as it is
strong.'

It is destiny,' said the cold, sad voice.
She Alas sent to me without wish of mine.
Her life, succoured and nourished by my
power, grew submissive to my will. The
temperament I had debased and sinned
against in my own person, was here in aJl

its pure, and ethereal, and sensitive powers ia
the person of another. She opened to mea
new world ; through her I gained clearer
knowledge, a deeper insight, and soared to
unknown and undreamt-of heights. Together
we should have perfected the science to which
I had devoted life, reason, soul. You forced
her from me by a power at once pure, unselfish,
strong. Had it held the alloy of passion,
the selfishness of base hopes, the purely
material force of a human will, I could have
triumphed. But the innocent have a strange
power. Your prayers, your tears, have
consecrated her and hold her safe. Yet
let her serve me once  but once  and I
give her back the happiness she has never
tasted, and for which her tortured heart so
wildly craves.'

What is it you wish her to do V asked the
boy boldly.

That I cannot tell you.'

Her voice trembled, her mournful eyes

rested yearningly on the cold, averted face of
the young girl.

Will it do her harm V Basil asked again.
You know how she has suffered.'

Have I not cured her V asked the strange
being gently. ' Did I not bring her relief,
health, strength ? No, I will not harm her ;
that I promise. But she must be free to do
my bidding till such time as I release her.'

And if she refuse V asked the boy hurriedly.


 She will not refuse, for she cannot!

But I '

You have the power to place a spirit of
resistance, of antagonism, between us; but,
she will be the sufferer. The warring powers
at work within her spirit will again destroy
reason, and sap the vital energies of the
body.'

And the result V

Will be physical death. But spiritual
disease will come first.'

The boy stood silent. Was this a rhodomontade
of folly, or the revelation of a new
and incomprehensible truth ? The sound of
the wind, the gray haze of sky and sea, the
beat of the waves upon the shingle, all seemed
far off and strange. A curious, dreamy sensation
crept over his brain. Remembering what
it had foretold once before, he roused himself
with an effort.

I cannot understand you,' he said. ' But
it would be folly to deny that you have some
strange power over Nancette  that she, on
her side, is unable to resist or combat you.
Therefore, if you say she must perform this
service, I suppose she must ; only, of this
I am determined, she shall do nothing out of
my presence, neither shall she visit your
strange abode.'

Let it be so,' came the answer, sounding
faint and far away.

A pale gray mist was creeping up from the
sea. The dusky outlines of that strange

figure seemed to melt away amidst its hazy
vapour.

She is gone !' cried Lconie, and the two
young creatures, attracted by the mutual
sympathy of fear and mystery, involuntarily
drew nearer.

Then, hand-in-hand, and talking in low,
hushed tones, they too disappeared in the
gathering mist, while the tide crept higher up
the shingly beach, left now to the darkness
and loneliness of night.

When Basil reached the hotel, he found
Nancette and Myra Freer impatient at his
long absence.

He began some hurried excuse, but Nan-cette
looked steadily at him, and a strange
smile swept over her face.

You have seen  her T she said.

The boy coloured.

Yes,' he answered ; ' you are right. She
is more mysterious than ever. I cannot
understand what she wants of you. Some
service, she says.'

Again that strange smile hung over the
girl's lips.

I know,' she said, ' what she requires.
The task is hard no longer.'

 Please, my clear children,' said Myra
hastily, ' let us have done with mystery for a
little while. I want some substantial food.
Whatever you do, don't spoil my appetite
with the weird prophecies and mandates of
this sybil.'

They drew round the table then, and
for a few moments the meal proceeded in
silence.

I begin to feel material again,' said Myra
presently. * I have a consciousness that
Bogey is hiding somewhere in the dark
corners, or behind the window-curtains, but
meat and wine, and fruit and flowers, are
elements that serve to banish his actual presence.
I know she went on, lauo-liinof, 'that
I must adapt myself to rapid changes of
mental attitude. But I am thankful for a
spell of material comfort. When do you next
purpose to upset it V

Nancette looked at her gravely.

I know,' she said, ' that you don't believe.

I might be happier if I could say the same ;
but it is not in my power.'

Nor in mine !' echoed Basil.

The truth is,' said Myra, ' that this woman
is a crazy mystic of strong mesmeric powers
Accident threw Nancette in her way, and
proved her to be a marvellous subject. She
has played upon her weakness  the failure of
mental powers, the excited state of her nerves,
the affinity of two similar natures. She cannot
proceed further in her researches without
the aid of a subject, and she has chosen Nan-cette
for that subject by force of a stronger
will. I am sorry,' she added, with a laugh
that vas more scornful than amused, ' that
she did not choose me.'

So am I,' said Basil, looking sadly at
Nancette's white face. ' Or me ; I should
like to be mesmerised. What is it like, my
Ladyee Nancyee V

She gave a little sigh.

You will see for yourself,' she said dreamily.

When V asked the boy.

To-night;

To-night !' they both echoed, and looked
hastily round.

The room was brightly lighted  no sign of
mystery or darkness was apparent.

The waiter entered and removed the plates
and dishes, and set the dessert before them.
Then he withdrew, and the three were once
more alone.

Do you really mean it ?' asked Basil,
startled and awestruck.

Nancette glanced at the clock.

In ten minutes' time,' she said,  she will
be here.'

Nonsense !' said Myra Freer sharply.
'Do you mean in her actual bodily presence
V

Yes,' said the girl quietly ; * she is on her
way now.'

An uncomfortable silence fell over them.
Myra Freer's calm mind and sense resented

this intrusion of mystery and darkness. She
did not speak again, but covertly watched the
hands of the clock, while Nancette sipped
her claret and ate the fruit which Basil had
peeled for her. Five, eight, nine, ten
minutes.

Then the door was thrown open, a voice
simply announced, ' A lady for Madame,' and
a tall figure, veiled and cloaked in sombre
garments, stood in the entrance-way.

The door closed. Basil and Myra Freer
sprang to their feet. Nancette neither moved
nor turned. The visitor threw back her honos
and disclosed to Myra the strange face
whose description she knew so well. The
white hair, the wax-like skin, the stranofelv-
glowing eyes  there they were, animate and
exact, as Leone had written of them in her
letter.

She took no notice of Basil or his companion,
but walked straight up to Nancette
and laid her hand on her shoulder.

You have come,' she said, ' and I thank
you !'

Nancett.e still remained silent, but a dreamy
languor seemed to steal into her eyes. She
put her hand to her brow, as if to push aside
the soft weight of hair that oppressed it.

I have come to you,' she said at last,
because I could not help it. But promise
you will not drag me to that dreadful place
assail.'

You will visit it,' said the strange woman,
 but once more, and that will be of your own
will and desire, not of mine.'

May I ask,' said Myra Freer abruptly,
what you purpose doing with my friend V

The strange eyes turned to her, scintillating
Avitli wrath and defiance.

Sceptic and doubter !' she cried, ' what
have I to do with you V

Then again she turned to Nancette. ' I do
not need you yet,' she said. ' Rest, and gain
health and strength until the hour comes.

To-morrow seek this place She handed hera
paper. sit is quieter than the hotel, and
it is at your service as long as you need. I
will come to you there,' she added mournfully,
when the way is made clear. As yet it is dark
and obscure. A great sorrow threatens me  it
lies like a shadow upon your life too. From
one it will pass, on the other it must fall. It
is fate  the fate that rules the universe 
that links your life with the ruin and despair
of mine. And now  farewell !'

Like a cloud she seemed to drift away,
and was gone without sound or motion.

Myra gave a shiver.

This is very uncomfortable,' she said,
approaching Nancette. * And after all,' she
added, ' she has not mesmerised you.'

She looked at the girl ; her head was
bent down, her eyes were closed. Then
she drew sharply away, and turned to
Basil.

She is asleep !' she cried wonderingly.

VOL. III. 38

She is mesmerised,' said the boy. ' And
I '

He staggered a few steps, then sank down
on the couch. He too was asleep.

Powers of Heaven !' cried Myra ; ' what
will happen next ? I shall believe I can be
mesmerised, too.'

As she spoke the room, seemed suddenly
to grow dark. She felt giddy, stupefied ;
then she sank down in the chair by which
she had been standing. Her eyes closed.
A voice sounding far away and muffled
seemed moaning through the air :

For an hour  for an hour  for an
hour !'

Amidst the drowsy reiteration of those
words she heard a clock striking eight.

One  two  three four  five  six  seven
eight  nine !'

With the last stroke the three sleepers
opened their eyes simultaneously

 It is very odd said Basil, starting up.
We seem to have all been asleep.'

Not odd at all 1' exclaimed Myra Freer
angrily. ' That dreadful woman mesmerised
us. I saw Nancette go off, then you, then I
followed your example.'

Now perhaps you will believe,' said the
boy triumphantly. ' There is something in
it, you see. Have I not told you again and
again that a powerful magnetised can overcome
any resistance, and convey any impression
he or she desires ? Did you feel
you must wake as the clock struck nine V

Yes,' said Myra rather crossly. ' I suppose
the creature made a fool of me on
purpose.'

We all shared the same fate for once,'
said Nancette.  But those sleeps do me so
much good. I feel as if I gained new vital
energy every time.'

She rose to her feet. A lovely flush was
on her cheeks ; her eyes had that exquisite

382

humid languor which Myra had already-noticed
as the result of these magnetic
trances.

She paced the room to and fro, her eyes
resting on the paper in her hands  the paper
given her by that strange visitor.

I feel a delicious presentiment of happiness
she said softly. 'Thoughts, feelings,
altogether new and subtle, thrill me in some
strange and inexplicable way. I feel as if
life were just dawning. I am calm and at
peace. Oh, the joy of that calm  the sweetness
of that peace !'

Myra seated herself with a sigh of despair.
It was no use to protest, or mock, or rail
any longer. Against her calm commonsense,
against the scepticism of reason,
against all the array of materialism, this
strangely-displayed power arrayed itself in
triumph. She could not deny what she had
seen and felt. She knew that submission
was her only course. She had embarked on

an enterprise of mystery and darkness ; she
must simply float on its tide unresisting,
and abide by its  as yet  unguessed results.

They all sat down by the window, and
gazed out on the tranquil beauty of the
spring night. The mist had lifted, and the
moonlight poured itself lavishly over the
glittering expanse of sea.

They talked in low, hushed voices. A
sense of dreaminess and mystery was upon
them that yet was not without a certain
charm.

Both Myra Freer and Basil Glenden-
ninon felt assured that some strange mission
had to be undertaken by Nancette  a
mission of whose nature they were entirely
ignorant.

They could not conceive how the threads
of destiny could possibly have entangled the
life of this young and ill-fated girl with that
of the crazed and ascetic Mystic, who seemed
to have been a pariah from all social or conventional

existence for long, long years. As
little could they dream of the nature of the
link that bound them  of the history of
crime, and shame, and sorrow as yet to be
unravelled.

By noon of the next day they found themselves
at the spot indicated by their visitor of
the previous night.

The house had apparently been a farmhouse,
and lay down in the hollow of one of
the smaller valleys intersecting the interior
of the island. It was a long, one-storied
building, framed in now by the bright green
of ilex-oaks and beech-wood in their lovely
spring verdure. Beyond it lay cornfields
and grass-land and a few outbuildings and
stables, apparently untenanted and in sad
need of repair.

Basil walked up to the house-door and
knocked. It was opened almost immediately
by an old, wrinkled peasant-woman, who

seemed to expect them, and at once invited
them in.

I have been informed by madame she
said, ' that you desire the house for a few
months on my own terms. Is it not so V

What are your terms V asked Mrs. Freer
quietly.

The sum named was so modest that she
could raise no possible objection. The old
woman then conducted them over the various
rooms. All were daintily and spotlessly
clean, and a neat-looking country girl, whom
the old woman introduced as her daughter,
was busy in the bright, sunny kitchen, and
informed them that she was ready to do any
work they should require.

It's all very nice said Nancette. ' We
cannot do better than settle here. It is
much pleasant than the hotel.'

So, after a little more consultation with the
ostensible owner of the house, they agreed
to enter upon their term of tenancy next day,

and then took leave of the old dame. As
they reached the gates Basil turned and took
a long, steady survey of the building. At
last he turned to Myra Freer.

Do you notice that window he said,
there to the right, with the myrtle growing
round it ? Well, we were never in that
I'oom. I have a plan of the house in my
head, and I know where we went all down
the long, flagged passages, and the different
outlooks of the windows. But we were
never shown that room.'

Perhaps said Mrs. Freer, ' it is the old
woman's own sanctum. For Heaven's sake,
my dear boy, don't invent any more mysteries.'

I will tell you exactly what is in that
room said Nancette quietly. ' I saw it last
night.'

They both turned and stared at her incredulously.


Yes,' she went on ; ' 1 was there in my
sleep. There seems no visible entrance. You

go in by a sliding panel in the wall. It is a
small, octagonal room. In the centre is a
couch  an ordinary-looking couch, save that
its feet are of glass. There are a few cane
chairs that stand against the wall. The light
is very dim, for the window is draped with
black. There is a small cabinet in one corner,
on which stands a lamp. There is no
fireplace, but there is a carved shelf full of
books, and a crystal globe on a small stand
by the window. That is all.'

 Do you mean to tell me,' said Myra incredulously,
' that you saw all this V

Yes,' she answered tranquilly. ' It was
shown to me for some purpose. I cannot tell
what, but I shall know soon.'

Oh,' said Myra helplessly, ' I acknowledge
myself a convert to Bogey and the
black art ! Henceforward I shall be astonished
at nothing. Do with me what
you will, only don't have me mesmerised
aofain. I draw the line there.'

But though Myra Freer laughed and jested,
she grew daily more uneasy and uncomfortable.


She remembered Basil a wild, merry
schoolboy. Now he was utterly changed.
She remembered Nancette pale, sad, heart-burdened
; but this mysterious creature, with
her dreams, and trances of sleep, and mystical
foresight, and calm, blind obedience to
an inexplicable power, was something altogether
different and terrifying.

What would be the end V she asked herself
despairingly. ' What would be the
end

A veil of mystery was around her, and her

frank, direct, unwavering nature hated mystery.
Again and again she reviewed Nan-cette's
position, and the way in which she
herself had drifted into sharing it. Again
and again did she go back to those first days
of self-sacrifice, when she had nerved herself
to fulfil an unwelcome task for sake of the
most loyal and disinterested friendship woman
ever gave to man.

A series of facts at once stubborn and incontrovertible
arrayed themselves before her.
In no way that she could recall would alteration
have been possible. She had vowed to
serve Errol, to give him back happiness at
any cost, and that happiness lay apparently
in the power and keeping of this girl to
whom love had been a foe, and for whose
sake friendship was a long, weary sacrifice.

I wonder why I ever began it V sighed
Myra involuntarily. But she knew well
enough.

She was not one of those women whose

lines of life are cast in pleasant places.
There had always been for her  even in
youth  sacrifices, troubles, difficulties, thorn-pricks
of ever-recurring disagreeable. Nothing
had ever seemed to go quite smoothly,
or quite easily.

If things are ever cleared up,' she told
herself, ' I shall not regret my own discomforts,
nor allow that they are more than discomforts.
But will they ever be cleared up ?
The story of Nancette's foolish romance, and
its cloud of shame and sorrow, needs a
strong light indeed to sweep away the
shadows of mistrust. Then there is Pierre
de Volens, and the mysterious Frenchwoman,
and this still more mysterious being
who seems neither of earth nor air, and certainly
is not of heaven. How is the tangled
web to be unravelled ? Oh, my poor Errol,
it is weary work waiting and hoping in this
fashion !'

The brave eyes filled as memory carried

her back to the gloomy house on that wild
English coast, with its lonely master sole
occupant of the desolate rooms.

He is worse off than I. I should not
repine,' she said.

She was wandering by herself near the old
cromlech, known as Laurel de Delius
(Devil's Altar). The tide was far out. The
little rocky pools were full of strange creatures
of the sea; and green ribbon grasses
and coloured seaweeds gleamed through the
clear, bright water. Far as the eye could
reach stretched the width of the glittering
sea, broken only by the rocky shores of
Herm and its surrounding reef; and all
around was still,, save for some bird's note on
the air, or the fluttering wings among the
rocks.

She had come here in a sort of sullen
rebellion at this network of dark and dreary
mystery, which day by day seemed drawing
her more closely within its meshes.

They had been a week in their new-domicile,
and during that week had received
no further sign of their mysterious
friend.

It was the time of the equinoxes, and
strong winds and fierce gales had made the
sea a thing of terror and of danger. Sometimes
Myra found herself hoping that the
woman had gone back to her own retreat,
and would trouble them no further. But,
even as she hoped it, a thrill of fear would
chill her heart, and curdle her blood, and set
itself in opposition to such futile wishes.

The sea was calmer to-day, the wind had
died down, and with a sudden desire for her
own uninterrupted companionship, she had
walked to this place, and now sat there alone
and melancholy  giving free rein to her
brooding thoughts.

She remembered how she had first come
to Owl's Roost, and with what tender interest
she had regarded the lovely and

deserted girl whose fate had seemed so harsh
and unjust. She remembered her bold plans
on behalf of this girl  her resolute efforts,
her determination to conquer the tide of
public opinion, and to reinstate her in her
rights as Errol Gladdening's wife, and
mistress of his house. She remembered,
and with added sadness, that other resolve
to bring together those two disunited hearts
those misjudging and mistaken lives. And
now all this had happened nearly three years
ago, and she was no nearer victory than at
first.

I must give it up,' she said, half aloud.
 But it has changed me as it has changed
her. I am growing morbid, suspicious,
nervous. Life is no looser a calm and
equable thing ; its balance is overthrown.
I wonder what it all means  I wonder how
it will all end ! Perhaps,' and she rose
and half smiled as she smoothed back
some of the soft chestnut locks that the

wind had ruffled  ' perhaps it is the result of
the equinox.'

She moved slowly on. The tide was
rising rapidly, the banks of cloud in the west
were dark and stormy. She had two miles
to walk before she could reach their temporary
home, but she cared too little for
weather to let that fact trouble her.

Some half-mile or so from the cromlech
she struck across a patch of common, thickly
grown with furze and bramble, then turned
into a narrow lane, mild and sheltered even
in this cold spring evening. She was hurrying
along rather quickly, when suddenly she
saw, at a short distance in advance, two
figures standing, and apparently in earnest
conversation. They flashed upon her so
suddenly that for a moment she stood quite
still and watched them. As she did so a
conviction dawned upon her that one was
certainly Nancette. The other  the man 
had his back turned to her. She could only

see that lie wore a long, dark cloak, and was
very tall. Walking on rather more quickly,
she came to within a few yards of them,
when the man turned abruptly aside, leaped
the low hedge, and disappeared across the
neighbouring field.

His companion stood quietly there. It
was Nancette, and she awaited her friend's
approach with perfect composure.

You have been taking a walk,' she said.
So have I.'

Who was that With you V asked Myra,
sternly. ' It was not Basil V

Oh no,' said the girl, with a curious Httle
smile ; 'it was not  Basil.'

But you don't know anyone else here
said Myra, puzzled by the girl's manner, 'and
you would not talk to a stranger.'

It was  someone,' said Nancette slowly,
and with a faint rush of colour to her face,
who was asking the way to Braye du Val.'

Oh,' said Myra coldly, and glancing in
VOL. III. 39

the direction of the field-path, * then he has
certainly not taken ifc/

Nancette laughed  an odd, mirthless
laugh.

Perhaps he has changed his mind,' she
said. ' Come, do not trouble about him.
"Where have you been all the afternoon ?
Basil said you were evidently getting tired
of us. Why, this morning you positively
lost your temper.'

I had sufficient reason was the answer.

Dear Myra,' said the girl, linking her
arm in that of her friend, ' I cannot explain.
You must trust me, or leave me. I know,'
she added sorrowfully, ' it is hard for one of
your bold, straightforward nature to put up
with all this mystery. But we have to fight
with cruel and skilful foes, and I only realize
now how much there is at stake.' Her face
grew soft, a beautiful light glowed in her uplifted
eyes. ' Oh,' she said softly, ' if I can
only make Errol believe in me I If I can

only wring the truth from the cruel foe who
holds it, then I would gladly die  indeed,
indeed I would T

And something in the purity and nobility
of the young face set at rest the doubts
in Myra Freer's heart, and woke again
its generous impulses of self-sacrifice and
defence.

For some time they did not speak, only
walked on through the narrow lane, while
above the sky grew dark with the shadowy
twilight, and the wind rustled the young
spring leaves.

Then, quite suddenly, Nancette stopped
and loosed her hold of Myra's arm.

After all,' she said, ' why should I not
tell you '? What have I to fear ? Dear
friend  dear generous friend  I will hold
nothing back from you again. You are
right : I did know the man who spoke tome
in the lane beyond. It was Pierre de
Volens.'

392

Myra gave a little gasp.

Ah,' she said, ' I thought so. And he is
here again V

'Yes,' said the girl ; * and I am glad of it.

Glad Ah no, Myra; do not look like

that ; surely you know me better now ?
Glad, because I can show him that his power
has fled  because never again can word or
prayer of his move or sway me. Glad, most
of all, because his is the hand that can and
shall right me in my husband's eyes, and
give me back his lost faith. He has done
me harm enough,' she went on bitterly ;
but his day is over. He holds my secret,
but I hold his. It shall be war to the knife
between us now.'

Her eyes flashed, she looked transformed,
and Myra felt a thrill of fear as she looked
at the passionate, exulting face.

'When I woke, after that long spell of
darkness,' she went on presently, ' everything
was changed. I seemed altogether

unlike myself, even to myself. I grew impatient
at my own folly. I wondered how I
could have borne for so honos the cruel weight
of an unjust suspicion, and something seemed
always telling me that it must be put right
it must. And it does not only concern me
now, but another. The way is dark, and I
cannot see clearly as step by step I go on
and on towards the end, but I know there
will be light at last, and I await it.'

The colour faded out of her face. She
took her friend's arm once more.

Let us go home,' she said gently ;  and,
Myra, don't think me mad  I must see
Pierre de Yolens again. Do not blame me,
and do not fear for me. Believe me when
I tell you that I know him now as the false
and evil man he is  the worst and cruellest
foe a woman ever had. I recognise the
truth of my father's words at last. Better,
indeed, to be dead than the wife of such a
man !'

Myra was silent. The dusk had fallen
rapidly ; a shower of rain came sweeping
along, cold and chill. She hurried Nancette
along, more anxious to reach shelter than to
argue the ever-recurring question of the girl's
purpose in coming here.

You will be drenched through before you
reach home,' she said, * and only a week ago
you were lying on a sick bed. How you
trifle with your health !'

My health,' said the girl, with that soft,
mysterious smile, ' will last while 1 have
need of it. Hope is the only medicine I
need.'

They had a long way yet to go before they
reached the old farmhouse, where Basil was
anxiously awaiting them. On the threshold
Nancette stayed her friend to whisper a
caution in her ear.

Do not tell him,' she said, ' of Pierre de
Volens. He hates him so ; he would not
understand.'

*And I hate him, and I do not understand,'
said Myra. ' But that counts for
nothing.'

It will count,' said Nancette, * for a great
deal, when you know all.'

Then they entered the warm, bright
parlour, leaving the gloom and wet of the
deepening night behind, like an unpleasant
memory.

An hour later, they all sat, warm and dry,
around the bright wood-fire, listening to the
fierce gusts of wind and rain with a pleasant
sense of security.

Basil was reading aloud a letter from
Stewart ; Myra was working, Nancette lying
back in her chair, with idle fingers, and
dreamy eyes  that watched the flickering
flames. Suddenly she started and looked
round. The others noticed her movement,
and followed her glance. Standing in the
recess of the wide, old-fashioned parlour was
the well-known figure of the Woman in
Black.

She did not speak, only moved aside.

revealing an aperture in the wall of the room
which had evidently been concealed by a
sliding panel. Another room was plainly
visible, whose existence none of them had
hitherto suspected. An uncomfortable feeling
swept over Myra Freer. She remembered
conversations, suppositions, remarks
none too flattering, which might have, and in
all probability had been overheard during
this past week, when they had imagined
themselves free from intrusion or eavesdropping.


At present, however, their visitor merely
made a gesture of invitation, and the whole
trio, as if by one spontaneous movement, rose
and advanced in her direction.

Myra could not repress a murmur of
astonishment as the panel slid back, and they
found themselves in a small octagonal
chamber, furnished exactly as Nancette had
described to them on the first day of their
visit to the house. There was the couch, the

chairs, the shelf of books, the solitary window
draped in sombre Hack, a cabinet on which
burned a lamp that dimly lit the room, and
on a small stand a crystal globe of water.

Without speaking, the woman motioned
them to their places  Nancette to the
couch, Basil and Myra to the chairs by the
window

Basil shuddered. He thought of the scene
in the cave, of the form that had been dead
to memory, life, or will, and had answered
his frenzied appeal with chill indifference.

Myra armed herself with angry scepticism,
putting out all her forces of opposition, indignation,
and obstinacy, as a hedgehog does
its prickles. She might have saved herself
the trouble. One wave of the hand, and she
was in a deep sleep. Neither roar of cannon,
nor shriek of murder, nor cry of suffering
could waken her, till such time as that
invincible will chose to release her from its
spell.

Basil sat there calm, and grave, and watchful.
Convinced that no harm was meant to
Nancette, he was prepared to investigate and
watch the forthcoming proceedings with the
deepest interest.

The woman merely looked at the figure of
the girl as it lay stretched on the couch.
Then it seemed to relax, the breathing grew
calm and even. The eyes closed. She lay
asleep like a tired child, and looked indeed as
young and fair.

The woman turned to Basil.

I will not touch you,' she said. ' You
can remain and judge for yourself. But first
let me explain something of all this to you.
Marvellous as my power looks, it is no new
and unheard-of development. It is the result
of long years of isolation, and study, and
asceticism.

To every human being who voluntarily
withdraws from association with his fellows-men
and gives himself up to study the

mysteries of his own being, its formation, its
spiritual functions, essence, and destiny, there
will come the repayment of great and marvellous
discoveries.

Magnetism is, of all phenomena, the most
vital and serious, both as a medical and
spiritual agent. The world is, as yet, too
blind, or too heedless, or too sceptical to fully
investigate this marvel. We are not mere
creatures of clay, but temples of mystery, and
yet temples without light, or sound, or beauty,
because of the dead faculties and undeveloped
powers that rest in abeyance within us. The
material part is so far stronger than the immaterial,
that it holds it in an iron bondage,
from which it scarcely seeks escape. Some
get faint glimpses of truth, yet dare not
pursue it for fear of results ; others ponder
in secret over what they feel is revealed, yet
which the first words of the scoffer and the
sceptic rend into fragments of ridicule.

Thus mankind hoof their chains of darkness

and self-delusion, and so the bold exponents
of a new truth gain but rude disbelief,
or cruel indifference.'

Her voice grew mournful, like a chant ;
her eyes rested sadly on the pale, eager face
of the listening boy.

 I,' she said, ' was a happy, earthly creature
once. But it seems to me that I parted
with earth, and the things of earth, hundreds
of years ago.

The man I loved murdered me. Nay,
do not start, for though I say ' murdered,"
the intent was as vile as the deed, but
the deed itself fell short of accomplishment,
by what we, in our blindness, call
accident. He left me for dead  he believed
me dead ; and for long years I believed the
same.

I was saved by a being, mystical and
strange to me, as I seem to you. She taught
me all I know. She lived, unknown and undisturbed,
in that dreary spot where first you

discovered me. "When she died I made her
tomb there amidst the wild rocks and waters
that she loved, and I took her place, none
questioning or approaching me.

Alone and solitary, I gave myself uj) to
the studies she had pursued ; alone and
solitary, I saw before me the web of doom
that I might spin  the vengeance that I
might accomplish. But I found that another
hand must aid me, and I waited. I knew
that in due time that hand would clasp my
own  that will be mine, to mould and
fashion to its destined purpose.

 In . the gloom and darkness of another
land, in the solitary dreariness of an old and
far distant home, that young life counted its
mournful days, and wept away its sorrowful
hours, unknowing of the destiny to come.
But the fruit falls when it is ripe, and the
hour appointed came to her. Amidst the
warring elements, with the seal of death upon
her brow, she came to me as I in my turn

had come to another. You '  and for a
moment her sombre eyes flashed wrathfully 
you took her from me, but my spell held
her against even your power  against the
prayers and tears of those she loved ; and
now,' she added, her voice relapsing into the
old dreamy murmur, ' she has sought me herself.
Through me alone can she gain honour,
freedom, happiness. The hour is at hand when
they shall all be hers. Are you content '?'

Something altogether irresponsive and regardless
of himself seemed to answer. He
Alas conscious only of an absorbing anxiety 
a passionate eagerness to recognise the evil
force which had swayed these two dissimilar
lives, and linked them together by the ties of
crime and vengeance.

The woman turned aside, and bent over the
motionless fig-ure on the couch.

Speak,' she said. ' Where are you ?*

I am with  him,' came slowly and distinctly
from the girl's lips.

'what is he doing V

'He writes. I cannot see the words.'

Look.'

I am looking. I see them now. It is tome
he writes. He wishes to see me. He is
coming here tomorrow.'

It is well said the questioner. ' Now
give some information respecting your feelings
in the magnetic state, to my companion.'
Then she turned to Basil and fixed
her strange eyes on him. *Ask she said,
what you please ; put her to any test. You
will see my power is a reality.'

She withdrew to the head of the couch,
where she stood like a dark shadow.

Basil, growing suddenly courageous, approached
the recumbent form.

Will you tell me,' he said, ' exactly how
you feel V

I feel,' she said, ' as if I were in a beautiful
dream. There is no pain, no sorrow, no
darkness  all is liiht and warmth. I seem

to float to and fro in a delicious atmosphere.
Nothing controls me. I 20 where and how
I please, as a bird might, whose wings obey
the impulse of its will. I am soothed and
happy. There seems nothing to desire or
regret.'

Can you really go wherever you please V
asked Basil wonderingly.

There was a moment's pause ; then she
said slowly :

 It seems my own will ; but something
directs it. The inclination to go here or
there is suggested. I cannot tell how. It
is like a thought; and with the thought
comes the accomplishment. There is no effort
needed.'

Do you know the nature of this state
that holds you ? Can you see yourself, and
your present condition V

Yes,' she said readily ; ' I am in a sleep,
and you stand beside me. There is a shadow
at my head. That is the will I must obey.'

VOL. III. 40

To see her lying there with closed eyes and
motionless limbs, answering him in this calm
and rational fashion, gave to Basil Gladdening
the strangest sensation he had ever
known, or could know in all his life to
come. He drew back and looked at the
woman.

I am not quite satisfied he said. ' She
answers under your control ; her mind is only
an echo of yours. Whatever oppressed or
pained her, she could not betray it except by
your desire. Your will is her law.'

She is not under my control, save in that
I keep her asleep,' was the answer. 'But
her nature and her will are so in harmony
with mine, that my very presence is sufficient
to throw her into the magnetic state. She is
curiously sensitive, and her life  so pure, and
calm, and isolated  has left her even more
than usually susceptible. To leave her as
uncontrolled as you desire would be merely
to leave her in her normal condition, save

that each sleep has a restorative influence
upon her, and with each her mental and
physical capabilities are stronger and more
active. But you see I make no passes ; I
utter no commands. She is as free to obey
your voice when you speak, as mine. I think
you are hard to satisfy.'

If your power is so great,' persisted the
boy, ' why cannot you see what you wish for
yourself? Why do you send her on your
errands, or require her aid in the scheme you
are contemplating V

'You are a bold questioner said the
woman coldly ; ' too bold, methinks, for one
so young. Have I not told you that a past,
earth-bound and sin-stained like my own, is
clogged and bound by weight of memories %
She is pure, virginal, sensitive, and passive.
The world has not contaminated, passion has
not sullied, crime and sin have not darkened
her life. Fate sent her to me. By fate our
two destinies have been ruled and joined in

402

one common martyrdom. For her the end is
near. For me '  she shuddered, and for a
moment covered her wild eyes with her hands
' for me,' she went on mournfully,  the
path is dark. I see no light beyond. Yet
must I tread it  led blindfold by an unseen
hand.'

Then she dropped her hands, and looked
mournfully down at the recumbent figure.

*But for you,' she said, 'she would have
been content. The physical life had ceased
to exist for her. Guided by my will, controlled
by my power, there were no heights
to which she might not have reached, no
truths she might not have grasped. But you
broke the spell. The memories of earth
revived; once more love awoke, imperative
in claim and impassioned in demand. Another
hand swept the chords of her being,
and woke anew its melody. Against those
powers of longing and rebellion  that warfare
of body and spirit, my own supremacy

gave way. I yielded her back to the life she
desired, with all its sorrows, and temptations,
and poignant sufferings. For she must
suffer still ; so much I can and do foresee.'

There was a spell of silence. Basil still
stood there motionless and absorbed, his eyes
on the beautiful sleeper, his brain dizzy and
bewildered by all he had heard and seen.
Suddenly he looked up.

Will you tell me one thing more V he
asked earnestly. 'To whom did you send
her to-nioht T

To the man,' she answered, * who has
crossed her life and mine.'

Basil trembled.

'His name!' he entreated. 'Tell me his
name.'

His name,' said the voice, growing fainter
now, as the shadowy figure itself grew more
indistinct, * is Pierre de Volens.'

A cold sweat broke over the boy's forehead.

His heart throbbed painfully and
fast.

Impossible I' he cried. ' You cannot
know him. What is he to you V

There came a slow, soft, mocking laugh
from the place where the shadow had stood,
for it was there no longer, though it seemed
to Basil as if his eyes had never left it.
And far off in mid-air a voice seemed to float
to him, cruel and harsh, yet with a ring of
triumph in its mocking tones : * He was  my
husband T

The lamp died suddenly out. The storm still
beat in sullen blasts against the windowpanes.
Alone in that room with the two
sleepers, and with the woman's last words
ringing in his ears, Basil Gladdening felt a
sudden terror seize him. He remembered
the panel, but no ray of light guided him in
its direction, and he could not remember
from which side of the room their entrance
had been made.

With a sudden memory of his recent studies
and experiences, and his influence over the girl,
he gave way to the longing within him, and
set his whole power of will on her awaking.

He knew he stood near the couch on which

Nancette lay. and he could only hope and
wish for her awaking.

One of his favourite authors had insisted
that magnetic sleep might be produced or
dispelled at will. The quiescence of the
brain, and the reducing its vital activity
was first necessary. This would produce a
passive state of mind, to be acted upon and
forced into one channel of thought or desire.
He had no sooner acted upon this principle
an easy enough matter in the quietude
and darkness of the room, and his own
overwhelming desire to be out of it  than
he heard Nancette stir, and then sit up.

Basil,' she said softly.

Yes !' he cried in delight ; ' I am here.
Are you awake V

'Have I been asleep *?' she asked wonderingly.
* Where are we ? Why is it all
dark?'

The lamp has gone out,' said the boy.
'And we are in [the secret room. Have

you any idea how we can get out ?  there
was a siding panel, you know.'

* Where is Myra ?' she questioned.

 Asleep,' answered Basil. ' Won't she be
in a jolly rage when she finds she has been
Sent oiF again X

I can see the panel said Nancette suddenly.
* There is light beyond.'

It is our own room,' he said. ' Do get
us out of this black hole. It was a mean
trick to leave us here in the dark.'

As he spoke the panel shot suddenly back
and light streamed in. He looked at the
couch. Nancette was lying back in a half-reclining
attitude. She had not moved.

'Is it a conjuring trick ?' he said with a
little uncomfortable laugh.  Come, let us
go. I've had enough of this.*

but Myra,' said Nancette, looking round
at the chair where, bolt upright, and with
hands placidly crossed on her lap, sat the
figure of Mrs. Freer.

Can you not will her to wake?' asked Basil.
The girl raised her large soft eyes in wonder.

I ? No ; I have no influence over her.'

And I'm afraid she's too heavy to carry,'
said Basil regretfully, * else we might deposit
her, chair and all, in the next room.'

Perhaps,' said Nancette, ' she will soon
Awake. Let us wait patiently till she does.'

I have no objection,' he answered, * if
you are sure our trap won't close again.'

It is quite safe,' she said; ' but, if you like,
you can bring in a light. I know the spring.'

He readily followed the suggestion, and
passed through the aperture into the adjoining
room ; then, taking one of the candles
burning on the mantelshelf, he went back to
the secret chamber.

Now,' he said, ' let's have a talk. All
this sort of thing is becoming very serious.
Do you remember where you went in your
sleep just now V

No,' she said ; * not in the least. I have

Destiny, 123

only a vague impression  it is like a dream
one cannot remember ; but I feel, as I always
tell you, rested and strengthened, almost
happy, after some of these sleeps.'

Well,' said Basil, seating himself beside
her on the low couch, * I will tell you where
you went and whom you saw.'

She turned her beautiful eyes inquiringly
to his.

Will you V she said. * Where was it V

You went,' he said, ' to that scoundrelly
Frenchman  that De Volens. You said he
was writing a letter to you, and that he would
be here tomorrow morning.'

She started and turned pale.

Did I say so X she asked, trembling
greatly. ' How strange !'

Ladyee Nancy's cried the boy fervently,
I know and you know what that man is. I
have never forgotten that day by the sea, and
your terrified face, and his cowardly flight
when he heard your husband was coming to

meet you ! I hated him then because, young
as I was, I knew he had spoilt your life and
made you unhappy. I believe he has been
your evil genius all your life long

You are right,' she said in a low, restrained
voice ; ' he has.'

And,' he went on rapidly, ' when I heard
you say that, just a little while ago, I felt
mad. I could not believe it.'

It is not my fault,' said the girl piteously.
I cannot help myself ; the woman sends me
there.'

Do you know why V

No ; but I shall learn when the time comes.'

But I know,' said the boy With passionate
indignation. * With all her powers of mind
and will she cannot reach him, and she makes
you  you, her messenger. Oh, Ladyee Nancyee,
he is her husband. She told me so herself.
Her husband ! Then what right has he to
persecute you  to say such words as I heard
him say, there by the sea ? What '

i

Destiny, 125

Her cry cut him short. She started to
her feet and faced him, pale and terrified.

Is it true V she said. ' Are you sure it
is true ? Oh, I cannot believe it ! Bad 
vile as I know him to be, he could not so
deceive me !'

It is true,' replied Basil solemnly, ' if
what she says is true, for she told me.'

The girl sank down upon the couch once
more, her face hidden in her shuddering
hands.

Oh,' she cried, ' what an escape  what an
escape ! To think what I might have done
  what I was almost mad, and rash, and vile
enough to do that day, when you saved me !
Oh, Basil Basil !'

Her sobs broke forth unrestrained ; she
leant her head against the scroll of the
couch ; her whole frame was shaken with
emotion.

Don't cry,' said the boy, his eyes flaming
with indignation. ' He's not worth a tear.

I told you so before, and then I did not know
what I know now. Oh, Ladyee Nancy e, you
said I might be a brother to you once. Let
me be so now. Let me go to him  see him
tell him to his face what a cur and villain
he is. You think I am a boy, and so does
he ; but I can feel and act like a man in
defence of you. How dare he come to you
how dare he insult you by his presence ?
How dare V

Her hand upon his arm stayed the torrent
of his words.

Dear,' she said, * be calm. You cannot
understand all, for I  oh, I could not 
dare not  tell you. But, believe me, the
hour of his punishment is at hand, and you
shall see it.'

I am sick of mystery and darkness,' cried
Basil impatiently. ' You can't alter facts.
You are Mr. Gladdening's wife, and he  he
is this mysterious woman's husband.'

Yes,' she said mournfully; *I know. But

I

he holds in his keeping a secret of mine, more
precious even than Hfe, and till I have wrested
it from his grasp, and forced him to make
atonement for these years of penance and
suffering, I shall never be happy, nor will
Errol Gladdening. You cannot cut the
knot, dear, in your impetuous fashion ; it
must be slowly, carefully unravelled, and one
hand alone can help me to do it. You must
be content to wait, as I am.'

He rose and stood before her, his slight,
tall figure drawn to its full height ; his eyes,
sombre, anxious, and appealing, resting on
her tear-stained face and quivering lips.

I must do as you wish,' he said, * of
course. But 1 don't think you are right ;
and I don't think you ought to meet or see
that man again. You were fond of him once,
were you not V

Yes,' she said with a faint little smile.
That  expresses it well enough. No doubt
you, when you were a child, were fond of

sugar, or sweets, or other alluring and cloying
dainties. But now '

Now,' he concluded as she paused, ' they
nauseate me.'

 And in like manner,' she said bitterly,
the memory of an old folly nauseates me.'

She paused for a moment, then looked sip
at him.

My knight,' she said, ' my brave young
champion, you have done so much for me,
you can surely do a little more. Wait 
that is all I ask  only wait. Is it very
hard r

Yes,' he said abruptly.  It is, if that
blackguard is anywhere in the way !'

 There was a story I once heard,' she said
softly, ' of a minister of state, I think it was,
or a diplomatist, who puzzled all his opponents
by telling them the exact truth. It
was not a policy they were accustomed to,
but it was very efficacious. I  I think you
-would be like that diplomatist.'



He laughed somewhat grimly.

I shall certainly tell him the truth
he said, ' whenever I have the opportunity.'


Her eyes flamed suddenly  a bright spot
glowed on either cheek.

 You will have it,' she said. ' Do not
fear.'

Have I been asleep V asked Myra Freer
suddenly.

The voices had ceased. She opened her
eyes, and saw the two figures  the flushed
and agitated faces. Nancette rose from the
couch.

Dear Myra,' she said, ' you are paying
the penalty of your obstinacy, I fear. It is
no use to rebel. At a word or look from our
mystic friend you are powerless. Basil and
I have been patiently awaiting your return
to your normal condition. It was all we
could do.'

VOL. III. 41

Myra walked across the room with a conscious
and indignant look.

It is no use denying a fact,' she said
crossly. ' Pray come out of this den of
witchcraft.'

They followed her in silence. Basil came
last, the candle in his hand. As he stepped
into the adjoining room, he turned back to
close the panel, but to his surprise it was
already shut, and looking at the wall from
where he stood, it was impossible to detect
the mode of entrance.

It is very strange,' he said. ' How on
earth did it close V

Oh, Bogey, of course !' exclaimed Mrs.
Freer, still wrathful. ' I wonder what on
earth will happen next ? I shall be surprised
at nothing. There is one comfort,' she added
with a short laugh, 'our friend must have
heard a good deal of my candid opinion
respecting her and her doings. I hope she
liked it.'

That is why she revenges herself on you,'
said Basil gravely. ' If she chose, you would
have to do whatever she wished, whether you
liked it or not. I would suppress my antagonism,
if I were you.'

I wish,' she answered, with a comical
glance of despair, ' that you were back again
at school, young man. A nice sort of
education you are having.'

It is very interesting,' he said. * And no
doubt it will have its uses. You can't say
that I am idle. Haven't I given you a
strict account of my studies, and their
results V

Idle or not,' interposed Nancette at this
juncture, ' the truth is simply this  that I
cannot do without him yet. No doubt the
life is not so healthy or so natural ; but he
will not need to lead it much longer.'

And then,' said Mrs. Freer, * I advocate
an expedition to the Cockles, or the Himalayas,
or the interior of Arabia, to restore

412

tone to his system. I suppose the exploring
fever hasn't died out yet, Basil V

He smiled.

I don't know he said dubiously. * Somehow,
I fancy Fenimore Cooper and Mayne
E,eid aren't altogether reliable authorities.
Still, I hope to see a prairie yet.'

It is a more natural desire than the pursuit
of occult phenomena said Mrs. Freer.
I think I shall join you'  then she looked
round with a comical pretence of fear  ' provided,
of course she added, ' that T am allowed
to exercise my will.'

The next morning, when Nancette urgently
entreated Basil and Myra Freer to take a
message from her to Leone, the former
knew well enough that she desired to be
safe from interruption during the coming
interview.

But he said nothing for fear of distressing
her. He had a card in his own hand to
play against Pierre de Volens, and he knew
he could wait his opportunity. When she
was left alone a change seemed to come over
her face. Its soft and pathetic beauty took
an expression of calm contempt ; the firm
lips set themselves into scornful lines. Her
eyes grew dark and ominous beneath the
shade of their veiling lashes.

The sun was streaming warm and radiant
through the open window. The scents and
colour of the springtime were everywhere
appealing to her notice with their soft seduction
of fragrance and beauty, but her eyes
were heedless now, and all her mind was
bent in strained and close attention for the
first sound of that step whose lightest echo
had once made her heart thrill with delight.
Now it only throbbed with fear and
shame.

At last the door opened, and he entered
unannounced, like a welcome and expected
guest. She did not rise from her seat, but
motioned him to take another opposite.

You wrote that you had an important
communication to make to me,' she said.
What is it ? I must ask you to be brief.
In half an hour my friends return.'

He looked at her somewhat curiously.
She was not in the mood he had expected.

Nancette,' he said in the plaintive and

aggrieved tone he well knew how to use,
I did not expect so cold a greeting.'

Her nostrils quivered. The lines about
her mouth deepened with added scorn.

I do not know what you expected she
said. ' You probably forget that time may
have changed an unsuspecting girl into an
embittered woman.'

'You must not be bitter against me he
said pleadingly. ' Remember how I loved
you, and all we might have been to one
another had you but listened to my prayer
two years ago.'

I think of it she said slowly, ' every day
I Hve.'

Then you have not forgotten V

 Oh no she answered in the same odd
repressed way ; ' I have not  forgotten.'

Ah he said, drawing a sharp, quick
breath; 'I thought I had not misjudged
you. Is it not strange, Nancette, that
time and absence, and trouble and difficulty.

have in no way changed my love for
your

I would rather,' she said, flushing hotly,
that you did not speak of it.'

I must speak of it,' he said passionately ;
I cannot help it. Seeing you again has but
revived the old worship  the old dreams '

I am glad she interposed, * that you call
them *' dreams." I, too, have discovered they
deserve no better title.'

Dreams or not, they have sufficed to fill
my life,' he said impetuously. ' We have
now entered upon our third year of penance
and separation, and again Fate has led my
life into the shadow of yours.'

She shivered a little, and reaching up to
the high mantel-shelf, took from thence a
small fan or screen of Myra's work. He
noted the trembling of her hand as she held
the pretty toy, and added that sign of agitation
to the sum which his vanity had already
compiled.

He bent a little nearer to her.

Do you know,' he said, ' that your husband
employed a French detective to track
me only last autumn because he fancied you
were with me ? He traced us very cleverly
from here to St. Malo, then to Rouen, then
to Paris. I fancy he '

There he paused. The screen had dropped.
The passionate, indignant face turned towards
him startled him into silence.

It is not true 1' she cried.  It cannot be
true ! How dare you say he suspected me
of such infamy !'

Do you mean to say !' he exclaimed,
that you did not know 1 Where were you
all the time V

With a strong effort she regained her self-command.


I did not know,' she said. ' But where
I was, and why, signify nothing to you.
Who set my husband on that false
track f

His own suspicions, of course,' said Pierre
de Volens airily. ' You must acknowledge
they were not without foundation.'

She clasped her hands tightly ; the storm
roofing: within her breast threatened to
overthrow her hard-won calmness. But
she knew the time had not arrived for open
defiance.

Looking at him now, she marvelled how
she could ever have loved him  how even
for a single hour she could have believed
that mere outward charms were worthy the
idealization of a girl's romantic heart. Now
she felt only loathing, shame, contempt.
Contempt for herself and her own weakness
as well as for his cowardice and dishonour.
Contempt for the mass of artifice, and
treachery, and selfishness for which she had
made shipwreck of her life. Alas ! she was
not the first woman proved guilty of such
folly, or repenting it in dust and ashes too
late for atonement !

I suppose they were not,' she said at
last, ' though how he could have pursued
such a phantom astonishes me. But is this
all you wished to say V

All ? No ; nor half !' he cried impetuously.
* But it is unfair to give me so short
a time to do it.'

 There are just twenty minutes left,' said
Nancette, glancing at the timepiece.

He changed colour slightly. He was
playing for a high stake, and he knew
he must be bold ; but her manner was so
strange that it held him awed and uncomfortable.


Surely he had not lost his power over her ;
surely nearly three years of absence and
misery could but have endeared him to her
memory  the clinging, trustful, passionate
memory of a girl's first love ?

Assuring himself of this, and of victory
yet to come, he once more essayed his actor's
arts.

I know,' he said, ' that the terms on
which you and your husband Hve are unchanged.
I see you young, beautiful, yet
widowed, as it were, by my own fault, ray
own folly. Nancette, I have sought you out
to offer you atonement  the only atonement
I can make. Claim your freedom from this
man, assert your rights as a woman. I know
your English laws ; it can be done, it only
needs a little courage. Then we may be
happy together in our own way, and all these
dreary years of penance forgotten.'

She listened without moving; she might
have been carved in stone for any sign of
life she gave. As he finished she raised her
eyes. There was something in their look
that struck like a sudden blow to his heart.

You offer me my  freedom,' she said.
What of your own V

My own !' Hardened as he was, his
tongue faltered. ' I  I do not understand
you,' he said.

Again she looked at him, and the sight of
the cowardly, shrinking face smote her with
a sudden, overmastering passion of shame
that ever she had loved its possessor.

I will speak,' she said, * more plainly. Is
there no tie in your past that links you in
bonds as firm as those you would strike from
me ? Is your memory too weak to recall one
year in your own life, and the woman who
shared it ? Are you quite sure that that
woman really  died  as you wished her to
dor

His face grew black and thunderous with
rising passion. He started to his feet.

What are you hinting at V he cried
furiously.  Who has been poisoning your
mind against me V

The scorn of her face died out into bitter
sadness then.

Oh,' she said, ' you should know  none
better. Your love was an insult to me even
in my youth and ignorance. Now ' she

shuddered  ' I have learnt many lessons since
then,' she went on rapidly ; ' and I know you
for what you are, and at last recognise the
truth of my father's words.'

So much,' he sneered, * for a woman's love
and constancy.'

I think,' she said, with grave and gentle
dignity, ' no woman could love a traitor and
a coward when once she recognised the
meaning of those words  when once she
saw them set as a foil against the truth and
chivalry of true manhood.'

I have been slandered to you by bitter
foes,' he answered, softening his voice to one
of reproach, now he saw that the game was a
losing one. ' I thought your love would be
proof against such one-sided testimony. It
is Julie, I suppose, who has turned traitor V

He glanced covertly at her ; she was not
looking at him now. Her eyes were bent on
the pretty feather screen that lay idly on her
lap.

It was not  Julie she said.

Then, in the name of Heaven, who was

itr

It was 1/ said a voice, low, and solemn,
and deep as an organ note.

He started. Standing in the fall glow of
the sunlight that streamed through the window
was a tall figure draped in sombre black.
How she had come into the room unseen,
unheard, he could not tell. For a moment he
stared aghast at the unexpected apparition ;
then he regained his self-composure.

And may I ask, madame,' he said,  how
you come to be so well acquainted with my
affairs ? I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance
that I am aware of.'

She threw back her long, dark veil; but
the ascetic face, the white hair, the strangely
glowing eyes, were changed out of all likeness
to what he remembered, and he looked at
her as at a stranger. He bowed ironically.


Madame has still the advantage of me,'
he said.

You do not recognise your handiwork V
said the woman.  I am not surprised. The
years have been less hard and cruel to you,
Pierre de Yolens, than to me. But, changed
or not, I am the girl you made your wife in
Paris twenty years ago ; the girl you robbed,
ill-used, and at last left for dead in the
woods at Bas-merton. But I did not die,
though for years I lost all memory and,
happily for me, all feeling. I lived on, and
gradually I recovered. But my youth had
been murdered by your cruel hands, and T
was as you see me now Ashen once again the
power to think and act came back to me.
I did not seek you. I was content enough
to be forgotten ; the memory of my child
was faint and dim. To claim her would be
to subject myself once more to your cruelty
and persecution. So I let the years drift on
I and the friend who had rescued me 

and your memory became a faint and a far-off
thing.'

Pierre de Volens's face was almost fiendish,
in its fury and suppressed passion.

This may be a very interesting romance,
he said sardonically.  But as far as I am
concerned it is a tissue of lies, and I fail to
see why I am expected to listen to them.'

She lifted her hand imperatively.

They are not lies she said ; * and you
know it. I have the ring you gave me; I
have your letters. I have proofs enough, if
proofs were needed. But I make no claim on
you. I only wish to save this unhappy girl
from your persecution. Do you think,' she
went on fiercely, ' that I do not know your
object ? Do you think I do not guess your
reasons for following her here ? But three
months, and she will be in possession of that
sealed packet. Ah, you start ! You have
discovered also what the Comte de Foreze
did with his money ere leaving the Brazils.'
VOL. III. 42

Are you devil or fiend V muttered Pierre
de Volens furiously. * How could you know
this V

That she said coldly, * is my secret, and
I can keep it as well as you have kept
yours.'

For a moment the murderous hate that
leaped into his ejes terrified Nancette. She
half rose from her chair ; but the woman
motioned her imperiously back.

Do not fear she said. ' He cannot hurt
me. I am protected against his evil wishes
as against his power. Now she went on,
turning to the furious man, * have I said
enough, or do you still doubt ?'

With one last effort he tried to collect
his powers of effrontery. He turned to
Nancette.

I entreat you he said,  not to believe
this rhodomontade. It is all false, or mere
supposition. This woman was never my wife.
She may have believed herself so, but she

was mistaken ; she has no more claim on me
than any other harpy who may have preyed
on my fooHsh youth. But if you are content
to accept her testimony against mine '  he
shrugged his shoulders significantly   it must
be so. I have the honour to wish you good-morning.'


Stay  one moment said that imperious
voice ; ' you have something else to do before
you take your leave. You and your accomplice
have lied away this girl's honour and
poisoned her husband's trust. You alone can
clear her in his eyes, and you shall. You
must come to a place which T shall duly
appoint, and you will there sign a paper that
I shall dictate. This done, you may henceforth
go your own way with the creature who
has so long been the base and vicious tool of
your evil works.'

Pierre de Yolens launched loud and long*.

Since when have you discovered that I
am a fit subject for dictation or coercion?' he

422

asked scornfully. ' I shall sign no paper,
give no promise, do no single thing that you
demand. I think sou are a dangerous madwoman,
and that it would be a charity to proclaim
you as such.'

It would be a dangerous experiment,' she
said, her eyes flashing ominously. ' I should
not advise you to attempt it. You will sign
this paper, and you will also force Julie
Lamontaine to sign it. For my part, I would
not make a single condition for your doing it;
but your cousin is foolish and pitiful still.
She will pay you any reasonable terms, and
the same to your accomplice, the day that her
fortune is in her own hands.'

For a moment he hesitated. Again Nan-cette,
watching him, wondered how she could
ever have loved this cowardly wretch.

He turned abruptly to her.

What is the amount of your fortune V he
asked.

She was startled.

I  I do not know in the least,' she
said.

But your husband does. You can ascertain
from him.'

She flushed crimson from brow to chin.

He will not open the letter or the packet
she said,  until the day my father appointed.'


He stood for a moment in deep thought,
watched by the scornful eyes of the two
women who had, at different times, and in
such different ways, loved him to their cost.
To Nancette that hesitation  that discovery
of many of the cruel wrongs he had done her
was the last stroke that cut adrift the cords
of her foolish romance. This her hero, her
lover, her demi-god ! This wretched, cowardly,
paltering creature, ready to wrest from the
girl he had so cruelly deceived the very fortune
that love and foresight had fenced
round with such precautions ! Love survives
many shocks and forgives many wrongs, but

meanness is its death-blow. Nancette acknowledged
that even before the shrinking, ashen
face turned itself to her with a last pitiable
effort at bravado.

I will consent to do what you wish he
said, * for three thousand pounds paid down
the day the paper is signed.'

Nancette rose then, her eyes dark with
scorn, her cheeks flushed with passionate and
repressed emotion.

It shall be yours !' she said, with an imperious
gesture. ' Now go !'

Without another word or look he left the
room ; but there was that in his heart that
might have made her tremble, could she have
read its fell and dastard purpose.

As the door closed Nancette sank down
into the chair once more, and covered her
face with her hands.

For a moment the strange being watched
her with compassionate eyes.

Then she approached and laid her hand
gently on the girl's shoulder.

Do you suffer still ?' she asked gently.
Was I not right when I told you of his real
nature ? He is not worth any woman's tenderness
 he never was.'

The girl raised her head. There were tears
on her long lashes.

I do not grieve she said, ' for him, or,
indeed, for myself; it is for that other. To

think that I should have wrecked his life 
given him these long, cruel years of misery
and suspicion to bear, and all for sake of a
coward who sells conscience, heart, principle,
truth, for gold ! Oh,* she cried passionately,
as she sprang to her feet and paced to and fro
the narrow, old-fashioned room, 'it doesn't
bear words  it doesn't bear thinking of I'

The woman watched her with calm, un-shrinking
eyes.

I felt as you do  once,' she said. ' It
seems a lifetime ago. Look how I have sunk
my very identity ; he did not know me. My
child shrinks from me. I have lost all hold
on humanity, save the fear I inspire and the
power I can wield. I am a dark shadow on
the brightness of love and life  a mystery
that chills and terrifies. And yet I have
lived up to this hour for a purpose fixed
as doom, and fate has sent you to my aid.
Scorn and hate are strange fruits of love ; but
those fruits alone have sprung from the fallen

blossoms of our broken faith. They have
placed in our hands the weapons of a mutual
vengeance. The day of reckoning is at hand !
Pierre de Volens will break no other woman's
heart, and play no other woman false as he
has played us.'

Nancette looked at her, pale and awestruck.


I want no vengeance on him she said,
trembling a little at sight of the strange eyes
whose spell she could never resist. ' I only
want justification. I  I never knew till
lately what harm he has done me in my
husband's sight  with what a base and cruel
lie he and his accomplice slew my honour.
When Errol knows the truth, I am satisfied
I ask no more. To stand forth in his sight
clear and stainless, I would sacrifice far more
than that fortune which has been the sole
cause of my unhappiness.'

There was a short pause. Nancette again
seated herself. She had lost all dread of her

strange visitor now. She, in fact, looked
upon her in the light of a benefactor.

Can you advise me,' she said, ' how to get
the money ? I  I do not want to wait all
those months.'

You must ask your husband for it,' was
the answer. ' He can advance it on the
security of the diamonds he holds.'

But you forget,' said the girl ; ' he does
not know the contents of the packet, and he
will not open it till the time fixed.'

Three thousand pounds is a large sum
said the woman musingly ;  and you have
not asked the terms of his accomplice. She
may be more difficult to deal with. I think
you where wrong to promise anything. Your
husband will not value proofs that you must
confess you had to buy.'

But what am I to do ?' she cried, in deep
distress. * They will not speak unless they
are paid, and I cannot go on living under this
cloud of shame and suspicion. I do not know

what Julie Lamontaine told my husband, but
at least it was enough to make us strangers
from that hour. I  I was so young then,
and I did not know what his words meant ;
but Mrs. Freer told me that my folly was
capable of the gravest interpretation, that
it placed me outside the pale of honourable
women, and gave my husband every reason
to sever the tie that bound us. And I
remembered his words when  when we
parted, and it seemed as if a great black wall
of suspicion and doubt had been built up between
us, and that nothing could ever surmount
it. Then you gave me hope, and I
lent only too willing an ear to your promises ;
but now '

Her voice broke ; she clasped her hands in
mute agony. There was neither pity nor
softness in that inexorable face above her
own. It seemed sternly set in fixed and unalterable
lines.

You must brace your energies,' she said at

last. 'You have to deal with subtle foes.
You have proffered the bait, but  you need
not pay it.'

The girl raised her white, indignant face.

Would you make me a liar, too V she said
scornfully.

I would have you defeat him with his
own weapons. You must bring your husband
here ; you must let him hear for himself
the confession which Pierre de Volens has to
sign. Then let him decide who is to jay the
price of that confession.'

The girl shuddered.

Oh, I cannot,' she cried. ' Indeed 
indeed, I dare not let them meet. Errol
would kill him !'

He would be justified,' said the woman,
with a strange, cold smile. ' Men have shed
blood for less cause ere this. * I have said
all,' she added slowly. ' I have shown you a
way of escape  the only one. It is for you
to decide whether you will take it.'

A faint sob broke from the trembling air.

 If I only dared !' she said.  But I am
afraid of Errol. I wronged him so deeply.
He  I am sure he will never forgive ; and
to hear this  it would be only added shame.'

It would be better than the burden of
doubt he now bears. You need not fear for
him.'

Then she touched her gently on the brow.

Rest now,' she said, ' and sleep. You are
weary and spent ; you will need all your
strength soon.'

The girl sank back in the chair. Her eyes
closed. For some moments the woman
watched her with a grave and serious regard
that took all the wildness and mystery from
her face, and left it soft and gentle.

 Blood must be shed,' she said mournfully.
I saw that when I read her fate. The hour
of my vengeance is nigh. All things warn
me of its approach. Only the hand that is
to strike the blow is hidden. Strange that I

cannot learn that. Not hers  ah no, it is too
small and fair ; nor mine, for my child's
curse would wither it. 1 feel as if every
bodily impulse could exhale itself into the
longing to know, and yet something holds
me back. Is it fear ? T, who have read the
secrets of the universe, have plunged into the
very organization of spirit and matter, of
powers divine and mystic  I to know fear T

Then slowly she moved away and stood by
the secret entrance. There she paused, and
once again her eyes turned to the unconscious
figure in its trance of slumber, ' It must be
she murmured dreamily. ' There is no other.
The hand of fate is the hand of  Errol Glen-denying.'


Meanwhile, Basil and Mrs. Freer had
walked over to the little cottage where
Leone lived. The girl was wandering to
and fro in the little shady garden that stood
back from the highroad. She saw them

coming, and ran down to the gate to meet
them.

We won't come in,' said Mrs. Freer,
who had a suspicion that Pierre de Volens
was within that pretty bow windowed parlour,
flooded now with spring sunshine.
We want you to walk down to Peter Port
with us. Will you V

Oh yes,' she said readily. ' I will just
tell gran mere first.*

Is your father here V asked Myra
abruptly.

My father !' she exclaimed in astonishment.
'Oh no! He was in Paris when I
last heard.'

Basil and Myra exchanged a hasty glance.

She does not know said the former, as
the girl passed out of earshot. ' He wishes
his visit to be a secret.'

I wonder why,' said Mrs. Freer ; * and I
wonder,' she added abruptly, 'if Leone
knows his real name.'

I am sure she does not,' said the boy
quickly. ' It seems to me he lives two lives.
He is a double-faced scoundrel, if ever there
was one !'

Hush !' said Mrs. Freer warningly ;
here is Leone.'

It is all right said the girl gaily, as she
joined them.  I have some commissions also
for gran mere.'

We shall be in time to see the boat come
in,' said Basil suddenly ; ' this is the day.'

Do you expect anyone V asked the girl.

Oh no ; only I like to see them land.
They look such sights.'

That is just like a boy,' said Leone with
firm contempt. ' If you, too, suffered from
mat de oner you would not like to be made a
show of.'

But I don't, you see. I love the water,
and the rougher it is the better I like it.'

Basil,' said the girl suddenly, her eyes on
the distant sea which looked so bright and

calm in the glowing sunlight, * should you
know the place again where you found
Madame Nancette T

Of course I should,' he answered. * Why
do you ask V

I thought,' she said slowly, and colouring
a little as she met his look of surprise, ' that
I should like to see it  that is. all. Could
we go there, do you think T

If the weather keeps all right,' he said,
we could. But it is a rough passage.'

I wonder how she comes to and fro,' said
the girl musingly.

Oh,' said Mrs. Freer with lofty scorn,
the elements are of course her slaves. Probably
she would say she willed herself here,
and here she was.'

You do not like her f questioned the girl,
fixing her dark eyes on the contemptuous
face.

Like her !' echoed Myra. ' Does one
like mischief, cruelty, mystery ? She is an

VOL. III. 43

embodiment of all, and more. Think of
those months of agony and suspense, think
of Nancette's terrible illness, think of all the
dark cloud of evil and incomprehensibility
that surrounds us, think of a cunning that
calls itself science think of all these things
as an embodiment of a being neither human
nor divine, neither sane nor mad, neither
comprehensible, rational, nor useful. How
can "liking" possibly enter into any question
in connection with her V

I sometimes think,' said the girl sadly,
 she is very unhappy. Life must have been
very cruel to her.'

Then she need not make it cruel for others,'
said Mrs. Freer obstinately.

Perhaps,' said the girl,  she cannot help
it.'

As she spoke, and as he looked at her, it
suddenly flashed through Basil Gladdening's
mind who the girl really was. He turned
very pale. He remembered those words

spoken by the Mystic on the previous night.
He remembered that Pierre de Volens was
known here only as Pierre St. Jean, and the
fact of Leone's hitherto unknown relationship
seemed to chill his former frank and brotherly
feeling into a sudden horror.

 Yet the girl could not help herself,' he
thought presently.

She was ignorant as yet of that strong tie
that bound her to the woman she so generously
defended, ignorant that she, too, formed
a link in the chain of circumstances that
now seemed to declare their first visit here,
taken upon an impulse, was no mere accident,
but an ordained and fated thing, whose end
and purport were still shrouded in mystery,
but whose every incident held some item
of importance, or foretold some ominous
result. The sudden change in his face and
manner did not escape the girl's quick
eyes. She looked at him and smiled mockingly.


Oh, I know she said, ' you are no friend
of hers, mon petit chevalier. That makes me
all the more determined in my championship.
You are the knight of my Ladyee Nancy e ;
there is no room in your heart yet for even a
passing rival.'

I thought you two had given up quarrelling
?' said Myra, laughing.

Bah I' said the girl, shrugging her
shoulders, ' it is of no consequence. We do
not quarrel  no ; but we have a difference
of opinion instead.'

Basil was silent and uncomfortable. He
could not answer her light words lightly with
this new and important discovery weighing
on his mind. Leone, the child of Pierre de
Yolens, was bad enough, but Leone, the
daughter of this half crazed Mystic, whom he
dreaded and yet obeyed, whose power he
acknowledged even while opposing, was a
creature of almost as much horror as her
mother.

So he said nothing, despite her teasing
speeches, but grew absorbed, and walked on
beside them, and waited till their various
errands were done, and it was the hour for
the boat to arrive.

The pier was almost deserted when they
reached it. Evidently no great number of
visitors were expected. The steamer was
just in, and they saw two or three people
land, and the usual string of porters surround
them.

None we know,' said Myra Freer, half
turning away. Then suddenly she started.
The blood seemed to surge up to her brain.
Her heart stood still. ' Look, Basil,' she

faltered. ' Is it Yes, it is. What can

have happened V

Whom have you discovered V asked the
boy carelessly. He had not observed her
agitation, but he also turned and looked at
the little group of passengers as they separated
and came slowly up the pier. ' By all that's

wonderful he almost shouted, ' it's Mr. Glen-denying
!'

It was true. Pale and worn, and with
listless steps and indifferent eyes, Errol Glen-denying
was coming towards them.

RESTITUTION.

Seen at its best, Owl's Koost was certainly
not enchanted ground, but Owl's Roost with
fierce winds howling round it, and the weary
splash of rain on every window, and the moan
of the distant sea coming up from the rock-bound
coast, was still further from being an
enlivening residence.

Added to this, old Deborah, fresh in the
weeds of-grief and widowhood, was incessantly
at her master's elbow, either entreating him
to call her mistress back, and end the useless
feud between himself and her, or full of omens
and portents respecting the fortunes of the
Glendennings.

She declared some dire trouble was at hand,

for the Ladyee Nancy e had taken to walking
and might be seen any night at midnight in
the old gallery, just for all the world as if she
had stepped out of her frame.

Errol bore it as patiently as he could. The
old woman had served him faithfully and
well, and he told himself it was not to be
wondered at if grief and age had somewhat
affected her brain. of late.

After poor old Clitheroe was buried, she
seemed to lose all her energy and activity,
and would sit for hours brooding over the
fire, or else follow her master to and fro
through the deserted house, entreating him
to take his happiness while yet there was
time, for the shadow of death could only be
dispelled by the sunshine of love.

It was a miserable time for Errol Glen-denying,
and as each day dragged its dreary
length along he grew more melancholy and
despondent. His books had lost their attraction
; no study or pursuit engrossed him as

of old. Try as he might to prevent it, his
thoughts would fly to that one small island
amidst the Channel waters, and his fancy
followed in a thousand shapes the hours that
might mean so much.

If his previous life had been as active and
engrossed as that of most men, he could not
have accepted the mystery and strangeness
of this last year as patiently as he had done.
But it had only been a studious and self-absorbed
existence suddenly broken up by a
storm of passion and bitter sorrow  a space
of torturing memories that now haunted him
like an incessant reproach.

Sometimes he told himself he might have
judged her too hardly after all  that, black
as the array of circumstances looked, there
might have been a loophole of escape. Two
years and nine months had he borne this
heavy burden, teaching his heart to look only
with bitterness on the fair and erring creature
whom, to his cost, he loved.

Finding her stricken, suffering, brokenhearted,
he had let pity master prudence, and
softer thoughts replace the old pitiless horror
that her very name had inspired. But the
first moment of her return to reason and
health had shown him the danger of such
pity. He was here under the same roof
where he had vowed he would not live an
hour, and listening to a dangerous tempting
which assured him that his wife's heart was
his to win and hold for ever, if he did but
choose.

Yet while matters stood on that debatable
ground, while his heart was hardening itself
against a fresh mistake, he knew that her
hand had again launched the frail bark of his
faith on the dark waters of mystery. He
was alone once more. He could look back
on the passage of time as on an evil dream ;
but, for all that, he knew the hour of awakening
was at hand. And he knew also that,
whether he waited till the time he himself

had fixed once in his rash arrogance, or pursued
her own steps on the dark road she had
taken, he could foresee no better results, or
promise no possible happiness to either himself
or her.

Yet, as day succeeded day, and no word
reached him, of or from her, the temptation
to learn the nature of her undertaking became
stronger. The house was haunted by her
presence. Nothing brought him forgetfulness
of that, and at times an unreasoning yearning
for sight or sound of her swept all prudence
away.

It was a feeling he could not exorcise by
any memory of treachery such as once had
served him ; for had not hope been given him
that such treachery might be explained, and
was not his heart weak enough to let that
faint whisper steal away its bulwarks of defence,
and plead for truce, if not for actual
reconciliation ?

In these long days and nights, he found

himself face to face with a weakness he knew
was cowardly, but which nevertheless was
strong enough to claim the one little luxury
of self-indulgence, and the flattering sustenance
of hope.

Something might happen. Myra Freer
had said ' would.' But he let himself drift
on the waters of uncertainty a little longer,
with a small and pitiful pretence of the coming
certainty of disappointment that would have
been contemptible in any nature less brave
and less unselfish.

In some such mood as this old Deborah
would find him when she came with her
endless stores of reminiscences, or ominous
prophecies, or maudlin entreaties that he
would make use of the present, considering
we are all but 'flowers of the grass that
are soon cut down,' and it is surely wiser
to have our little day of sunlight and summer
before that irresistible fate overtake
us.

I am altogether unstrung, and in a delusive
condition of mind,' he told himself after
every such interview, during which he learned
more of his wife's real nature and disposition
than ever old Deborah imagined, or Myra
Freer had described. ' But perhaps it will
not develop itself further, and it is not altogether
unpleasant.'

It might have been in some such condition
of mind that the idea first mooted itself of
following his home party. At first he combated
it as both useless and irrational, but
again and again it forced itself upon his
notice, and became a morbid and persistent
tempting that it needed all his strength of
mind to resist.

He went over the old ground, mentally
reviewing every incident and every event
from the hour when he had first brought
Nancette to Owl's Roost, and seen his day
of desire quenched in black and bitter darkness,
to the hour when Basil had sought him

with the news of her recovered reason and
return to health.

Night after night he brooded over that
melancholy history and set in array those
stubborn facts. One night he sat alone in
his study after a long interview with Deborah,
an interview in which all his powers of ingenuity
had been taxed to fence off the old
woman's persistent curiosity as to the real
cause of separation between himself and his
wife.

When she had at last left him, he leant
back in his chair tired and exhausted.

Suddenly an overmastering impulse stole
over him  a longing he could not resist to
look once more on that fatal scrap of paper
which since his marriage night had been
locked away in the secret drawer of his study -
table. The impulse grew so strong that at
last he ceased to combat it, and in sheer
despair went over to the hidden receptacle
and unlocked the drawer. Touching a spring

at the back, a small opening was revealed,
and lying there, as he had left it nearly three
years before, was the little folded scrap of
newspaper which had closed for him the
doors of his expected paradise. His hand
trembled as he drew it out. He shut the
drawer, and then went back to his seat by
the fire, and spread it open on his knee.

To the Comte de F . Your daucjliter

N e is at 49, Montpelier Square Fimlico,

and has been therefor a iveek ivith her cousin.
Call and ask for Madame ''Jidie " between ten
and eleven a.m. to-niorroiv. She has not seen
advertisement.'

That was all. But that little scrap of
paper had sufficed to ruin two lives very successfully,
and as he read it the old horror and
shame seized him in its grasp and tore his
very heart-strings.

What hope could there be ? What could
VOL. HI. 44

explain away the cruel truth he had learnt
first from this source, and afterwards confirmed
by an interview with the woman who
had sent it ?

Again he seemed to see the dark, cruel
face of Julie Lamontaine ; again he heard her
assurance that the advertisement had been
put in by herself in answer to the Comte de
Foreze's frantic appeal to the missing girl.
Again he went over the whole hateful,
shameful train of circumstances, with their
fatal array of evidence, and again he groaned
aloud as he told himself that it was impossible
she could be innocent.

She had fled from school with Pierre de
Yolens, had come to this woman's house with
him, and there her father had found her after
that week's search.

So much he had heard from Madame
Lamontaine's \i\)s  so much had been confirmed
by his own search through the pile of
journals that for the space of that week had

teemed with frantic appeals from the tortured
father. He marvelled sometimes how these
advertisements had escaped his notice, but asa
rule that portion of the paper was the very
last he would have thought of reading, and
the Comte de Foreze had worded his appeals
so skilfully that they might possibly have
conveyed nothing to him had he even done
so.

He threw the few lines aside now with a
gesture of horror. Father and daughter had
both conspired to deceive him. Finding that
he must take Nancette fortuneless, Pierre de
Yolens had quietly retired from the contest.
The sudden death of the old Count had
apparently again roused his hopes. He had
followed Nancette here to her bridal home in
ignorance of her marriage. Her letter apparently
had been one of sorrow and renunciation
 the dictate of her father ere that fatal
accident had deprived him of life. It had
not prevented the insult of his presence here

442

on the threshold of her pew home  on the
eve of her new life. It had only awakened
the demons of jealousy and rivalry, and
opened the doors of his evil nature to the
baser tempting of revenge.

This was the history that Errol Gladdening
read to-night by his lonely fireside.
As he thought of the anguish, the heart*
burnings, the pain of these past years, the
shadows seemed to deepen on his face, the
lines round brow and lips grew hard and
stern.

I have cheated myself he said in a hoarse
whisper. ' Nothing can wash away the stain ;
nothing  nothing  nothing !'

Then his head sank on his folded arms, and
all the room grew still, as if indeed the very
shadows were listening, hushed, and dark, for
some outward sign of that heart-breaking
anguish.

It mioht have been a lonsr or short time
that passed  he did not know ; he did not

even hear the loud and solemn strokes of a
distant clock that struck the hour of midnight.


But suddenly there came through the
room a swift, sharp blast of air, and with a
low, wailing cry of intense fear, a figure fell
at his feet, clasping and clinging to him, and
filling the room with shrill cries and sobs of
terror.

Master  master ! I have seen her again !
She sent me here. She is following me.
Look  look! there she stands  pointing,
always pointing ! Oh, master, for the love of
heaven, go to my lady I Something dreadful
threatens her, I know. Oh, listen to the
warning before it is too late. Indeed, indeed
'tis sent for you. Oh, can't you see her ?
Look  there again ! How she wrings her
hands. Again she points seawards. Oh,
master, listen before it is too late !'

My good Deborah,' he said soothingly, ashe
tried to raise the trembling old figure,

you have been dreaming, and are alarmed.
Believe me, there is nothing there  nothing.'

She let him raise her and place her in a
chair. She was shaking from head to foot ;
her white hair hung wildly about her face ;
she was only clad in her flannel bed-gown.


I tell you, master,' she repeated, 'it is a
warning, and you must obey. Three times
has she come to me and told me you must go ;
and to-night she forced me from my bed and
sent me here. Look here at my wrist, where
she touched me ; 'tis as if a live coal rested
on it. Oh, master, I cannot rest nor sleep
for thinking that my lady wants you. You
know the story. When danger or death
threatens the wife of a Gladdening, so surely
does the Ladyee Nancy e walk and give warning.
Three times has it been given to me. If you
do not heed my words to-night, you will
repent it to your dying day !'

Strangely moved by the old woman's intense

earnestness and terror, Glendenninor
stood there beside her in silence. Full well
he knew the legend, but still he was more
indited to believe that old Deborah was
under the influence of a dream.

If there were danger as you say he
answered at last, 'why does not the ghost
come to me ? I am the person most nearly
concerned.'

You do not believe,' said Deborah, still
trembling. ' It is not given to all to believe,
or to see.'

It flashed suddenly across Errol Glenden-
ninon's mind that one of his favourite authors
had made the observation that ghosts never
do go about their business like other people ;
but instead of warning those most nearly
concerned in any impending calamity, usually
address themselves to somebody who has
nothing to do with the case in point.

Well,' he said at last, ' if it will set your
mind at rest I will go to her. I will start

to-moiTOw. But,' be added gravely, 'who is
to take care of you ? You can't remain here
alone with the ghosts.'

I do not fear them,' she said. ' It is only
what they foretell.'

The shadow deepened on Errol Gladdening's
brow.

Surely,' he said, ' enough of evil and
sorrow has already fallen on this unhappy
house. Fate must have exhausted her
weapons, I should fancy.'

The old woman rose, and laid her trembling*
hands upon his arm.

My dear master,' she said earnestly, * the
hour is ever darkest before the day breaks.
Be advised by me this once. Go to your
wife while yet there is time, and take your
happiness from her hands. I can't read the
warning quite plain, but I seem to know
what it is meant for. Scripture shows us
that the dead can rise and walk, if so be God
intends it for a wise purpose. He has warned

you through me. 'Tis the third time and the
last.'

Hush ! say no more said Errol.  I have
told you I will go.'

The morning of the second day found him
at Guernsey.

The astonishment of Myra Freer and Basil,
when they saw Errol Gladdening walking
up the landing-stage, was beyond the expression
of words.

He greeted them with some embarrassment.
One cannot well speak of ghostly
warnings and apparitions in the clear, laughing
sunshine of a spring day. The hand of
Nature seems to sweep aside the dark veil of
mystery, and to turn fears and portents into
a jest.

But for a moment a sense of unreality stole
over him as he clasped Myra's trembling
hand, and looked down at her white face and
dilated eyes.

'Are you all well?' lie asked, and unconsciously
bis eyes turned from their faces
and wandered anxiously around.

'Well? Yes, I should think so,' cried
Basil heartily ; but Myra's white lips could
frame no words. It frightened her that she
should so have lost self-control ; but she
knew, even while that spell of fear held her
in its grasp that it had passed unnoticed, for
something anxious and uncertain overpowered
his energies, and brought him no sense of the
nearness or reality of her presence  only the
vague, disappointing chill that follows on expectancy
unrealized.

No doubt he said, ' you never dreamt of
my coming here ; but I have heard nothing
of you all, and Owl's Roost was very gloomy.
I had a sudden whim to run over and see
you. How is  how is Nancette V

She is very well,' said Myra. ' She is at
home. We have a very romantic-looking
domicile, but space is somewhat limited.'

Errol Glendennlngs face grew cold and
stern.

I am not going to intrude,' he said icily ;
you need be under no fear. I am now on
my way to the hotel. I am used,' he
added bitterly, ' to being regarded as a
visitor.'

Let me introduce you to Miss St. Jean
said Basil hastily, turning to Leone, who had
been looking on in some surprise.

Errol merely bowed, and then they walked
on together in the wake of the luggage-porter.


When they were out of earshot of the
young folks, Myra turned hastily to her companion.


Why have you come? she asked hurriedly.
'You had some special reason, I know.'

You will smile if I tell you I was
frightened into it,' he said, with a short, hard
laugh. ' Deborah declares that the family
ghost has been walking and moaning, and

that some dire calamity impends. She insisted
on my coming here. That is the simple
truth.'

It does not sound cheerful,' said Myra
Freer ; ' but it is well to know you are at
hand.'

I had rather,' he said coldly, ' that you did
not tell Nancette, if  if you fancy the news
will be unwelcome.'

*0h no,' she said; 'it is not that  pray
do not fancy that ; but she is anxious to
justify herself, and that is not to be easily or
readily done.'

I am content,' he said gloomily, ' to wait
her pleasure.'

Her eyes flashed up to his in sudden
eagerness.

Oh,' she cried, ' I am glad of that ! Indeed
you will be rewarded for the exercise of
patience.'

He sighed involuntarily.

'Three years,' he said, ' is a long time.'

It is nearly over now,' she answered softly,
but you are right. It is a long time to bear
unhappiness and suspense.'

 You talk he said, as if you fancied there
might be an end to it. but I hold no such
hope. I have been over the old ground
again. I can find nothing to justify her; I
could not have acted differently without forfeiting
my own self-respect.'

And yet,' she said quickly, * you are
here.'

It seems irrational, but if my presence
can avert harm or danger, it is as well to be
of some use while I can.'

I wonder,' she said, her voice low and
anxious, * if you have no fear for yourself

Why should I V he asked quickly. ' My
life is not of much value. It has been efficiently
wrecked. There is no anchorage left
for hope.'

Do not say that,' she said pleadingly.
I have told you '

You have told me what you behaved
he interrupted, 'but you forget I have no
faith.'

You wrong yourself Some day you will
be glad that I at least credited you with what
you denied.'

You are good enough,' he said gently, ' to
credit anyone you care for with better qualities
than they possess. So you have gone
through life happily.'

For a moment the irony of the words
struck home to her with a keen sense of
inward pain. So long he had known her,
and yet had never learnt to read aright the
faithful heart, the brave, true nature ! Presently
she smiled.

I am glad,' she said, ' you think I have
gone through life happily. Some people are
easily content, you know. I must be one of
them. I  I was never anxious to experience
deep emotions. Life is more comfortable
without them, I fancy.'

You are fortunate,' he said, ' to have
avoided what you disapproved.'

I often make that remark to myself,' she
answered. ' And nov, having satisfactorily
disposed of my idiosyncrasies, let me ask
when you intend to favour our establishment
with a visit V

You have not yet told me where it is,'
he said gravely, 'nor whether it would
be advisable to let Nancette know of my
arrival.'

She looked up quickly.

Did you think of keeping that a secret V
she asked.

I did not think anything about it at
all. I came on impulse. It won't bear
explanation, but you are very good not to
laugh at it.'

I should not think of doings that,' was the
grave answer, 'for I, too, have become a
convert to mystery. Our friend in black has
been kind enough to pay me some attention.'

Then she does really exist  that woman X

She really does. If she gives you as
tangible proof of her powers as she has
done me, you will be inclined, perhaps, to
consider that existence a questionable benefit.
I do. But here is the hotel. Are you going
in ?'

Only to make the necessary arrangements.
Then, if you permit, I will accompany
you to the domicile of limited
space.'

She flushed suddenly and uncomfortably.

 Of course,' she said. ' You are at liberty
to make your own arrangements with Nan-cette.
Only I thought '

Do you suppose,' he said, that I am not
perfectly aware what you thought, and that
the " liberty " you speak of has not a different
interpretation to yours ?'

What are you waiting for V asked Basil,
as he came up to Mrs. Freer after Errol
VOL. III. 45

Gladdening had entered the hotel. ' Is he
coming back with us V

Yes,' she answered quietly. ' Did you
suppose he would not V

Basil shrugged his shoulders.

Hard to say what he Avill do he said.
*A11 the same, I don't think Nancette will
like it.'

Myra Freer was silent. She knew very
well that Nancette would not like it, but she
did not say so.

Where has Leone gone V she asked suddenly.


I think,' said Basil, * she felt de trop.
Don't you admire the ease and grace with
which I introduce French phrases'? At all
events, she took herself off some minutes
ago, saying that she would go to the High
Street.'

Why did you not go also V inquired Mrs.
Freer.

She said she did not want me. You

know what Leone is. By Jove !' he added
suddenly, ' if they should meet !'

They ! Who V asked Mrs. Freer, looking
at him in surprise.

Mr. Gladdening and De Volens,' he said
in a low, hurried voice. * You know he is
there this morning V

 He must have left honos aofo,' said Mrs.
Freer somewhat anxiously. * I hope so. Basil,
you might  you could go in advance, could you
not ? It would never do for your guardian
to meet him there. You are quite right.'

I see what you mean,' said the boy
quickly; 'I'll run on as advance-guard and
give warning. You must walk slowly,' he
added, turning to her. ' Sprain your ankle
if he's in too great a hurry.'

Then he rushed off, and Myra remained
by the hotel-porch, alone with her anxious
thoughts.

He ought not to have come,' she said. ' It
is most unfortunate.'

452

She was trembling and unnerved.

That sudden meeting had been to her more
than she could possibly have dreamt. Her
usual calmness and self-command seemed to
have forsaken her. She was only conscious
of a presence that had always meant for her
something that no words could convey.

Yet when she heard his steps and his
voice, she found herself to be what he had
always known her.

In calm friendliness she resumed the conversation,
and walked beside him through
the irregular and badly paved streets which
led into the interior of the island.

It is rather a long walk she said apologetically.
' I hope you do not mind
that V

Shall we drive V he asked, glancing at
a passing carriage.

Oh no I' cried Myra, frightened out of
all composure. ' I mean,' she went on more
calmly, * I enjoy walking, and it is such a

lovely day, and I'm sure you won't be sorry
for some exercise after your journey.'

You are right,' be said. * Besides, only
happiness bas need to be impatient. I am
merely going to make a morning call as-as
any other stranger might.'

I can't bear to bear you speak so bitterly,'
said Myra, her voice low and full of pain.
I never thought it could have lasted so long.
I gave you a year.'

There are cases,' be said, ' for which time
does very little.'

But you would forgive her if you saw 
1 mean if she could prove to you that that
fatal week bad been after all innocent  if
you knew that for some vile purpose of her
own Julie Lamontaine had deceived you ?
The girl had been trapped into that bouse
and there detained. It was done to win her
father's consent. Pierre de Volens made a
bold stroke for  for that fortune he coveted.
When it failed, can you not understand he

should thy, and his accomplice would try, to
make you think the worst  for the sake of
revenge, if for nothing else V

Errol Gladdening's fac grcAV white.

You put it in altogether a new light he
said. ' I have not considered it in that way.
But still, even were it a certainty and not a
supposition, the facts remain that she loved
this man ; that she was ready to marry him ;
that I was used to cloak her error, if not her
shame. You cannot argue them away.'

It was a girl's foolish fancy,' she said, ' fora
handsome face and a flattering tongue.
Long -long ago she has repented it.'

And can you assure me,' he said earnestly,
'that she has never met this man since 
since that day I know of  that it was not to
see him she came here last summer V

She has never seen him of her own freewill,'
said Mrs. Freer earnestly. * Kerne m-
ber all this time I have never left her side
except during the terrible weeks that she

was lost to us, and I think you had evidence
enough that she was in safe keeping then.
I have studied her nature ; I have read the
secrets of her heart its sufferings, its sorrows,
its patience. Behave me, Errol, you are
voluntarily throwing away your own happiness
if you persist in keeping her a stranger
to yourself.'

'Do you think,' he said, and his voice
sounded hoarse and unsteady, ' that I could
throw it away if it were possible to hope 
if I dared to hope V

Ah,' she said, ' you love her  I knew
you did I Why do you try to fight against

itr

'Because it has made me a coward,' he
answered passionately. ' Because an experience
like mine is enough to shake a man's
faith for evermore. I could not'  and he
set his lips firm in one rigid line' I could
not go through it again it would make a
brute of me.'

I am glad of that confession,' she said.

I thought you were unlike most men. You
mean you would like to kill her  or him.'

I am afraid to say what I mean.'

She looked at him with a curious mixture
of questioning and defiance.

I suppose,' she said, ' it never occurs to
you that anyone else has suffered as you do,
and yet lived on without discussing suicide
or  murder, in a personal fashion.'

You mean that I am selfish  morbidly
selfish. I fear so myself. But you must
confess life has been hard on me.'

Is it not hard on all V she cried, with a
ring of passion in her voice that startled him.

Do we not suffer, too ? We women  toys
of your idle hours  sport of your fancy, who
must smile, and laugh, and bend to your will,
and hide even misery lest it spoil our charm
for you r

Myra I' he cried in bewilderment.

Have I startled you V she said, resuming

her natural calmness by a strong effort.
Don't look so alarmed. It was only a
bit of the old temper. You know you
always said I had a temper when I was
a girl'

But the question in his eyes brought the
hot blood to her cheeks.

 It was an honest temper he said gently ;
frank, brave, outspoken like yourself Have
I known you all these years only to find that
I have not known you, after all V

It was quite an impersonal case, I assure
you,' she said ; but there was a tremor in
her voice, and he heard it.

That is saying a great deal for your
powers of sympathy,' he answered. ' It
occurred to me that you might once have
suffered.'

Once !' she echoed. ' Perhaps you are
right. But it hurt no one but myself

'Yet you can think of it  think of it so
that its memory hurts you still.'

Oh,' she said lightly, ' do not try to
gauge the shallow depths of a Avoman's experience.
Half of it is fanciful.'

Most women's, perhaps ; but not yours.
Yet I have always pictured your life as
being serene and cloudless.'

 Of course you pictured it correctly,' she
said.  Don't try to change your views.'

I will not,' he answered gravely, * for it
would make me unhappy. And, now you
have reduced me to a proper frame of mind
for listening to advice, tell me what I
had best do when  when I reach the
domicile

What she told him, and what he listened
to, took up the intervening space of time
until they reached the wooden gates of the
quaint old house in its shady hollow.

Leaning over them, and swinging .to and
fro, was Basil.

He jumped off and held them open.

I am sorry,' he said, ' that I am the only

one at hand to welcome you. The Ladyee
Nancy e is out at present.'

The announcement came almost as a relief
to Errol. He held the gate open for Mrs.
Froere to enter, and glanced inquiringly at
her.

Shall I wait V he asked. ' Perhaps I had
better wait, now I am here V

Yes,' she said mechanically, and then
walked on up to the house in silence.

The fact of Nancette s absence struck on
lier coldly, and with a new and inexplicable
sense of danger ; she had distinctly said that
she would not leave the house that morning.

They had a primitive luncheon in the old
parlour, and spent another hour or two strolling
about the grounds and the neighbouring
fields. The afternoon waned, yet still Nan-cette
did not return. Myra Freer grew
uneasy, Basil uncomfortable, Errol's brow
stern, and a certain restraint seemed to fall
upon them all.

Five o'clock struck. The okl serving-woman
brought them some tea, and ht the
hip. Then Mrs. Freer suddenly thought
of questioning her.

What time did madame go out V she
asked curiously.

It was close on midday,' was the answer.
About half an hour after the gentleman
left.'

Errol started.

The gentleman P he said. ' What gentleman
V

A gentleman came to see madame. She
seemed to expect him. She told me if anyone
called to show him in here.'

Errol Gladdening turned to Myra.

'I was not aware,' he said coldly, 'that
you had gentlemen visitors. Can you tell
me his name V he added suddenly, turning
to the old woman.

No, monsieur. He was tall, and handsome,
and dark. He had an air of assurance

 of confidence  as if he were well
expected ; but he gave no name.'

That Yill do said Gladdening curtly.

And as the woman left, he glanced at
Myra's troubled face.

you were right to say I should need
faith he said. ' I have not had to wait
long for a test.'

Another hour. The suspense was growing
unbearable. Basil suddenly started
up.

Perhaps he said, 'she is in the secret
room  asleep.'

He went over to the wall and touched
the spring which he had already discovered.
One balance was sufficient. The room was
tenantless.

Again they waited. Again another hour
struck, dull and ominous, as the darkness
crept on apace. Then dread and fear began
to speak out, and they gathered round the

window pale and anxious, and peered with
straining eyes into the deepening dusk.

Can she guess I am here, and be avoiding
me V thought Errol Gladdening.

Something must have happened,' Basil
muttered again and yet again.

Myra Freer alone stood there, like a
statue of despair, incapable of thought or
action.

The night passed ; the dawn broke chilly
and gray, with Avind and rain. It found
them still there  watching  waiting.

Nancette had not returned.

A THIN gray vapour lay upon the sea, and the
rain fell in heavy, leaden drops.

An incessant strife as of waves and water
seemed to fill the air. It seemed to Nan-cette
that she had heard nothing else for
many days and nights, when she awoke from
a long sleep, and first looked round.

She was quite alone, and all about her was
wrapped in profound darkness.

She sat up, her senses alert and wideawake.
The sound of the sea puzzled her. She knew
it was unusual, and. could not imagine why
it should reach her with such distinctness.
As her eyes grew accustomed to the darkness,
she perceived a dull red glow, like the

last light from an expiring fire, a short distance
off. She rose. She then found she
was entirely dressed, and her amazement and
bewilderment increased.

Her feet struck on a cold, earthy floor,
and a sense of chill and dampness seemed in
the air, such as is inseparable from underground
places. With a feeling of overmastering
terror she cried out. A voice
answered her soothingly. A light flashed
from the gloom, and she saw the form of the
Mystic standing beside the dying embers.

Why am I here V cried the girl in terror
Where are Myra and Basil V

I brought you here for a purpose came
the calm answer. * It was destined. The
hour is at hand.'

It is cruel of you to force me here and
there at your will,' she almost sobbed. *I
was in the old parlour, I remember. Where
am I now ? On the island still V

'You are in my home,' she said  ' the only

home that human charity has left me. Do
you not remember it V

She threw something on the fire and it
sprang into flame, and then she turned up
the light of the lamp that stood on a shelf of
rock by her side.

Nancette looked round.

She had no memory of the place or the days
she had spent in it, but a feeling of dread,
and rebellion, and passionate indignation
seemed suddenly let loose within her, and
she turned in bitter indignation to her companion.


I did not wish to come here,' she cried.
 By what right have you brought me ?
Does Myra know where I am V

 No said the woman ; ' no one knows
save I, and he whom Fate is sending. The
hour is close at hand. You have not long to
wait for freedom.'

I  I cannot understand you,' faltered the
girl, shrinking back with sudden horror from

VOL. III. 46

the strange, weird face and flaming eyes.
Who is coming V

Your enemy and mine.'

Not Pierre !' cried the girl. ' You have
not brought him here ? For Heaven's sake,
don't say that !'

He comes of his own free will,' answered
the Mystic. ' For his own evil purpose.
He has tracked me here. He has bribed
the one creature who had my secret, and
who knows every channel and current of
these treacherous waters. I could have
stayed him had I wished. I could have
given him to death again and again ; but T
leave him to the fate he braves.'

Nancette's terrified eyes peered through
the darkness and gloom of the cavern. How
she longed for Basil ; his cheery voice, his
bright young face, the sense of security
and protection that his presence always gave
her!

The longing framed itself into a prayer

that bridged space and distance with the
strongest impulse of yearning her heart had
ever known. Then she sank down on the
pile of rough skins by the fire, trembling
still with the fear and horror of this uncanny
place.

She knew it was useless to struggle. Her
only dread was that the iron will mioht
chain her once more into the helplessness of
sleep. She crouched there, silent and shrinking,
while the sound of the sea seemed to
roar like an advancing torrent, and it seemed
to her that the ground beneath her throbbed
and rocked with the blows of the hissing
waves.

Suddenly a light touch fell on her shoulder.
She looked up. The woman stood there,
her face white as death, her eyes dark and
burning with the concentration of intense
desire.

He is here,' she said. ' I would not
have him see you. Go yonder.'

462

Nancette sprang to her feet, and hurried
to the shadowy depths of the small inner
cave where she had first found herself.

It was quite dark. She crouched panting
and breathless on the pile of rugs which had
formed her resting-place. The woman drew
herself up, a strange weird figure in her robe
of black and girdle of flaming red.

The fire burnt dull and fitfully. There
was but one small ring of light in which she
stood  stern, and calm, and rigid as a figure
of stone.

Gradually the noise of the sea seemed to
subside. Nancette felt that all her powders
of sight and sense were concentrated in expectancy.
Then she became conscious of
approaching footsteps ; nearer and nearer
they came, waking a dull echo in the vaulted
archway ; pausing, then advancing, finally
ceasing altogether as aiJfain the thunder of
the breaking waves seemed to fill the air.

The blood seemed to forsake her heart.

She was conscious almost to pain of a
presence that as yet was only a shadow  a
shadow that stood before her in the distance
outlined against a circle of blood-red light.
She saw the face, and life and sense grew
numbed in the shock of that brief instant.
But they came back with a rush of madly-leaping
pulse and throbbing heart, as the
deep calm tones of a remembered voice came
full and distinct to her ears.

I have come to you for news of my wife.
Where is she ?'

It was Errol Gladdening who stood therein
that ring of light. It was his voice that
broke the spell of terror, and seemed to fill
her veins with a rush of joy  a sense of
safety.

The woman drew back, and looked at the
lofty figure, the stern and serious face, the
grave, compelling eyes.

Who are you ?' she cried involuntarily.

 I am the husband of the girl you have

made your slave,' he said sternly. ' She disappeared
on the day of my arrival in
Guernsey. We have tracked you here. Is
she with you ? If so, I demand a cessation
of your arts. I will not have her victimised
by a cruel and useless force.'

'My power is not useless, neither is it
cruel,' came the answer. ' But for me, your
wife, as you misname her, would never have
regained reason or health. It is true I have
made her serve me, but it was for a good
purpose, as you yourself will acknowledge.'
Then a strange smile came over her lips.
Would you like,' she asked, 'to hear for
yourself the cruel plot to which she fell a
victim? Would you like to be convinced at
last that you have given her, as well as yourself,
an unnecessary martyrdom ? The opportunity
is at hand. Fate has served you
well.'

I want nothing,' he said impatiently, ' but
news of her welfare. Is she with you V

Yes,' was the unexpected answer ; ' but
you cannot see her yet. Learn first if my
power is to be scoffed and scorned at.
Stand within this nook. Your enemy is at
hand.'

Again came the sound of hurrying steps.
Then another figure entered, dripping, wild,
haggard, with bloodshot eyes and face of
ashy pallor.

So, madam e, I have found your hiding-place.
A safe enough one, as I live !'

The woman drew slowly back into the
circle of outer gloom.

Why are you here V she demanded. ' Do
you value your life so little V

He laughed shrilly.

As little as I value your threats,' he said,
and tossed aside his. cloak with an air of
contempt.

From the breast of his under-coat glittered
the barrel of a pistol. She noticed it and
smiled.

Is it to be a repetition of Bas-merton ?'
she said with scorn.

Yes,' he answered, 'it is, unless you
consent to my terms. I told you once
before I do not brook dictation. You
forced my cards on the last occasion
we met. This time, I flatter myself,
I can play my own game in my own
fashion.'

You have come here,' she said tranquilly,
at the peril of your life.'

And piloted,' he interpolated, * by your
own boatman. A curious taste truly, this
submarine residence of yours. You kept
your secret well, I must say.'

I had need,' she said. * You were a
pitiless foe.'

You are not polite,' he scoffed. ' You
should have remembered the sacred ness of
marital rights. I  I might have been
tempted to commit that error a second time.
I nearly did once, but fortunately stopped

short of actual criminality. That was your
faulty madam.'

You acknowledge she said,  that I was
your wife. You denied it once.'

As wee are alone and no one cn hear our
exchange of confidences he answered with
a mocking laugh,  I am ready to acknowledge
anything reasonable. However, that
is not the object of my visit. I have drawn
up that document, for signing which I am to
receive three thousand pounds.'

Yes,' she said ; ' I should like to hear
it.'

He drew a rough wooden seat up to the
fire.

It is very interesting,' he said. ' Judge
for yourself.'

She drew back a step or two, watched
furtively and vindictively by those cruel
eyes.

I am chilled to the bone he continued,
and drew a flask from his pocket and drank

off the contents. ' Now, madame, are you
ready ?'

For all answer, she took the folded paper
that he handed, and spread it slowly out.

You shall read it,' he said, ' and I hope it
will satisfy your requirements.'

She held the paper in the radius of the
light, and slowly, distinctly, like the voice of
doom, the words fell in the silence of the
gloomy cave.

I, Pierre de Volens, do herewith assert
that I have misrepresented certain facts
relating to Mdlle. de Foreze, now Mrs. Errol
Gladdening. It is true she left her school
at my command, but only to stay under
the roof of Madame Lamontaine, whom I
represented as a friend. I forced her to do
this in order to win her father's consent to
our marriage. When he discovered her,
however, he still refused it, and absolutely
declined to give her the fortune which washer
right, and on receiving which I had

counted. There was nothing, therefore, forme
to do but to withdraw from the contest,
and wait till time should soften the rancour
of M. de Foreze, or his daughter should win
his consent. Neither event happened. Instead,
I received a letter from mademoiselle,
my cousin, informing me that her father was
dead, that she had found another guardian,
and was about to bestow her hand upon him.
In alarm I returned to England, and followed
them to some desolate and terrible place on
the Cornish coast, only to learn I was too late
they were married.

I was a man of the world, and a Frenchman.
But one thing was left me 
revenge on the husband of my cousin. I
returned, and for a time I waited. The
opportunity came sooner than I had imagined
possible. Monsieur, the husband, made a
discovery that there was a week in his young
wife's past history which was mysterious
enough to require explanation. He demanded

she refused it. He did what I had
imagined was possible. He found Madame
Lamontaine, and heard from her lips the
story I had dictated. It was not a pleasant
story for an English husband to hear, but it
had its use  it effectually severed the tie so
rashly formed, and made them strangers. I
now confess that Mdlle. de Foreze herself
was entirely ignorant of the compromising
circumstances of her flight. She was as
innocent and credulous as a child, and believed
anything I told her. But her imprudence
looked guilty enough to serve my ends, and
Errol Gladdening was as credulous as herself.
If this statement will help to clear her
in his eyes, he is welcome to it. My purpose
is served. I have had my vengeance.'

The voice ceased. In that pause the
sullen sound of the sea seemed nearer and
more distinct, but each member of that
strangely-met group was too absorbed to
heed it.

The woman placed the paper on the rough
wooden table by her side.

You have not signed it,' she said quietly.

'Have you the money V he asked.

*No,' she answered. ' Nor do I intend
that you shall receive it.'

He turned and looked at her.

You and I, madame he said, ' are well
acquainted with each other. I think you
know that I am not to be trifled with.'

I remember,' she said with a strange
smile, ' the wood at Bas-merton. That
deed has sat lightly enough on your conscience
all these years. I see you have a weapon
with sou, and I am a woman, alone and
unprotected. But I am not afraid. It is not
destined that my death comes from your
hand, though long ago you murdered all
that made life of any worth.'

He rose to his feet and pushed the chair
aside. His face looked dark and evil in the
uncertain light. The fire had died down 

there was only the flickering flame of the
lamp, making a small spot of brightness in the
surrounding gloom.

She looked at him unflinchingly.

'You will sign this paper,' she said, 'and
you will leave it with me. 1 make no conditions.'


I will not sign it !' he answered threateningly.
* Nor will I give it up save for the
money Nancette promised. When that
money is in my possession she may have the
document  perhaps.'

Then a low, strange laugh left her lips.

'What if I tell you it has served its
purpose,' she said  ' that you have justified
her in the eyes of the only man to whom
such justification was necessary ? Errol Glen-denying
has heard your confession. See 
there he stands ! Vengeance  you talk of
vengeance ! Nay, Pierre de Volens, it is
his turn now  and mine 1'

For an instant the terror of a coward

showed itself in every line of the craven, ashy
face.

He saw the trap into which he had fallen,
and the utter futility of his own schemes
flashed upon him in that brief instant.

Beside him stood the victim of his evil
youth, and before him the man whose life he
had cursed with the basest and cruellest lie
that ever hate and revenge could have
invented.

He was no longer alone with a helpless
woman, but faced and defied by a man
burning with passionate indignation, with
long-borne suffering, with hate, and shame,
and bitterness long held in leash, and now
unloosed in the sudden brutality that the
mere sioht of this mocking foe had fired
swithin his heart. For a moment life seemed
to grow dark and meaningless. He expected
no mercy ; he had played his last card in
foolish bravado. He had come here to work
his base vengeance on the woman who had

outwitted his own schemes, and now he was
caught in the toils he had himself spread.

All this flashed through his mind as that
dark, stern fiice confronted-him like a threat
of doom, and low and distinct the voice of
the one man whom most he feared came to
his ears.

Stand aside ! I can avenge my gwm
wrongs now !'

The woman moved away. The two men
stood within that circle of light, and for a
second's space their eyes flashed hatred and
defiance. Then, swift as thought, Pierre de
Volens's hand was at his breast. There was a
flash, a loud, dull ring, and then the shriek of
a woman's voice and the rush of hurrying
feet.

Simultaneous with that murderous report
-came the roar and thunder as of a loosened
torrent. The very floor and walls of the
cave shook and quaked ; the sound was on all
sides ; and from the sloping entrance way

a foaming, whirling mass of water leapt down
into the cave, and dashed over the earthen
floor.

Two terrified women were bending over a
motionless figure. They started, and looked
with horror at the foaming water.

The sea has burst through !' cried the
strange owner of this retreat. ' Fly  fly for
your life !"

At the same instant a figure leaped
across the span of darkness that curtained
another outlet : a lantern flashed through
the gloom.

Nancette/ cried Basil's voice, ' you here !
Where is Mr. Gladdening V

Then his eyes fell on the prostrate figure.
There was no time for word or question.
He thrust the lantern into the girl's hands,
and seized the motionless form in his strong
young arms.

Follow me, for Heaven's sake !' he cried.
The ground rises here. There is an outlet

VOL. III. 47

at the top of the difFs. It is your only
chance.'

Deafened and terrified by the roar of the
water, the weird gloom, the sudden appearance
of her young champion, Nancette
hurried after him. That deep, hoarse roar
filled the air, and the water seemed rising
and foaming against the rocks over which she
stumbled, blind with haste and terror.

But soon the way grew smoother ; it was
a steep incHne ; and here and there came
gleams of light, faint and indistinct, but
speaking of that hopeful outer world from
which they were separated. Panting, breathless,
stumbling, she hurried on.

Once or twice Basil stopped, overweighted
by his burden ; but it seemed as if superhuman
strength had come to him.

As the ground grew steeper and more
difficult to ascend, Nancette lent her aid,
weak as it was, and supported the head of
the unconscious man while Basil toiled manfully

on with the weight of the body taxing
every energy.

At last a ray of light shone clear and
distinct through an aperture above. Basil
gently placed his burden on the ground, and
then pushed back the block of stone, which of
old he had used to close the entrance he had
discovered. Then he assisted Nancette out,
and between them they raised the still
unconscious man, and laid him down on
firm ground in safety.

For some moments neither of them spoke.
They had neither breath nor strength. A
cold, damp wind was blowing from the sea.
The tumult of the waters below was deafening.
The moon showed faintly through a
veil of black cloud, and afar off a red light
gleamed like a signal from the sea  the
light of the steamer which had brought
Errol Gladdening thither under Basil's
direction.

The moment the boy recovered breath, he

472

bent anxiously over his guardian's still motionless
form.

What happened to him ?* he asked
Nancette pantingly. ' I thought I heard a
shot. I was coins to warn them of the
water rising.'

He has been shot !' sobbed the girl. * See
how the blood, streams out. Oh, what can
we do V

Shot r echoed Basil. ' By whom  the
woman ?

No. By Pierre de Volens.'

That coward ! He there ! Nancette,
were you with him V

No,' she cried. ' He only came a moment
or two after  after Errol. He never saw me.
But we waste time in words. Can't we
do something to stop this dreadful bleeding V

Tear some strips off your dress, or
petticoat,' said the boy, as he carefully unloosened
Errol Gladdening's collar and shirt.

He has been shot through the breast !' he

cried suddenly. * Good Heavens I what are
we to do ? We can't get help till daybreak.
Look at the sea. It is like a boiling
cauldron.'

Nancette said nothing. Her pale young face
was set in rigid despair. Mechanically she
tore the soft cambric into bandages, and with
what skill they could they stanched the
blood. She sank down on the cold, wet
stones, and laid her husband's head upon her
lap, and there, like a mute statue of despair,
sat and listened to the wild wail of the wind
and stormy beat of the sea till the dawn
broke. Strangely enough, it was only when
the dawn did break that either of them
thought of the woman, or remembered that
she had been left behind amidst the rising
waters.

But she must be safe !' said Basil. ' She
has lived there so honos, and of course she
knows every outlet.'

At this moment Errol opened his eyes.

A shudder ran through his frame. With a
sudden effort he tried to rise, but his Hnibs
felt numb and powerless. It seemed to him
that a face more of heaven than of earth
looked back at him from the mists of his
clouded fancy. Speech was an effort. But
the divine compassion of the eyes that met
his own swept away all memory of pain and
anguish, and thrilled his heart as with the
promise of love, and life, and joy. Feebly he
raised his hand, and strove to clasp her own.

Nancette V he murmured. Then again
his eyes closed ; a strange gray look stole
over his face.

A bitter cry rang out from Nancette's lips.

He is dead 1' she cried. ' Dead through
my fault  for my sake ! Oh, Heaven be
merciful ! Let me die, too 1'

As the red glow in the east deepened, the
wind seemed to lull, and the sea grew
calmer. The surf still tossed upon the
shingle, the waves swept to and fro in stately
measure. Huge broken masses of rock lay
piled about the little channel, and the sea
dashed at will at the foot of the exposed cliff,
and through the submerged caverns below.

Errol Gladdening had fallen into an
uneasy and feverish slumber. Nancette,
cramped and chilled with long exposure to
the elements, still supported his head in her
lap. Basil was restlessly walking to and fro
and endeavouring to discover some sign of
their boat amongst the debris of rock, and

seaweed, and shingle, where the birds fluttered
like a living cloud.

As the day grew clearer his anxiety deepened.
The steamer lay off at some distance
from the dreaded island ; if the boat had
been swept away he knew it would be impossible
to regain it, and the superstitious
sailors might refuse to launch another and
search for the missing passengers. He said
nothing to Nancette, except that he was
going to seek the boat, and then slowly and
cautiously made his way down the slippery
rocks to the base of the cliffs. He had not
proceeded far before he stopped in horror.
That strange, cathedral-like vault, where the
wtaer had flowed so dark and deep, had been
broken up and almost destroyed. The sea
foamed, and fretted, and eddied through the
passage, completely stopping the outlet he
had used, and the entrance to the cave from
the cliffs. The boat must have been washed
away or dashed to pieces  he saw that at

once, and the uselessness of attempting to
reach the ridge of rocks below.

He took in the full peril of the situation.
Approach to the island, in the state in which
it now was, was almost impossible ; yet here
they must remain prisoners until someone
from the steamer made the attempt to rescue
them. Suddenly he remembered the cave.
At least they might find food and shelter
there. He resolved to enter it by the path
by which they had escaped the inundation,
and cautiously made his way back again to
where Nancette still kept her vigil of sorrow
and of grief

He hastily explained to her what he was
about to do. She only begged him to bring
some of the skins and rugs with him for
Errol to lie on. All her thoughts now were
centred on the helpless being who lay
stretched at her feet, unconscious of the love
and care and bitter remorse that thrilled her
tender heart.

Basil hurried in. He made his way down
the iodine without difficulty, but after a
while the way grew dark and slippery. The
water must have flooded all the cave to have
risen so hioh, and as he cautiously advanced
step by step, he could hear it tumbling and
tossing at his feet. He stopped, and tried to
strain his eyes into the black gulf beyond.
Gradually he caught sight of masses of white
foam, that seemed floating to and fro on a
waste of waters, and he realized at last that
the cave must be entirely flooded, and it
would be perilous, if not impossible, to advance
any farther. As he stood there,
hesitating and uncertain, he felt the water
touch his feet with the sudden swell of an
advancing wave. He bent down and looked
over the dark and foam-streaked surface. Ashe
did so, something cold and strange swept
against his face. He grasped it by an unaccountable
impulse. It was a woman's
hair.

With a shudder of horror, he drew it into
his grasp, and the swell of an upheaving wave
lent its assistance to his efforts. A dead and
heavy weight it was that he dragged out of
the trough of waters. Once he felt dry earth
beneath his feet, he stooped and touched the
face. It was icy cold. His hands wandered
on. They met the powerless hands of what
he felt was a corpse ; but, even as he recognised
who and Avhat this must be, he found,
to his horror, that the dead hand clutched
in its tenacious grasp the arm of a man.

There was no light to see the faces, but he
guessed instinctively that the grasp of hate
had dragged Pierre de Volens to his doom,
and meted out the justice that so long he had
escaped.

Leaving the two bodies out of reach of the
water, he once more emerged into the light
of day.

Something must be done. The steamer
must be signalled. He moved past Nan-cette.

She was too spent and exhausted
now to question him.

He tore off his neckcloth, and knotted his
handkerchief to it, and then, climbing to the
highest point of this isolated headland, he set
his signal flying. He had not much hope,
bat he knew the pilot would be wondering
what had become of his passengers, and
trusted that he would have sense enough
to guess that something was amiss, and send
a boat to their rescue.

He was faint and exhausted with hunger,
and watching, and anxiety ; but he cheered
his drooping energies by reflecting that again
his good luck had sent him to the rescue
of his Lady Nancyee in the most critical hour
of her life, and that it behoved him to act as
befitted the champion of an advanced order of
chivalry.

Hour after hour passed on. The sun was
high in the heavens, the birds screamed and

flew over the wide blue waters, and still that
little group remained, unmoved and unnoticed,
upon that desolate spot.

Towards noon, Nancette sank into a state
of insensibility, and Errol Gladdening grew
more feverish and restless. Basil felt almost
desperate. He knew that another night of
exposure and privation would be fatal to
Nancette's delicate frame and to Errol Glen-denying's
precarious condition.

At last, when he had signalled until hope
had almost died out of his breast, he heard a
loud shout from below. Summoning all his
strength, he answered it, and, after what
seemed an interminable time, two sailors
made their way up the steep sides of the
cliff, and he knew that rescue was at hand.
Then the full sense of all he had gone through
came upon him, even as he recognised that
danger was over at last.

With a faint cry of joy and relief, he sank
back in the arms of the stalwart sailor-lad

who had volunteered for the search, and, for
the first time in his life, lost consciousness of
everything and everyone, including his bright
and boyish self

When Basil Gladdening again awoke to
the fact of life and reason, it was to find Myra
Freer beside him.

He raised himself by an effort, and looked
round the room wonderingly.

Have I been ill V he asked. ' And Nan-cette
 where is she V

She is safe. Do not fear for her,' answered
Mrs. Freer.

And as the boy looked at her, he fancied
there was some great and subtle change about
her. She seemed worn, and pale, and old ;
and her mouth had a hard, almost stern look
about it that was altogether strange. He
sank back on his pillows, surprised at his own
weakness.

If she is all right, I don't care about anything

else,' he said, with his usual frankness.
But what have you been doing to yourself?'


I have had a sad and anxious time,' she
said almost sternly. ' Your guardian has been
at the point of death, and Nancette also has
been very ill. The shock and exposure and
cold were too much for her delicate frame.
I used to wonder sometimes which of them
would leave us first.'

But now,' he said eagerly  ' now V

The danger is past,' she answered ; ' they
are both convalescent. You have taken
longer to come round ; you have had a
narrow escape of brain fever.'

He lay there quietly for some moments,
his thoughts busy with memories and conjectures.


It will be all right now, won't it V he said
at last. ' That scoundrel is dead, you know.'

It is all right she said calmly ; ' for
Errol heard the whole story from his enemy's

own cowardly lips. There is not a cloud between
them now

I wonder,' said Basil thoughtfully, * what
brought him to the cave that night.'

I think,' she said, with a shudder, ' that
he meant to kill the strange being who had
the misfortune to be his wife. Finding himself
confronted by Errol, he changed his
mind, and fired at him. He has had a narrow
escape,' she added, her lips growing pale with
an emotion that was too strong for repression.


Again Basil was busy with reflection.

So Leone is an orphan,' he said at
last. ' Mr. Gladdening ought to adopt
her.'

Myra Freer looked at him, amazed.

Adopt the child of his bitterest foe !'
she exclaimed. 'You have strange ideas,
Basil.'

It is not her fault,' the boy answered
calmly. ' I shall suggest it.'

I would,' said Myra ironically. ' It will
be a pleasant surprise.'

'It seems to me,' said Basil, looking
gravely at her, ' that you ere not quite as
nice as you used to be. But no doubt sick-nursing
is trying.'

She met his eyes, and a little odd smile
hovered about her lips for a moment. Then
suddenly, without sign or warning, she burst
into a passion of bitter weeping.

Basil was alarmed.

 Dear Mrs. Freer,' he entreated, ' please
don't mind me. I'm always putting my foot
in it. You surely don't think I meant to
offend you.'

She began to laugh almost hysterically.

'You must not notice me,' she said brokenly,
I am weak and easily upset. This has been
a very trying time for me.'

It must have been,' said the boy, with
keen self-reproach. ' Where is Nancette
now V

VOL. HI. 48

With her  husband,' she answered, her
voice faltering and unsteady. ' It is their
hour of reconciliation ; they have touched
happiness at last.'

Again that sense of something strange and
hard about her puzzled the boy. Could it
be possible that in some way she envied Nan-cette
?

Her face was quite colourless, her eyes
were dim, and her figure had a weary, tired
droop, as if it lacked the strength to support
itself with the old queenly grace.

Suddenly she sank down on a chair beside
his bed. He noticed that she was trembling
greatly.

I am very tired she said. ' I have been
worried and anxious ; and now that all danger
is over, I feel it has cost me more than I
fancied.'

Basil looked at her with grave, intent
eyes.

Do you remember once, at Owl's Roost,

saying that the day that reconciled Errol
Gladdening and his wife would be the
happiest of your life V he asked at last.

She drew a sudden, sharp breath.

Yes,' she said.

Then it has come V he went on gently. *

The strangest smile that ever crossed
mortal lips hovered for a second round that
sad, pale mouth of hers.

 Yes,' she said in a whisper ;  it has 
come. They are happy at last.'

And you V he questioned involuntarily.

I feel,' she said, ' as if I had come to the
end of a long task, and I don't like the prospect
of the empty days before me.'

Oh,' he said cheerfully, ' no doubt there
are plenty more unhappy people who would
be glad of a friend, if that is all.'

She lifted her face. It looked blank and
cold.

I dare say you are right,' she said. ' I
will do my best to find them.'

482

It has all ended well,' he went on heedlessly
; ' a sort of general retribution. The
villain of the play is dead, and so, thank
goodness ! is that female wizard of the sea.
My Ladyee Nancyee will be happy, so will Mr.
Gladdening. I suppose the old French
party won't trouble us any more ; there only
remains Leone.'

You are troubled about Leone said
Myra Freer coldly. ' I think you can safely
leave her to the consolations of Greek and
Euclid.'

He laughed  a weak little laugh, that surprised
himself.

Do you know,' he said, * I feel really
tired. I should like to go to sleep, if you
won't think me rude. Why don't you have a
nap also ? That looks a comfortable chair,
and no doubt Nancette won't be in a hurry to
end the interesting interview. You look quite
worn out.'

I was wrong to let you talk so much,*

she said hurriedly. * Certainly go to sleep,
if you feel disposed, and I will sit here.
You are the only invalid on my hands now.'

You are very good,' he said drowsily.
Errol always said that. I have wondered
sometimes that he didn't marry  you.'

She made no answer, only sat therewith
cold, clasped hands, and lips as pale as
death.

Those random words had struck to the
very roots of her heart and life. Presently
she dropped her face on her hands. The
tears trickled slowly, one by one, between
her trembling tinkers.

Then softly the twilight shadows closed
around her in the quiet evening hour, and
she seemed to hear amidst the stillness the
mocking echo of Basil's random words :

The happiest day of your life.'

FINIS. .

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

howard

& DOWNEY'S

LIST OF

etD Publications.

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

A New Illustrated Catalogue, containing
additional portraits of Robert Buchanan, the Rev.
S. Baring-Gould author of " Mehalah,'') the late
Due de Broglie, Mabel Collins, y. F. Keene,
T. P. O'Connor, M.P., Thomas Parnell, Dr. Strauss
C' The Old Bohemians') Sc. is in preparation.

FEBRUARY, 1887,

Travels in the Interior. ; or, the Wonderful Adventures
of Luke and Belinda. By A. T. Schofield,
M.D. Illustrated by Harry Furnish. Crown
8vo. chin the Press.

** This work attempts to teach accurately and
scientifically, and in an entirely novel and entertaining
manner, the anatomy and physiology of
the human body.

The Candidates' Latin Grammar. By Sidney
Reed, Bea, Crown 8vo. 3|6.

** Intended chiefly for the use of candidates at
public examinations.

Through the Golden Gates : a Fragment of
Thought. Handsomely bound, gilt top. 4J6.

Common Sense in the Nursery. By Marion
Garland. Crown 8vo. 2/6.

Dishes and Drinks; or Philosophy in the Kitchen.
By G. L. M. Strauss (''The old Bohemian).
 Crown 8vo. 2|6.

Living Paris: a Guide to the Manners, Monuments,
and Institutions of the People. With Maps and
Plans, Foolscap 8vo. y\6.

NEW WORKS OF HISTORY, TRAVEL,
BIOGRAPHY, &c.

The Coming Franco-German War. A Political-military
Study. Translated from the German by
John Hill. Post 8vo. 7 6.

In French and Russian Prisons. By Prince
Krapotkine. [In the Press.

Personal Recollections of the Due De Broglie.
Two vols., demy 8vo. [hi the Press.

Three Years of a Wanderer's Life. By
J. F. Keene, Author of ** Six months in
Mecca," &c. Two vols. [In the Press.

Duelling Days in the Army. By William
Douglas. Imp. imo. [In the Press.

Walker's "Original." New Edition. Crown 8vo. 3|6.

A Look Round Literature. By Robert Buchanan.
Crown 8vo. 6|-.

The Healing Art: A History of Medicine and
Medical Celebrities from the Earliest Times to the
Present Day. Two vols., demy 8vo. 25]-.

Ancient Legends of Ireland. By Lady Wilde.

Two vols., crown 8vo. infamous
Plays : from Congreve's " Love for Love "
to Lytton's ** Lady of Lyons." By J. Fitzgerald
Molly. Large post 8vo. io|6.

Royalty Restored; or, London under Charles IL
By J. Fitzgerald Molly. Two vols., large
crown 8vo. With an Original Etching of Charles
II., and Eleven Other Portraits. 25I-

Court Life Below Stairs; or, London Under the
the Four Georges. By J. Fitzgerald Molly.
Two vols., crown 8vo. i2|-.

Eighty-five years of Irish History (1880-85). By
W. J. O'Neill Daunt. Second edition. Two
vols., crown 8vo. necromantic

Spain: a Record of Personal Experiences.
By John Augustus O'Shea. Two vols., crown
8vo. 2l|-.

Russia under the Tears. By Stepniak. Crown
Bvo. 6|-.

NEW Woes OF History, TRAVEL, Biography,
Sq, continued.

Jubilee Edition of
Fifty Years of a Good Queen's Reign. By A. H.

Wall. With Illustrations. Imp. imo. 3)6.

Bevelled boards, gilt edges. 4|6.
The Unpopular King: the Life and Times of

Richard III. By Alfred O. Legge. Two

vols., demy 8vo. With 16 Illustrations. 3o|-.
Gladstone's House of Commons. By T. P.

O'Connor, M.P. Demy 8vo. i2|6.
Old Court Life in France. By Mrs. Frances

Elliott. With 20 whole-page Engravings.

Royal 8vo. 7|6.
Oranges and Alligators ; or. Life in South Florida.

By Iza Duffus Hardy. Second edition. Crown

8vo. japanese
Life, Love, and Legend : A Visit to the

Empire of the Rising Sun. Translated by

William Conn. Crown 8vo. 7|6.
Recollections of a Country Journalist. By

Thomas Frost. Demy 8vo. I2j6.
Tillotson's Sermons. Selected, Edited, and Annotated
by the Rev. G. W. Weldon, Mea.

Crown 8vo. 7|6.
Robertson of Brighton: With Some Notices

of his Times and Contemporaries. By the Rev.

F. Arnold. Post Svo. 9|-.
Three-cornered Essays. By the Rev. F. Arnold.

Third edition. Crown Svo. 3J6.
The Life and Letters of George Sand. Edited by

R. Ledos de Beaufort. Three vols., demy Svo,

With Six Portraits. 36I-.
Victor Hugo : His Life and Work. By G. "Barnett

Smith. Crown Svo. With a Portrait of Hugo.

6|
The Abbe Liszt: the Story of His Life. By R.
Ledos de Beaufort. With Three Portraits.

6|-.

THE NEW NOVELS,

To be obtained at all Libraries in Town or Country.

Price 10s, 6(/. /><?/ Volume.

The Dean and His Daughter. By F. C. Philips.

Three vols.
Amor Vinci. By Mrs. Herbert Martin. Two

vols.

Sex to the Last. By Percy Kendall. Three vols.

The Tragedy of Featherstone. By B. L. Farjeon.
Three vols.

A Strange Affair. By W. Outran Tristan. Three
vols.

An Enthusiast. By Caroline Fothergill. Three
vols.

Playing with Fire ; a Story of the Soudan War.
By James Grant. Three vols.

Found Guilty. By Frank Barrett. Three vols.

Sir James Appleby, Bart. By Katharine S.
Macquoid. Three vols.

The Copper Queen. By Blanche Roosevelt.

Three vols.
A Shadowed Life. By Richard Ashe King (Basil).

Three vols.
Jack and Three Fills. By F. C. Philips. Two
vols.

Fatal Bonds. By Richard Dowling. Three vols.
Two Pinches of Snuff. By William Stall.

Three vols.
In a Silver Sea. By B. L. Farjeon. Three vols.
At the Need Glove. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

Three vols.

SEn ih rss.

The Ladyee Nancyee. By '' Rite." Three vols.
This Man's Wife. By G. Manville Penn.

Three vols.
A New Novel, by Sarah Tatler, author of

Buried Diamonds, &c.

SIX-SHILLING NOVELS.

.-A

In Jeopardy. By George Manville Penn.

The Master of the Ceremonies. By G. Manville

Penn.
Double Cunning. By G. Manville Penn.
The Lady Drusilla: A Psychological Romance.

By Thomas Parnell.

Tempest Driven. By Richard Bowling.

The Chilcotes. By Leslie Keith.

A Mental Struggle. By the Author of '* Phyllis."

Her Week's Amusement. By the Author of

'' Phyllis."
The Aliens. By Henry F. Keenan.
Il Lorimer. By The. Gift.
Louisa. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
A Lucky Young Woman. By F. C. Philips.
As in a Looking Glass. By F. C. Philips.
Social Vicissitudes. By F. C. Philips.
That Villain, Romeo ! By J. Fitzgerald Molly.
The Sacred Nugget. By B. L. Farjeon.
Proper Pride. By B. M. Croaker.
Pretty Miss Neville. By B. M. Croaker.
The Prettiest Woman in Warsaw. By Mabel

Collins.

A Terrible Legacy. By G, Webb Apple ton.

[In the Press

Three-ands Sixpenny Novels.

Two Pinches of Snuff. By William We stall.
The Confessions of a Coward and Coquette.

By the author of *' The Parish of Hilly," &c.
A Life's Mistake. By Mrs. Loveth Cameron.
In One Town. By the author of '* Anchor Watch

Yarns," &c.
Anchor Watch Yams. By the Author of In One

Town," &c.
Atlas; A Story of the Lost Island. By Mrs. J.

Gregory Smith.
Less than Kin. By J: E. Panton
A Reigning Favourite. By Annie Thomas (Mrs.

Tender Clip).
The New River; A Romance of the Days of Hugh

Myddelton. By Somerville Gibney.
Under Two Fig Trees. By H. Francis Lester.
Comedies from a Country Side. By W. Outran

Tristan.

Great Porter Square. ByB.L. Farjeon. tradition.
The House of White Shadows. By B. L. Farjeon.

4th Edition.
Grief. By B. L. Farjeon. 6th Edition.
Snowbound at Eagle's. By Bred Harte. 3rd

Edition.
The Flower of Doom. By M. Bentham-Edwards.

2nd Edition.
Viva. By Mrs. Forrester. 3rd Edition.
A Maiden all Forlorn. By the Author of '* Molly

Sawn." 4th Edition.
Folly Morrison. By Frank Barrett. 4th Edition.
Honest Davie. By Frank Barrett. 3rd Edition.
Under St. Paul's. By Richard Dowling. 2nd

Edition.
The Duke's Sweetheart. By Richard Dowling.

2nd Edition.
The Outlaw of Iceland. By Victor Hugo.

SHILLING NOVELS.

The Vpbimes marked * cadi be had in red cloth, price
IS. 6d. each.

*Little Twopenny. By the Author of '' Mehalah,"
'john Herring," &c. 2nd Edition.

*The Skeleton Key, By Richard Dowling. 2nd
Edition.

''The Chaplain's Craze. By G. M. Fenn. 2nd

Edition.

*A House of Tears. By Edmund Downey. 5th
Edition.

*Lady Walworth's Diamonds. By the Author of
"A Mental Struggle," &c. 2nd Edition.

*Eve at the Wheel. By G. M. Fenn. 2nd Edition.

*A Prince of Darkness. By the Author of *< The
House on the Marsh," &c. 5th Edition.

Oliver's Bride. By Mrs. Oliphant.

*TheDark House. By G. M. Fenn. 3rd Edition.

"A Deadly Errand. By Max Hillary. 2nd Edition.

Polka. By B. L. Fakjeon. 2nd Edition.

Eaten Up. By '' Eosten."

'* New Volumes by the following popular authors
are in preparation :  B. L. Farjeon, Frank Barrett,
George Manville Fenn.

BOOKS SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTS OR PRIZES.

Travels in the Interior ; or, the Wonderful Adventures
of Luke and Belinda. By A. T. Schofield,
M.D. Illustrated by Harry Furnish. Handsomely
bound in cloth gilt. 6|-

Through the Golden Gates; a Fragment of
Thought. White cloth gilt, gilt top, 4|6.

Songs from the Novelists. Edited, and with
Introduction and Notes, by W. Davenport
Adams. 2nd Edition. Cap. 4to, printed in
brown ink on Dutch hand-made paper. Cloth
gilt. 7l6.

Folk and Fairy Tales. By Mrs. Burton Harrison.
With twenty-four original whole-page Engravings
by Walter Crane. 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo.
In handsomely designed cover, gilt edges. 6|-

The New River; a Story of the Time of Hugh
Myddelton. 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo. 3|6.

Japanese Life, Love, and Legend. From the
French of Maurice Dubard by William Conn.
Crown 8vo, handsomely bound. j\6

Old Court Life in France. By Mrs. Frances
Elliott. With twenty-one original whole-page
Engravings. Royal 8vo. 7I6

jubilee Edition,
Fifty Years of a Good Queen's Reign. By A. H.

Wall. With illustrations, Imp. imo. Cloth,
3I6. ; bevelled boards, gilt edges, 4|6.

MR. J. FITZGERALD Molly's
RECENT WORKS.

Mr. Fitzgerald Molly has a gift and a charm hutch are
peculiarly bis ovon. He is a Voyant, a clairvoyance even, From a
literary point of 'vieiv. He sees things  not in time present but in
the past  so clearly, grasps them so tenaciously and reproduces
them so 'vividly, that they come to us without any of the dust and
rust oj time"  G. A. S. in Echoes of the Week.

Famous Plays : from Congreve's " Love for Love "
to Lytton's *' Lady of Lyons." With a Discourse
on the Playhouses of the Restoration.
Large post 8vo. io|6.

Royalty Restored ; or, London Under Charles IL
two vols., large crown 8vo., with an Original
Etching of Charles IL, and Eleven Other
Portraits. 25I-.

"The most important historical work yet achieved by its author.
It has remained for a picturesque historian to achieve such a
work in its entirety, and to tell a tale as it has never before been
told."  Daily Telegraph.

His book, which is the best, may very well be the last on the
subject. . . . The shrewdness, the cynicism, the profound egotism of
the Merry Monarch are dexterously conveyed in this picture of him,
and the book is variously and vividly interesting."  World.

Court Life Below Stairs ; or, London Under
the Georges. Fourth Edition. Two vols., crown
8vo. I2|-.

"Mr. MoUoy's style is crisp, and carries the reader along; iiis
portraits of the famous men and women of the time are etched with
care, and his narrative rises to intensity and dramatic impressiveness
as he follows the latter days of Queen Caroline."  British Quarterly
Re'vieav.

That Villain, Romeo! A Novel. Crown 8vo. 6| .

Few society stories possess the merit of " That Villain, Romeo."
The principal charm in Mr. MoUoy's novel is the complex and
picturesque study of his heroine. Nothing more piquant and fascinating
was ever painted than Marcus Phillip's model. Mr. MoUoy's
weird sketches of Bohemia, and his bright, incisive style will suffice to
ensure the success of his new novel."  Morning Post.

MR. P. C. PHILIPS' RECENT
NOVELS.

The Dean and His Daughter. Three vols.
3i|6.

Jack and Three Fills. Two vols. 2i|-.

A Lucky Young Woman. With a Frontispiece
by M. Fitzgerald. Crown 8vo. 6|-.

"Mr. Philips' racy humour just suits the jaded palate of the
day."  Times.

We can bestow unstinted praise on the unflagging spirit and
genuine humour with which Mr. Philips tells his story."  Athenaeum.

As in a Looking-glass. With a Frontispiece
by Gordon Browne. Fifth Edition. Crown
8vo. 6|-.

"A powerful tragedy, a portfolio of character sketches, and a
diorama of society scenes. Its characters are all real and living
personages."  Globe.

It shows abundant cleverness, much knowledge of some
curious phases of life, and a real insight into certain portions of
that mysterious organ, the female heart."  St. James's Gazette.

Social Vicissitudes. Crown 8vo. 6|-.

"The smartest and most amusing set of sketches that has
appeared since Mrs. Linton lashed the Young Woman of the
Period."  St. Stephen's Re'vtenu.

Mr. B. L. FARJEON S RECENT
NOVELS.

The Tragedy of Featherstone. Three vols.
3i|5.

In a Silver Sea. Second Edition. Three vols.
Crown 8vo. 3z\6.

Those who commence it will become more and more interested,
and be unable to put it down until they've finished. . . . For it is
a quaint, weird, thrilling, mysterious, nightmare work rivetting
attention, and exciting curiosity.  Punch.

The Sacred Nugget. Fourth Edition. Crown
8vo. 6|-.

"The story is so interesting as to force one to turn over the pages
with something like real excitement."  Athenaeum.

Great Porter Square: a Mystery. Sixth Edition.
Picture boards. 2]-.

"A masterpiece of realistic fiction."  Morning Post.
One of the cleverest and most fascinating stories of the day." 
Society.

The House of White Shadows. Fourth Edition.
Picture boards. i\-.

'A genuine bit of romance* powerfully told."  The World.
An ably-written, interesting, even engrossing tale."  Saturday
Re-vieiu.

Grief: a Story of Australian Life. Picture boards. 2I-.

One of the best stories he has produced, and full of high dramatic
interest."  Scotsman.

Polka. Stitched Wrapper i|-.

"A gem of truthful, thoughtful, poetical, and powerful writing." 
Morning Advertiser.

Mr. George glanville Fenn's Hovels.

This Man's Wife. 3 vols. 31/6. [In April.

In Jeopardy. Stories of Peril. Crown 8vo. 61-.

A Bag of Diamonds. Paper covers, cloth
1/6. [In April,

The Master of the Ceremonies. Crown 8vo. 6/-.

The interest in the plot is skilfully kept up to
the end."  Academy.

The story is very interesting. . . . The accumulated
troubles of the heroine are vividly drawn." 
Athenaeum.

Double Cunning. Crown 8vo. 6/-.

** More exciting than anything of the kind that has
been written since the * Woman in White' of Wilkie
Collins."  Morning Post.

The Dark House. Paper covers, i/- ; cloth, 1/6.

Fifteenth Thousand.

"fAn inscrutable and bewildering mystery."  Pall
Mall Gazette.

Eve at the Wheel: a Story of Three Hundred
Virgins. Paper covers, i/- ; cloth, i|6. Tenth
Thousand.

The Chaplain's Craze ; Being the Mystery of
Fenton Friars. Paper Covers, cloth 1/6.

3 0112 084213542

rfcTfii
