CHAPTER I.

IN THE FOREST OF Arden.

The days are long: sone bv since under
the trees of Arden fair adventurous damsels
wandered in merry outlawry, and
many young gentlemen flocked there
every day to fleet the time carelessly as
in the golden world. No careless gaiety
revels in Arden now ; but through the
busy summer hard work for little wage ;
in the winter cold, dreariness, and for the
poor unoccupied privation.

Perhaps those oaks and elms whose
trunks were scored with Orlando rhymes,

VOL. I. B

have quite forgotten that their branches
ever sheltered so much youth and gallant
spirit. A few of them are left, gnarled
and decrepit, fenced round with rails,
propped with iron, secured with ropes ;
they stand like cumbrous giants among
the younger trees, and support with
difficulty their own extreme old age. At
their feet there is no forest, only miles
of wooded gently undulating fields.

But many of the trees are fallen ;
every year with the winds of March their
ranks get thinned and rarer. And all that
is left of Arden is here and there the
name, or the suffix of a name, among the
many villages that sprang up, like mushrooms,
where the forest first was felled.
Now the villages, too, are old, missed
over and ruinous.

Not far from Henley in Arden, and
near Wood End, stands a long straggling
village with half-timbered farmhouses and
orchards full of writhen apple-trees ; there

are thatched cottages set at intervals beside
the lane, and as you walk along the
road you smell the gillyflowers and lilac
long before the flowers, hedged in with
privet, are to be seen themselves ; and the
lane is grassy-edged and wide, bordered
with tall hawthorn hedges, from which
there starts full many a top-heavy lop-branched
elm. Such is the village, no
different from the Clinton and Bush-worthy
of the neighbourhood, yet conscious
of a certain prestige. For it is the oldest
hamlet in the township, and its trees are
the largest, and its name is Arden.

Arden lies higher than any village near.
At one extremity the road dips abruptly
down to the ford, and at the other makes
an even steeper descent. Just at the head
of this sudden valley stands the church,
the pride of Arden It is old and grey,
square-towered and squat, and its shadow
hallows a graveyard thick with graves :
and from this beautiful open churchyard
bone

looks for miles on miles  seeing the
country roll away, featureless and monotonous,
with never a lake nor even the
bend of a stream, till at last the small
irregular fields, and the lanes edged with
trees, get pressed together in a dim woody
line, and a ring of greenish blue vapour
ends the horizon.

The view is from the back of the
church. Opposite it in front stands the
Hall, hidden in ash trees and tall wide-branched
sycamores. From the gate you
could throw a pebble into the garden of
the smart red-brick parsonage alongside
the church. So, as there is no society in
the neighbourhood, it matters much to
the Rectory who lives at the Hall, and
tq the Hall who occupies the Rectory.

One June some years ago, after a long
interval of sub-letting, the Hall had returned
to the possession of its hereditary
owners. A shabby happy-go-lucky house
it appeared, for the Masters were poor and

numerous. They were not an ideal household
 all the brothers and sisters quarrelled
among themselves, and Mrs. Masters quarrelled
with them all, and with her easygoing
indolent husband more than with
any other. Great was the relief when, as
sometimes happened, she would leave the
house in a fit of anger and shelter herself
for weeks with her mother. And yet it
was through her that the family had
always maintained its old prestige ; it was
through her that the children were neither
ignorant nor destitute, and by her means
the standard of morals in the home of
loose-living, easy-going Jim Masters, was
even rigorously pure. Yet her children
were glad when she went away, and her
husband dreaded her return.

Her temper was soured and indignant ;
no doubt she was a difficult mistress, and
she was very proud. To her it did not
seem very long since she had been beautiful
Kitty Arden, the toast of the county, rich,

spoiled, admired, loved, everybody's darling.
It did not seem very long ago, and
now Catherine Masters was an unhappy
woman, aged and soured, her fortune spent,
her beauty faded, her children brought up
in poverty and fallen from their true
position. Nevertheless, when in June the
Masters had come back to the Hall, the
Vicar, Mr. Law, had been heartily glad
to see her. He had often thought of
handsome, frank Kitty Arden, for whom,
in his curate days, he had cherished a secret
flame. He recognised her still, even in the
soured and battling woman who returned
to her old home so sadly changed. He at
least was always glad to see her. On the
morrow of her sudden return from her
mother's shelter, he would limp up to the
Hall, peering through his spectacles, would
fidget about the room in his timid, intimate
fashion, asking after the friends she had
left with an ease that robbed her absence
of its tragedy. For Mr. Law never showed

that he understood the miserable civil
warfare of the Hall. His presence was
always the signal for a truce. He was the
special friend, the butt, the chum of all the
youngsters.

Besides the Aicar and the Masters
there were few persons above the rank
of farmers for many miles around. But
as two of these invisible households
contain the chief personages of our story,
we must step over thresholds which Mrs.
Masters never crossed ; for the better-class
farmers were both too rich and too humble
to have any acquaintance with the Hall,
and neither family knew more of the other
than the village gossip told, or the sight of
each other in church on Sundays vouchsafed.


The Williamseses were the chief farmers
in Arden. Their family had been for
generations the most respected and honourable
of any in the country side. Their
house ws better than the Hall  which, in

truth, was but a tumbledown and rickety
erection. They lived about a mile from
the church, in a large black and white
half-timbered house close to the road. On
three sides of it the orchard went ; in front
there was a tiny garden of flowers. Harry
Williams, a man on the turn of forty, was
the most able farmer in the county. He
looked down with great contempt on those
neighbours of his who had turned all their
fields into grazing land, and though they
all knew that the value of arable land has
decreased at the rate of 3/. o5. an acre in the
last twenty years, Harry Williams flaunted
his golden fields of grain in the face of their
statistics, and made as good an income as
the luckiest of his forefathers. Many a
well-to-do lass would have been proud to
rule over the ample plenty of the black
and white house ; but Harry was still unmarried.
His step-mother lived with him,
a pretty, faded, useless, falsely-elegant
ex-governess of fifty. Her child  Harry's

step-sister, twenty-four years younger than
himself  closes the list of that household.


Half a mile further on the road to
Preston Ford you pass a white gate and a
long drive overhung with apple-trees. The
drive is the eighth of a mile in length, and
leads to a pretty roughcast house, half
villa, half farm, nearly hidden in the roses
and ivy that clamber over the long verandah
and make a huge tod on the red roof
of the porch. Here Mr. Lawrance lived.
Years ago, Mr. Lawrance of the Bushes had
been a person of importance in the restricted
society of Arden.

All that was changed now. Mr. Lawrance
might not have existed for any notice
that his neighbours took of him. It must,
one would think, be a terrible delinquency
that would cause so narrow and lonely
a society to cast one member away.
But no, a second marriage had done for
him. When Mr. Lawrance first bought

the Bushes, he was a well-to-do idle county-lawyer
with a wife gentle and delicate, and
an indolent handsome son. The son went
away to Paris to study art, and his mother
very sorely missed him ; she grew pale and
old ; yet in every letter she begged her
John to be industrious, not to be disheartened,
to keep to his work. For she
was in spirit a woman of energy and ambition,
and it was more tolerable to her to
eat out her heart in loneliness, than to conceive
that her only son should sink into
the passive indolence, the mere acquiescence
with life, which distressed her in his
father. She had her reward. One summer
John Lawrance came home, a successful
painter, and brought his bride to Arden.
He had married well ; the young Mrs.
Lawrance was such a sweet, well-nurtured,
well-behaved New Englander as
Longfellow's Priscilla must have been.
She and her mother-in-law became great
friends, and she, in her enthusiasm for the

old village, would fain have settled in Arden.
But John declared that his art required
him to live in Italy ; and his mother was
against his stagnating in a country village.
Nevertheless, having seen her children depart,
she only lived long enough to get the
news, anxiously expected, that a grandchild
was born to her. ' We have called her
Arden Sylvia, in memory of home,' wrote
the proud and somewhat romantic mother.
Mrs. Lawrance smiled ; but she was never
well enough to answer the letter.

A few days afterwards she died  and
everyone pitied poor, lonely, Mr. Lawrance.
John, with an inward hope of refusal,
begged him to come and make his home in
Via Margutta with his children. But the
old man declared he would stick to the
old place ; and when soon after this the
younger Mrs. Lawrance died, her husband
felt his future too unsettled to press his
father to share it. The long winter rolled
away  he in Rome could not realise how

slowly to the solitary at the Bushes  and
in spring the whole village of Arden, and
one tergo piano in the Ia Margutta, were
thunder-struck by the news of Mr. Lawrance's
second marriage. He had married
his housekeeper.

John Lawrance felt outraged, and the
whole village more or less indignant, for
the first Mrs. Lawrance was still well
remembered. But the old man and his
new wife were not unhappy in their unbroken
solitude a deux. Perhaps the sense
of universal disapprobation abroad made
each more anxious to prove to the other
that their union was not a mistake. Nor
was it ; for they loved each other. Yet
love had come to them as a surprise; it
was not in the bond. He had taken
her as a provision against future helplessness
; she  a woman no longer young,
friendless, never beautiful  took with
him friendship, a home, a future. And
taking so much, she gave in proportion.

She was a woman whose native strength
of feeling, whose deep capacity for attachment,
devotion, vindictiveness, had long
been under the control of paid and jog-trot
duty. And now duty and passion were
one. All the strength of her per fervid
heart came out in her marriage. She was
used to be paid for her service, not loved for
it ; she, a poor plain neglected elderly woman
and the sweet pang of this remembrance
would spur her on to ever-increasing devotion
and unselfishness. Mr. Lawrance was
grateful. He felt he had gained a good *
deal more than he had bargained for, that
life was sweeter to him than he had
dreamed it could be at his age. Before a
year was out this couple, isolated from the
world in penalty for a choice made without
any thought of passion, welcomed their
solitude, and would have resented any
change from their complete dependence on
each other. And so it came to pass that
Mr. Lawrance was an outlaw in the parish.

Such was the relative position of the
four principal houses in Arden when my
story begins. And, though a commonplace
to the social observer, the mere
human being cannot refrain from astonishment,
considering that out of these four
families in their mutual loneliness, three
were absolutely dead to each other, as
separate as if encompassed by a magic
wall. The clergyman knew each apart,
but had no power to bring them together.
The Hall, the Farm, the Bushes were absolutely
separate microcosms, each practically
non-existent to the other two.

Such is the astonishing, yet common,
position of affairs when my story begins.

CHAPTER II.

A Motherless BAIRN.

While these villagers drowsed away their
lives in peaceful Arden, John Lawrance
and his girl spent vivid years in Italy.
He was at this time a successful and even
eminent painter, and might be placed
third, after Fortune and the young
Madras, among the brilliant realists
who, at that time, were beginning to make
their head-quarters at Rome. In every
respect, he was a fortunate painter. Not
only did he love his art and succeed in it,
but he hit the taste of the moment and the
place. He was rich, generous to extravagance,
popular, full of youth and a sort
of nervous exuberance that passed for

strength, nevertheless, he did not marry
again. People in Rome explained this fact
by a fatal attachment for a beautiful confess,
much his senior, and unhappily
married. Whether it were so or not, there
were no signs of the great passion in
Lawrance's demeanour ; he appeared perfectly
contented with his free, occupied,
successful life, and with the society of his
little girl. She grew up a quiet, dreamy
child, with the capacity for romance which
had distinguished her mother, modified by
her father's unimpassioned facile temperament.
The romance of her childhood was
Rome.

From the windows of the large, picturesque
studio in Via Margutta, you
looked across a network of gardens,
straight to the Indian Hill. Right in
front of you, on the crest of the hill, rose
the grave and sombre grove of ilexes
before the Villa Medici. However hot the
sun poured down upon the grey stonewalls

alive with lizards, however it glowed
on the golden-burdened orange-trees, and
streamed on the hedges of frail China roses
till the over-blown pink petals strewed the
ground, though it filled the air with the
faint hawthorn-like scent of the Japanese
medlars, and lay like painted gold on the
walls of the houses, there was always
coolness in that grove where the water of
the fountain drips slowly, drop by drop,
from the over brimming cup above to the
moss-covered slab below. Here Arden
used to stray with her nurse, and look over
the low wall to Rome lying at her feet.
She used to love the place ; but one day,
when she was about seven, she conceived a
horror of it. Nothing had happened, only
it had flitted across her mind that the
shadow of death must be like this ilex-shadow,
grey, cold, colourless, impenetrable
to the sun. And thereafter she would play
no more near the green old fountain under
the gnarled branches. Such a child she

VOL. I. C

was, dreamy, full of vague romantic
fancies, with little real hold on life, none
of the turbulence, passion, merriment of
ordinary children.

As a child, this romantic sentiment for
Rome quite occupied her heart. As she
grew a little older she became excessively
attached to her father ; but, at first, she
had taken him very quietly as a natural
adjunct of existence. There was a sort of
sweet dreamy inertness about the child, as
if a shock of waking was necessary to
arouse her most elementary perception.
Till she was nearly seven years old her
heart slept on, charmed and silent, in its
palace of dreams. Then a very slight thing
wakened it. It was this.

On her seventh birthday her father,
who was immensely proud of his little
Binding, gave her a golden ring, the
colour of her curls, he said. It was just
such a ring as you may see by scores in
the Piazza di Spagna ; a plain hoop of gold

with on it the posy : ' Roma amor.' He
sipped it on her finger and told her to
keep it always, for soon they were going
away from Rome to Paris, and she must
always treasure it as a memorial. Little
Arden burst into a storm of tears. Was
that hoop of gold all that would remain to
her of Rome? The child was half-maddened
with that first anguished fear of
loss which grown people can hardly understand
or remember.

As for her father, he looked upon her
tears as a child's pardonable outburst of
grief, unreasonable and soon forgotten.
But when, as the days went on, Armenia
grew thin and paler, with a strange tense
look in the pained little vvdiite-rose face,
and when the light-blue eyes that used to
be so bright grew large and wistful, he
could not bear to see it. After all she was
all he had, this odd little girl with her
desperate love for Rome. Instead of growing
angry, he was touched. And he was

c 2

more at home in the Ia Margutta than
anywhere else. It had been a mere freak,
the wish to go to Paris  and then he
thought of the moving.

Nina,' he cried, as the pale little wretch
appeared. ' Armenia,' he said, ' after all we
will stick to Rome, you and I.'

That piece of renunciation won for him
the passionate gratitude, the unhesitating
absolute devotion of his little girl. The
sound and look of the fountains in the
square ; every sudden gay branch of oleander
waving over the wall ; the great
round daisies in the Borghese gardens,
bending with the wind, all silver white one
way, all red the other ; all these cherished
joys of Arden's childhood came to her now
as her father's gift. And though, perhaps,
she never quite perceived his real qualities,
she would in good earnest have laid down
her baby life for this ideal father of hers.

When Arden was about eight years old
she made friends with two American children,

who, with their mother and their
consumptive father, had come to winter in
Rome. Winter after winter they returned,
and with every year Mr. Rose grew thinner,
walked slower, looked with more anxious
and penetrating glances at Ellie and
Gerard and Arden, as they acted all the
triumphs of Rome over again in their
childish play.

The girl was sharp-featured, pretty,
somewhat discontented ; eleven years of
age. She always wore fresh smart dresses,
and it was only now and then she would
condescend to play with the others. Arden
was a little afraid of her. She was more at
home with Gerard  two years younger
than his sister  a quick, observant, sweet-natured
boy, with a sharp phrase and an
extemporised wisdom ready to meet every
emergency of life. He was never ashamed
of playing with Arden ; his swift intelligence
and merry fancy made quite a clever
thing, she used to think, of her pastimes ;

as the years slipped by, till Arden in her
turn was eleven, the children left off their
games and used to visit the great temples
and museums of Kome. What Arden
loved above all, was to wander in the
galleries of the Vatican. While she was
drawing, Gerard would saunter up and
down, giving vent to fluent theories of art,
not very new perhaps or very deep, but
which Arden considered worthy of a more
brilliant Winckelmann.

But one year, when she was nearly
thirteen, when the Roses came as usual
to spend the winter in Rome, Gerard had
no heart for mirth. He could seldom talk
with Arden. tien, for his whole time was
spent with his father. Mr. Rose had grown
thinner than ever, and over his wasted face
there was a strange grey colour, that made
Arden think, with a shiver, of the wan ilex-shadows.


She had always liked Mr. Rose, but
now she felt afraid of him. ' Why does he

look SO strange ? ' she would say to herself.
' Perhaps he has done something
wicked. Perhaps he has the mal occhio,*
and she kept out of his way, slinking toilsome
side path when she saw Gerard and
his father in the distance.

But one day changed all that  one day
when Gerard, trying to speak to her, could
only find a voice for heavy broken sobs 
What is it, Gerard ? ' she cried, alarmed ;
is it about your father ? '

Yes ; one month  that's all ' Gerard
could say no more.

Arden looked at him with clear, wondering
eyes ; it had never occurred to her
that there was any danger in Mr. Rose's
customary illness. She had always known
him ill ; Gerard's father was ill. and her
father was a painter ; both habits were
well-known and established facts, not to
be changed or questioned. Gerard saw
that she did not understand. He felt hurt,
angry to think that what had been grieving

him so long had been quite uncomprehended
by his special chum ; he turned round
and began speaking quite unlike himself 
quite savagely, Arden fancied.

I thought you kept out of my way
because you knew I wanted to think of
nothing but him now. I thought you had
some sense and feeling, though you are a
girl. But 1 guess you're all alike  you
and Ellie, and all the rest ; you think of
nothing but yourselves. There's nothing
matters to you but some new makebelieve
or other ; but I guess you know that my
father has been in consumption all these
years ? '

 Yes,' said Arden, nodding her head
and staring.

*Well, understand, there's no hope
now.'

Arden had grown quite pale ; her blue
eyes were opened to their widest, but more
from Gerard's roughness than from a clear
understanding of his anxiety.

Dio Mio ! ' she said, with a little
shiver.

Then, coming up to the boy, who stood
still glaring at her, she laid both her hands
upon his arm.

Oh, Gerard,' she cried suddenly,  Will
your father die ? '

You brute ! ' burst out the boy,
wrenching her hands from his arm ; he
dashed away, leaving Arden to wonder
what it all meant.

It was not very long before she learnt.
She heard one day that Mr. Rose was dead,
and soon after she went with her father to
see Mrs. Rose and the children. They
were all in black, and all, in various
degrees, had the same look on their faces,
the same hushed and restrained expression.
Arden felt held at arm's length ; a great
experience was opened like a gulf between
herself and her old playfellows. They had
passed out of the fairyland of childhood,
which she, young for her thirteen years,

still wandered in. There seemed less
difference, she thought, between Ellie and
Gerard, and quite old people, like her
father and Mrs. Rose, than between herself
and these children who, a few months ago,
had been her companions in a sort of
Davidson, which necessarily excluded
grown-up persons.

Arden sat perched on a chair against
the wall, fidgeting with her feet ; all her
pretty friendly ways had vanished in this
atmosphere of constraint and strangeness.
Besides, she could not forget that Gerard
had called her a brute. So she sat nervously
glancing from Ellie to Gerard, thinking
what she ought to say, and feeling ill at
ease.

The other two children sat equally
silent. In the stillness, Mr. Lawrance's
voice reached their corner of the room.
He was speaking of her loss to Mrs.
Rose.

I can understand,' he was saying.

It seems but yesterday since Arden's
mother died. One does not forget, one
only grows accustomed to always miss
the thing dearest of all the world.'

Arden stared with all her eyes. Such
a great sorrow ! Did her father always feel
it ? Was Gerard feeling it now ? She
looked at his face, swollen and changed
and pallid. She slid from her chair, and
crept silently to his side.

Mrs. Eose's feeble voice did not reach
to the end of the room where the three
children had settled, but Arden could hear
snatches of her father's answers.

 No ; there is no consolation  only,
believe me, when one has children . . .
I am not unhappy now, you see, because I
have Arden.'

Poor little Arden's heart was quite
overcharged with awe and strangeness.
So she had suffered this grief herself, and
she herself had been a consolation, without
any sense of either experience. She

looked round at the pale and mournful
faces, at the darkened room a little disordered
with packing. It was the first
time she had realised grief as a powerful
and inevitable force. How changed the
whole world seemed ; how little worth
while it was to be proud or shy or
offended in such a gloomy place !

All this time Arden was standing at
the back of Gerard's chair. She came
forward now, and touched him timidly on
the arm ; he looked up ; her face was wet
with tears.

Forgive me, Gerard,' she cried. 'Indeed
I never meant to be a brute. I am
so sorry ; oh, so sorry ! And to think I
should have made you angry when you
are so unhappy.'

Ellie stared in dumb surprise ; as for
Gerard, he put his arm round her shoulder,
saying kindly 

I don't remember, Arden, dear ; but

1 guess you never meant to get me mad
with you.'

You don't remember ? '

That was strangest and hardest of all.
Why, it was only a little time ago ; and
ever since Arden had kept on thinking,
always, always, of this first quarrel with
Gerard. She had been in a hundred
minds about it sorry, ashamed, magnanimous,
proud, contrite  and Gerard had
said, ' I don't remember as if it had all
been years ago. Yes, that was just it,
she thought. It was as if Gerard had
suddenly grown up and left her behind.
She supposed it was because his father
had died.

Gerard,' she cried, ' remember I have
lost my mother, too ! '

Dear little Arden,' said the boy, ' I'
declare I could love to take you with
us.'

She couldn't leave her father, I presume,'
put in Ellie.

What, are you going ? ' cried Arden 
then, before they could answer, she understood
it all, the packing, the commotion
overhead.

At once ? ' she asked in a shrill little
gasp.

That's so, Arden ; we must go,' said
Gerard.

Why, certainly,' chimed in Ellie.
We're going home.'

To America? ' said Arden in despair,
with just such a feeling as if the dark
Tiber waters were closing above her head.

Yes, home,' repeated Ellie.

But we shall come back to you,
Arden,' said the boy.

Well, I don't know about that,' Ellie
said. ' It's a long way; besides, there's no
reason now for coming. We've not been
home these five years, and I guess mother '11
be in no hurry to leave.'

Ellie's metallic little voice, with no
cruel purpose, went on deliberately, unfeelingly,

closing all the doors of the
future on our poor little Arden's prison
of despair. She looked up bewildered.

Oh Gerard, is it true ? '

Well, I guess it is,' he answered,

 How strange ! ' said Arden, ' I wonder
what it was all for ? '

What do you mean ? ' asked Ellie.

I wonder why we've been such great
friends, and seen each other every day ;
since you're going to America, you and
Gerard, we shall never see each other
again ever.'

Oh yes, we shall ! ' cried Gerard.

Why ; anyway,' said Ellie, ' one must
have friends. Living in Kome, you'll get
used to knowing people passing through.
That's so pleasant in Rome ; people are
real friendly, and make it cheerful to one
while one stays.'

Oh dear ! ' said Arden, holding
Gerard's hand, and looking a very forlorn
little person.

She did not say any more ; she felt as
if she did not know the language. In a
few minutes Mr. Lawrance came to fetch
her away. Then there were good-byes and
kisses.

 You won't forget me?' said Arden.

 Never in the world,' said Gerard.
And  let Ellie say what she likes  we'll
come back, Arden.'

Arden had plenty to think of that
evening, as she walked home with her
father over the Pinch, where the band was
playing and the people were promenading
watching the sunset. The sky was all
crimson and yellow, with overhead a
field, as it were, of vivid luminous blue.
Against this brilliant splendour, the pine-surmounted
hills, the towers and domes
rose up thin and shadowy ; St. Peter's
itself looked like a thin round of smoked
glass, even St. Peter's. Then, quite
suddenly as it seemed, the great ball of
fire slipped behind the houses ; and fora

moment or two the sky blazed with
ever-increasing brilliance ; then, as if
someone withdrew the light that illuminates
a transparence, the life went out
of the colours ; they faded ; the sky again
grew distant and unnoticeable ; the houses
and mountains were the real things now,
the things to be looked at.

Arden did not reason her fancies to a
conclusion, but she felt that something of
the same sort had taken place in her life
All the glory had left her sky; even Kome,
as it lay at her feet, looked dark, formless,
a mere chaotic mass of gloomy houses.

For I know I shall never, never get
to make friends of people passing through,'
she muttered between her teeth.

What's the matter, Arden? I'm sorry
you'll lose your friends, darling,' said her
father, squeezing the cold little hand.

You must be all my friends now, papa,'
whispered Arden, nestling closer to his
side.

VOL. I. D

It happened as Arden had said. She
made no new friends to replace those she had
lost, though she and her father were popular
in Rome, so that Arden lived anything
but a lonely life. As she grew out of
childhood into girlhood, it was found that
she became almost beautiful, tall, with
large clear eyes, a graceful curly head,
delicate flexile lips that smiled upwards.
She became the darling of all the old
ladies in Rome ; her father's friends,
artists chiefly, over-praised her drawing
because she was so pretty, and John
Lawrance's only girl. No young woman
could have had a more social, easy, and
even triumphant life. But Arden had few
companions of her own age ; and among
all her admirers and protectors no special
friend.

Therefore she never found it hard to
quit Rome, as often happened, almost at a
moment's notice, to go on some impromptu
sketching: tour with her father. He went

alone, sometimes, if the place was very
rough or a difficult journey, but most often
he and Arden would roam together to
some Castella on the visible spurs of the
Allan or the Sabine hills.

Nothing delighted Arden more than
these impromptu journeys. She had the
passion of all foreigners for the desolate
Campagna ; the passion which true
Romans so little understand. Besides
these flying visits, there was, of course,
the necessary four months' absence in
the summer. Then they would go to
Umbria or Tuscany ; sometimes, even to
Switzerland or the Tyrol ; but to England
never.

To Arden it seemed almost impossible
to realise that she herself was English, and
had relations in England, her only relations,
who had never been in Italy.

As for me, you know,' she would
say, ' I should die of the cold and fog, and
of sheer longing for Rome.'

D 2

And then a shadow would settle for a
moment on her father's sunny face, and he
would make no answer.

Every Christmas Eve Arden wrote to
her grandfather, whom she had never
seen, sending him some sketch, some
piece of embroidery, something done by
her own hands as a Christmas gift.
In return she would get a few lines
of thanks, and this was all the correspondence
that ever passed between
them. But one year, when Arden was
just seventeen sears old, her father came
into the garden one warm May morning,
and said,

Arden, I think this year wee had
better go to England.'

Oh, papa ! '

'Why, dear? You have never been
in England ; I will take you to Arden, to
your namesake village. Your mother
used to think it more beautiful than Italy ;
it is so fresh and green.'

Oh papa, I shall hate it ! ' exclaimed
Arden. ' But of coarse we will go if you
like.'

Why would you hate it? That is
silly, Arden. England is our own country
after all ; I often think I should like to
see it again.'

 Oh, if you want, of course, papa.'

You don't know what it's like,
Arden,' he said, drawing her to his side
and keeping his arm round her shoulder ;
those green villages, the red little thatched
houses nestling under great oaks and elms ;
the green where the geese feed and the
boys play cricket, with a pond at one end
for the ducks ; the village inn with its
swinging sign ; the red-cheeked, comely
villagers, who all know you, with whom
you have a place to fill by rights ; not a
stranger, a foreigner as you are here.'

A foreigner in Kome, I ? It's iq
England I should be a foreigner, papa.'
 Besides, . I think you ought to know

more of your grandfather. Your home
would be with him, should anything
happen to me.'

Don't, don't, dear,' cried Arden,
throwing her arms round her father's
neck and half stifling him with kisses.
You are young and he is old. How
could it be ? But I'll go to England.'

Well, well ; there's no need to settle
yet ; we'll think about it, dear.'

The more Arden thought about going
to England the less she liked the idea.
Suppose when they once got to England,
her father should refuse to come back ?
This was a sort of nightmare to the girl,
who had known some people who, having
lived ten years in Rome, had gone home
for a summer visit and had settled there.

Then the various old ladies whom
Arden made her confidants would try to
comfort her, finishing their consolations
with a little well-meant sermon on unselfishness
and sacrifice, and the duty of

daughters. So Arden would go home,
dignified with a temporary patience and
resignation. She would ask her father,
with an Iphigenia air, whether she should
dismiss all the servants and when he meant
to start ; she would try to take an interest
in England, asking forlorn little questions
about the journey and the climate.

John Lawrance felt his resolution giving
way. He had always given in to Arden,
because it cost him so much to make her
give in to him. He had resolved on this
English visit ; since he felt it would befor
Arden's benefit to make acquaintance
with the relations who would be her
guardians in the event of his own death.
But after all he was still a young man, not
more delicate than many ; it was probable,
as the child had said, that he would outlive
his father. Nor could his old home, revisited
under such changed conditions, be
productive of aught but painful memories
to him. When he had seen it last, his

wife was with him, his mother alive.
Now there would be a haunting emptiness
in every spot ; and, worst of all, he would
have to face the detested upstart stepmother.
For Arden's make he would have
borne it all ; but the child did not wish
it  perhaps the visit, after all, was ill
advised.

Matters were in this condition, when,
about three weeks after the question began
to be debated, Arden entered her father's
studio one day, radiant, an open letter in
her hand.

Oh, papa, fancy. What do you think?'

'I'm sure I don't know, dear. Something
pleasant ? '

The Roses are coming to Venice this
summer. Coming in the end of June.'

The Roses ? Oh, your American
friends. Well, I'm very glad, Arden.'

So of course we can't go to England
this year ? '

No ; I suppose that settles it. I

suppose you'll want to go to Venice, eh,
dear ? '

 Oh, papa

Arden danced all over the room, allover
the house for sheer joy. Her father
was painting her that morning in a white
dress, against a sunny white wall, the
sweet brilliant face and golden head the
only spot of colour in the picture. He
caught the look of dazzled joy upon her
face, the abandon and alertness of youth in
the poise of her figure ; the picture was
his master-piece, and created quite a sensation
in Rome. It still remains that picture,
that incarnation of eager fearless youth.
When it was painted it was very like
Arden Lawrance

It was all arranged that they should
go to Venice. Arden took all the trouble
on herself, hired the apartments, engaged
servants ; so that her father found himself
at home in Venice almost as completely
as in Rome. As for Arden, all this time

she was wild with joy and expectation, she
laughed, and talked, and sang all day, and
then railed at the days for passing so
slowly. (Ah, happy days pass slowly.)
And it is still more than a fortnight to
the end of June ! *

 Terrible interval ! I must leave you
to bear a few days of it in solitude, too, my
girl.'

Why, papa, are you going away?
May I not go with you ? '

No, dear ; I want to paint the Campo
at Torcello. I shall put up with the priest ;
but that would hardly do for you. Moreover,
is not Torcello a desolate feverish
place, with nothing to eat but pomegranates,
and nowhere to sleep but ruins P '

Well, mind you don't take the fever,
papa. It would be too ignominious, after
living twenty years in Rome, to get
malaria at Torcello. Must you go tomorrow
? '

To-morrow morning, I think.'

Then I ought to go now and tell Gigs
to put you up some things. A rivederei ! *
and she ran away, a light white figure
across the dark fertile.

After her father was gone to Torcello,
Arden was quite alone. It had been
arranged that she should leave him four
days to work at his background, and that
on the fifth Gigs should punt her out in the
gondola to fetch her father home. The
first two days lagged and dragged away ;
it is difficult to be merry alone, away from
home, with nothing to do. Arden was not
merry, but neither was she sad. She
dreamed over again her Roman childhood,
all the years of it at least that she had
played away with the Roses ; and then she
fabricated an imaginary future in which
Mrs. Rose settled in Rome, and Arden and
Gerard and Ellie were bound together in
perfect companionship. But after a while
the pleasantness dreams cease to satisfy.
They are like the fairy gold which glitters

all night, but turns, when the sun shines on
it, to dust and withered leaves.

On the third morning of her loneliness,
the sun shone on Arden's reveries ; the
world outside looked white and hazy blue,
and brilliant and pure as only Venice
can look, and only Venice on a hot and
rather misty morning. Arden went outwalked
through the narrow Calles, over the
steep arched bridges, into the great white
square of St. Mark ; at the end the golden
cupolas shone out all yellow and burning
in the sunshine.

Arden went inside. They were singing
an office at the altar. In the choir and in
the smaller chapels little separate flocks of
women knelt and prayed. In the nave five
artists stood or sat in separate spots, painting
at their easels. Nearer the door some
women, who had been marketing in the
Mercers, were resting their heavy baskets
on the benches, and talking volubly to a
white-shifted gondolier. All over the

church people were living, not as in a
church, but as in a happy meeting place
where each did as he liked best ; some
talked, some walked, some sang, some
prayed, some merely rested. For St.
Mark's is the true abbey of Helena.

Arden's choice was to pass out of the
busy nave into one of the many little chapels,
placed some high upstairs, some down. She
used to like, when she was tired or lonely, to
get into such a quiet nook, to sit in the gloom
on a slab of red marble, and look out at
the light and colour of the church, at the
beautiful arches, the golden mosaics, the
deeply-coloured marbles, red, green, and
blue, the Byzantine pictures, solemn or
grotesque. To get to her favourite chapel
it was necessary to turn sharply round by
the rail of the chancel. Here there are
always a good many people, some watching
the service, some trying to see the mosaics
on the ceiling. Arden, her white dress
clear in the darkness, her hands crossed

lightly in front of her waist, came up the
twilit nave and stood a moment at the
corner, her head thrown back, smiling a
little, wondering if it would be possible to
pass. As she stood thus, a ray of light
caught her golden curls, her white dress.
An el-egan, sharp-featured young woman
leaning on the rail, half-turned towards
her, then turned altogether ; her pretty
grey eyes opened in a stare.

*Why mother, why Gerard,' she exclaimed
shrilly, ' I declare if it isn't Arden
Lawrance ! '

An older lady, plump, richly dressed,
with an elaborate coiffare ; a handsome,
velvet-jacketed, nonchalant youth, with a
sort of restrained eagerness under his nonchalance
; and with the appearance of having
fine manners but not good breeding, all
came forward with outstretched hands.

Why, Arden dear ! ' cried Mrs. Rose.

Won't you shake hands ? ' said Gerard.

She was standing, her hands still

clasped before her, a perplexed little smile
hovering round her mouth. Gerard thought
he would like to paint her ; she had certainly
grown very pretty ; but why did she
look so unreal and dreamy? Had she forgotten
them? Gerard, who to tell the
truth had not often thought of his childish
playfellow during their long separation, felt
a sudden desire to be on terms of intimacy
with this slim white girl, whose shining
eyes and bright curls were beautiful even
in the dim light of the church.

Won't you shake hands?' he said
again ; a little piqued by her silence.

Oh, is it really you ! ' she cried, looking
at all the three faces in turn. ' How
good of you to come so soon ! 

Eyes, it is we! ' said Gerard smiling ;
it was clear, then, that she did remember.

It has been such a long time ! ' said
the girl, half-crying, half-laughing, pressing
their hands as if to make sure they
were real.

Hash, Arden dear, don't cry ! ' said
Mrs. Rose ; ' don't be so excited, my child.
Remember we're in church! '

 No, I won't cry.' After a moment she
looked at them, including them all in her
sweet wistful smile, that made an apology
of her words. ' Of course it's different
to you,' she said. ' You have so many
friends. I know I am very silly. But
I didn't expect to see you for three
weeks ! '

I declare you haven't altered in the
least all these years,' cried EUie, who
thought Arden always too much given to
making a fuss.

'Like the Bourbons?' Arden smiled.
 At any rate I've forgotten nothing ! '

No ; she is not altered in the least,'
cried Gerard. ' She was always the dearest
girl in the world ! '

Arden smiled. ' Ellie's altered,' she
said. ' Do come into the light, Ellie ; I
want to see how pretty you have grown! '

I think EUie might retort,' cried
Gerard.

'And 1 think,' joined in Mrs. Rose,
that if you young people can't keep quiet,
you had better go out of church.'

Mother ! ' cried Ellie, shocked at so
much reverence ; ' one would think you
had never been outside Massachusetts ! '

And it's not a church,' put in Gerard.

Church or chapel, it's a place of
worship,' decided Mrs. Rose.

Arden looked on wondering. She saw
no reason why one should not talk in
church. But now Gerard began again, and
the little drawl he spoke with seemed to
exaggerate itself as he talked.

A place of worship ! ' he cried with an
air of somewhat faded and languid enthusiasm.
' That is precisely what this place
is not. Look round: all these people,
chattering, flirting, chatting, sight-seeing ;
are they worshippers? It was not built to
worship in, this splendid, fantastic, irregu-

VOL. I. E

lar Temple of Colour, dim and glowing,
incoherently coherent like a dream. I will
tell you what it is ; a sign to Heaven of the
triumph of the world, a flaunting in the
eyes of God of the pomps and lusts of
princes. And the decadent East has conquered
Christ in this mosque raised to his
name, yet tainted with the gorgeous sin,
yet hallowed with the unholy beauty of
Venice Meretrix ! '

Gerard ! ' cried Arden. ' Oh don't
you remember how you used to go on
about the Guilia in the Brachia Nuovo ? '

"Go on!" Little Goth! If that is
how you blaspheme my aesthetic theories, I
shall stop. I shall suit my conversation to
my hearers.'

Ah! And what will you do? '

I shall be natural,' said Gerard.

Meanwhile Mrs. Eose and Ellie had
been looking round the church.

Dear me ! ' said the girl ; ' what a
great many people painting, to be sure ! '

I call it sheer irreverence ! ' cried Mrs.
Rose. ' And during service too ! '

Don't be too hard upon them, mother,'
said her son. ' Next week you will have
to be equally shocked at me.'

 Oh, can you paint as well as talk ? '
cried Arden.

I can paint,' said Gerard ; ' but not as
well as I talk.'

If you can paint at all, I am glad ; for
now you can go out sketching with papa.'

What a flattering scheme for getting
me out of the way ! But I haven't seen
Mr. Lawrance yet,' continued Gerard,
looking round.

Papa ! What a share to have forgotten
him all this time. He is at Torcello,
painting the Campo.'

Torcello ; that's the Early Christian
island I've put down in our Itinerary,'
said Ellie.

Ah, to think it is near ! ' mused her
brother.  To me it has always seemed the

E '2

UNWtRSlTV OF \LUNC
LIBRARY

Ultima Thule of deserted Fairyland, that
weird and fever stricken Basilica, mid-seas ;
the abandoned mother of dissolute, thankless
Venice.'

Fever-stricken ! ' echoed Mrs. Rose.
Oh Arden, you've never let your father
go there alone ! '

I am afraid I have. You see I had
no choice ; he said he must go and I must
stay ; so there was nothing to do ! '

Mercy ! How European,' cried Ellie
in her sharp little voice. ' In our country
a young woman does what she thinks
right ; she's a responsible being every
time ! '

But you see, Ellie, I don't know what
suits papa. And I don't think he will get
the fever ; we're Romans, you know. Besides
he has only been there two days, and
on Thursday I am going in the gondola
to fetch him home.'

I suppose you keep a gondola of your
own? ' inquired Ellie.

'Well said Mrs. Rose. 'I can't feel
easy about that fever.*

'Tis strange assented Gerard. ' 'Tis
the universal revenge of Antiquity. We
desert her great cities aud insult her
empire, and when at last we return and
would acknowledge her, she poisons
us '

Torcello's not antique,' cried Ellie,
Baedeker in hand. ' It's a question of
drainage, I guess.'

Gerard did not seem to hear her. He
continued vaguely, ' Once the Mother of
Faith, now a deserted poisonous Fairyland.
It would'  he went on more seriously 
make a splendid metaphor if I could only
think of something to compare it to.'

Meanwhile Arden was speaking eagerly
to the elder lady 

Dear Mrs. Rose, won't you all go with
me to Torcello on Thursday? Think how
surprised and delighted papa would be !
And you will have to see the island '

'Why certainly,' chimed in EUie, who
evidently managed affairs. ' I guess we
can x it up together. We are bound to
visit all the sights, and you can show us
round, I presume.'

Thank you, Ellie. I'm so glad ; you
will come too, Gerard, won't you? Yes,
you must bring your sketching block. Oh,
fancy, how surprised papa will be ! '
Arden broke into a little, silvery, child's
laugh of delight.

Well,' said Mrs. Rose, ' I think it's a
good plan. And now, as you're all alone,
Arden, you must spend the day with us,
we'll lunch at Florian's.'

Ah, ives, the historic Florian ! ' murmured
Gerard, pushing back his hair.

'What's that?' asked Ellie, touching
Arden's arm and pointing. Arden shivered.

It was only a procession of poor old
men in faded crimson ; some of them
holding candles, some censors, some a black-palled
coffin ; each and all swinging their

burdens somewhat roughly. It was a pauper's
funeral. They placed the coffin rather
hurriedly upon a bier that had been standing,
unnoticed, waiting for the dead. At
this moment the foot of one of the bearers
slipped upon the uneven pavement, and he
stumbled, letting go his hold. The other
three old men pushed the coffin into its
proper place.

Arden turned a little pale, Gerard
saw it.

'I feel with you,' he whispered, That
that neglected pauper's sorrow is the divinest
thing in this marvel of a church.'

I don't know how I feel,' said Arden,
suddenly cold and wicked, I think ; we
were so happy. Perhaps a cock has crowed
on my grave.'

Then they went out to lunch at
Florian's.

CHAPTER III.

there's nothing half so sweet in life.

I AM sure you would not forget Torcello,
Mrs. Rose.'

The sentence came from Arden, in
answer to an excuse from Thursday's
expedition, in which the elder lady pleaded
her bad memory for sights.

My dear girl, I have forgotten the
Apollo Belvedere, and the Sistine Chapel,
and the Joconde. Now in Boston, they
assured me if I could forget Joconde I
could forget anything, and Gerard, he seems
to suppose the same.'

 Torcello is much lovelier that the
Joconde.'

Well, that's pretty far-fetched, I guess,

comparing a picture and a place ! ' cried
Ellie.

Yet they have both the same melancholy,
super sensuous charm.' This last
remark came from Gerard, who was sketching
in the window.

That dome is out of drawing,' observed
Arden, looking over his shoulder ; then, as
she turned round, ' But even if you did
forget it, Mrs. Rose, you would enjoy it at
the time.'

'Gather ye roses while ye may,'
hummed the young man ; ' what does it
matter if they are not the best sort for pot
pourra ! '

 Gerard always tags on a meaning to
my argument,' laughed Arden, ' like the
moral in italics at the end of the fable.'

Which no one reads or heeds,' he
added.

You young people would have a
better time by yourselves,' cried Mrs. Rose,
showing her trumps at this juncture.

Oh no, indeed. It is because you are
here we are so merry ! And we shall have
to take two gondolas because of papa's
things ; so there is plenty of room.'

And mother could return with the
easels ; capital arrangement ! '

It was Gerard, you know, Mrs. Eose,
who pretended there was no room. Can
you not really go ? '

No, my dear, I think not.'

I'm so sorry.'

What a fidget you are, Arden,' cried
Ellie, ' let mother go her way and we'll
go ours. Elderly folks don't like to be
dragged around seeing sights.'

I'm sorry,' said the girl again ; ' it's
settled then.'

Yes ; that's fixed,' decided Ellie, ' and
now, Arden and Gerard. I want to oo
round the Ducal Palace.'

Not I,' said Gerard, ' this work of artis
more precious to me just now than all
the paradise of Tintoret.'

Well, I don't believe I shall find the
way.'

I'm ready,' said Arden.

What ! ' cried the young man, ' without
one single protest do yoti submit
yourself to the yoke of Ellie's chariot ?
What a lack of wisdom and proper spirit !
I suppose I must come too, then.'

And leave the work that is more than
Tintoret?'

But I never said more than Arden

They went along through brilliant
silent Venice, to the white court of the
palace, through the lines of gallery that so*
wonderfully catch up and repeat the colours
the outer world, sea-blue and sky-greens
crimson and yellow and scarlet and purple
of the fruit-laden barges, silvery tones of
distance and of mist.

Even Ellie was awakened to enthusiasm.

It's just as lovely as it can be ! ' she
cried, as they slowly descended the outer
staircase.

Gerard roused himself from an abstracted
silence.

Yes, that's so he answered ; ' such
hair and eyes ! '

Arden stared. EUie frowned, and said
nothing.

Indeed, during those days Ellie had
much cause for frowning. She even confided
her fears to her mother.

Well, I presume, my dear,' said Mrs.
Rose, ' you will think him in love with a
baby next. The child has no manners at all.'

That, I fear,' said Ellie, ' is just what
Gerard admires.'

 I dare say, in a child like Arden
Lawrance. ISFot in a woman to fall in
love with.'

Well ; I don't believe but what he is
falling in love with her ! '

And I believe he is not. He admires
all men do  something more deliberately
engaging, attractive, fascinating. Remember
Miss De la Rue.'

I remember ! '

Boy as he is, he would have married
her if she would have had him ! '

All the more reason that he should be
dead in love with Arden Lawrence

But what am I to do, Ellie ? ' cried
her mother.

At least you must come with us everywhere
; to the galleries ; to Torcello. You
should not throw them together, Mother ;
it's very American. You should take us
about more, and make Arden talk to you
every time.'

Oh dear ! ' Mrs. Rose looked out of
the window. The air was quivering with
the intense heat ; the roof steamed ; at the
ferry a few gondoliers lay asleep in their
boats ; the sun blazed whitely, its rays
struck like swords.

It is much too hot ! ' sighed Mrs.
Rose.

Too hot for Gerard to fall in love ! '
cried Ellie, with emphatic sarcasm.

Too hot for me to endeavour to prevent
him! '

Mrs. Rose sank back in her cushions, and
took up her work. Ellie gazed at her one
moment, a picture of energy baffled by the
vis inertia ; and then might be heard in
the next room pulling out drawers with
decision, as she dressed herself to go to the
Lido with her brother and Arden.

Afterwards when they had escorted
Arden home, she said to him,

Why do you spoil that child with your
ridiculous compliments ? '

Because she is not to be spoiled.'

 It is not fair. She will be fancying
you are in love with her.'

Not at all ; she will fancy we are two
children on the Pinch.'

Or you will be falling in love with her
yourself ? '

CM lo sa ! '

It would be a shame ; it would be
ridiculous ; you are both too young ; you

will have no career ; you will never get
your basis. Gerard, you must not marry

 Excellent adviser ! '

But are you in love with her, Gerard ? '

:ot yet ! '

CHAPTER lY.

AT THE BUSHES.

In the weedy garden at the Bushes, on
one fine morning, Mr. Lawrance was walking
in the temperate sunshine. He had
been out but little, for the summer was late
and chill, and he hobbled feebly, leaning
on a stick, from flower-bed to flower-bed,
inspecting the scanty annuals and the gillyflowers
all run to stalk. He was bent,
and walked heavily, yet without decision ;
but his white hair was thick yet, and his
aquiline face was bronzed with many
summers to a red brown that neither
sickness nor seclusion blanched.

The sun was hot, and the old gentleman
but little used to exercise ; besides,

some over-careful, loving hand had wrapped
him round too closely in warm woollen
wraps. He had scarcely made the tour of
the half-dozen scattered beds in front of
the house, before a sudden giddiness seized
him. He tottered, stooped, and called out,
Annie ! here ! '

His voice was feeble as his pause, but
the faint echo had scarcely caught it before
a dark figure, seated in the shadow of the
porch, rose, let fall some work, and ran out
lightly to his aid.

As she leads him homewards, with
tender helpful words and gesture, let us
glance at the second Mrs. Lawrance. She
was a tall thin woman of fifty, flat-faced,
small-featured, her pale complexion pitted
and thickened by small-pox, her hair was
colourless and light, her leaden-grey eyes
without movement or sparkle. Even in
her youth she could have had no pretension
to be called pretty ; yet the face would
have been an interesting study for a

VOL. 1. F

painter ; of its sad contour, patient eyes,
long up-turned nose, thin cheeks, thin
mouth with a restrained piteous pout in the
upper lip, he might have made a pendant
to that portrait by Raffaelle, sometimes
called Maddalena Doni, which hangs in the
tribune of the Uffizzi.

Just now we see Mrs. Lawrance at her
best, as she stands looking on while her
husband rests on the wide bench in the ivy-covered
porch.

You're 'most overdone with the 'eat,
aren't you, dear ? ' she says, stooping down
to take off his goloshes.

She speaks loudly, for Mr. Lawrance is
going deaf, and speaks with a twang
which ruins her voice as the small-pox has
ruined her face.

Yes, yes,' he answers with weary
impatience. ' I'm getting an old man, a
broken-up old man, and a June morning is
too much for me. Ah, well ! '

He looks down at his wife kneeling

with the goloshes in her hand, and goes onto
quote 

A lean and slippered pantaloon.

There's another scene to come yet, you
know, Annie. Second childishness, and
mere oblivion ! '

Mrs. Lawrance had risen, and stood
looking at him with a sort of alarmed
affection ; always her expression when her
husband gave way to moods she could not
understand. And these, alas, were so many
moods that he, careful not to vex her, had
gradually receded, step by step, from his
old points of view, his accustomed standing-place
of thought, and had ended by contenting
himself with her level. So now,
when he caught her look, he changed his
tone and said,

Well, well, Annie, there's nothing to
mind I think I'll take my medicine
now. Aye ! help me in to the sofa ; I'll
rest a bit, and then we'll go and see when
the red calf '11 be fit for the butcher.'
F 2

He had already risen, and was taking
this wife's arm, when, glancing out at the
bright garden, he saw the postman coming
up the drive.

Why, it's Saturday, this morning, to
be sure! ' he exclaimed. * I declare I had
quite forgotten ; my old head gets so
weak. Run, Annie, and fetch the Birmingham
paper ; I'll wait here.'

It is descriptive of the Bushes that it
was not one of those houses where, on
summer mornings, the postman is treated
to milk or cyder, so he was defrauded of
nothing by Mrs. Lawrance's hastening to
meet him on the drive. In a moment she
was back with, her husband in the porch.

Here's the paper, dear,' she said. She
stopped and looked at him anxiously for a
moment, then she went on in a slow clear
voice 

There's summit else, dear, beside the
paper ; there's a letter, a furrin letter,
with a black edge, and it's not in Arden's

hand ; happen summit's come to the child,
or

There, there, give it me,' cried the old
man impatiently. ' Nay ! it's not John's
writing either. It's nothing at all, no
doubt, nothing at all. You women folk
are always so full of whims and fancies.'

His hand trembled so, nevertheless,
that he could scarcely break the seal. Ashe
read, his face took a drawn and haggard
expression. His wife drew near, and
while she laid her arm round his shoulders
to support him, looked over his shoulder at
the open letter.

This is what she read : 

Casa Monies, Venice, June 14th.

 My dear Sir,  It is with the sincerest
sorrow and fellow-feeling that I break to
you the melancholy news of the unexpected,
death of your son, and our valued
friend, Mr. John Lawrance. Your granddaughter,
Arden, has begged me, a her
oldest friend, to write to you in her stead,

for the poor child does not seem to comprehend
what it is necessary to say.

When we arrived here, Mr. Lawrance
had been painting for some days at an
island near Venice, Torcello, and on Thursday
the 12th, two days after our arrival,
Arden and my son and daughter set out
to fetch him home. They found him
seriously ill with marsh fever, lying in a
sort of hovel, with no kind of accommodation
for his needs. Mr. Lawrance, who
between the accesses of fever, was perfectly
conscious, and even approximately
well, determined to go back with the
young people, and overruled all his
daughter's very strenuous objections. Indeed,
I presume it was impossible, from
what my son has told me, that he should
be left, or Arden allowed to remain, in
such a feverish and squalid hole. My
children returned at once to Venice with
orders that all should be ready for his
arrival, and I was waiting with them at

your son's house when, about eight o'clock,
Mr. Lawrance and Arden came home.
He was in a dead swoon, and for sometime
altogether lifeless. When he awoke
he was in a burning fever, complicated with
acute inflammation of the lungs ; but he
retained perfect possession of his senses
until he passed away, quietly at the last,
yesterday night about half-past twelve
o'clock. I will not affect to ignore, my
dear Sir, that there has been of late a certain
estrangement between you and your
son ; but, believe me, all remembrance of
it was forgotten on his death-bed. He frequently
spoke of you in terms of sincere affection,
and of your home, regretting that
he had not gone to England this summer, ashe
intended in the spring. But the greatest
proof of his entire confidence in your love
is that he has left you guardian of his very
dear and lovely daughter Arden. She will
have but a slender fortune, scarcely enough
to live upon, even in the narrowest way,

and this is tied up in such a manner that
she cannot touch it until she be of age ;
she is but recently seventeen. We shall
be anxious to hear when it will suit you
to assume your guardianship over Arden ;
until then she will remain our welcome
and much-loved guest. Nor need you feel
as if she were thrust upon you, for though
it was Mr. Lawrence last and anxious desire
that she should live under your roof,
still in case from any cause you should
find it inconvenient to accept this charge,
another arrangement could doubtless take
the place of this. Arden sends you her
love, and believe me, dear Sir, with sincere
and heartfelt sympathy, Yours truly,

'Emily Eose.'

What shall you do, dear ? ' asked Mrs.
Lawrance, with anxious eyes.

Poor John ! poor fellow ! ' murmured
the old man. ' So he has gone first after
all.'

Them as don't honour a good father,
can expect no different replied his wife,
who could be as unforgiving to her enemies
as she was tender to those she loved.

Nay, nay, Annie, the poor boy's dead
now, and he was a good man in the main,
was John

Mrs. Lawrance contented herself with
looking a negative.

sand what shall you do about his
darter, dear?' she asked.

Poor child ; of course she must come
home ; it will be very dull for her with
us old folks, I fear.'

If she's got any heart, she ought to be
grateful to her kind grandpa for giving
her a roof to shelter her.'

It's not like you, Annie, to be so hard,
especially when people are in trouble.'

'I'll do my best to make her happy,
poor girl  but she'll be sadly in the
way.'

Ah well ! And to think John should
be the first to go.'

They turned through the farmyard
gate together, not too much shaken to
examine the red calf.

CHAPTER V.

THE MASTERS OF ARDEN.

The news of Arden's coming rapidly-spread
through the village, and many were
the guesses hazarded regarding the old
gentleman's granddaughter. She was not
envied ; much pity was bestowed on herby
the young people of the village, who
regarded her isolated and removed condition
as the granddaughter of one of the quality,
whom the quality did not know, with a
peculiar mingling of contempt and longing.
Meanwhile the young ' quality ' at the
Hall, who were bored to death with their
ancestral dignities after their free-and-easy
social life at Leamington and Scar-born',
looked for Arden's coming as one

looks for a star on a dark night  not daylight,
but still a light. They laid plots and
conspiracies to persuade their mother that,
though of course she could not be expected
to visit the old Lawrances, still the new
Miss Lawrance had done nothing to
forfeit her position, and might be encouraged
to visit at the Hall. And, notwithstanding
her pride, Mrs. Lawrance had
been induced to make a half-promise, to
the effect that if she were pleased with
Arden's appearance, she would leave a
card for her at the Bushes and ask her to
tea at the Hall.

Things had been carried to this quasi -
successful issue, when one fine morning,
Georgina, the second girl, set out to accompany
her mother on a visit to some poor
people in the village. As they passed
the gate the horsewoman had come out
to offer an acceptable morsel of gossip, and
with a certain pride in her superior information,
told Mrs. Masters that young Miss

Lawrance was expected at the Bushes that
week.

Oh, mother, you will go and call on
her ? ' implored Georgina.

My dear child,' said her mother, ' I
shall do what I consider right, and what
that may be I cannot tell at present.'

They do say, mum, as she's expected
every day,' said the housekeeper with a
sense of humble authority on the topic.

'she! indeed. I think, Mrs. Gay, you
had better meddle no more in your betters'
affairs until you know how to speak of
them with respect. Ignorant impertinence
! ' and Mrs. Masters passed out of
the gate into the lane, drawing up her
long neck in disdain. Georgina walked
by her side, rebelliously silent. She dared
not contradict her mother ; she was determined
not to be over-ridden. While her
mother was still intent on Mrs. Gay's
iniquities, the child espied the Rector
standing in the churchyard, in con sensation

with a boy who had driven a flock of
sheep to graze upon the graves.

Mamma, I am going to speak to Mr.
Law she said, and ran ahead. She soon
reached the lank, gaunt Rector, still midway
in his lecture.

Mr. Law,' cried Georgina, breathless,
 do come and persuade mamma to call on
Miss Lawrance. She doesn't mind for
anyone but you.'

The Rector turned, letting down his
arm, and the boy seized the occasion
for escape. Mrs. Masters was to be seen
nearing the gate with a relaxing severity
upon her face.

Well, well, my dear,' said Mr. Law,
*but you shouldn't interrupt people.
However, I will come and speak to your
mother.'

Mrs. Masters had already reached
them.

So that child of mine is plaguing you

as usual she said, and held out a friendly
hand.

She is anxious to be told about Miss
Lawrence

To be told about ! Have you seen
her?'

Only her likeness. She must be a
singularly attractive young woman I should
judge, and therefore an additional pleasantness
in the society of our neighbourhoods


The Rector dropped his words like
pearls, impressively distinct. He rounded
the period with a benevolent smile.

Decidedly a welcome addition,' he repeated.


There, mamma ! ' cried Georgina,
triumphing too soon.

We shall see what we shall see,' said
Mrs. Masters. 'No watering-place attractions
for me. I believe the girl has had
no settled home.'

On the contrary, my dear friend, she

has resided all her life in Rome under the
guardianship of her father, an accomplished
artist

And none too respectable, I dare say.'

Well, well ! De mortuus nil 7iisi
bonum ; and I have heard nothing to the
late Mr. Lawrance's disadvantage.'

Which was quite true, for the Rector
had seldom heard of him at all.

In Rome ! ' murmured Georgina ; awed,
impressed, with vague recollections of
Romulus and Horatius Codes, Mrs. Mangy
and bad marks, circling in her mind.

'But to return to Miss Lawrance,' continued
the Rector, 'her grandfather has
shown me the letter of a friend of hers, a
lady of good American family.'

There's no such thing ! ' snapped Mrs.
Masters.

Well, well, my dear friend, an American
lady, who describes Miss Lawrance asa
person of amiable character and elegant
accomplishments.'

But I thought she was a girl ! ' cried
poor Georgina, aghast.

So, my dear young friend, she appears
to be in point of years. In fact, I should
say a most suitable companion ; but she
has had the advantages of a continuous residence
in the most ancient capital city of
Europe. She speaks, I imagine, Italian,
French, and probably German ; has had,
no doubt, the benefit of Italian masters in
singing and dancing  in fact *

If she's quite respectable, I'll engage
her to give the girls some lessons,' said
Mrs. Masters.

Oh mamma ! thank you, mamma ; oh,
you dear old Rector ! ' shouted Georgina :
and she is only a girl, really ? *

 Seventeen.'

And pretty ? *

I should imagine most prepossessing.'
What's her Christian name ? '
Mr. Law reddened a little and cleared
his throat.

VOL. I. G

It was, in fact, a very awkward question.
The good-natured Rector was anxious to
infuse a more friendly spirit into the young
people under his care ; he would be very
glad for the young Masters to be kind to
Miss Lawrance of the Bushes ; it was
the first step towards the better order of
things. But all would be lost if Mrs.
Lawrance learned  as the Rector had
learned  that young Miss Lawrance was
christened Arden. She would consider ita
vile infringement of her rights ; he did
not care even to imagine her indignation.
Nor was there any need she should ever
know it. The Rector, after revolving the
important affair over many an evening
pipe, had determined  for the sake of peace
to entreat Mr. Lawrance to call his granddaughter
by her second name if she had
one, or to invent some plausible pet name.
It could have been so easily arranged, if
only Georgina had held her tongue. And
now must he tell the truth  should he

feign ignorance or invent some chance,
harmless ' Mary * or  Sarah ' for the occasion
?

What is her name ?' repeated Georgina.
Why  Lawrance  of course,' said the

Rector  ' Lawrance  you know her father
was old Mr. Lawrance's son  the painter
you know. Let's see  do you sketch,
Georgina ?  '

But I mean her Christian name ! '
cried the incorrigible girl.

Her name,' said the Rector with the
accent of despair, ' her name is Arden.'

What ! ' cried Mrs. Masters.

Ardent stammered the Rector  crestfallen
as a guilty thing. It was even
worse than he feared.

Oh,' cried Mrs. Masters bitterly, ' this
is an end of the business. Now you know,
Georgina, what sort of an acquaintance you
rashly wished to make. The impertinence
of that upstart attorney, the insolence to
palm off my family name upon his foreign

a 2

granddaughter ! Oh, the underbred fellow,
he should be sent out of the parish  I should
like to have him thrashed. Arden, indeed 1
A fine Arden ! It's a degradation, I say.
It's a slap in the face.'

But, dear Mrs. Masters, consider,'
implored the Rector, ' it is only an instance
of Mr. Lawrance's bad taste. The girl did
not choose her name.'

This is a private matter, Mr. Law, and
not to be argued,' cried Mrs. Masters, with
tremendous dignity. ' I am the only judge
of this insult, and I consider it a blow never
to be forgiven. A blow, a theft I should
say, the theft of my ancestral name.' She
stopped for a moment, catching her breath
painfully.

Compose yourself, my dear friend,'
cried the Rector in genuine alarm.

Thank heaven, I never did compose
myself when the honour of my family was
at stake! ' burst out Mrs. Masters with
renewed acrimony. ' No, I am incapable of

forgiving such an injustice. Listen, Georgia,
I forbid you to do so much as speak
in the lanes to that girl ! '

 Oh mother,' wailed Georgina, * how
can you be so unjust ! '

'Would you teach me justice  you  '
cried Mrs. Masters, her eyes blazing with
anger, ' go to your room and stay there 
go '

Speaking, she turned and gave her
daughter a vehement push to emphasise her
words. Georgina, fidgeting on one leg,
was taken unawares ; she tumbled in a heap
upon the grass, and though one foot was
caught and twisted in the hooped withies
that fenced in the graves, she did not move
it or even moan. Mrs. Masters and the
Rector were terribly frightened. At last
she began to groan, complaining of her
ankle, her mother, full of pity and remorse,
bent over the girl, weeping tears and
kisses. She turned to the Rector. ' Go
for Dr. Carruthers,' she cried ; then bending

lower she put her arms tenderly under
the girls shoulder and round her waist.
Go for the doctor she repeated. ' I will
carry her into your house until he comes

You ! '

But already she had raised the girl,
and was carrying her swiftly, staggering,
down the side path to the rectory. The
Rector stopped a moment, looking after
the tall, imperious thin figure, rigid,
strained in every nerve, staggering among
the tombs. However much he might condemn,
the Rector still admired her.

She is a grand woman's he muttered,
a grand woman, but prouder than Lucifer
and she will never forgive that innocent
Miss Lawrance.'

CHAPTER YI.

Good-bye !

Meanwhile Arden, in Venice, lay in a
sort of torpor ; never weeping, seldom
speaking, a wan smile mocking the miserable
pallor of her face, like wintry sunshine
on a grave.

Mrs. Rose was frightened at this
change in the gay, sensitive girl, and
vainly strove to rouse her from her
apathy ; but in truth there was nothing
to fear. Arden, whose life had ever been
wrapped round with dreams, was slow to
realise the whole extent of her loss. She
missed her father  he was gone away.
She felt strangely tired and unstrung.
But she could not understand that her

life was changed at once and for ever 
that henceforth loneliness, misery, must be
her portion.

She lay for hours on the sofa, drowsily
watching the gondolas that pass up and
down the Canalazzo. As they looked at
her, the Roses thought her dying of a
broken heart  they scarcely dared to speak
to her ; Gerard felt his love a profanation
not to be thought of till a happier season.
And yet Arden was not really so very
unhappy. Numb, inert, lifeless, she often
was not thinking of her grief at all, but
finding a dreary pleasure in counting the
numbers of the boats, or dreaming how
she would very soon be dead and with her
father, and how sorry they would all be
to lose her. Yet she had no clear realisation
that her father was gone away forever
 lying dead under the earth. She
fancied him bending over her couch, unseen,
but near, waiting for her soul, to lead
it to the Paradise of Saints.

As the weeks grew on and she became
aware that she was not to die just yet,
she quickly shuffled another dream between
her mind and her misery. She
looked upon herself as a messenger sent
by her father to console and help his
father in his great distress. A year or
two spent in unselfish ministry should
fit her to die and go to heaven. When
her grandfather's letter came, Mrs. Rose
handed it to her with a terrible anxiety ;
it was horrible to tell the child that her
future must be spent among strangers.
But Arden smiled as she read the letter.

It is very good of grandpapa/ she
said ; and Jay down again and watched the
boats gliding up and down the Canalazzo
as before.

But, my dear, you must do something
; you must decide.'

It is all decided ; let me be.'

Mrs. Rose stood irresolute, watching
her.

My dear,' she said, ' if it makes you
very miserable, don't go. At any rate,
don't go yet. We shall be in Europe
all this year. Stay with us, my dearie, if
you are happier with us.'

Thank you,' said Arden ; ' how good
you are ; but if you only knew how much
alike all things are to me now.'

Oh, stay with us, Arden,' said Gerard,
coming forward. And Ellie kissed her
more warmly than ever she had done
before.

Papa wished me to go,' she said.

Well ; perhaps it is best,' said Ellie,
her excellent common sense asserting itself
again. ' After all, it is more her place
than anywhere else.'

They said no more on the subject just
then, but often during the next few days
Arden would revert, quite without repugnance,
to the new life she was to begin.

I have always been considered by
everyone,' she would say ; ' and now I

shall consider other people. One can be
useful, at least, however dead one's own
future seems ; and I suppose there is a
sort of happiness in being useful. I shall
make myself necessary to those kind old
people ; and the peasants  I shall be good
to the peasants in the terrible northern
winters.'

No word of regret for Rome ; scarcely
a pang at parting with her friends. Yet
Rome and these friends had been the influencing
passions of her childhood.

After two or three days, in which
Arden showed herself quite indisposed todo
anything more immediate than theorise,
Mrs. Rose said to her 

 I think, my child, you should write
to your grandfather to-day.'

Oh yes.'

And Arden, dear, when you write,
you should give him some sort of hint as
to when he may expect you.'

Any time.'

You would like to go to Rome, first ?
We are all going at the month's end

Why should I go to Rome ? '

To pack  arrange matters  say goodbye.'


I am not strong enough ; the notary
will see to all that.'

Mrs. Rose stared  but only said,

Oh, I will manage things for you,
my darling.'

Thank you.'

Arden said no more, and took no part
in all the arrangements made for her
future ; her escort was provided, her
trunks packed, and she seemed not to
understand that she was going away.
Sitting there, her head aimlessly drooped
at the neck, her hands lying idly in her
lap, a wan remembering smile playing
round her mouth, no wonder that the two
women feared for her reason and Gerard
for her life. They scarcely dared to send
her away.

But on this point Arden was obstinate.

I can't be more unhappy than I am
she said, *but I'm going to try to be
better; I'm going to try to be of use in
the world at last.'

She smiled softly; it was her one comfort
to think that she would lead a holy
life and die young, and soon be at peace.
That end should ennoble her short careless
years, and be a monument to her father's
memory. Henceforth she was dead to the
world.

And indeed she made her adieus with
something of the solemn apathy to all that
is dear and lovely felt by the nun who
takes the veil. She was even glad that
she must give up all that she cared for 
friends, country, companionship, art. For
now she was to think not how to live, but
how to die.

To the very young it seems so easy to
die.

Even when the parting came she was

scarcely moved. A little whiter, a degree
more sad, that was all. At the last she
clung to Mrs. Rose passionately, closely,
as we cling to whatever is dear, proven,
familiar, on the brink of the unknown.
But the next moment she was calm.

Good-bye, dear Ellie,' she said, ' don't
quite forget me ! '

Then Gerard led her a little aside.

Arden,' he began, ' there's something
I want to tell you; something I must 
you'll let me come and see you? because
now '

 Now,' said Arden solemnly, ' we can
only say good-bye.'

She gave him her hand with a sweet,
sad smile, that did not comprehend anything
but her own sorrow.

CHAPTER Iii.

IN A STRANGE LAND.

The journey was in truth the best thing
that could have happened to Arden. The
way they went was strange to her ; she
could not remember her father by every
turning of the way through France and
Savoy, as in Italy the stones and trees
served to recall him. And the cool air of
the north put fresh spirit into her prostrate
and weary body. There was a certain
excitement in going so far so fast ; these
three days of travel, made with companions
associated with other times, had no connection,
it seemed, with her past or with
her sorrow. They amused her a little, asa
show at a fair might have done.

Only when they reached London in the

rain, did she realise how great a step she
had taken. She was severed and set apart
from all things familiar and dear. To this
English girl her own country seemed inexpressibly
strange; for a long time it was
a surprise to her to hear the common people
talking English. She missed the caressing
Roman ways; the pompous meditative
Roman voices ; the soft sunny grey and
deep sapphire blue of Roman skies : the
very trees she knew the best would not
grow in this strange country. Arden, as
the train whirled her away from London,
away from the travelling companions who
formed her last link with the South, was
overcome by an unspeakable desolation.
She was so tired, too. She did not want
just now to begin the arduous life of duty
she had so often pictured to herself. She
wanted someone to take care of her. When
she thought of it, how sad it was that just
she, who had always been so loved and
happy, just she should be this friendless

orphan in a strange land. She cried a
little, for sheer pity of herself  poor little
would-be saint of seventeen.

At Arden, itself, there is no station ;
but at Raynham, four miles away, there is
a roadside shed, sufficient for the meagre
traffic of the place. Here the train stopped,
and our heroine alighted. It was raining
hard as she stood under shelter, watching
her great trunks and boxes (a marvel to
the solitary porter) being heaped together.
At last they were all out ; the man wheeled
them across the line, Arden following sadly
and dismally enough.

She stood looking disconsolately about
her.

Miss Lawrance ? ' said the stationmaster.


Yes,' she said. ' Is no one here to
meet me ? '

ril go and see. Miss.'

The man left her ; she sank down on a
bench, half-dead with fatigue.

VOL. I. H

The man came back after a minute.
It seems, Miss, being such unfed
weather, Mr. Lawrance thought it best
not to send a basket-carriage ; so French
the carrier's come to meet you and fetch
the boxes in his covered cart.*

Oh ! ' said Arden. It all seemed very
forlorn  the fatigue, the rain, the discomfort,
the lack of welcome. But as yet
she would not lose heart.

She went out and stood, her heavy
mourning dress all wet and crumpled,
watching the two men heap her boxes into
the back of the cart. Then they brought
her a chair, and she clambered up and
seated herself on the broad wooden seat
by the side of the carrier. Then the horse
started, and jolting, rattling, rumbling,
they passed through the lanes.

It seems very uncomfortable,' thought
Arden, ' but perhaps it's the English
custom.'

How long the way seemed, through the

lanes bordered with hedges, with always
in front the same plan of little irregular
fields, with clumps of spongy trees, heavy
and lifeless in the thick air ; how very few
houses there seemed in the country, and
how small they were, those red square
ivied buildings, with never a tower or a
loggia. But the villages were pretty, and
the trees that overhung the lush hedges of
the lane.

Tired as she was, Arden's eyes kept
glancing up and down, from side to
side, eagerly examining the scene of her
future.

After they had gone about a mile, the
rain cleared off, and the country, fresh and
green, smelling of earth and flowers, looked
tenfold prettier.

The sun's come out to welcome you.
Miss,' said the carrier, with a broad grin.

Thank you.

 Mr. Lawrance was mortal vexed he
couldn't ha met you himself, but the long

H 2

spell of moistish weather's laid him up
again with the rheumatics.'

Oh,' said Arden, ' is he ill? I'm sorry.'

Lor Miss, he pretty near alius is ill ;
he's an old man is Mr. Lawrance, and since
they sold the 'horse it's seldom he leaves the
'ouse. He's not so strong as he was  not
so strong as he was.'

She forgot that she was to be the old
man's consoling angel. Poor Arden ! How
gloomy it all sounded. She wondered
if it always rained, if her grandfather
was always ill. She remembered that
in Kome her dressmaker used to say
when it rained  * Oggi membra una specie
dInghilterra.

 Does it always rain here ? ' she said
timidly.

The man looked at her and began to
laugh, a sort of suppressed inward chuckle.

Oh Lor, Miss,' he said, * you're the
very moral of poor Mr. John, so free with
his jokes, so affable, as he wor. Does it

alius rain ? ' he repeated, chuckling to himself,
' and there's the sunshine, as clear as
clear can be.*

At all events it was not on Ar den's
face. The fatigue, the gloomy news, the
sight of the pallid watery gleam which she
took for the usual English sun, and most
of all the allusion to her dead father, all
served to overwhelm her with a vague
dismay. She pulled down her veil to hide
the tears in her eyes.

They slackened pace to go up the hill
before Arden church. Her attention was
suddenly aroused by hearing voices in the
lane.

This is she, I suppose.'

What a shame to send the carrier's
cart. How like those people ! '

I'm glad they have so much good
sense. Now, mind, Adelaide ; no making
friends with her ! '

'Hush!'

She looked out. A handsome thin lady

of middle age, a pretty affected-looking
girl, with very arched eyebrows and a tiny
waist, were walking down the hill.

 Who are they ? ' said Arden to the
carrier.

It's Mrs. Masters and Miss Masters of
the Hall,' he answered, and touched his
cap.

'I wonder what they meant thought
Arden, wondering. Wh} was the girl told
not to make friends with her ? They could
know nothing about her, good or bad.
And when she had reflected a little on this
question, she recalled the tone of contempt
in which they had spoken of her relations :
'those people.' Evidently they were not
considered the equals of those two women,
and yet she had been used to have for her
friends people at least as refined and considerable.
She felt a certain indignation 
which was diverted, however, a little towards
her own kin, when she reflected
that even those rude, haughty passers-by

had looked upon it as an insult to fetch her
in a carrier's cart. It was all a mystery of
painful strangeness, forlornness, anticipated
humiliation.

Would the cart never get to its journey's
end?

'Are we nearly at the Bushes?' she
asked.

Them two red thimbles, Miss, over
the hill  that's the Bushes. Only ten
minutes, and we're there.'

Arden saw the chimneys, but not the
hill, and would have wished herself miles
away. She could feel her heart beating
with anxiety and dread.

They turned a sudden corner, passed
a clump of trees, and came to a white gate,
to a long neglected drive arched over here
and there with apple trees, bordered with
overgrown laurels. A few flowers were
running to seed in the borders ; dandelions,
plantains, and chickweed cropped up
among the gravel. The man got down

and hooked back the gate. Then the cart
jogged up the drive.

Here you are, Miss said the man.

And now the house was in view.

A rambling low verandah house, half
modern stucco, half old red brick, all of it
clambered over and covered with ivy and
roses, clematis and Virginia creepers. The
cart dragged heavily through the gravelled
drive and stopped at the locked door.
The bell was broken, and for a long time
they could make no one hear.

It was getting dark and even cold.

'Belike they're all upstairs in the old
gentleman's room,' bethought the carrier
finally; and he threw some stones up at
the window round the corner. Then a
light moved  a step crossed the hall 
she could hear some one unbolting the
door.

Who's there ? ' cried someone.

It's Miss Lawrance,' said the carrier.

Then the door opened, and a pale thin

woman came out, dressed shabbily, even
meanly, in a cotton petticoat and jacket.

It's the housekeeper, I suppose,'
thought Arden, and she made no advance.

But the woman came up to her and
kissed her.

'Welcome, Arden dear,' she said.
Come in, child ; you must be cold and
tired. I've made a fire in the diningroom,
and kept the dinner late for you.
Come, dear, Gay '11 see to your boxes.'

Arden went in. There was a candle in
the hall, and she could dimly see the plain
and shabby woman who led her in. She
could see, as she was led to her room, that
the house was shabby too. The handsome
carved hall chairs that had been broken
long ago remained unmended ; the balustrade
of the stairs was loose ; in her large
and pretty bedroom two of the window-sashes
were broken.

You must bolt the door, dear,' said
Mrs. Lawrance, ' for we've mislaid the key.'

I've had a good bright fire made, you
see,' went on Mrs. Lawrance, as she helped
the tired girl to take off her cloak and hat,
for grandpa's been so ill al day, he can't
see you to-night  and I that you'd be
glad to retire early,' said Mrs. Lawrance.

Arden turned round suddenly, and
threw her arms round her.

How good you are ! ' she cried. ' I've
been so lonely,' and all her dismays and
trouble melted in a flood of tears. Ah,
now she thought she had found safety
and shelter and love ; she had an aim in
life again. If the house were dull, if her
life would be lonely, welcome and dear
should such a life be to her, since love
would be with it, love given and received.
She would be like a light in the dark, like
sun in winter, to her grandfather and his
wife ; she would amply repay and overpay
the debt of love she meant to owe
them. You see she was still very young
and a spoiled child ; little self-reliant, eager

for love and praise, vain, too ; and with so
little of the dramatic power of sympathy
that she could not understand natures and
situations different from her own ; never
guessing that to this elderly devoted couple
the intrusion of a young imperious life into
their cherished quiet was as a light that
dazzles, as a sun that wearies and destroys.
She threw her arms round Mrs. Lawrance's
neck and cried there, sure of being loved
and soothed.

Mrs. Lawrance soothed her, gently,
too, and kindly. But she was alarmed.
What could she do, busy preoccupied
woman that she was, with an hysterical,
fanciful young lady in the house ? All
the time she was speaking softly to Arden,
as one speaks to a crying child, she was
half unconsciously wishing that her husbands
granddaughter had been a stout
able farmer's daughter, taking things
quietly, and exacting and giving little
besides assistance. snow I'll leave you,

Arden,' she said. ' I've got to see to the
dinner. You'll be easier, most likely
child, when you've eaten summit.'

She went out, softly closing the door.

Arden curled herself up on the rug 
she leaned her head upon her hand, and
looked into the flame. The depression of
the journey had suddenly cleared off  her
temperament, keenly alive but dreamy,
sprang up with a sudden rebound to her
old level of light-heartedness.

 I am going to be good and happy,' she
said. ' I am going to try and fill papa's place
to them, though they cannot fill it to me.'

She imagined all the things she would
undertake ; how useful she would be, how
English, how unlike anything she ever
had imagined. Through all her pleasant
visions of self-sacrifice ran a thread of
naive self-congratulation at being able to
fill so ably such an unexpected role.

If Gerard and EUie could only know ! '
she exclaimed once.

And then she forgot her fancies and
fell back on memory.

The tears were filling her eyes again,
when Mrs. Lawrance tapped at the door
and summoned her to dinner.

CHAPTER Viii.

A NEW LIFE.

Arden woke up the next morning refreshed
and expectant. She got up quickly, and ran
downstairs into the sombre old diningroom
; no sign of life there yet ; the clock
pointed at half past six. She heard a
clatter in the kitchen, but there she did
not venture. So she unlocked the front
door and went out into the garden.

Outside it was as pretty as possible, so
fresh and bright. The sunbeams glanced
off the wet sharp edges of the laurel-leaves
; they looked as bright as spears.
All the birds that sing in that season were
tuning up. The newly-opened flowers
were moist, and fresh, and sweet beyond

comparison. Above the green meadows,
between the trees, bluish and white mists
were still hanging in soft wreaths.

Life, too, in such a moment, seems a
bud of uncertain promise ; the birds first
practising notes before the song, the
fragrant misty morning which heralds in
the day of storm and the day of ripening
sun alike.

That morning the freshness and strangeness
of things had driven Arden's sorrow
out of sight for an hour, as there comes
sometimes a lull in sharp pain, during
which the pillows are softer, the air
sweeter, the view out of the window more
full of meaning and colour than ever it
was before. Something of this renewed delight
in life had fallen for a moment to
Arden's lot. She walked down the lane,
her head thrown back, singing very softly ;
the fresh keen air struck a colour up her
cheeks. In her black clothes she looked
very young, and delicate, and fresh ; like a

spring day before the trees begin to bud.
She did not hear a sound to tell of anyone
near at hand, or she would have stopped
her singing ; she did not see anyone, or she
would not have flourished the long sprays of
honeysuckle she had gathered in the hedge.
Yet she was seen and overheard ; and to
one person the thought of her was always
coloured by that first impression ; to one
person she would henceforth remain a
creature of frail, unearthly loveliness,
crowned with golden hair, with a face like
a blossom, a voice that was a song, a step
springing with youth and grace, her hands
full of flowers, her eyes full of light, yet
clad in heavy, deep, black mourning ; a
creature to be loved but not to love, herself
impervious to all earnest passion ; only
clothed with loss and misery and sorrow
and love foregone, not changed through
and through by the experience of these
things.

Meanwhile Arden, unaware what impressions

of her were taking shape, went
singing down the lane, while on the other
side the hedge Farmer Williams forgot his
fields of corn in looking after that golden
head. But Arden did not know, and had
she known would have paid no heed. She
went down the lane till it turns sharply
below the canal-bridge, and there suddenly
a choking in her throat, a mist in her eyes,
a pang in her very heart, took away again
her short-lived gladness.

You don't know what it's like, Arden ;
those green villages, the red little thatched
houses nestling under great oaks and elms ;
the green where the geese feed and the
boys play cricket, with a pond at one end
for the ducks ; the village inn with its
great swinging sign  I often think I
should like to see it again.'

She seemed to hear her father's voice
distinctly repeating the words she so well
remembered, but she would never, never
feel again the loving pressure of the arm

VOL. I. I

that held her when she heard them. Her
father was dead. The thought struck
Arden with a terrible shock, familiar as it
was. Dead ! She could not cry ; she
seemed deafened, dumb, bruised, lifeless ;
she sank on a large stone under a tree, and
let the cruel memories surge in upon her
wave on wave. If her father had come to
Arden he would not have died. Oh, it
was terrible ; there was something worse
behind, among these fearful cloudy
thoughts  she would not think it. She
rose wildly from her seat and began walking
homewards quickly, almost running,
with a vague childish purpose of leaving
her troubles behind her, like a dropped
burden, by the white stone on the village
green.

She soon reached home, and found the
breakfast-table spread and her grandfather
waiting for her ia the big leathern chair
by the hearth. There was sufficient likeness
to her father in the kindly indolent

old face to make Arden's eyes fill with
sudden tears. There were sufficient traces
of his son in Arden's slight, tall figure and
delicate air to make her grandfather sharply
realise that this was no stranger he had
taken to his hearth, but a living reminder
of forgotten losses long supplanted, a
keeping open of old wounds, a survival of
a past which he had chosen long ago to
bury out of sight.

For a moment he thought of that past
with renewed tenderness, talking to Arden
of her father, his son. They spoke of old
times. The hours glided by, and Arden
almost felt she possessed her happiness
again, recalling it thus. As the sun grew
high, they left the house and sat talking,
like old friends, in the cool verandah.
Mr. Lawrance, roused to more interest
than he had shown for years, heard the
history of his son's life, of his pictures, and
their success ; of his home, of his deathbed
; and he, in his turn, told Arden about
I 2

her father's youth, about her mother, what
they had all said and done together in this
very house where she had come to live,
under this very verandah where she was
sitting.

Indeed, a passer-by would have thought
it a typical scene of home life  the old
man, the young girl talking together
earnestly ; Mrs. Lawrance, with her great
basket of needlework, sewing busily a
little apart.

Only, if she had lifted her eyes from
her work, one would have seen an ominous
pale gleam in them ; have noticed how the
lips were pressed into a thin white line,
how her cheeks burned as she looked on,
unheeded, while this young girl, this
stranger who had never nursed him, filled
her husband's mind, filled it to the brim
with recollections of a time, a life, in which
she had no past, which was her enemy,
which would have disowned her, cast her
out.

Meanwhile, quite unconsciously Arden
and Mr. Lawrance went on talking.

And did John really ever speak of
coming to see me ? Poor fellow, poor
fellow '

Oh, yes ; he used to speak of the
village ; say he should like to see it again,
and, grandpa, he always used to say
that you would keep a home and a welcome
for me.'

Ay, ay ; he might well be sure of
that ; we've always got a welcome here
for those who want us. Haven't we,
Annie ? '

Mrs. Lawrance did not answer, but her
silence passed unnoticed.

I wish he had come, John. I suppose
he got to look quite an elderly man ? '

Oh, no ; no one was ever so handsome
as papa ; none of the people in Rome.'

Ay, he was a handsome lad, more like
his mother than like me. She was so
proud of him. Ah, well ! '

The old man sighed. Arden drew her
chair closer.

I think you are like him, too, grand-papa.'


Ah, child, it's a sad thing to live out
all one's interests ; but, there, have you
got a likeness of John ? '

Of papa ? see here.'

She unclasped a locket thrust into her
dress, revealing a handsome, refined, indolent
face. She showed it to her grandfather.


He was so good,' she sobbed out.

Poor fellow ; poor John ! And he
was getting on so well, you say ? ' He
took the little locket, and looked at it
silently for some minutes. Mrs. Lawrance
got up hurriedly and came towards them,
as if to look too. Suddenly she dashed
the locket out of the old man's hand on to
the gravel.

He was a bad son,' she cried ; ' a cruel
son ! '

Arden started to her feet.

 For shame ! How dare you, how
dare you ? Grandpa ! '

She came up to him pale, aghast, holding
the arm of his chair.

She doesn't mean it, child,' cried Mr.
Lawrance. ' Annie, tell the child at once
that you didn't mean to hurt her.'

Mrs. Lawrance stood quite still, impassive
to all appearance ; but a tumult of
pride, remorse, hatred, and jealousy was
raging in her heart. She said nothing,
but continued looking at the most distant
fields.

Do you hear ? ' said Mr. Lawrance,
sternly.

 After al, I am your wife ! ' she said.

Yes, yes,' said Mr. Lawrance testily,
of course you are. And I never regretted
it til] now. It's your own fault, Annie, if
I'm angry with you, and it is ungrateful,
and unwomanly, and un wifely in you.'
Ah ! ' she gasped. ' I'm sorry.'

There, there went on the old gentleman,
discomfited by his wife's bitter smile
and Arden's frightened face, ' that's right,
Annie. We're friends again now, friends
again now.'

I'm sorry to have ever grieved you,'
interrupted his ife ; ' it is not your fault.
It is her's ; that child's. She is taking my
life away with her memories and her interests
! But there ; you'd better go, child.
I don't want to hurt you.'

There, there, be quiet, Annie,' cried
poor perplexed Mr. Lawrance. ' Perhaps
you'd better do as she says, Arden, child.
She's overstrained, hysterical. She's not
very well, I think. She doesn't mean you
any harm, but perhaps you'd better begin
your unpacking.'

He turned towards his wife, who had.
sunk back on the bench. Arden turned
away. So this was the beginning of her
mission !

She went into her own room, and sat

down on one of the ranged unopened
boxes. She felt, strange to say, more
wounded by her grandfather's calm dismissal
than by Mrs. Lawrance's bitter
words. Anger, at least, is not indifference ;
and to her grandfather she had been consciously
affectionate  and he had dismissed
her.

She had been used to a different return
for her affection, for she had been all her
life a spoilt child, loved and worshipped.
How surprised, she thought, they would
be, those old people, could they know how
she had been cared for in Rome. Then
softer feelings came ; she resolved to think
no more of herself; she would be loving,
and helpful, and necessary to them,
despite their hardness.

At last she heard a knock at the
door.

She started ; she wanted to tell the
person outside to enter ; it added a new
force to her sense of the strangeness and

newness of everything, that she really did
not know how to say it in English ; never
having spoken English, save in conversation
with her equals, in all her life.

 Forwards ! ' ventured Arden.

The knock was repeated. Arden, despite
her forlornness, began to laugh. She
went to the door herself and opened it ;
the little servant stood outside.

Please, miss,' she said, ' master says
this, will you come down to tea, miss,
or will you have it sent upstairs ? '

Oh, come, I'm not a punished child.
Say I'll be down in a minute.'

She walked downstairs with a very
stately air.

I'm glad to see you're so sensible,
Sylvia,' said her grandfather. ' Come and
get your supper, there's a good girl.'

 Sylvia ! ' she stared at him with
widening eyes

Mr. Lawrance looked at his wife ; she
said nothing.

It seems, my dear he began, a little
disconcerted ;  it seems, my dear, Arden 
Sylvia, I mean  the rector has told us
this afternoon that Mrs. Masters of the
Hall is very much affronted at your
bearing her family name ; she's a quick-tempered
woman, but she's the principal
person of the place ; and it's as well, my
dear, coming into a new place, that you
should make friends with  with '

The Mammon of unrighteousness,'
finished Mrs. Lawrance, concluding the
quotation with perfect gravity.

Arden began to laugh. ' Poor Mrs.
Masters ! ' she said.

Mrs. Lawrance looked inexpressibly
shocked ; but she said nothing. The old
gentleman explained : 

My wife doesn't like to hear the Bible
laughed at, Arden,' he said in the tone
of an esprit fort not himself outraged,
but careful of the sensibilities of tenderer
spirits.

I beg your pardon,' said Arden, with
a quaint little foreign bow ; then, turning
to her grandfather, ' And so Mrs. Masters
doesn't like my name ? '

No, no, she's a queer-tempered woman ;
it seems she knocked down Miss Georgina
and half-broke her ankle because the child
said she'd like to know you.'

What a charming acquaintance ! '

Well ; she's a woman of very good
birth, the last of the Ardent of Arden.
She's a right to be proud.'

Pride is a mortal sin,' said Mrs.
Lawrance.

Especially when it breaks one's children's
bones,' added Arden.

Well, well ; don't let us judge our
neighbours,' said the old man. ' Judge
not, you know, that ye be not judged.
I'm not one for being hard on people's
frailties.'

That you're not, dear,' said his wife,
and, with a new sweeter look on her face.

and a smile that included even Arden, she
said, ' You've got a good grandfather,
Sylvia ; you may thank God for that ! '

Arden, a little impatient of this devotion,
turned to her grandfather 

And am I to change my name to
please a woman I never heard of? ' she
asked a little sharply.

sylvia's a pretty name,' replied Mr.
Lawrance. ' And to call you " Arden''
here, has about as much sense or meaning
as to call you " Parish Church." '

Besides, it's your own name, you
know, Sylvia ; we don't choose it out for
you,' added Mrs. Lawrance.

True,' said the girl. ' Call me Sylvia
then ; Arden was quite a different person.'

That's right,' cried Mr. Lawrance,
glad to be rid of the discussion.

But his wife's heart failed her a little
(for she was very tender to visible suffering)
at sight of the girl's whitened
face.

Don't take it so to heart, dearie,' she
said.

Oh, no ; I don't take it to heart,'
answered Arden. 'Better the new name
with the new life.'

CHAPTER IX,

AN ENGLISH SUNDAY.

Meanwhile that very evening a more
comfortable supper-party  also of three
persons  was chatting, eating, and drinking
at the next house down the lane. There
was no prettier room in Arden than the
Williams's big, brown wainscotted parlour.
You went down two oak steps into it, and
the three square windows were on a level
with the stocks and gillyflowers and gay
striped roses of the flower garden outside.
At the other a staircase, also of oak, led
to the upper storey. The room itself was
wainscotted nearly to the ceiling, where a
broad oaken beam supported the plaster ;
and at the door ward side of the huge,

overhanging chimney, a broad oak settle,
high in the back, fenced off all danger
of draught. Under the windows there
was a heavy old chest like a Florentine
carson, cushioned at the top for a seat,
while if you lifted up the lid, piles of
white lavender-scented table-linen revealed
its second purpose. It was pleasant in
summer days to sit on the red cushion
with the flowers waving through the
window on a level with one's face. Overhead
hung a canary cage, and on either
side of the chest, a sewing machine on a
stand and a little work-table told that
the parlour was a woman's sitting-room.
There was also set beside an oaken linen-press,
a little curly velvet sofa placed so
as to secure the light from the windows
and the warmth from the fire. The tall
upright clock was faced by a cottage
piano with Handel's ' Messiah ' open on the
ledge ; the old bureau had its glazed-faced
shelves well-filled with books ; and a

volume of ' Poesies chooses,' some French
school books and prizes, an odd number of
Michelett's ' History of France,' Carlyle on
Hero-worships and ' The Mill on the Floss,'
stood shoulder to shoulder there with the
 Guide to Farriery,' some books on farming,
and the Family Bible. This contrast
between the hereditary possessions of the
family and the tastes of its present
members, gave a pleasant character and
homeliness to the parlour.

Although it was summer-time, a little
gaily-blazing fire lit up the depths of the
chimney, and made pleasant lights and
shadows on the crimson hangings. It
flickered, mingling with the dim light of
the fading day, on the faces of two women
and a man, who, having finished supper,
still lingered at the table talking. By the
uncertain light you would have called
Harry Williams an ugly man, for he was
square, short, and heavily-built, with a
thick neck and large head; his handsome

VOL. I. K

frank blue eyes, his firm and smiling
mouth and ruddy skin were all in shadow ;
but such was the magic of his pleasant
smile that by daylight you would have
thought him a likely fellow. The woman
facing him, his step-mother, belonged to an
opposite type. A draper s clever daughter,
finished ' at a cheap convent-school in
Belgium, she had essayed semi-gentility asa
nursery-governess ; but her health broke
down while she was teaching the children
of a former Rector of Arden, and then
Harry's father, chief farmer and organist
of the parish, had asked her, for the third
time, to marry him. This time she accepted
him as a pis alter  and her decision
made Edward Williams very happy. He
was of a weaker nature than his son, more
of a seeker after ideals, and to him the
Vicar's pretty governess appeared a creature
indefinably rare, refined, and elevated.
She brought her second-rate accomplishments,
her cheap piano and French convent

prizes, to make the Paradise her husband
looked for. He did not find it in his love,
this ideal existence ; then he went to the
alehouse, and certainly he did not find it
there. Harry, a lad of fourteen, set to
work to stop this madness, and his force of
will and patient love were strong enough
to save his father from the habitual degradation
of an unconquered evil habit.

Mrs. Williams made no difficulty about
accepting his penitence : she did not look
for ideals, and flourished well enough in
the plenteous well-to-do existence of her
married life, without asking or giving a
great degree of affection, and generally
acting upon the principle of letting welland
ill alike alone. During this St.
Martin's summer of peace and domestic
comfort, ten years after their marriage,
Susie was born. The baby did even more
than the imperious Harry in keeping her
father from the alehouse ; but the man's
health was already ruined. One wet

spring an epidemic of typhus devastated
the village ; Farmer Williams was among
the first to die. Harry then was left the
master of a farm, deteriorated by long
mismanagement, the only protector of a
sickly, incapable step-mother, and a child
of eight years old.

As Susie grew older she strengthened
his hands ; of a subtler, more eager, more
enthusiastic character than her brother,
she possessed much of his energy, decision,
and practical activity. She had a mind
that grew in all directions like a wtl-
rounded tree ; from her mother she learned
all the mother had to give, taking the
means from her and turning them to other
ends. She learned to play, and discarded
Sydney Smith for Handel ; learned French,
and laid aside the 'Poesies chooses,' for an
odd volume of Michelett's  History of
France,' that had been given her by a
visitor at the Rectory, interested in the
quaint little girl who played the organ at the

week-day practices. This book, then some
volume of Carlyle, bought with hardly-kept
savings ; then a novel of George
Eliot's  these had been the events of one
side of her life. Equally important, in
another way, was the gradual reform of
the dairy management, the saving and
superiority of the housekeeping since, at
fifteen, the intrepid little Susie had taken
it upon her shoulders. The brother and
sister went together like two good horses
in harness, with an equal pace to one end :
the ameliorating of their inherited condition.
The mother, with facile stand-aloof
affection, looked on idly, did not comprehend,
but applauded.

All in all, it was a close-knit and happy
family circle.

They were talking together this evening,
talking of Arden of course.

Poor girl,' cried Mrs. Williams, sighing,
' to be condemned to Arden after the
gay world ! '

She didn't seem to pine this morning
said her step-son, rather grimly.

I daresay ; she doesn't know what it
means yet, a country life, an English
country life ! '

Mrs. Williams sighed again, feeling her
superiority in experience.

 If she's a good girl, she'll find plenty
to do at the Bushes,' said Susie ; ' they've
sadly mismanaged things, those two old
people. The carrier says he nearly always
brings half their butter back unsold ; and
we  we can't make half enough.'

Ah, you can't expect every girl to be
as clever as Susie,' cried Mrs. Williams,
and such a student, too ! '

She's, maybe, better at book-learning
than at dairy-work  Lawrance's maid,' said
Harry. ' The parson tells me she's lived
all her life in Rome, among artists and
such-like,  her father was an artist.'

In Rome ! ' Susie's eyes blazed with
historic memories and wonder.

Is she a Catholic ? ' asked Mrs.
Williams.

I dont know. We shall see o' Sundays.
Folk '11 look more at her than at
their neighbours' bonnets tomorrow.'

You shouldn't speak so Warwickshire,
Harry. I declare I'm quite ashamed of
you ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Williams.

Why shouldn't I speak Warwickshire ?
It 'ud be odd if I spoke different ; the
Williamseses have lived in this house and
farmed Warwickshire land for over two
centuries. I'm too proud to think shame
o' them and my county.'

 And what will the like of this Miss
Lawrance think of you ? She'll fancy
you're no better than a farm-servant.'

Oh, mother, we shan't be troubled
with Miss Lawrance's opinions. We're not
gentlefolk ! ' cried Susie, a little bitterly.

At any rate your mother's no mere
housekeeper, like Mrs. Lawrance.' This
was true, and in so different a sense from

that which Mrs. Williams had intended,
that there was no help for laughing. All
three joined in a peal of good-natured
hilarity.

Dear little mother ! ' cried Susie, cocking
her head on one side to observe more
critically the slender and faded prettiness
of her mother.

Ay, she wasn't made for dairy work,'
joined in Harry ; who had the odd sort of
delight in his step-mother's incapability
that able men often find in peculiarly helpless
women.

Miss Lawrance is just such a nesh
one, I should think ! ' he exclaimed.

*Well, that settles the question pro
tern. ! ' cried Susie, ' and now I must get to
my work. Mother, how am I to translate :
-' Liege allait faire rendre gorge aux procureurs
de I'eveche ? " '

Mrs. Williams' withered French was not
equal to the demand, and as usual Susie
had recourse to the dictionary, without the

least diminution in her reliance on her
mother's attainments. For a good hour she
was lost in translating, with the difficulty
of a self-taught person, with the lack of
spontaneity of one who reads in a dead
language, Michelett's account of the sack
of Disant. She was determined to pass
the Cambridge examination, to take her
certificate ; and some time, when Harry
was married, when there would be no more
need or place for her at home, she would
go and teach, she would go and learn, would
live with cultivated people, travel perhaps ;
she would earn and save, and set up an
efficient school for girls ; and her mother
should come and live with her ; thus she
would pass a useful noble life. These were
Susie's long-loved dreams, though of late
they had not quite satisfied her, and had
seemed to lose their savour. Meanwhile
her brother made up his accounts, and Mrs.
Williams lay on the sofa and talked, humming
softly to herself, with characteristic

disregard of the occupations of busier
people. So the evening passed and brought
the night ; and the night  welcome to early-rising
country people  the night passed also
and brought the most eventful day of the
week, Sunday.

A country Sunday in summer, an English
country Sunday ; the fields are still,
no figures move, no voices are heard among
the waving ranks of the ripening corn ;
only placid animals populate the pasture
lands still vivid with the green of aftermath
; the movement, the voices of the
work-a-day world are stilled. Over all is
an unusual repose. Repose, but not silence.

There are no carts in the fields, no
working reapers and gleaners ; but see on
the road, family by family, at unequal intervals,
all alike, rich and poor, saunter
along the same way. There are no voices
in the fields, but over the twitter of the
children picking flowers in the hedgerows,
over the sedate talk of the mothers and

fathers walking on before, over the song of
the birds and the lowing of the cattle, a
sound, a clang, a peal of bells announces
the holiday.

Arden woke up on Sunday morning
refreshed, expectant. She came downstairs
with a bright winning face.

Good morning, Sylvie said Mrs
Lawrance.

Good morning. How is grand-papa
? '

He's better this morning. Ill make a
shift to take you to church, as it's the first
time.*

That's very good of you. I do want
to see all the people, and to hear who they
are.'

Don't talk at random, child. If you
go to church with such thoughts as that, it
'uU do you no good. No good 'full come of
it!'

True.' Arden wondered what she
should say next.

Who is the clergyman ; do you like
him ? ' she asked .

Mr. Law ? He's a good sort of man
and a great scholar d, so they say ; but he
don't see after the parish much ; he's so
taken up with his books and with them
Masters.'

 Oh! I shall see Mrs. Masters.' Arden
thought of the words she had overheard
on the Church Hill, and of Mrs. Masters'
request that the name of Arden should be
discarded.

She must be an insolent woman,'
she reflected aloud.

Oh, Sylvie, learn a little respect.
You shouldn't speak so of your betters.'

I don't see that Mrs. Masters is my
better, Mrs. Lawrance.'

She's the Squire's lady, and an Arden
of Arden.'

And I'm an Arden of Rome  a yet
more illustrious birthplace.'

 Oh, well, Sylvie, if you choose to

take it ill, you must. But put on your
things, or we'll be late for church ; it's a
longish walk, even across the fields.'

The first bell was just beginning its
clear, far-resounding peal as they left the
house. Arden walked quickly.

There's no occasion to be so precipitate,
Sylvie,' said Mrs. Lawrance ; ' there's
a good half-hour yet, afore service-time.'

Very well. What lovely roses '  she
stopped, and sniffed the fragrance of a
yellow sprinkled standard.

Yes, they're a remarkable fine blossom.
Glory-dies Johns, as I've 'heard.'

What ? '

That's their botanic name, .'


Oh, how funny, how absurd ! ' Arden
began to laugh.

Why, Sylvie, I should ha' that you'd
ha' known it already ; it's a French word,
so I'm told.'

True.' Arden buried her blushing

face in the roses, and felt she should not
have laughed.

They walked on a little way in silence.
I must make another start,' thought
Arden.

Who lives in that beautiful old house ? '
she inquired. ' Oh, what a beautiful black
and white house ; it's the first really English
house I have ever seen ! '

That's Williams's Farm,' said Mrs.
Lawrance. ' There's nought as I can see
so remarkable about it. Why, Sylvie, the
Bushes is a much better 'ouse than that ! '

But this,' cried the young girl, ' is
so individual ; voila du characters as Gerard
would say. Oh, I should like to paint it.'

And who's Gerard, Sylvie ? ' asked
Mrs. Lawrance, with a sudden interest.

Oh, he's my oldest friend, he and
Ellie. He's a dear boy! ' said Arden.

Oh,' cried Mrs. Lawrance, ' I that he
might ha' been summit else.'

Arden shook her head, but she did not

laugh, as she would have done a month
ago when Gerard was only a nice lad and
a dear friend. Now he represented much
more ; home, country, her old life, her
accustomed thoughts, youth, happiness,
art. It was a pity Gerard Rose had no
good fairy to whisper that his hour had
arrived ; for I think she would have
married him then, without being at all
in love  not even enough to know that
her heart was free.

All this time she was leaning over
the richard-gate, and Susie Williams,
putting on her bonnet, upstairs, could see
her well. ' How sweet she looks,' thought
Susie. ' How lovely she is in that plain
black dress, and long black veil. She
looks like the nuns at Clinton. If only
she would once look up and smile.'

But Arden moved away.

Come, Sylvie,' cried Mrs. Lawrance ;
I should ha' that you'd ha' seen a farm
before, even in furrin parts.'

Oh, Italian farms are quite different.'
Ay, I daresay they're not so well

kep Susie Williams is a good 'un to

manage.'

Is she the farmer's wife ? '

No ; she's 'is step-sister, and quite a
girl ; 'e's never married, 'isn't Williams.
So you don't have farms in Rome, Sylvie ? '

Not in Rome, of course, but in the
country. Oh, in Tuscany there are such
pretty farms ; quite small, you know ; up
a hill, with no hedges, and with olive-yards
instead of apple-orchards, and underneath
the olives, wheat or maize. You
can't think how pretty it is in August,
when they hang the maize to dry ; it look?
like a cloth of gold on the house-fronts,
with square holes left for the windows
and the door ; and later on you see them
ploughing under the olives, with great
white oxen, yoked to the plough  not an
iron plough, you know, but a sort of
wooden trident ; and in the spring the

corn comes up all full of blood-red tulips ;
and round the edges of the fields are pollard
mulberry-trees, and the vine jumps
along from tree to tree.'

Here's the last stile, Sylvie. Ah, we
must show you an English farm ; we're
much more advanced in ageracultur, here.'

And now in front of them rose the
squat grey church, and the high graveyard
full of early-coming worshippers.

It was the custom at Arden for all the
farmers of the parish, and their families,
to come to church a good twenty minutes
or so before service-time. In the pretty
high-lying churchyard, they stood in knots
discussing the weather and the prospects
of the harvest ; such as were old, or weak,
or tired, sat themselves, with no irreverent
thoughts, on the square box-like tombs.
It was a rendezvous, looked forward to
all the week, where all ends of the parish
met at one centre. Here the elderly
women gossiped together over their neigh-vol.

L L

hours, their housekeeping, and their ailments
; the young people found this their
best chance for meeting friends from distant
farms, and for showing themselves off
in their prettiest clothes to their sweethearts.
Often, in the muddy, short winter
days, Farmer King's Silly, at Petersham,
for instance, would have found it quite
impossible to tell her secrets to her bosom
friend, Annie Lovell, of Raynham, since
their houses were five miles apart, had
it not been for the pleasant Sunday
mornings when friends met, lovers whispered,
merry girls and boys carried on
noisy quarrels and flirtations ; and the
elder people, too, amused themselves in
their own fashion. Of course, the gentry,
having leisure, carriages, a score of means
for meeting in the week, did not avail
themselves of this opportunity. The
Masters, old Mr. Lucy, of Raynham,
Mrs. Clinton, of the Firs (Mrs. Masters'
aunt), and the Lawrances  this was all

the list of gentry  showed their superiority
by coming later, when all the
humbler worshippers were seated in their
pews ; the Masters, in especial, often kept
the congregation in the church, and the
clergyman in the vestry, for a good five
minutes ; but no one would have thought
of beginning service without the family
from the Hall.

There was, therefore, quite an assemblage
of lookers-on to greet Arden's
appearance at church with Mrs. Lawrance.
All turned their heads to gaze at the
two women, with a broad agricultural
stare, innocent of rudeness.

She's none so pretty, after all ; as
white as a potato.'

 Poor maid, she's lost her father.'

She's a goodly height ; 'ud be a fine
figure of a woman if she was filled out
and rosy.'

Oh, she'll alius be weak and sickly,
take my word.'

L 2

'Tis a good thing for the Bushes; them
two old 'uns let all run to rack and ruin.'

She's no good, she's a farrier ; don't
know cheese from chalk.'

She's welcome as flowers in May,
depend upon it.'

The last speaker was Susie Williams,
who, having perceived that Arden must
have heard too many of the foregoing
remarks, made hers in a clear, reassuring
voice. Arden heard her, and smiled.
Who is that fair-haired, eager-looking
girl? ' she asked of Mrs. Lawrance.

That's Miss Williams. Good morning,
Miss Williams, I hope your mother's less
precarious in 'earth than formerly.'

Yes, thank you, Mrs. Lawrance; she's
all right.'

Then Arden and Mrs. Lawrance went
down into the church, a cold and gloomy
barn of a place, lower than the churchyard.

What a nice girl she seems,' said
Arden.

 H-sh. Don't talk in church.'
So Arden set herself to watch her
neighbours and to remark the service ;
she had scarcely ever been to an English
service before. In Rome she and her
father nearly always went into the country
on Sundays ; and Arden was not of a
religious temperament. She went to church
if other people went ; of her own accord,
she would probably have stayed outside.

The Lawrances' pew was half-way up
the aisle ; a great square wooden pew, a
pillar blocking up one end, the door the
other ; Mrs. Lawrance sat facing the altar ;
Arden facing the door ; she looked curiously
about. On the other side the aisle the
bell-ringers were still pulling at the strong
many-coloured cords, stooping and rising,
dragged off their feet sometimes by the
upward jerk of the rope. Down the aisle
marched the school children, with fat rosy
cheeks drawn into an expression of decent
composure, their little eyes cast down,

their whitish or dead-brown hair oiled to
unnatural and dripping glossiness. Then
the old men came in, one by one, and
hobbled to their places in the free seats;
old men with bent shoulders, wrinkled
faces burnt a fine red with exposure to all
weathers, with snowy clean hair, with an
expression of shrewdness and content in
their rugged but not unhandsome outlines.
They sat three rows deep at the top corner
of the aisle ; the sun from the window
behind brought out the strong colouring
of their faces and neckties, the golden-brown
tints of their fustian jackets.

They are as superior to the old menin
Rome as their children are expressionless
and ugly,' thought Arden. ' How I
wish Mrs. Lawrance did not look so severe.
I should like to sketch that head ! '

She was saved from yielding to the
temptation by a renewed curiosity as a
third inroad from the churchyard crowded
the aisle. Decent labourers and their

wives, some of the farmers, too, with their
families. The bell-ringers stopped ; gradually
the church filled. Arden noticed Susie
Williams passing to her seat ; the two girls
looked at each other and smiled.

J should like to know her,' whispered
Arden to Mrs. Lawrance.

'I don't know as she's a proper
acquaintance for you.'

Not proper?'

 Oh, she's a good girl enough, but
her brother's a coarse man, quite the
farmer.'

By ' coarse,' Mrs. Lawrance meant
rough. But Arden understood her differently.


Oh,' she said,  what a pity ! '

There was a pause. After a minute
or two, a rustling. Enter a tall handsome
woman in a shabby silk dress, several girls,
two young men. One of the girls limped
a little, and leaned heavily on the arm of
her brother, a weak, handsome youth.

 Them's the Masters said Mrs.
Lawrance.

Then service began.

It seemed very long and dull to Arden,
the singing bad, the ceremonial dreary,
but the waving of the trees outside the
window was pretty to watch ; the people,
too, seemed far more in sober earnest over
their prayers than the worshippers at
grand Roman functions. How they listened
to the pompous, scholarly sermon ! Arden
found her thoughts running back to the
near, vanished past ; a heavy tear dropped
on to her knee. She shook her head and
looked up ; someone was looking at her,
earnestly and kindly. She noticed that he
was sitting next to Susie Williams.

 So that's the coarse brother, I suppose.
What an ugly man ! What insolence to
stare at me ! '

Her expression conveyed her thoughts;
the man looked confused, opened his prayer-book,
began reading the Psalms at random.

 I wonder when the Roses will write to
me Arden was thinking.

After a while the sermon came to an
end : the service also. There was a bustle,
a general scuffle after umbrellas and prayer-books,
an exodus. Arden found herself
in the churchyard again, in the fresh clear
weather, among the grass and the trees ;
she stood still on the path. Mrs. Lawrance
nudged her. ' Stand aside, let Mrs. Masters
pass.*

She moved a little on to the grass. It
was just about the place where Georgina
Masters had fallen and hurt her ankle ;
the girl was pointing it out to her brother
as she passed. ' I think mother 's very
unjust,* she added.

Mrs. Masters heard ; she turned sharp
round.

Mrs. Lawrance, I haven't seen you for
an age,' she said ; 'and how's your husband,
pray?'

Mrs. Lawrance was delighted at this

mark of recognition, though she was too
proud to show it.

Mr. Lawrance is alius a sufferer,' she
said,  and 'e's just lost 'is only son, a circumstance
as has proved very injurious to
'is 'earth ; but 'ell be pleased to 'ear you
was so kindly interested '  Mrs. Lawrance
hesitated a moment, then she pushed Arden
forward  ' Mr. Lawrance's granddaughter
is come to live with us,' she said.

 Oh, mother ! ' cried Georgina, coming
forward.

Mrs. Masters put up her eyeglass, and
looked at Arden.

Is this the young person ? I have not
the pleasure of her acquaintance.'

Then she swept onwards, with one
triumphant glance at Georgina ; swept on,
leaving behind her a confused murmur of
reproaches, gossip, wonder, from the stragglers
in the churchyard.

For shame ; the insolent woman ! '
cried Susie Williams.

Arden stepped forward. ' Thank you ! '
she said, and held out her hand.

Come on, Sylvie, come on,' cried
Mrs. Lawrance, ' we've had quite enough
commotion for one Sunday already.'

Arden obeyed ; but that warm friendly
hand-clasp remained in her memory, a full
equivalent for Mrs. Masters' injury.

Brother or no brother, I will know
that girl,' she said to herself, ' especially
as it seems I am to be allowed to know
nobody else.'

CHAPTER X.

THE PRIMROSE PATH.

That afternoon, as Susie Williams and her
mother were returning from some neighbourly
visit, they met the Squires
youngest son in the lane. This was such
an important event to little Susie, and
summoned such blushes to her cheeks, that
we must not pass over in silence a young
man whose merits certainly deserve no
chronicle.

Fred Masters was the darling of his
mother and sisters ; they had always
spoiled him from affection, as his father
had done from vanity, for Fred was the
very reproduction of his own extravagant
indolent youth. The lad was now about

twenty-three years of age, a very handsome,
youthful, petulant, engaging scapegrace.
In the spring he had been suddenly
expelled from Cambridge for some over-daring
undergraduate's 'lark,' but though
this escapade was the nominal cause of his
being sent down, people talked of worse
unsteadiness behind. Since then he had
loitered about the village, doing nothing,
making friends with all the village wits,
sworn admirers of this handsome youth,
who treated them all round at the Three
Crowns ; and of late he had found a still
more pleasing pastime in making love to
pretty Susie Williams.

So far his love-making had never gone
any great lengths. There was. a certain
dignity in Susie's frank recognition of her
inferior station, a certain impregnability in
her ardent earnestness in all she did, which
warned the idle youth against checkmating
all pleasant possibilities by proceeding to
extremes. All he could do was to infuse

much chivalry and devotion into his manner
at choir practices, and at the Sunday
school, at which Susie's presence had made
him a regular attendant. This promising
youth was strolling down the lane when he
saw Susie Williams and her mother a little
ahead.

 Plague take the little old woman,' he
said to himself, ' she is always in the way.'

However, when he came up to them,
he took off his hat, and made himself even
more agreeable to Mrs. Williams than to
the daughter.

I missed you at church this morning,
Mrs. Williams. I hope you did not stay
at home from illness ? '

Oh, Mr. Fred, you're always so polite
and noticing. No, I'm quite well, I am
thankful to say ; but there's a mint of
things to do about the house, and Susie's so
fond of her church and school.'

So am L' Fred tried to look meaningly
at Susie, but she did not understand.

One ought to love institutions she
replied.

Certainly she is very stupid sometimes,'
reflected the young man.

'Oh, yes, Mr. Fred,' went on Mrs.
Williams, ' everyone knows you're the stay
of the school ; the Vicar's so lost in his
book-learning. This last six months or
so, Susie tells me, you've been so constant
in looking after things and helping her
manage that class of great unruly boys that
I always say she is unfit to look after

Fred smiled a little awkwardly, and
changed the topic.

Are you going to church this evening,
Miss Susie ? There's to be a practice after
service, so Georgina tells me.'

I wish I could come, but it's so late
getting home.'

Let her come, Mrs. Williams. I'll see
her home, if you think I'm a fit escort

Oh, Mr. Fred ! ' cried the honoured and
delighted Mrs. Williams.

I think I can't come,' cried Susie,
feeling tremendously willing and unwilling,
shy and eager, all at once. ' In fact, I am
sure I can't come. Harry wants me

I wish you would come, Miss Susie ' 
this low to her ; then louder to lier mother,
 The Vicar always complains when she is
absent. She is the one contralto of the
village : 1 think Mr. Williams might spare
her.'

Never fear, Mr. Fred. She'll come 
there's nothing she wants so much.'

Mother ! ' cried Susie, in an appealing
voice.

I shall see you then,' said the young
man. ' I am glad. Good-bye, Mrs.
Williams.'

Fred sauntered on : it was not so easy
after all ; yet he was from lack of anything
else to think of becoming desperately in
love with this yellow-haired little girl.

Mrs. Williams and her daughter went
slowly on in the opposite direction.

Why did you insist on my going this
evening, mother? You know I promised
to look over the accounts with Harry.'

Don't speak so sharp, Susie. I
shouldn't have insisted unless it were for
your good. And I wish you'd call me
mama," not " mother." 'Tis more
ladylike.'

 I don't care ; I am not a young lady.'

Oh, Susie, Susie, don't say such
things ; people take one at one's own
value ; and there's no knowing what may
happen.'

After all,' sighed Susie, ' it is no great
matter, I suppose, if I am a good woman.'

She sighed ; because she could not help
thinking how nice it would have been had
she been born a young lady ; she would
have known Mr. Fred's sisters.

We shall see,' said Mrs. Williams.
She smiled to herself ; now if the Squire's
younger son, none too well off, should
marry her Susie, who was as pretty a girl

VOL. I. M

as one could wish to see and would have a
thousand pounds to her portion, why it
would be an excellent thing for him, and
she would live to see her daughter a real
lady. Her fancy ran far ahead ; it was
all settled in her mind, when Susie's voice
brought her back to reality :

Miss Lawrance is a young lady,' she
was saying, ' and such a beautiful young
lady! Yet she doesn't look happy ; she's
not so happy as I, poor girl ! '

She had no sooner finished speaking
than she wondered, did Mr. Fred admire
Miss Lawrance? She felt an odd sort of
pang.

 Do you think her pretty, mother ? *
she asked, in a faltering voice.

Ay, ay ; she's a real lady and no
mistake ; as pale as wax ; and a train to
her dress, did you see? I suppose it's
French fashions.'

Mrs. Williams, who had no great
tenacity of ideas, went out on a new line

of fancies ; her daughter pondered vaguely
on the differences between herself and Miss
Lawrance. Mr. Fred could not have liked
her looks, or he would not have let his
mother insult the poor thing. That was
not nice of him ; she blamed him gravely.
What a venturesome pleasure it is, fraught
with how delicious a sense of self-assertion
and independence, to dare to blame those
on whom we secretly know that all our
peace of mind depends !

They reached the little iron gate that
opened on their neat flower-garden. Mrs.
Williams stopped to bind up some draggling
sprays of rose, for on Sundays she liked
being in the garden, there was so much
coming and going along the highway.
Susie did not wait ; she ran through the
dark parlour, always dim with its black
oak lining; on the table at one end the
ledgers and account books were neatly set
out, she sighed as she looked at them and
shook her head ; but she did not stop ; she

M 2

hurried upstairs into her bedroom, and sat
down at the foot of the bed. Nothing
had happened, yet her blood was whirring
through her veins, her head felt dizzy and
full. She dropped it into her hands and
sat gazing at the floor. She felt strangely
reluctant to go this evening ; yet her heart
was throbbing with wild joy and expectation.
She had not done it, she kept saying
to herself, her mother had done it  but her
mother did not know what this meeting
must mean to Mr. Fred, what it meant to
her. A whole language of looks and tones,
a whole beseeching and granting unperceived
by her mother, had passed between
them in those few minutes. Susie felt that
her mother had unconsciously betrayed
her, against her will, but according to her
desire. She had been handed over, so to
speak, to a mastering fate. Now there
was nothing to do but fear, hope, expect.
Ah, she should see him again this evening;
hear his voice, feel his sleeve against her

arm. Did he love her, or did he only like
her? She did not doubt but she should
know.

You, my reader, may question that a
girl of strong good sense and sterling
character should love, however favouring
the circumstance, a mere handsome unprincipled
scapegrace such as Fred Masters ;
but it is no less a fact that often the most
reasonable and conscientious persons are
at the same time hot in feeling, headstrong
in passion, and capable of running all risks
in love.

Sweet, impressionable Arden, so much
less strong-minded, would have had too
delicate a judgment to fall in love with
such a man. She possessed neither the
force of self-abnegation nor the intensity of
sentiment which might lead Susie Williams
hopelessly astray, or at last condemn her
to a heart-breaking renunciation. Poor
girl ; she loved strongly, and suffered none
the less in suspecting her love to be imprudently

wasted. During these three
months, in which so little had been said,
so much hinted, she had striven by all
means in her power to break loose from
the strengthening chain ; now she had been
bound against her will. She would struggle
no more. She would wait and see.

The door at the top of the staircase was
opened. ' Susie ! ' called her mother.

Yes, mothers

 Harry's stayed tea to Farmer Willis's.
It's almost six o' the clock; you'd better
come down and get your tea with me.'

I'm coming.'

She took off her bonnet, threw it
hurriedly on the bed, and rushed downstairs.


'Why, Susie,' cried Mrs. Williams,
what a fright you look, girl! Aren't
you going to smarten yourself up a bit
afore you go to church?'

I shall do.'

And your hair all anyhow, and your

face as long as if you were going to a
funeral. I don't call it respectful

It's my voice they want, not my
face

I dare say  but when the Squire's son
offers to see you home.'

Advancement ! treasure ! The duke's
son ! ' quoth Susie bitterly, who was read
in Lamb's selections. Then as the whole
meaning of the passage flashed on her 
 Oh, mother, mother dear, I beg your
pardon.'

*Ay, you are too often rude to your
mother, Susie. Some day you'll be sorry.'

I'm sorry now, mother.'

Well, then, make yourself look pretty
to please me ; you'll never be younger.'

Not to-night, mother dear.* She got
up and kissed her mother; then taking
down a long blue waterproof and a straw
hat from a peg by the door, she put them
on.

Susie ! ' cried Mrs. Williams, horrified;

what's come to you ? You're never going
to church in your garden things ! '

Yes, mother.'

She shut the door softly, and was gone.
Out in the lane where the light was dim,
and the sky turning a soft yellow-green
behind the tall Scotch firs  out in the
quiet lane she felt a childish pang of regret
that she had not pleased her mother,
or rather that Mr, Fred would see her
looking so ugly and shabby. Her blue eyes
widened with anxiety and expectation 
looked out forlornly from under the brown
straw brim, the blue cloak hung gracefully
enough round the slender little figure; but,
when she passed the canal by the field -
path to church, she could not refrain from
bending over, to glance at her own reflection.
How common and plain she thought herself.
She was almost ready to turn back
with vexation. But this mood, so foreign
to her character, veered round suddenly,
and gave way to an outbreak of her natural

pride. It was on purpose she had refrained
from looking her best  she would scorn to
attract, to entangle him. He should know
and see the difference between them, the
gulf that divided her, in all matters of
outward show, from his sisters or Miss
Lawrance. It was no priggish book-learned
phrase, it was one of the strongest
instincts of her nature that had prompted
Susie when she had said : ' One must love
institutions.' Nothing was clearer, more
universal a duty, to her thinking, than
that every class should progress, should
perfect itself in its own groove, remaining
distinct and respectable. Not that she
formulated her theory, but it was no less
a motive of her actions. It was this that
made her work so hard to reinstate her
family in their inherited condition of comfort
and consideration. It was this that
made her feel her love for Fred Masters to
be unlawful and unfortunate. It was an
upheaval of her convictions.

Meanwhile it was in quite a different
mood that Fred thought of the approaching
meeting. From his point of view there
was no harm in it. He certainly did not
intend to marry Susie Williams, but neither
had he any more sinister designs upon her.
She was the prettiest girl in the village,
and he the young Squire. It was natural
that each should contribute to the amusement
of the other.

Besides, he really liked Susie Williams.
Her vehement downrightness and simplicity
attracted him by the very force of contrasts,
and had she been in his own rank
of life he would certainly have married
her. That was unfortunately impossible ;
but he could see no reason why a fellow
should not make love to a farmer's pretty
sister. And, depend upon it, a girl
like Susie Williams would know how to
take care of herself. That was her lookout.


So he finished his cigar. Sunday was

certainly a dull day at the Hall. The
hours lagged and dragged as if it would
always be afternoon. Fred became quite
excited as the evening drew on at last.
He sat smoking after tea and thinking
what he would say to Susie. She was a
sweet little soul, so frank and honest ; nor
did it once occur to him that he was doing
his best to spoil her frankness. She was
certainly the prettiest girl he knew, so
slim and fair and rosy. And such a child,
a man might express a liking for her
without committing himself. Susie should
never be the worse for his affection. So
Fred mused, feeling very virtuous and at
peace with all the world, as he lounged
in the great garden chair under the acacia
tree. He was so comfortable that he let
the time pass on till, on pulling out his
watch, he discovered that service must be
nearly over. Then he strolled leisurely
towards the church.

The door was open for the sake of the

air ; the clear voices of the choir sounded
far down the lane. Fred walked across
the churchyard and looked in. Yes ;
Susie was there. Not, however, as he had
expected and wished to see her, casting
anxious glances towards the door, wondering
why he did not come. They were
practising a difficult anthem. The schoolmaster
had not come, and Susie was alto,
conductor, and organist at once. She stood
by the organ, turning round every now
and then to play with her full firm touch
some single phrase or motive, and then the
labour began of getting it sung in time.
She had forgotten everything but the task
in hand ; her brows were knit, there was
resolution in her face and bearing. She
had pushed back her hat, her pretty yellow
hair rippled over her temples ; her cloak
was thrown back over her shoulders that
she might beat time more freely. ' Listen,'
she said, and sang the difficult phrase
herself in all the parts, one after another.

Tien an awful Babel began, as the choir
essayed to put it together, Susie becoming
more in earnest, more dominant, more
successful, till at last the phrase was
repeated correct in time and harmony.

That's well,' cried Susie ;  now sing
it all through.' Then she turned to the
instrument and began to play, and the
anthem went smoothly enough ; her voice,
her playing, directing all. Fred, standing
in the shadow of the doorway, watched
her, not without a certain impatience; never
had she seemed so difficult to obtain, so
necessary, so distant, before. Here she
seemed so perfectly mistress of herself, so
able to direct, command. Would she indeed
submit to his passion? She should, she
should ! A sort of fury of desire awoke
in him as he looked on while she directed
this confusion, calmly, skilfully, quite
unconscious of his presence. At last it
was all over ; he shrank into the shade ; the
choir passed out slowly, one by one ; then,

last of all, alone, a little sadly, she also
came. He put out his hand. ' Susie ! ' he
whispered.

She did not hear, but he could see that
her face was changed to a tearful, childlike
sorrow ; that she huddled her arms in her
cloak as if it were mid-winter.

 Susie ! ' he said.

Ah, you are come ! '

She gave him her hand ; he drew it
closer towards him, drew her to his breast,
folded her in his arms, looking at the
sweet upturned face. She was really very
pretty.

It was the first time he had called herby
her name, the first time he had ignored
the ordinary friendly greeting ; he had
never yet told her that he loved her,
and yet she did not feel surprised. She
continued to look up at him with timid
questioning eyes.

Then he stooped and kissed her.

I am SO glad you kissed me first in
church,' she said.

The simple speech seemed to sting
him ; he loosed his hold of her for a
moment. Then he caught her to him
passionately, defiantly, kissing her hair,
her eyes, her mouth.  I love you, Susie,'
he cried ; ' I love you, I love you '

Think,' she cried ; it was as if she
were sinking to sleep in the snow and
made one supreme struggle for life, ' think
of all there is between us. Your place,
my place  how far apart.' She held up
her arms and kept him from her while
she spoke, so that he might let her finish,
might hear her through.

Does that prevent me loving you ? '
he cried. She felt his arms round her
again ; there was no more struggling
now.

I love you,' she whispered.

Ah, she was wild with joy ; she could
have cried it out to the stars, to the trees,

to the wind, only that he was by her side
to hear. There was but one cloud on her
delight : he had forbidden her just yet to
say a word to mother or brother about
their secret.

CHAPTER XL

Pictures.

For some days after that eventful Sunday
Arden was quite worn out. All the fatigue,
the recoil of memory, the perception of
her own loneliness, seemed to weigh upon
her together. It was very hot weather, for
those few days almost as hot as Italy ; and
Arden, like all people who have lived long in
Italy, dreaded the heat, not knowing how
soon it would be over and wished for again.
So she sat on the verandah, talking to her
grandfather, while Mrs. Lawrance, with
tightening lips and threatening eyes, worked
and listened in silence. Arden had offered
to help in the work, though, to say the
truth, she was not great in such matters ;

VOL. I. N

but Mrs. Lawrance had answered, somewhat
grimly, that if Sylvia would only
do her own sewing that would be quite
enough ; that she had got used to working
alone. She sighed a little. Arden misunderstood
her, and begged again and again
to be allowed to do something ; the elder
woman quietly refused ; her sigh had been
one of regret for those days gone by when
she was alone with her husband. So,
glad of her enforced idleness, Arden leaned
back in her arm-chair, and talked, now and
then, of her old life, of her father and his
ways; showing, artlessly enough, how
much more to her mind they were than
the conduct of life at the Bushes. Sometimes
she would read ; but there were not
many books at the Bushes, save the
Classics, some works on engineering, and a
long file of the ' Gentleman's Magazine.'
It was not very entertaining. And no
visitors ever came. Still Arden hoped for
better things; she did not despond. If

she could not continue her old interests,
she made up her mind to seek for new
ones.

We know that she had made up her
mind to become a sort of stay of life to her
grandparents, and when Mrs. Lawrance so
curtly negatived her proposal to help in the
indoor work, she quietly determined to
look after the farming.

She knew very little about such
matters, but after diligent perusal of a
farm manual, she set out, one cooler morning,
and walked over the little estate o
thirty or forty acres. It was all grazing
land and in bad condition; the high lands
bare with great fissures, the lower part undrained,
covered with coarse rank herbage.
The farm man roused himself from sleep
to tell her that 'the grass was so mortal
scarce this year, he had put the cows in
the smallest hay-meadow.' There they
were, browsing away with good-will, eating"
their winter's store. No wonder,

N 9.

thought Arden, fresh from her farm manual
and fired with the zeal of a reformer, no
wonder Mrs. Lawrance complains they
bring her butter back from the market !

She went home, hot and tired indeed,
but foreseeing for herself a career of busy
usefulness.

Grandpa,' she said that afternoon, as
they sat in the verandah,  do you know
the hill meadow is all full of cracks  I
could put my hand and arm in  and as dry
as a bone.'

' Well, well, Sylvie, we mustn't complain,
while there's enough for us to eat,
and there's so many in want.'

It's alius so in summer ; 'tis the lack
o' rain.'

And there's too much rain in the front
meadow,' cried Arden.  A sort of marshall
thick-stemmed lily roots.'

Ah well, the cows must take it turn
and turn about ; the one in hot weather,
Sylvie, the other in dry ! '

But, grandpapa/ she pursued, ' the
cows are in neither now ; they're in the
hay-meadow.'

Dear, dear! ' said Mrs. Lawrence; 'and
last winter we spent twenty pound in hay ;
the pasture's got that thin and poor, there's
no nourishment in it ! '

It '11 last our time,' sighed the old
man; ' it '11 last our time, Nannie.'

The manual says,' went on Arden ina
shy impersonal tone, ' that if the hill
meadow were to be dug up and turned
over, let lie fallow for a year and the
sown, it would make a beautiful pasture.
After all, grass is a sort of crop, isn't it,
grandpa? '

I'm not one for changing and shifting,'
he said ; ' let well alone, Sylvie ; there are
two proverbs would guide you through
most of the circumstances of life. One
is " Let well alone," and the other '' Let
sleeping dogs lie." '

Thank Heaven,' cried Arden, ' everyone

does not think so, or the world would
be a sort of Hospital for Incurables ! '

Softly, softly, my dear,' said the old
man.

But Mrs. Lawrance would not overlook
Arden's impetuous speech.

I wonder at you, Sylvie ! Lecturing
your grandpa as if he was a three-years
child; you as has no experience of agriculture;
and then you inform us we're
incurables ! I suppose it's a very different
part a' life from what you're accustomed to
in furrin parts; but if it wasn't for your
grandpa, what would 'a become of you, for
all your fine acquaintance ? I never could
abide ingratitude and scarce ! ' The last
phrase, it is only fair to admit, was intended
to be sotto voce although clearly audible.
Arden had too much sense to be angry.
She perceived there was a great deal of
truth in Mrs. Lawrance's criticism, and
leaned towards her, speaking eagerly :

Oh, please don't think so ! Indeed I

am not ungrateful. It's just because I feel
you are so good to me, you and grandpa,
and offered me a home when no one else
did, though you knew nothing about me;
that's just why I want to be of some use
to you, and not only in the way and an
encumbrance.'

'I'm sure, Sylvie, if you alius spoke
as pretty, there'd be nothing to complain
of,' replied the elder woman, almost affectionately.


Perhaps I shall improve,' said Arden,
wistfully. 

'To be sure she will,' cried her grandfather,
delighted at this sudden dispersion
of a threatened fuss ; ' to be sure she will ;
in six months she'll be a sensible red-cheeked
English country girl. Why, she
looks better already, I believe, and Rome
wasn't built in a day, was it Sylvie ? '

Ah, don't let us talk of Rome.'

Indeed, even to think of Rome was
dangerous ; such a mist of tears would

flood her eyes, her heart would sink so,
and a ball grow in her throat till she
almost choked. But she would not have
lost one pang of those bitter-sweet poignant
memories ; as even pain is welcome in a
numbed limb, as any sight is longed forby
blinded eyes, and one gone deaf would
be thankful, indeed, to hear the screeching
of a nightjar, so in this cold senseless
present Arden greeted those aching
memories which were the only part of
her life that seemed alive still and capable
of sensation.

One day, when she felt stronger, and
when, as usual, there was nothing for her
to do except to keep out of the way, she
went upstairs into the attic-loft, and opened
one of her great trunks, hitherto untouched.
There lay her easel, her palette, and
painting tools ; there were her sketches
made under her father's supervision, and
some notes of his also, studies for his
larger painting ; she took them tenderly

in her arms and carried them into her
room.

There was one of Ponte MoUe, green
and desolate. There was a corner of some
hill-town, weather-stained white houses,
with little towers, projecting roofs, uneven
loggie and terraces, a tall cypress, a wide
view below. Then came studies of roads
and oliver's. Then one which made
her heart beat faster and the tears fall like
rain ; the purple-flowered Piazza at Tor-cells,
with the grey old buildings round.
The brush marks were still fresh, the paint
scarcely dried in. How different the world
was when that sketch was painted !

It was just before she had met the
Roses in San Marco. She had not been
thinking very much of her father then ;
she had been so glad to meet them. And
yet now, no one seemed worth caring for
much, because he was dead ; she recalled,
crying softly, the day they had gone to
Tor cello ; the last happy morning of his

life. Then her father's death ; and she
had been very desolate and lonely, and conscious
that she belonged to no one. Then
she had been told that her grandfather had
asked her to come and live with him.
After all he must have cared for her more
than those others cared who had known
her all her life, who had petted and spoiled
her. He was very kind. But perhaps he
had only invited her from a sense of duty.
Why, then, he must be very good.

With a rush of tender feeling towards
him, she took up her father's sketches and
hurried downstairs.

Her grandfather was asleep in his great
arm-chair in the little library, where he
read his paper and pretended now and then
to look over the accounts of income and
expenditure. Arden did not go away ; she
crept softly to the window and sat down,
still holding the sketches on her lap.
She looked at her grandfather's sleeping
face. How good and honourable it looked

in its repose, though the forehead and chin
told of obstinacy and prejudice, though the
slackened limbs betrayed a habit of indolent
days. But age. bringing out these
characteristics, had also revealed a nature
upright and truthful ; ever ready to help,
though not eager to help ; habitually
generous in thought, prevented only by
unvanquished circumstance and a natural
supineness from being as generous in deed.
Arden thought it a face to love ; it reminded
her, notwithstanding much unlikeness,
of her own father. The tears gathered
into her eyes. She turned away and
looked out. There was a little breeze
outside ; the great lilac bushes before the
window softly rustled their heart-shaped
leaves. On the other side the drive, the
little lawn was hedged in with apple-trees ;
under their shade the yellow beehives were
ranged, and the bees were flitting to and
fro over the flower-borders among the tall
hollyhocks and lingering white lilies, the

phlox and stocks and carnations, the roses
and poppies. She could hear their busy
hum where she sat. A fish leapt in the
pond under the apple and quince branches,
making a clear cool plop in the water.
Some errant hens and chickens were pecking
at the gravel. Everything wore a look
of indescribable peace.

After all, I shall be happy here,' said
Arden.

Thoughtlessly she spoke aloud, and her
voice roused the old man from his doze.
He opened his eyes and looked round.

Sylvie ! '

Yes, grandpapa/ She got up and
went to his side, taking the cockades with
her. ' I've brought you some of papa's
sketches to see.'

John's work ? ' Mr. Lawrance sat up ;
'of course, of course. Where are my
glasses, Sylvie?'

Here, grandpa ; see, this is near
Rome  isn't it beautiful ? '

He did not seem so satisfied, turning
from one sketch to another, looking at
them from all points of view.

But don't you like them, grandpa? '
she asked.

Well, well, Sylvie ; I'm no judge ;
people painted differently in my time ;
they look too bleak and grey and white
for me. Give me old Crone and Constable
for landscape.'

Ah, I never saw them,' said Arden.
No doubt they are great painters, too.'

You may well say so. Ah, I used to
be reckoned quite a judge of painting ; but
mind I'm not disparaging John's work ;
he had the knowledge no doubt, poor
fellow  he had the knowledge. But it
takes us old folk some time to get used to
new styles.'

Still, papa was a great painter.'

No doubt, poor fellow, no doubt.'

Arden felt a little dissatisfied all the
same. The pictures were goods she felt sure.

She stood looking at them herself, with a
sort of vague idea that her father's work
must not be set aside disregarded, that if
her grandfather did not admire it she must
redouble her admiration.

She was still looking at them, while her
grandfather dozed off again, when the door
opened, and Mrs. Lawrance came in.

'Hush!' said Arden, 'grandpa's asleep.*

She came to the door with her treasures
in her arms.

Can I do anything?' she said.

No ; al's done now, Sylvie. What
have you got there ? '

Pictures  papa did them.'

Let's see ! Why they're not picture,
Sylvie, they're views.'

Yes ; Italy.'

Good law, what a desolate place ! '

 Mrs. Lawrance ! '

Just think of it. I alius heard say
Italy was a land of Canaan, flowing with
ile and wine.'

So it is.'

Why, Sylvie, how can you say so and
look at it  al commons and cypresses and
whited sepulchres ; it seems like a sort of
cemetery.'

It's that too,' said Arden.

I'm sure I can't see why you should
pine after it so, then ; there's more beauty
in the view from Mrs. Masters' gate  and
they come al the way from Birmingham
to make draughts of it. Why don't you
paint it, Sylvie, come now? '

True. I might as well be doing something.'


It 'ud be a nice enjoyment for you ;
there's lots to paint in Arden prettier than
those.'

Although Arden was not converted to
this desirable opinion, yet she welcomed
the idea of setting to paint. She had no
great talent; but she had been well taught,
and had a fine natural sense of colour and
the relations of tone. Once, at some provincial

Italian exhibition she had sold a
sketch for 100 lire ; certainly that was
not much, though she had been very proud
of earning it. But now it would be a
matter of real relief and importance to her,
to earn at least enough for her pocket-money.
To be dependent is always bitter,
save to depend on those we love ; but to be
dependent and idle is shameful. At least,
Arden thought so.

She coloured up to the roots of her
hair.

I could try,' she said. * I would like
to paint something simple  a river, some
thin trees.'

 There's no water hereabouts, Sylvie,
save the canal. But it's as pretty as heart
can wish on Sunday mornings, with the
bells al a-ringing, and the barges going up
and down, and the mint and wild flowers
smelling as sweet as a garden.'

You see, I couldn't paint all that.*

Maybe not ; but why should you

paint thin trees, when the finest trees in
England are al round for miles ? '

They've so difficult.'

That may be  but who'd buy portraits
of scanty trees, Sylvie ? Better take
a considerable deal of trouble and produce
summit worth the pains.'

True.'

Mrs. Lawrance was glad that she had
roused Arden to exert herself. Not that
she had much opinion of painting, save as
an ' enjoyment,' and, to do her justice, she
did not at all take into consideration the,
idea that Arden might sell her pictures,
and help in that way to pay for her keep.
But although, owing to some strange mixture
of hospitality and hostility, she refused
to allow the girl to be of any use, still it
annoyed her beyond expression to watch
the listless conduct of Arden's days, to see
her reading without interest, or sitting, her
pale hands crossed on her black skirt,
silently thinking, or meddling with things

VOL. I.

that did not concern her ; or talking, day
after day, to her grandfather, reviving in
his heart the interests of a past in which
his wife had no share. Besides, while she
painted, the girl would be safely out of the
house. Sufficient reasons (felt though not
formulated) for welcoming the idea.

Arden, for her part, was quite as ready
to relinquish her inaction. She looked so
bright all dinner-time that her grandfather
remarked her cheerful face.

 After dinner I am going to look out
for a subject,' she announced.

That's right, Sylvie ; landscape painting's
the healthful work and healthful play
at once.'

It's so good of you to take an interest,
grandpa ! '

'Is it? You see I'm thinking how gay
you'll make our walls look.'

Yes ; but I should like to expose one
or two of the best sketches.'

Expose them: '

Send them to a gallery  an exhibition.*


Oh, yes ; there's a first-rate local
exhibition at Birmingham. It is a great
place for artists, Birmingham

 Indeed, I never heard that. I am very
glad;

Why yes, Sylvie. Baker was a Birmingham
man.'

'Baker?'

Yes, Baker  Baker the landscape
painter.'

Oh yes.' Then, after a pause, ' I*
feel so ashamed,' said Sylvie, * when I
think how little I know of your great
painters. Of course papa always ranked
as an Italian. Will you tell me about
the English painters, grandpa,  what
sort of things they try to do, and soon?'


All in good time, Sylvie, all in good
time,' said Mr. Lawrance, rather nervously,
remembering that his theories of art were


chiefly derived from the notices in the
Birmingham Daily Post.

Ah, Sylvie ! ' cried Mrs. Lawrance, ' it
isn't many a girl 'as such a grandpa.
You can't be rightly said to know yet
what a mint of information 'e's possessed of.
Many's the question I've put to him o'
winter evenings, and never one, so to
speak, responded. But there, he's alius
reading and thinking, reading and thinking
; it's bad for 'is 'earth I often tell 'im ;
but 'e's ever been such a perusing man,'

I'm sure he's very clever,' said Arden,
looking affectionately at the old man. She
took it all on trust, though she had never
seen him read anything save the Birmingham
Post. But then, she had never been
celebrated for penetration ; she generally
measured people by their own accounts of
themselves.

Oh, Sylvie ! Sylvie !' said her grandfather,
' what's to become of my reason now
there are two women to flatter me ? '

Mrs. Lawrance's face clouded ever so
little. She did not quite approve that
Arden should be spoken of as equally
influential with herself. Her voice took a
somewhat colder intonation.

The 'eat of the day is over now,
Sylvie she said. sit's none too warm for
you to begin making choice of a view ! *

'Very well, Mrs. Lawrance  Dunque
Signore la rinverisco' She made a quaint
little curtsey to her grandfather and was
gone.

I wish she'd leave aaf taking that,
gibberish ? ' cried Mrs. Lawrance petulantly.


Patience, Nannie, patience. After all
she's a bit o' sunshine in the old house.'

Did you find it so dull without her? '

Mr. Lawrance decided on the better
part of valour ; he shut his eyes, nodded his
head ; no man is expected to answer questions
in his sleep.

Meanwhile Arden set off on her expedition.

It was an afternoon in which all
views are beautiful, a broad and golden
light. Still it was not a place to paint ;
there was no subject and a multitude of
detail. Arden looked in vain, unable to
fix her mind. There was a lovely group
of firs, but she could not carry her easel
so far. The poplar-bordered road was
winding and graceful, but she could find no
point of view that would take in the stems
of the trees in the hedge, and their tops.
She would rather never paint again than
paint at Mrs. Masters' gate. Still she
went on down the lane, walking slowly,
and continually looking about her.

There was one spot she would indeed
have liked to paint. It was the orchard
belonging to the black and white farmhouse
where Susie Williams lived. The
trees were old and gnarled, with twisted
spreading branches, and so large that,
though the trunks were at some distance
from each other, the boughs were locked

together, laced and interlaced in a sort of
net. This low net or roof was covered
now with ripening apples of all kinds,
great green baking apples, scarcely tinged,
pippins, small russet ones for keeping,
delicate Americans for show. The sun
caught, here and there, these spots of
brilliant colour, intense or delicate, shining
out of the heavier green of the foliage ; it
struck, too, on the missed trunks ; and in
sun and shade alike the grass was green
with the startling brightness of aftermath ;
in the tufts of tall grass still left ushered
round the trees the delicate valerian spread
its snowy tracery. Beyond all this, one
saw in the distance the next field, yellow
with ripened corn. It was a picture of
abundance, colour, autumn.

Still Arden went on, for to paint the
orchard one would have to be inside ; a
deep ditch and a high hedge separated it
from the road ; and sitting down to paint
one would only see the tree-tops. She

walked for nearly a mile. She really could
find nothing else. Tired and almost cross
she turned her steps homewards.

As she was passing the orchard again
she turned round, shading her eyes, for
another glimpse. In the low sun it looked
much prettier than before ; a girl in a pink
cotton sun-bonnet was reaching to the
lower branches and gathering apples. She
had on a brown linsey gown and a many-coloured
cotton apron. Arden sighed. It
was really a charming subject.

She must have stood looking for several
moments, for Susie finished picking her
apples, gathered them in her apron and
turned. Then she saw Arden. She smiled,
with her sudden natural smile.

How beautiful your orchard is ! ' cried
Arden, answering the smile.

Good evening, Miss Lawrance. Ism so
glad you like it, Miss Lawrance. Won't
you step inside and look at it, Miss Lawrance,
before the sun's down ? '

Susie was very shy and eager. She had
made quite a heroine of Miss Lawrance.

Thank you, I am very much obliged.
I have never seen such beautiful apple-trees.
How must I get in? ' said Arden.

Oh, Miss Lawrance, I beg your pardon,
keeping you waiting in the road. This
way  see, through the flower-garden in
front of the house.'

Arden followed, admired the flowers.
Susie chatted and laughed. Arden was
quite flattered, the girl seemed so glad to
see her. It was quite like old times, when*
the old ladies in Eome used to treat her
like a princess in a story-book.

The two girls lingered talking in the
apple-yard. Susie forgot her shyness ;
Arden felt quite gay.

 I was longing to come inside,' she said,
as I was going down the road, but I did
not like to ask.'

If you knew how often I have wished
to see you here ! ' Susie added  the words

had slipped out unawares  ' I beg your
pardon, Miss Lawrence she added, ' I
didn't mean to take a liberty.'

You are very good.' Arden took the
girl's hand and the tears came into her
eyes.

Oh, Miss Lawrance,' Susie went on, ' I
would so like you, if you would, just when
you pass to look over the hedge sometimes
and see if I'm there, and say " good-day." '

Would you ? Will you let me come
and paint the orchard ? '

Paint the orchards ! Will you, will
you? And may I come and look on?'

I shall be so pleased '

And you will tell me about Rome ? '

By-and-by.'

And you will really let me know you ?'

Certainly, my dear.'

I have wished so much to know a real
lady ! I beg your pardon, Miss Lawrance,
that sounds very horrid ; but I mean  I
mean I know no one, no woman of my

own age. You see, the other farmers'
daughters are very different. I am not a
lady ; but I care for different things 
books, Carlyle, music  oh dear, I can't
say it.'

You have said it very well. I shall
be quite as glad, dear Miss Williams, to
talk with you as you to talk with me, for
I, too, know no one here, and things are
all very different.'

She sighed.

 I am so sorry,' said Susie, ardently] ;
if only I could prevent things ! ' Sig
was thinking of Mrs. Masters ; but Arden
had forgotten Mrs. Masters.

 Good-bye,' she said, holding out her
hand ; ' and may I come tomorrow ? '

'May you! Will you?'

Yes ; and you shall come and look

on.

I will read. I will not interrupt you.'

Very well. A rivederci.

Arden went off, glad to have secured

the orchard, thinking also that Susie
Williams was a very nice little girl. I!ut
Susie felt much more strongly.

Since her engagement to Fred Masters,
for so she considered it, Susie had greatly
felt the need of a friend. Not of a confidante,
for that was forbidden her, but of
someone of her own age and sex, subject
to the same experiences and temptations.
By the standard of such a person she
might secretly measure her own conduct ;
it was now too foreign to her own traditions,
she was too conscious that her own
judgment disapproved of it, for her not
to desire a different tribunal. This was
one reason, but there were others why
Susie should welcome Arden's companionship.
For one thing, as she had said,
Arden was a lady, of the same class as
Mr. Fred's sisters ; to know such a person
would be an immense boon to her, Susie
thought. She used to be so proud, this
girl; she used to contrast herself with the

Misses Masters, and thinking of her round
of duties, her pursuits, her aims and
theirs; she used to be conscious of a certain
superiority. Yet, because a trivial good-for-nothing
youth ventured to disapprove of
her now and then, she was ready to throw
overboard all her independence, her unconventionality,
her habits of thought, and
learn meekly enough to what standard she
must conform. These reasons were, it will
be observed, somewhat utilitarian : Arden
was to serve as a caspar to something
better. But Susie had instincts as well as ,
reasons. One of these was violently, passionately,
to assert herself on the side of anything
unjustly treated. Another  which she
shares with many independent, intellectual,
and rather roughly mannered people  was
an extreme devotion to whatever is frail,
graceful, delicate, attaching. Arden, pale, in
her deep mourning ; Arden with her foreign
bearing and memories ; Arden treated
coldly, slighted, a stranger ; Arden with

her beautiful face and curling hair, her
sweet voice and tall lithe figure ; such an
Erscheinung called forth all Susie's tenderness
and chivalry. She went in to tea
flushed and excited. Harry was seated on
the settle, smoking, his feet stretched out
cased in stoutest boots.

Why, Susie, wench ; you're as rosy as
your apples ! '

I've seen Miss Lawrance.'

 Eh ? She's a pleasant-faced young
woman.'

She's lovely ! '

That's about it.'

A pause ; but Susie was eager to detail
her good fortune.

And she's as sweet to talk to as to
look at.'

What ! Did tha speak to her ? '

Yes ; she came into the orchard, she
is going to paint it.'

Our orchard ? '

 Yes ; tomorrow.'

*How did you come to ask her, Susie?
It was making free, I fear.'

Ask her ! She asked me. She is a
real painter ; and I may look on and talk
to her ; she said she would like to know
me.'

I'm glad.'

Then there was another silence. At
last Susie broke it 

The tea's nearly drawn, Harry ; will
you come? Here's mother.'

'Eh?'

Tea's ready. Are you deaf ? ' ,

Harry roused himself. His eyes fell on
his boots.

What a loon I am ! I can't sit down
with you and mother so rough and dirty.
Don't wait, Susie; I won't be a moment.'

He was off.

Heavens ! fancy Harry turning tidy ! '
cried Susie. ' I can't think what's come
over the lad.'

At all events there's room for improvements

said Mrs. Williams, ' and I'm glad
he's about to begin. Come, Susie.'

The smart little elderly beauty stroked
and arranged her cap ribbons and seated
herself at the tea-table. Harry came in.
The talk, of course, was chiefly of Arden's
visit. Mrs. Williams was delighted that
Susie should have a chance of acquiring
that elegance in which she had not followed
her mother's example. She insisted that
tomorrow afternoon Susie must ask Miss
Lawrance in to tea.

I'll go and look out the cheney tea-set,
this evening,' she asserted.

'Nay, mother,' said Harry. ' Let's not
force Miss Lawrance to know us. All in
good time. She only asked to paint the
orchard.'

I'm sure I don't see, Harry, as you
should stand in Susie's Aught  and she in
such luck with her friends.*

In such luck ? '

Ay, with Mr. Fred, and now Miss

Lawrance. That comes of having a mother
who's lived among the gentry  or your
conceited old madame thinks so, my
Susie ! '

But what has Mr. Fred to do with
it? ' asked Harry. ' I don't like Mr. Fred ;
that's quite another matter

'Don't be so stiffened, Harry,' said
Mrs. Williams.

Susie was as red as a turkey-cock.

He helps me with my class at Sunday
school,' she said ; ' at least once or twice he
did.'

Ah ! *  Harry relapsed into a dreamy
silence. Conversation flagged. Even the
pert and lively Mrs. Williams only tossed
her head now and then, and suggested
making tea-cakes. Susie said nothing ;
hot, and red, and indignant with herself
and Fred. She knew she had told a lie.
Unless she had broken a promise she could
not have told the truth.

VOL. I. P

CHAPTER XII.

A LETTER AND A MEETING.

But Arden did not keep her promise.
She had over tired herself with her long
walk in the heat, and for several days lay
restless and fevered, on the sofa in the
dark little dining-room, while Mrs. Lawrance
waited on her with more anxiety
and tenderness than the motherless girl
had ever known.

Ah, if you were always like this ! '
Arden cried one day. She knew she might
be as petulant and familiar as she chose
while she was ill.

And if you was alius like this, Sylvie ! '
Mrs. Lawrance answered.

But Arden could not always be ailing

and dependent, nor even for long. Her
nervous buoyant nature soon recovered
from depression, and while lie was still
too ill to go out painting, she was well
enough to assist herself, talk and laugh,
and engross her grandfather's attention,
and put an end to her temporary friendship
with his wife.

Meanwhile she was missed at the Farm.
Mrs. Williams was very plaintive over her
wasted sally-lungs ; Harry, too, though he
did not complain, looked blank and disappointed.
Susie made no excuse for her
heroine, smiled, thought it quite natural,
did not doubt but she would come tomorrow.
Then tomorrow. Still tomorrow
; when the others had forgotten their
expectations.

It was really Susie who missed her
most. The moment had come to her that
comes to all, though very few perceive it ;
the moment when a passion that seems
established for good or evil in our lives,
p 2

well known already to our hearts, comes
into collision with an unexpected force:
will, reason, conscience, call it as you may.
We had imagined all decision over. The
feeling is not so very new, nor yet so very
old ; we are in the full zenith of possession.
Then something cries to us : ' 1 this
your choice? Mostly we do not hear, or
we answer, yes ; scarcely heeding, or imagining
that the decision has been already
made. But some hear ; some search and
keep, and their approved love is the dearer
to. them. And some reject with breaking
hearts, entering into the kingdom of God
free of disease, but maimed. Susie was
experiencing this renewal of choice. She
was anxious to escape from it into any
new interest. If Arden would only come,
either the inquiry might be dulled, or her
interest diverted, or at least she might
make some sort of shelter for herself,
something to break the dreariness and
bleakness, the coldness and utter desolation

of the altered world. But day after day
lengthened, lagged, and passed by, and
Arden did not come : Susie was left to
decide the question for herself

Tt was not so difficult to determine,
that to deceive, however unwillingly, her
mother and her brother, was cowardly and
dishonourable. Susie always set out for
the school  she would never consent to a
more private tryst  with the intention of
telling her lover that she could no longer
endure this systematised dissimulation.
But when she came in and saw Fred at*
the head of his class, or more often restlessly
loafing about and shouting out
occasional directions ; when she saw this
bored, dull, heavy young fellow, suddenly
look alive with content and animation at
the first rustle of her dress, then Susie's
heart failed, and her conscience threw up
its brief and turned her lover's advocate.
Indeed she did not know what would
become of him without her. Oddly

enough this consciousness that Fred was
feeble, unprincipled, easily swayed, did not
shock this strongly-fibred and resolute
girl ; the knowledge that he needed her
was the essential thing; without that
she would never have consented to
sacrifice her duty and her honour to his
desire.

So on Sunday she began 

Are you ill, Fred ? you looked so tired,
I thought, this morning.'

Before you came ? '

I did'nt see you then ; no, afterwards."

No; I'm only bored.'

Oh ! why are you bored ? '

It's precious dull life for a fellow ;
loafing about from Sunday night till
Sunday morning with nothing to look
forward to. I tell you I can't stand it,
Susie : do you hear ? '

I'm sure I wish you wouldn't stand
it, dear Fred.'

Ah, my dear little girl ! '

Wait before you kiss me ; let me
explain  I mean, let me tell Harry.'

Tell Harry ! There you are again
with your conditions. You love your pride
much more than you love me ! '

Oh, Fred, there's nothing, nothing else
I wouldn't do.'

That's what women always say ;
nothing but the one thing required of
them.'

Oh, Fred. Don't you think I want to
see you as much as you want to see me ? '

Then why on earth do you make such '
a fuss ! '

Because '

Because you'd rather break my heart
than submit.'

The sense of injustice spurred Susie onto
finish her sentence.

Because it would be mean beyond
words ! '

You think I'm mean then ; eh ? '

But Fred was so much tickled with the

supreme ludicroiisness of this idea, that he
required no answer to his question. His
laugh put him in good humour.  It must
be owned that, in such a mood, Fred
Masters had the sort of irresponsible, appealing,
petulant and caressing charm which
very selfish people sometimes possess; each
one of his bright looks and words was a
subtle flattery to Susie, and told her that
he was so well-contented because she was
at his side. She felt so necessary to him ;
she alone made him look so happy, and
he was so seldom happy ; how could she
shatter this momentary delight of his by
what she secretly felt would be a vain
appeal to his sense of justice and responsibility?
Indeed, he seemed a being of a
different sphere, for whom those stern
names need have no meaning.

So Susie deferred renewing the discussion
till the hour of parting came.

Now, Susie, Susie dear, do be kind.
Let me see you for a little half-hour on
Tuesday in the richard.'

It can't be ! '

Oh, my love, how can you leave me to
drag through all the live-long week without
you ! I can't keep straight without you,
that's the truth.'

Fred ! Fred ! '

Well, it's your fault. I never pretended
to be good ; but I might be good if you
would help me  and you won't help me.'

Not to dishonour, Fred.'

Well, Susie ; the responsibility's yours.
I shall be there, wet or fine.'

I shall be indoors ; come and see me.'

 Bother ; and if you don't come to
meet me, I shall be wild with despair.'

Then don't come.'

And very likely I shall get drunk
again, and there'll be another row with the
governor.'

Now, Fred, you make me angry 
good-bye ! ' cried the young girl.

 Oh, Susie, Susie, Susie ! don't be so
harsh. There, forgive me, dearest, I'll think

of you and not give way. Only you
shouldn't leave me so long alone  not till
next Sunday, Susie ? '

Not till next Sunday.'

 Then good-bye ; I shall be there on
Tuesday, if you relent.'

And I shall be at home, if you choose
to come and find me.'

One kiss, darling ; good-bye ! '

Good-bye ! '

And Susie walking off felt that she had
gained a difficult victory in not sinking
lower. So impossible did she find it to
recover the original lost footstep.

But this consciousness of having fallen
lower than her natural standing-point was
a very sad and irritating one to her. Day
by day she got less satisfied, less cheerful
and hopeful than of old ; alternately snappish
and overwhelmingly contrite. The full
round of daily duties in which she had
formerly found a healthy pleasure, became
a wearying, insupportable tax, now that

all her energies were bent on revolving a
question, much more absorbing and quite
foreign to the churning, and baking, and
brewing, and strict keeping of accounts.
It must be owned that these occupations
suffered by Susie's distraction ; but Susie
suffered too. She knew what it was to
wake in a morning and wish she had been
a chair, a table  any of the insensate furniture
on which she looked, that would not
have to think and feel, to decide and labour.
After a restless night, she began the day
weary and disheartened ; her little successes
seemed no longer real ; her little
failures seemed crushing despairs. It was
an effort to drag about. She counted every
step ; if Harry did not come in to dinner,
and she had to go and fetch him  it was
no longer a buoyant, eager companion who
ran out to meet him ; sometimes he scarcely
recognised the lagging gait, the downcast
head. And now no longer in the evenings
she took out her book and toiled merrily at

the Siege of Din ant or followed the fortunes
of Frederick of Prussia ; propped in one
corner of the settle, her eyes closed, her
hands before her, she would sit in listless
idleness, neither attempting to join in the
family discussions, nor heeding the anxious
looks that her mother and Harry would
cast at her from time to time.

One such evening Mrs. Williams, after
much uneasiness, suddenly smiled. It
was evident she had a bright thought.

Harry,' she said, ' I should take it
very kind if you'd just step in the front
garden and look at that new bed.'

Now, mother ? '

 Yes, yes, Harry, now,' cried little
Mrs. Williams, nodding and shaking her
cap ribbons at Susie, inert and weary, on
the settle.

Here I am.' He got up, gave himself
a shake as if to shake off all remnants of
his comfortable drowsiness, and followed her
out of doors.

His step-mother led him towards the
gate. It was very clear and still ; the treetops
scarcely swayed ; the sky was full of
light, and flecked with fleecy watches of
cloud.

Harry looked up. ' There'll be wind
to-night,' he said.

Oh, Harry, Harry. You think o'
nothing but crops and weather.'

But the rick's not thatched yet,' said
her step-son, stupidly excusing himself.

And if we lose a dozen ricks, where's
the ruin compared to losing Susie?'

Losing Susie ! '

Yes, you stupid goose, losing Susie !
There, you look as if I thought the wind
'ud carry her away with the ricks, and I'm
sure it might, she's got so thin o' late.
But that's not what I meant.'

Oh, mother, don't trifle with me ;
what is it ? '

Ay, you may well say so, that's the
question. Whatever it be, she's as changed

as changed, our bright Susie; to see how-she
sits and mopes ; and my heart comes
into my mouth every time I speak to her,
she snaps one up so.'

She's sorely changed, poor child ;
poor little wench. D'ye think she's in
love ? '

Not seriously, or she'd have told me.
She always tells me everything, does Susie.'

Is she ill, then ? '

111, partly ; and in love, partly. She's
slipped out of health somehow, and if we
don't take care, Harry, you and I, she'll
slip into an early grave.'

Don't, mother.'

But I must. I've been thinking ;
the worst of it is, we can do nothing, we
two ; she's too used to us. And if I was
to say to her, "Susie, what is it, dear?"
either she'd answer nothing, or she'd become
suspicious and think us spies upon
her.'

It's dreadful,' said Harry, wiping his

forehead with his hand. ' Dreadful. I feel
quite withered-like.'

Not I. 'Twill all come right in time.
We'll see our Susie proud and happy yet.
What's to do now is, write to that strange
young lady at the Bushes and ask her into
tea.'

Ask Miss Lawrance to tea ? '

Lord-mercy, Harry, will you never
do anything but gape and wonder? Susie
must have a change. Shall we hire a
house at Leamington, or would you like
me to ask Mrs. Masters to dinner ? 

Don't take one up so, mother ; I
think you're very clever. I should never
have ventured.'

Ventured ! forsooth. And Susie
moping and fretting herself to a shadow.'

'I'm sure I'm very grateful to you,
mother.*

Why, Harry, you're as red as a
turkey-cock. Do you think it taking such
liberty? Well, I'm sure; and to think of
the gentlefolk I've known.'

Shall we go in now ? '

Yes ; but mind, never a word to
Susie until we're sure of Miss Lawrance.'

So they turned towards the darkness
of the porch.

Mrs. Williams exerted consummate
generalship to get Susie to go to bed
soon after eight o'clock. Then she tripped
about the room, quite brisk and excited,
hunting up her seldom-used papier-mach
writing-desk, the inkstand, the mother-pearl
penholder, the blotting-book with
A Present from Tunbridge ' on the back,
the jar of shot to dry the pen in, the
packet of vari-coloured sheets with scalloped
edges, the much-referred-to dictionary ;
all the ornamental appurtenances of a semi-genteel
writing-table.

Finally these long-treasured objects
were spread out on a page of the Field
upon the table, so that no inkspots might
disfigure the neat red cloth. Mrs. Williams
hovered about, looking at them with clasped

hands, as though she might derive inspiration
from the very sight of them. At last
she took a chair, set it very straight, laid
her cheek in her palm and composed herself
to meditation. Finally she took her
pen swiftly, as though to record some
brilliant thought, but it was only to write
Woodleigh Farm, July 15th.'

Pity it hasn't a good name. Williams'
Farm is more than I'll consent to write,
but were it called tli' Oaks or th' Ashes
thud be a thousand times more genteel.'

But there's no good oak nearer than
Petersham Spiny ; and, I thank my stars,
no ashes to spile my crops.'

Lor', Harry, how you worry. Let be,
now 

Woodleigh Farm, July 15th.

*Dear Miss Lawrance '

Wouldn't it be more civil-like to
begin, Honoured Miss?'

Lor', Harry, how low that 'ud be,
now ! Listen 

VOL. I. Q

Dear Miss Lawrance,  I seize the
opportunity '

sall the letters I ever wrote began,
I take up my pen " or " this comes
hoping," ' demurred Harry.

What a plough-boy style. No.  I
seize the opportunity (ah, two p's) having
heard from my daughter as you expressed
a wish '

That's good ! ' said Harry ; ' '' expressed
a wish." Lor', mother, you've
got it all at your fingers' ends.'

Expressed a wish,' meditated Mrs.
Williams. 'Now listen, Harry  having
heard from my daughter as you expressed
a wish to pourtray our humble
orchard '

Lor', mother, it's like a penny-reading.'

Our humble orchard,' went on Mrs.
Williams, nodding and smiling with tears
of pride in her china-blue eyes. ' To beg
you to visit our little '

Home,' suggested Harry.

Nonsense ; don't spoil it. There, I've
got it 

 Our little homestead, any day which it

may suit your convenience to mention '

But there's nothing about Susie ? '
Of course there's nothing about
Susie.  Requesting the favour of a reply
that's to ensure her coming, you see,
Harry.'

It's like a lawyer ! ' cried Harry.
Madam, I obediently remain,
Yours truly,
Sarianna Williams,

7iee Well AND.'

'Nee's the French for maiden name,'
added Mrs. Williams, whose French, the
result of six months' residence at a convent
school some twenty years ago, was
little more than a dim memory.

All the same the French word, the
pink and scented note, the fine phrases, all
served to dazzle Harry, whose own inspire


ration would scarcely have prompted more
than ' Honoured Miss, this comes hoping
you will come to tea tomorrow evening.
Your obedient servant, Henry
Williams.' Having this abortive missive
in his mind, he felt the superiority of his
step-mother's production. That was, he
imagined, just the sort of communication
to address to Miss Lawrance ; coloured and
scented, foreign and fine. With what disdain
would she not look on their plain,
comfortable parlour. For the first time
Harry blushed as he looked round him ;
somehow all the merit seemed to have
gone out of the inherited and sober home,
of which he had always been so proud.

I 'most fear it's taking a liberty,
mother ; we're but unfed folk, and she so
fine.'

Nonsense ; unfed indeed ! Speak
for yourself, sir. It's a thousand pities you
left off your schooling at fifteen.'

T' wasn't my fault,' growled Harry ;

and indeed it was stinging to be twitted
for a lack of learning which was only the
result of a self-sacrifice to his father's
interests.

Mrs. Williams felt contrite.

There, there,' she said, ' you're better
than most, any way. Now, Harry, see
that Curtis leaves this letter at the Bushes
first thing tomorrow morning.'

I'll see to it, mother. Well, goodnight.'


Good-night.'

Darkness and silence then invested the
parlour, and kept their watch over the
little rose-coloured letter, the fruit of such
patient labour, the seed of such anxious
hopes.

Meanwhile Susie tossed restlessly upstairs,
unconscious of all that was being
done on her behalf, dreaming that all her
troubles were a dream, and that her life
was fair and straight and open as it used
to be. And half a mile away Arden slept

a deep untroubled slumber, forgetting all
the frets that had no secret blame or shame
in them. With her black clothes lying
empty near her, Arden, a stranger and
fatherless, would have seemed most pitiable,
could some all-penetrating Eye (as
we see in old-fashioned Scripture pictures)
have pierced to either chamber. And
Arden thought so herself, and all the
people in the village save one, who knew
how much the worst of sorrow is an unguessed
shame.

Arden woke the next morning, restless
and eager. She was always gay and
active in the morning, for until the postman
brought the paper, or the small shopping,
or a circular or stray note at eleven
o'clock, Arden regularly expected a letter
from the Roses. One short note, greeting
her at her hotel in London, was all her
news of them since she had left them at
Venice. No wonder she thought it strange
and was anxious, for in six weeks they

seemed to have forgotten her ; these
friends for whom she had forgotten her
father, whom she had cared for all her life.

In the midst of her expectations and
grumbles, her letter writing to and letter-waiting
from these earliest acquaintances,
the people at the farm were but slightly
remembered. Sometimes, indeed, she
thought of Susie's bright face, and of the
green and writhen orchard hung with
coloured apples ; but as yet she felt little
energy, and moreover, the longer she deferred,
the redder the fruit would become.

So when she woke that morning it was
only of Gerard and Ellie that she was
thinking, beings as different in her eyes
from Harry and Susie Williams as Ferdinand
and Miranda from Falstaff and
Anne Page. She came down to breakfast
looking gay, but thoughtful.

Good morning, Sylvie. Your grants
none so well this morning.'
Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Lawrance.'

rd rather see you pleasant than
sorry, child.'

Yes, Mrs. Lawrance?'

Arden subsided into silent preoccupation.


And what is it you're so thankful
over, Sylvie ? '

Here to London, one day ; London to
Paris, one night ; Paris to Turin, twenty-four
hours ; Turin to Venice, one day 
sixty hours.'

What are you after, Sylvie ? '

I might get an answer to my letter
to-day.'

Oh, Sylvie, Sylvie ! '

But there isn't anything wrong, Mrs.
Lawrance, in wishing to hear from one's
friends.'

No ; but when instead of being
happy in the station of life the Lard's
called us to, we're alius fretting and
stabbing for summit else, and taking no
notice, or neglecting al that's going on

about us  that's more discontent than
aught else, Sylvie

The tears came into Arden's eyes.

Perhaps I am discontented,' she said,
very gently, ' but my life used to be very
different.'

She pushed her plate away, the bread
tasted bitter ; her eyes, filled with tears,
did not see the brown-patterned wall and
the ivy-darkened window, but her old
home in Italy; her father's pleasant studio;
people coming in and out, the Roses among
them ; herself, too, as she remembered herself
in her father's picture, a gay, slim
creature, dressed in white, very young and
free of sorrow.

Mrs. Lawrance said nothing ; she went
on with her breakfast, for much hardwork
must be done between then and
dinner ; but as she munched her food, and
gulped down her tea, she too was thinking
that her life used to be very different ;
peaceful, quiet, orderly, economical. And

now there was Sylvie, always crying or
laughing, or falling ill, never any use to
anyone, nor any pleasure, either ; taking
the food and shelter given her with forced
thanks and an unhappy face. Would to
God her husband had let well alone and
left the girl to be looked after by her own
friends !

So while Arden was growing tenderhearted
and miserable over her memories,
Mrs. Lawrance, in her turn, was hardening
herself to resent ingratitude. She finished
her meal, got up and pushed her chair in
its place against the wall.

Arden started, and got up.

Can I be of any use, this morning ? '
she asked, mechanically.

None, thank you,' said her stepmother,
grimly ; and went away to look
after the housework, the cooking, the
"beasts, and the dairy.

Arden sighed ; there was nothing todo
or to look forward to, all day long.

save the postman's visit. She caught up
her broad Tuscan hat, and set out to
meet him.

I wonder if they'll come to England
this autumn,' she was saying to herself;
and if they will come and see me, or if
I may go and see them. It's the sixteenth
of July to-day. They said they
would be coming towards the end of
August ; just a month. Oh. dear, how
will it go ? '

Then she walked on a little, spying
to right and left, but there was no one
in the lane ; so she went towards the
canal bridge  she would surely meet the
postman soon. As she walked, she went
on with her reverie.

If they were to ask me again, I
would go with them. I would get away
from here and go to Italy. One can live
on little there, and I have forty pounds

a-year.'

Pleased with this reverie, she stopped

on the roadside, leaning against a hurdle,
making pictures with her half-shut eyes.

I would give lessons, and paint,' she
cried. ' Oh, if the Roses would come and
take me away from here ! '

She sighed, but not with regret ; rather
from the impatience of her eager hope.
And now, beyond the bridge, she could
hear the tramp of heavy boots. She
looked under the arch ; the framed landscape
of green-bordered road and lush
over-hanging elms was enlivened by a
figure  if the bent and dusty postman
could be called an enlivenment ; to Arden
he certainly was  she ran to meet him.

Any letters ? ' she cried, out of
breath.

Good day. Miss : I'll found th' News
for th' old gentleman.'

Nothing else ? '

Nothing else. Miss.'

He trudged on under the bridge, along
the level road. When he was fairly out

of sight, Arden sank down on a heap of
stones and began to cry.

Arden had not been long on her throne
of desolation, when she gradually became
aware of a sort of shuffling sound on the
road in front of her. Her first impulse was
to stop crying ; her next to pull her hat
well over her eyes. Then she looked up.

A farm-labourer, a slouching fellow,
with hair and skin much the colour of
his light-coloured and soiled fustian, was
standing on the opposite side the road,
looking at her with sheepish curiosity.
Either to excite her attention, or from
mere shyness, he kept on scuffling, first
with one foot, then with the other,
through a little heap of poplar down
and fallen blossoms collected on the roadside.
As she looked at him, he suddenly
brought this amusement to a close, and
as suddenly jerked forward his right
arm. The great brown hand held a rose-coloured
missive.

What a clumsy Pierrot,' thought
Arden, with an unexpected smile ; thus
encouraging the puppet into speech.

Bennet yer theol gentleman's grandchild
? ' he asked.

Yes said Arden, smiling anew.

Th' old Missus bade me hand yer
this.' So speaking, he came a little forward,
arid threw, or rather shoved, the
letter on to Arden's lap. She was still
sitting on the heap of stones. While she
was feeling for some coppers he shuffled
off; but she saw him come up to her
again. She thought it was for the money ;
but he did not come close, only near
enough to speak without shouting.

Don't yer mind,' he said ; ' and
don't yer get rheumatics on them stones.'

And before she could think of the
money he was off.

His rude comfort had effectually dissipated
Arden's gloom. She now began to
wonder who ' th' old Missus ' could be,

who sent such dainty missives by so
queer a messenger. Perhaps it was Mrs.
Masters.

So few causes for even such a flicker
of curiosity enlivened Arden's days just
now, that she dallied with her impatience.
Then she burst the envelope and read
Mrs. Williams' queer little note, with its
unsuccessful and plebeian elegances.

How stupid ! ' was Arden's first exclamation
; ' as if I could tell what day
the light would suit me.'

She continued to turn homewards, but
when she got to the gate she hesitated.
What should she do when she reached
home ; there were three good hours till
dinner. Her grandfather was ill just
lately, and she might only talk to him
when he had woke up from his after-dinner
nap. Mrs. Lawrance would be
busy and unwilling to have her company.
Should she go on writing letters to the
Roses, letters that were never answered?

or read the back numbers of the 'Gentleman's
' all through again ? or half break
her back weeding the drive ? It was all
very dreary ; yes, much as Arden disliked
owning, even to herself, that anything
bored her, she must allow that she
was supremely weary of the Bushes.

True, she might paint, now she was
better. And so she took Mrs. Williams'
letter from her pocket, and read it through
again. After all it was very good-natured
of them to want to see her ; and the
orchard was certainly the prettiest subject
she had seen. She would go that afternoon.


At least I can do the blocking In,'
she said to herself ; ' and there will be a
soul under sixty to talk to.' She walked
up the drive, feeling more excited at this
prospect of visiting the farmer's sister
down the road, than she ever used to be
when looking forward to a ball in the old
days at Rome.

She forgot that she was tired and disappointed,
and instead of going in, she
crossed the farmyard, and walked through
the fields to the farthest field of all, green
now with aftermath. It was a low-lying
lush meadow, sloping down towards the
brook that bordered the farther side ; the
brook itself was hidden under thickly-sprouting
pollard willows, tall reeds and
bulrushes ; and, lower down, mint and
forget-me-not fringed the edges. The
two sides of the field had been so badly
drained, that in damp weather they were
a swamp, and in time of drought an
agglomeration of barren, clayey heaps and
hollows ; the end that joined the little
meadow was partially saved by the roots
of the elms and willows in the hedge ;
but the other side, low and flat, separated
from Farmer Williams's ground by some
railings and a pool, was utterly wasted in
regard to hay or pasture.

VOL. I. E

But just now it looked so beautiful,
that Arden, at least, would not wish it
otherwise. Among the glaucous tints of
the reeds and flowering rushes, the golden
yellow of the beautiful summer iris had
been dashed and splashed with no niggardly
hand. That corner of the field ; the widening
brook edged with silvery willows, the
soft greens and yellows of the sparsely-grown
swamp letting through here and
there a glimpse of the still pool and of the
ripening corn beyond ; that field corner
had struck Arden as a happy subject for a
panel  just a sketch, a mere cockade. So
she stood on the brink of the swamp,
changing her position repeatedly, and the
focus of her eyes, trying to fix in her mind
the outlines of her picture.

Now as it happened Harry Williams
was in the field beyond. She, intent on
her foreground, did not espy him ; but
he, seeing Arden with her wide hat fallen
back like a deep halo round her head and

shoulders, her golden-curled head peeping
just above the golden-flowered irises,
thought her as charming a subject for
study as she thought them. However
being a very shy and, consciously, an
awkward man, Farmer Williams took good
care that Arden should not be disturbed by
the least sight of an intruder on her loneliness.
He kept well behind the hedge
further up the field, and tried to interest
himself in the condition of his crops; but
the memory of Arden's yellow hair made
even the gold of his maturing harvest seem
faded and insufficient.

Probably she might never, or at least
not till long afterwards, have known of his
presence, but for a sudden fancy of hers to
clutch at and carry off some of the lavish
gold of the flowers. For that it was necessary
to venture boldly into the heart of the
swamp ; but the topmost clay-ridges were
not yet submerged, and by careful treading
k2

the flowers might be secured at no greater
risk than that of muddy shoes. At first
all went well ; but when the spears of the
reeds and flags, the fine stems of the rushes,
and the bold yellow heads of the flowers
were thick all round the girl, shoulder high,
it was less easy to find out a stepping-place ;
and if she stood still the soft mud sank to
the water level. At first she laughed,
gathering in her arms a rich harvest of
her spoil. But when her arms were full,
it became no easy problem to get either
backwards or forwards without relinquishing:
hold of the flowers.

So difficult was it to get backwards
over the quashed and liquid soil, that,
seeing the railings but a few yards ahead,
she determined to venture for them. Once
there it would be easy enough to scramble
along by help of their planks and posts
till she should reach the sudden rise of
the ground. Alas, for her courage! No
sooner had she quitted the yielding sinking

ridge on which she stood, than she
floundered hopelessly in the watery mud,
sinking deeper and deeper down among the
reed and lily roots, to the soft miry bottom
where the leeches lurk.

Santo Dio ! ' cried Arden, instinctively
stretching out her arms to save herself.
Oh, my flowers ! '

It was dreadful to feel oneself still
going down and not to know where one
would stop, and not to guess how one
would ever extricate oneself  for Arden
was now ankle-deep in the slush. She
saw a man running across the cornfield '
towards her.

Man ! Sir ! Entire ! ! ' And she
shouted a prolonged Italian vocative.

Then she did not cry out any more, for
she saw the man run a little up the field
and return in a moment, still walking very
fast, although bending under the weight of
a broken hurdle which he carried with
him. He crept along the side of the fence,

balancing the hurdle on the top rail, flat,
and shoving it along in front of him.
Arden, though the mud kept on yielding
and yielding, never said a word to hasten
him. She looked on fascinated, as though
she were the interested watcher at some
game of skill. Neither did he speak ; but
when, in a moment, he was opposite to
her, he stopped Then he took down the
hurdle, set it on one side, and gently
lowered it in such a manner that the tall
growing reeds and flags were flattened into
a sort of mat underneath.

Now, Miss,' he said.

But I can't loose my feet ! ' cried Arden.

Then you must let me pull you out.
I'm 'most afeard, though, tli' hurdle will
sink under my weight.'

He hesitated for a moment. By this
time one foot was free and on the hurdle.

Oh, I'm safe,' cried Arden. Not yet,
though ; for the mud clung close.

Here, Miss.'

The man had taken off his coat, and he
flung it towards her, holding one end,

 Tug at 'n,' he shouted. ' Tug at 'n, I
say.'

Another moment and Arden was running
over the hurdle  no safe resting-place
towards the railing ; yet another, and she
was sitting on the safe, dry ground, looking
ruefully at her shoes.

I shall never get home.'

I'll cut you a swathe of rushes, Miss,'
and the man was off again towards the
marsh.

He returned, and began binding her fees
in the strong clean rushes, and in dragging
off this band the black adhering mud was
scattered on the grass.

Oh, don't ! don't ! ' cried Arden, much
more touched by this than even by his more
necessary help. ' How can you ? Let me
do it myself.'

Nay, Missie, my red hands are better
at this than your white little ones.'

How kind you are ! And I've never
thanked you  without you I should still
have been sinking, sinking into that horrid
bog.'

Don't mention it, Miss ; any man 'ud
do as much.'

But not so cleverly ! ' cried Arden.
It was a fine idea to think of the hurdle.
I'll never complain of the bad fencing
again.'

Harry Williams smiled a sly rustic
smile.

'T might be better ! ' he said.

Now it was clever of you,' she went
on, ' to turn that defect to such good
account. What made you think so suddenly
of the hurdle ? '

Well, Miss, you see  the old gentleman
 I beg pardon, Mr. Lawrance,  he's
drawing on in years, and he don't see after
things as might be wished. And since
the cows were turned into this field  the

fence being so bad they were alius getting
in among the ripening corn.'

Dear me 1 ' cried Arden, ' what a
shame ! I'll tell grandpa ! '

Harry Williams took off his hat at this
official declaration, so to speak, of her
identity.

Nay, Miss Lawrance, don't you trouble.
I was going to say, knowing as th' old
gentleman don't take on much about repairs,
I took the liberty of telling my men to
patch up the railing with planks and
brambles.'

Arden blushed rosy red. It was shameful
to let things go to such rack and ruin,
and to trust to the energy of one's neighbours
to repair them.

The young man misunderstood her
colouring cheeks.

I meant no offence, Miss,' he said,
quite earnestly, sand beg your pardon for
interfering. But see, Miss Lawrance, when

a man's no saddler, no play-farmer, but
sets store by his work, and makes his living
by 't, 'tis a sore worry to have them lumping
cows treading down and crushing the
good straight corn.'

Oh, you mistake ! ' cried Arden. ' I
was only vexed you should have had the
trouble we ought to have taken.'

Thank ye, Miss, you're very good.
Well, about th' hurdle. You see the men
had got it out to mend when I heard a cry,
and saw you floundering in the mud withall
yon stinking flags.'

They're beautiful ! ' cried Arden.

Maybe, but yon's their name, and they
don't grow in good pasture.'

All the same I like them, I call them
yellow lilies ; they grow in Italy.'

Yes, Miss.'

But go on, about the hurdle  then you
picked it up and ran to help me.'

Yes, Miss.'

And you threw me your coat as a

life-rope.' Arden began to laugh. She
suddenly saw the comedy of the situation.

And now it was Harry Williams' turn to
blush and look annoyed. With the rustics'
awkward, ever-present dread of being ridiculous,
all merriment connected with him
appeared ill-natured. Luckily Arden went
on with her phrase 

It was like Sir Walter Raleigh and
Queen Elizabeth,' she cried. ' It was more
than polite, it was courtly.'

Harry, who was not so ignorant as he
looked, remembered the tale, and how
Raleigh's good fortune and high favour with
the Queen were said all to spring from that
accidental beginning,

'Tis of good omen,' he said.

No, in the end she was very ungrateful.
Now I shall always remember
your kindness ; and may I ask your
name ? '

Williams, Miss.'
' Ah ! But of course. How stupid I

was not to see it before. You're the brother
of the nice girl who lives in the black-and-white
house ? '

Yes, Miss Lawrance.'

You know my name, I see. Will you
thank your mother very much, and say
I'll come to paint the orchard tomorrow
afternoon.'

 Yes, Miss Lawrance. Susie '11 be right
glad.'

And so shall I ; good morning. Thank
you ! '

Good day, Miss.'

She walked off towards the gate.

How much better he looks in his
working clothes,' she thought. ' It was
really kind of him ; it's very interesting
talking to farmers. One gets to understand
the country.'

She had to stay some time unfastening
the broken gate propped up with wood.

I'm sure the Williams's gates are not
in this condition,' she cried.

And going over the fields homewards,
she turned over the whole matter in her
mind. ' No she said, ' I don't believe
Mrs. Lawrance. I am sure he is not a
coarse fellow.*

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED r.Y

8POTTISWOODK AND CO., New-street SQCTAEK

AND Parliament Street

.<s

liiiijjli

3 0112 04Sa29fi<;4

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

82,3

D858
w.Z

VOL. IL

'OTTISWOOUE AND CO., NEW-strike Quale
Ari) PARI.IAIIEST STKKKT

A NOVEL

BY

A. May F. ROBINSON

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL II.

LONDON
LONGMANS, Green, AND CO.



All rights reserved

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER

XIII. Eyes and no Eyes 1

XIV. In the Hill of Venus . . . . 23
XV. A Good Resolution . .  .38

XVI. Lost and Found '2

XVII. Friends 

XVIII. The Little Rift "6

XIX. Pigskin will Last . . . .00

XX. I'll Love you True . . . . 109

XXI. Wood, Married, and a'

XXIII. Old Friends



XXII. Needles and Pins 13



XXIV. Two's Company Gi

Chapter Page

XXV. Strati<'ord-on-Avon 181

XXVI. Laughing and Crying . . . . 199

XXVII. The Witnesses 208

XXVIII. Afterwards 224

Epilogue 238

CHAPTER XIII.

EYES AND NO EYES.

Arden began her picture, and talked and
thought of little else by day, and dreamed
of it by night. It was not, you see, merely
a work of art ; it was a future, or rather
the possible resurrection of her past. The
canvas, representing a brilliant appleyard
full of crimson and yellow fruit, floored
with vivid aftermath, shot and streaked
with sunlight, was be sent to Birmingham
Exhibition, was, of course, to be accepted,
to be sold for fifty pounds, and to fetch
in many even higher-priced commissions.

VOLo II. - B

3

Then she would go back to Rome ; Arden
sometimes thought, and always dreamed,
that she would find her father there, and
indeed without him she could not even
imagine Rome. His sudden loss had had
a strange effect upon her, one only possible
in a person tenacious in affection, dense of
perception, subject to an unimaginative,
practical, but all-pervading dreaminess.
Since she came to England she had never
felt the keen despair that most girls would
have felt in her situation ; life did not
seem in the least over for her ; on the
other hand, she was roused to an impatience,
an activity quite foreign to her
disposition, by an odd, formulated conviction
that her father, her happiness, her
home, were being hidden from her ; were,
not lost, but secreted in some unknown
place which it was not hopeless to discover.
She had the superstitious clinging to the
lost, which makes religious people spend
half their lives in a Paradise, where all

that has been taken from them reams
unchanged by death. Arden, who could not
realise a future different to the past, who
yearned so passionately for the present,
fancied Paradise an invention of the early
Tuscan painters for the sake of charmingly
contrasted pictorial effects ; yet she had
something of the same idea, but applied it
differently. With her, too, the bitterness
of death was robbed of its sting,
the cruel realisation of hopeless, irremediable,
eternal loss. Arden, too, had her
Paradise.

Was it so very strange ? Are many
beliefs, for which martyrs have died, which
in their turn have sacrificed an army of
marts, are the great beliefs of the world
so much better founded, so much more
capable of being reasoned, so much firmer
on a clearly-posed logical basis, than this
superstition, born of dim anxious yearning,
of refusal to accept the worst, this immor-

B 2

realisation of memory in the mind of a
young and dreamy woman ?

Meanwhile, the working at her picture
brought her into constant contact with the
people at the Farm. Gradually she became
aware that, apart from the satisfaction of
painting, there was a certain pleasure in
going to the Williams's. They were
always so glad to see her. There was no
doubt that after the constrained, burdened,
silent life of the Bushes it was pleasant to
listen to Susie's eager determined theories
as she sat by Arden's side in the sun-shot
orchard, her chin propped in her palm,
appealing, indignant, throwing her whole
heart into every question, moral, social,
artistic ; always turning her words into
opinions, her opinions into theories, her
theories into combats, and in the strength
and militate of her decision, ignoring the
semi-accidental cause of it.

Perhaps, after all, the great charm was
that this resolute, convinced young theorist

paid Arden every homage that respect,
affection, sympathy could suggest. Arden
had seen so much, could talk about Rome,
Pompeii, Syracuse, Florence, as Harry
talked of Raynham and Faversham ; she
could answer so many questions, solve so
many doubts, confirm so many suppositions.
Moreover, she was beautiful, delicate, refined,
an orphan. To Susie's ardent and
chivalrous temperament each of these
qualities was alone a reason for devoted
attachment. Arden, therefore, always
found herself treated as the supreme court
of appeal by a pleader of character and
intellect far stronger than her own. Lonely,
weak, neglected, she was not insensible to
the flattery. The brother also interested
her, though she saw but little of him.
Probably, had she known him better, she
would have cared less. As it was, the
constant half-illusions, unsaid praises, profound
admiration of Harry in Susie's conversation,
was not without effect. She

remembered that on her first interview
with him he had impressed her as a person
of much kindness and energy. She was
glad little Susie had so excellent a brother,
and when she looked at the swampy or arid
fields and the unkempt drive of the Bushes
she contrasted them, in her own mind,
with Harry Williams's management of his
affairs.

So without any active interest, always
with the feeling that this acquaintance was
merely a stop-gap, she grew accustomed to
find the Williams's a familiar part of her
surrounding world. While she was painting
her picture and dreaming of the future
she gave a facile, half attention to Susie's
eager kindness, to her mother's well-meant
businesses ; and though she set them down
as nothing, they sank deeper than she
knew ; for, at this time, the only three
people in the world who seemed to care
much if she coughed or sang, if she sighed

or laughed, waked or slept, all lived at
Woodleigh Farm.

It was strange, perhaps, that after such
a different society Arden should be satisfied
with simple farmers. But she never
dreamed of seeking their society. She
went to the Farm to paint, never for any
other reason ; she herself was unaware
how much real friendliness the kindness
and interest of these rustic people had
awakened for them in her heart. At
present she still ostensibly regarded them
as the proprietors of the orchard.

One day Mrs. Lawrance, seeing Arden
take up her hat and leave the parlour,
followed her to the hall door.

So you're aaf again to Williams's ? '

Yes ; to my picture.'

You're alius after that girl, now.'

Oh no, Mrs. Lawrance ; I don't see
her even, sometimes. I'm only painting
the orchard.'

And when will you a-done with it  
th' ar chard ? '

It depends a good deal on the weather.
If this sort of weather goes on, not till the
end of the month.'

Ay, ay ; you're alius puling and
pining, Sylvie; fretting or stabbing at
summit. If you was less ignorant you'll
ha' perceived the turnips was at last extremities
for want of rain.*

Very likely. Italian turnips are more
to my taste ; they get their rain and their
disagreeableness all in a lump.'

Ah ! 'Tis a pity you ever left your
Italians ! '

Indeed, yes. But let me sell my
picture, and then to damp skies and
England, Bernadotte ! '

Arden ran down the drive, letting fly
the last sentence. She was sufficiently
cross to feel a certain satisfaction in
imagining how ungrateful and unkind
her last words would seem to Mrs.

Lawrance. But nothing was too hard
for such a cross-grained old woman. Her
grandfather she really liked and cared for
but Mrs. Lawrance ! Arden's dislike
was perhaps sharpened by the suspicion
that Mrs. Lawrance possessed more
strength of feeling and capacity for fine
action than all the true Lawrances together.
Superior qualities are exasperating in a
person one detests. By this time the girl was
at the drive-gate. Her passion was cooled,
and she felt a little repentant, but the sense
of being in the way made her still more
anxious to get away from this England
of lush boggy greenness, of spongy outlines,
thick air, tremulous and dull,
skies without atmosphere, summers without
glory or prostration, where she was
always cross, fatigued, and in the wrong.
Oh, she did not see the moment of getting
away!

As she mused thus, leaning her arms on
the high gate and her head on her arms.

she looked idly down the lane towards the
bridge.

Miss Lawrance,' cried a fresh provincial
voice from the side. It was Susie,
walking briskly, a little basket on her
arm.

I've been to the Bolton,' she explained,
' for we ran out of yeast. I
thought I should find you at home 
aren't you going to paint to-day, Miss
Lawrance?'

Paint! Oh yes  everything depends
on that ! '

May I walk with you down the
lane?'

I shall be glad.'

The two girls started off together ;
Arden's slim figure, uncertain pace, charm
of movement, contrasting with the rustic
steadiness and straightness of her companion.


Susie looked up. ' We shall have wind,'
she cried.

Then she picked a Power at her feet.
'And rain, I fear,' she added.

Oh, I hope not ! ' said Arden.

I hope not too; the corn's scarce turning
yet in the shady fields ; but there's
majesties in the sky over yon, Miss
Lawrance, to the windward, and see this
pimpernel closing before noon.'

Dear me I ' cried Arden, ' I shouldn't
think it meant anything. What are mares-tails?
Oh, those swathes of clouds? And
that little red flower  is that your barometer?'


You see it's so delicate, it shuts up at
the damp air, just as the slug, there, comes
out when he sniffs the rain.'

Ugly little bestial ! ' Arden moved
out of its way.

Oh, Miss Lawrance ! ' Susie stooped
down. ' I think he's so pretty. See, his
shoulders are covered with a pattern, just
like the carter's smock-frocks ! '

Still, I don't think he's pretty.'

They went on a little longer, Susie
keeping close to the hedges and ditches.

I'm looking for an orchid ; I found one
here once and never again  all green. I've
got one pressed ; but I never found
another.'

But what good would it be ? A green
thing's not pretty to look at, like a rose.'

I've got a book at home,' said Susie,
where I've pressed 'most every kind of
flower to be found in these parts. You
wouldn't believe what a many there are!
Hundreds ! '

You should see the flowers in Italy! '

If I could ! Oh, there's more than
flowers I want of Italy  books, pictures,
history  things I can't have here. Still,
there's a many good things in Arden, more
than you know, Miss Lawrance.' She
looked half shrewdly, half-sweetly at Arden,
as if she wished the girl to understand a
liking she would not speak of ; but in a
moment she was ofl", her hands above her

head, a Carnatic in cotton, searching among
the tiny green plants and fern that grew in
the damp interstices of the bricks of the
bridge.

Here !  she cried, ' look, Miss Lawrance,
isn't it a lovely little fern? I've
never found it before ; but Mrs. Grubb, at
the post-office (she's great in flowers, you
know), she told me as sometimes it sprang
here ! '

Her eyes and one arm were still high
up the wall, but, half-turning, she lowered
the hand which held the tiny plant.

Isn't it beautiful ? ' she asked.

I think it's rather like the others,' said
Arden. ' They're all alike, Fence ; not much
good except for doing up in bouquets.'

Susie's face fell a little. She privately
thought it a little dull of Arden not to feel
an interest in her plant; but her instincts
of hero-worship immediately suggested
that Arden, who had seen the greatest
things of the world, could scarcely be

expected to care for such very small ones.
Still, she kept her plant, tying it carefully
in her handkerchief.

How still it is, and the sun so bright
and yellow ! There's a storm brewing.'

How do you know ? '

Those are all signs. Hark ! how loud
the birds sing. D'ye hear? Yon's a blackbird.
Fancy, at this season ! '

Do you know the birds by their
voices ? '

Oh, yes, all of them. See, the swallows
are gathering ; I saw a Fare-thee swells
yesterday.'

What's that ? '

A flower. It only comes when the
swallows gather and the good weather's
done.'

Done ! It seems to me we have never
had any.'

Oh Missie ! Six fine days last week
for the corn, and rain before and after
for the roots ; a spell of sunshine now,

and we should have never such a harvest.'


I don't care for the turnips ; I care
for the sun.'

Arden was not in a conciliatory mood:
Susie perceived it.

Of course you miss your home,' she
said; 'you see, this is my home. I've
always lived here  I've never known
anything better. I would rather live
here than anywhere in the world ! '

Is it possible ! ' cried Arden.

She began pouring out an incoherent
eulogy of all the items that made up the
world in which she had been happy  fitful -
coloured olive-hills, white villas guarded
by pointing cypresses, the great plain of
the Campagna, the grey and lilac ridges
of the Sabine range. Suddenly she
stopped.

There is the postman. Let us walk a
little quicker.'

Do you expect a letter ? '

 Ye? ; from the Roses : from my old
friends, from the people who would take
me away.'

Take you away ! Would you be so
glad to go ? '

Arden, for all her hurry, stopped a
moment ; stopped with brilliant eyes
and flushed cheeks, suddenly clouded
with hesitation. Would she be glad to
go? It was a question she had never
asked herself. It seemed so sensible, so
self-evident and necessary that she must
be glad to go. What was there here she
could regret to leave? What was there
over there she did not long to look upon
aoain ?

Before she could put this thought into
words, Susie, seizing her opportunity, had
begun to speak.

 See, Miss Lawrance,' she began, ' I
know you've had much to make you
wretched-like since you've been among us.
You came unhappy to a new place where

the people of your own rank haven't been
over-good to you, or hospitable at all.'

Arden blushed.

I beg your pardon for speaking of it,
Miss Lawrance, but plain words are best.
And the old gentleman's been ill ; you
must have had a dull, lonely life of it up
at the Bushes  no blame to them.'

Susie stopped a moment, but seeing the
postman coming nearer and nearer she
hurried on.

You've had no one but us to know 
farmer-people, and quite out of your station.
See, Miss Lawrance, I understand why you
should be glad to go. I didn't think of it
before ; but of course you looked on us
much as you looked on th' 'hemlock and
th' apple-trees as you painted.'

Oh, no ! ' said Arden, growing redder ;
but she felt it to be true.

 It was natural,' went on Susie, sadly,
but all the time I've been thinking of
you, and caring for you with real love.

VOL. II. c

Don't speak, there's no need you should
say anything  and if your friends call for
you, go, dear Miss Lawrance, and be
happier than you've been here. But if you
stay '

The girl stopped a moment to swallow
something.

 Dear Susie ! ' whispered Arden, and
took the girl's hand.

If you stay,' went on the other, keeping;
hold of the little hand, ' there's something
I have it on my mind to tell you.
God knows I've no call to preach. But
this isn't, preaching, Miss Lawrance, it's
only showing you something, as I showed
you the little fern  and you needn't
heed it any more than that, unless you
like.'

Go on,' said Arden.

Well, Miss Lawrance, you don't like
the country here; but you see to-day
when the blackbird sang you didn't recognise
it and scarcely heard it. You didn't

see any meaning in the sky ; you didn't
understand what it meant when the beasts
crowded under the trees, and the birds
sang so loud, and the sunshine looked so
yellow ; you didn't know one flower from
another, and scarcely saw a difference
between them  snow, did you. Miss
Lawrance ? '

No,' said Arden ; 'but I don't know
what you mean.'

You see,' explained the other girl,
you find the country dreary just because
you don't understand it, or recognise what's
in it.'

Yes? ' queried Arden' Wel? '

And don't you think, as you're so
unhappy, it may be something the same
with your life ? '

'With my life?'

With the old people up yonder, the
country you're in, and all the things in the

world you might do or care for '

c 2

I see  oh, how idle and ungrateful
you think me ! '

*I?  Nay, Miss Lawrance,' said Susie,
making a not altogether unwelcome struggle
to confess her hidden misery, lest Arden
should look upon her as a preacher, a holy
person ; ' if I could tell you  as I can't 
what sort of struggle and sin, all confused
wrong and wretchedness, there is in my
heart, you would know how good, and
sweet, and pure, and calm, you seem to me
like a star in the dark, like a violet one
doesn't look for in the lanes in January, a
sort of earnest that there are better things
in the world than those one just happens
to have hold on  I'm not good  I can't tell
you, but pray for me as an unhappy, miserable
girl, who has lost the clue of right
or wrong. Don't look so startled, dear
Missie, I only wanted you to know how
grateful I am to you for having come to
see me now and again '

Dear Susie ! ' said Arden again.

Thank you, thank you. And you will
forgive me ? '

 Altrol  I am grateful.'

See  here's the postman ! '

But there was no letter this day, either.

You are very sorry? ' said Susie.

I  I don't quite know ! '

Two or three days later she did know ;
two or three days later, when the desired
letter came, long, kind, cordial, every
phrase of it laden with allusions to the life
she knew so well, the life of indolent,
cultured people, familiar with all the great
and beautiful places, with half the great or
beautiful persons in Europe. How she
longed for it again, the old, well-known,
easy life! Suddenly she dropt the letter
and began to cry.

What's the matter, Sylvie, child ? '
asked her grandfather.

Mrs. Rose is ill!'

Poor thing  she's young too.'

It's not that,' sobbed Arden ; ' it's not
dangerous, but they're going to Egypt for
the winter.'

Poor child ; she felt miserably forlorn
and forsaken ; at first nothing  not even
her picture  seemed worth desire in life.
And when her sobs calmed, and her mind
grew more at ease, the thought that chiefly
consoled her was not her yet unfinished
picture, but the memory of Susie Williams'
frank and loving face.

Chapter Xii.

IN THE HILL OF VENUS.

Soon after this time Arden finished her
picture, and, accompanied by Mrs. Lawrance,
drove into Warwick one fine afternoon and
left her treasure with the frame-maker for
despatch to the Birmingham Exhibition.
Then there was nothing to do but to wait.
The days went slowly by without event or
record, while Arden wandered aimlessly
about the garden, dreaming of her picture.
As far as it went she knew it was good,
and, though it didn't go very far, she
thought it must succeed. Little did she
dream how the shade of Baker would
quiver with wrath over the daring greens,
the uncertain breezy outlines of her work !

Now the picture was done with, it did
not occur to her to visit the Farm save at
rare intervals ; and, indeed, she might
have soon forgotten her friends there, and
the .course of her story might have run indifferent
channels, but for the aching of a
tooth. So small a thing may be the hinge
of Fate ! For so it was ; Arden, roaming
over-late about the fields, caught a severe
cold in her face, which increased till the
inflamed and angry fangs tortured her by
day and night to the very verge of frenzy.
On the third day she came down to breakfast
haggard and wild. ' Where's the
nearest dentist ? ' was her morning greeting.

'Law, Sylvie,' cried Mrs. Lawrance,
how scared you look, poor child ! It's al
that wretched tooth ; it'll terrify you and
terrify you until you've had it drawn, mark
ray words.'

Why didn't you tell me sooner, then ? '
cried Arden. ' But I'll go at once, to-day;
I can't wait. Where does he live ? '

 There's a dentist at Warwick, a 
as they call 'un, an 'highly
respectable practitioner, so they say. But
you can't have the 'horse to-day, Sylvie ;
grandpa's lent him to Farmer Willis.'

How can I go, then? ' cried Arden, on
the brink of tears ; ' and I can't bear it
any longer.'

You might weak to Henley, Sylvie, 'tis
but a matter o' four or five miles ; or
Raynham, that's little better nor two miles
aaf, and Tuke o' Raynham's an old established
man.'

'Is he a dentist, too?' cried Arden,
oh, that's all right.'

Not, so to speak, a surgeon-dentist, I
anticipate ; but 'e's drawn many a tooth in
our parish. Tuke's a chemist, Sylvie.'

Arden looked up. ' I'm desperate,' she
said. ' If he can't do it, I'll go to the
blacksmith and have it out with a pair of

tongs !

Law, child, how precipitate you talk

cried Mrs. Lawrance, ' there's no call to be
so wild ; Tuke's a farrnercuter, as they say;
no mere Medical-hall of a man. He'll
dear your tooth as well as a Birmingham
operator ; not as I'm saying I'ld trust him
with the stopping, leastways not gold ; still,
as for tooth-drawing, a strong wrist is al
that's necessary, and no man alive could
make a pleasure of it '

Oh, don't say any more ! ' implored
Arden ; ' I haven't the courage to stay, and
soon I shan't have the courage to go.'

'Ere's your tea, Sylvie. Don't drink
it while it's 'ot, and eat summit, child; it's
exhaustion makes you feel so vacillating
and cranky.'

Thank you.'

Mrs. Lawrance sat by for some time,
looking kindly at the girl ; at last she rose
and pushed back her chair.

Well, Sylvie,' she said, ' I wish I could
accompany you this morning, I'm sure ;
but the bread's mixed and rising, and the

butter's al got to be made up afore three;
then there's the dinner '

Oh, never mind, Mrs. Lawrance,' cried
Arden; ' I'm not afraid to go alone.'

That's a good courage ! ' cried Mrs.
Lawrance, approvingly. ' 'Ell put you out
o' your misery in a few minutes, and I'll
mince you some nice sat mutton for your
dinner, Sylvie.'

The door closed and Arden was left alone.

To tell the honest truth, the poor child
was at no time a heroine in her endurance
of pain, and now, unnerved and prostrate,
the idea of going alone to Raynham to a
strange chemist to have her tooth drawn
presented itself to her mind as little short of
actual martyrdom. Courage !  she wanted
nothing so much as to cry on some soft
shoulder, while tender hands took care of
her and loving words consoled her. But
that was impossible. She sat still on her
horsehair chair while sympathising Betty
cleared away the breakfast, and remarked

on her melancholy looks. Arden had half
a mind to ask Mrs. Lawrance to send
Betty with her. But no ; she would
deserve her step-grandmother's praises:
she would show herself of a good courage.
Suddenly the agonising dart and throb
of her tooth became so violent that
Arden rushed upstairs for her cloak and
hat ; nothing could be so horrible as this.
She walked quickly through the village,
actually running when out of sight of the
houses, as nearly mad as sheer pain can
drive a poor helpless sufferer. At last she
saw Farnham, and began to walk, but still
quickly. The chemist's shop was at the
furthest end of the village ; the door was
standing open.

Can I see Mr. Tuke ? ' asked Arden
of a little lad playing in the doorway.

The lad looked up, alert and professional
at once.

Step in, Miss, take a seat, Miss,' he
said, moving a tall chair that overtopped

his curly pate. ' Mr. Tuke, Miss, he's gone
out on business ; customers, he said, were
to wait : he wouldn't be long.'

Arden, panting and overheated, sat
down, sick at heart, in the draughty shop.
No wonder that her tooth began to rage ina
veritable extravagance of pain. Nothing
seemed worth hoping or fearing any
longer : a dull endurance took possession
of her. When, at an hour's end, the thin,
dapper chemist re-entered his shop, he was
confronted by a pale, sunken-eyed young
woman, who could only point wildly to her
face, who answered all his questions with
an assurance that she couldn't speak.

Fortunately Mr. Tuke soon perceived
what was the matter; nothing less than
acute inflammation of the jaw. He would
infinitely have preferred to send so responsible
a case on to the dentist at Warwick;
still it was clear that not a moment must
be lost. A few exclamations of genuine
sympathy and concern restored sufficient

courage to Arden to enable her to sit down
in the ominous leather chair and open as
best she could her poor, swollen mouth.
Then a grating, tearing sound ; a jerk,
the tooth had broken off  then another
tug yet longer and stronger the tooth
was triumphantly extracted, but Arden 
a senseless heap  lay crumpled on the
floor without sign or breath of life.

It was an embarrassing moment for
Mr. Tuke. In Arden's speechless condition,
he had not learnt where she came from
or who she was ; and now she lay on the
floor in a sal volatile-defying swoon. He
bent over her and lifted her on to a table
in the back shop, well out of the draught,
placed a cushion under her head ; loosed
her gown, chafed her hands ; but when a
deep sigh seemed to reward his efforts, and
when at last the heavy eyelashes were
raised, it was but a moment ere the girl
sank back into unconsciousness. The poor
man was at his wits' end. An awful

suspicion came over him that she might bea
sufferer from heart-complaint, that syncope
might end in death. A death in
his shop ; good Heavens ! Mr. Tuke
redoubled his efforts, and poured a glass
of brandy, almost neat, down Arden's
throat.

At last a faint colour struck up the
whiteness of her cheeks; the little head, lost
in the fallen yellow hair, began to stir uneasily
upon the pillow. ' Thank God ! '
cried Mr. Tuke, and bent over the table to
watch the return of life. And now a low
moaning moved the purple lips, words
followed ; Mr. Tuke stooped to listen ; he
could not understand a word. She was
alive, indeed, but a foreigner and delirious!

The poor fellow walked to the door and
stood looking out in the street as if help
might come to him thence and deliver him.
The cool air fanned his forehead. He was
just going to return to the inner room,
Ashen a fresh sounding voice arrested him.

 Good day, Muster Tuke,' cried a fresh-looking
man in a Whitechapel cart.

Good day ! good day, indeed ! ' cried
the 'poor little chemist exasperated at this
last insult of fortune. ' It's the very worst
day I ever set eyes upon, that's what it is ! '

'Why, what's the matter?' cried the
other. * Here ; hold the horse, Teddy
boy; I'm coming in.'

I wish you would,' cried the little
man, with an accent of testy relief. ' But
is there anything I can do for you this
morning, Mr. Williams ? ' he added with
an instant resumption of his professional
capacity.

Let me see. Yes; there's an ounce
of tartaric acid, a packet of carbonate of
soda, a tooth-brush, and two penn'oth of
camphor. Well! what's up this morning?'


Just you come and see ! ' said Mr.
Tuke in a hollow voice of mystery. He
pushed open the glass-door, and there off

the table flowed a stream of golden hair,
which the dim light caught. The two men
went in together; the girl was still moaning
and restlessly shifting her head from
side to side in half-unconscious, inarticulate
pain. Her eyes were closed, her
features drawn and wan.

Good God ! It's Miss Lawrance ! '
cried Harry Williams.

This was more than Tuke had dared to
hope for  all responsibility was shifted off
his hands. He began pouring the stream
of his anxiety into Harry's listening ears;
but Harry, who felt it profanation merely
to stand and worship Arden as she lay
there unconscious, could not endure the
little chemist's eager talk.

'I say, Muster Tuke,' he said at last;
I'm sure you've had your share of
trouble. If you'll go and mind the shop,
I'll watch b} Miss Lawrance.'

Very well,' said the little man; ' there's
nothing particular to do  only when she

VOL. II. D

comes round, you just step in and call
me! '

And then the glass-door shut, and
Harry Williams was left alone with his
unconscious companion. It was a dull
autumn morning, and in the back shop,
with the yellow linen blind covering the
one window there was little light. It
seemed a very solemn place just then, that
shady parlour, with its darkened window
and outstretched moaning form of a beautiful
woman. Harry sat down bewildered,
oppressed. Through the door he could
hear Teddy pounding something in a
mortar, and the sharp, querulous amazement
of the chemist's voice, as he recounted
his adventure to some chance customer :
and if Farmer Williams hadn't driven
home from market round by Farnham,
here I should have been saddled, may be,
with a nameless corpse ! '

But words and sounds alike seemed
strangely far away, seemed to belong to

another world than this dim, yellow-lighted
room, where the white face, unconscious in
its glory of hair, gave a solemn meaning to
its commonplace surroundings. The dull
flap of the blind against the open window,
and Arden's dreary, sighing moans were
the only sounds in the world that made a
part of this moment. At last  it seemed
after a very long while  Arden raised her
head a little, and saw, dimly outlined
against the window, the watching figure of
a man.

Papa ! ' she said, in a sweet, shrill,
wandering voice.

Harry did not stir. The sweet voice
went on:

Oh, no. Papa's dead  papa's dead
and gone. Is it Gerard that has come to
fetch me ?  Gerard ? '

Harry turned sharp round; suddenly,
unreasonably angry.

No; it's me ! ' he said.

A stranger ! ' cried Arden. * Oh, where

D 2

am I? What's happened? What place is
this?'

She sat up, leaning on her hand; her
beautiful eyes wild and tired, her dress
loose, her hair on her shoulders, her face
still as white as death.

Plague on me ! ' cried Harry Williams.
I deserve as you shouldn't remember me,
Miss Lawrance. I'm Susie's brother; and
this place is Tuke's shop at Raynham, and
you've been very faint, pore child  pore
lady,  and I'm going to take you home.'

 Thank you,' said Arden, ' but I think
I'm dying.'

Harry gave a little smile; his stepmother
so often had said exactly the same
thing.

No, no he said caressingly as one
speaks to a child ; ' you're bad enough,
pore child, but you're not dying. Tuke
said I was to give you this.'

Arden put out a white little hand.
You're very kind,' she said. ' I'm sorry

to be such a trouble.'



You're no trouble ! ' said Harry, with
an emphasis that brought a little smile to
Arden's wan face. She sat up and pushed
her hair out of her eyes. Her glance fell
upon her unfastened frock and fallen
tresses.

The servant girl's making you some
tea,' said Harry. ' Shall she coom and
'help you do your hair ? '

Thank you,' said Arden shyly.

I'll send her, then.'

Harry walked out of the room into the
little front shop, where the daylight, the
orderliness of the scene, struck him as a
surprise. Was it only an hour ago he had
stopped Tuke in his doorway ? He felt like
Rip van Winkle ; the world seemed immeasurably
altered in that hour. Had he
known the story, he might more truly have
compared himself to Tannhauser; for the
chemist's back parlour had been his Hill of
Venus.

CHAPTER XY.

A GOOD RESOLUTION.

An hour afterwards, Arden, wrapped from
head to foot m Harry Williams' frieze overcoat,
was sitting by his side in the Whitechapel
cart, driving from Raynham to
Arden. The chemist had made her promise
not to open her mouth; so a little wan
smile from time to time was all her share
of the conversation. Harry spoke a little,
chiefly about Susie and how ailing she had
been of late ; but he was thinking with a
certain fierce wonder of the unknown
Gerard whom Arden had called upon at
waking. He had seen that she wore no
ring on her left hand, and that sight had
brought him a moment of acute consolation.

Still there was much to be
learned  much to be feared. Bah! what
right had he, a mere coarse farming-man,
to meddle with that beautiful angel's
thoughts I He drove fast in a moody
silence, until a soft little sigh from Arden
caught his ears. He turned round and saw
that she had gone very white.

Don't let me faint ! ' she cried, putting
out her hands, as if to keep off the oncoming
blackness ; but the life left her
lips and her eyes shut. Harry put his
arm round her to prevent her falling, and
laid the drooping head upon his shoulder.
He drove down the lane at a furious pace,
the lifeless girl in his arms, and in his
heart a sudden storm of passion, a fever of
anxiety. They were still some little way
from the village when the life came back
into her face  and poor Arden, feeling very
ill and wretched, began to cry like the tired
child she was, the great tears rolling one
after another down her face.

 Nay, nay ! ' cried Harry. ' You
mustn't do that, Missie. We'll soon be
home ; only keep up your heart a little
longer.'

I  I haven't any home ! ' sobbed
Arden.

Pore child ! Pore child ! But see,
that's our farm over yonder  'tis a good
mile nearer than the Bushes. Stay there
to-night. Miss Lawrance, dear, and Susie
'full be so proud to take care of you.'

No,' objected Arden ;  they'll expect
me.'

I'll go on and tell 'em,' said Harry ;
you'll be regular worn out. I declare I
won't drive you any further.'

Thank you, thank you,' sobbed Arden ;
you're really kind. I don't mean to cry,
you know, only I can't help it.'

Here we are,' said Harry, consolingly,
as he turned into the clean bright farmyard.
' Mother ! Susie ! '

It was very comforting to poor little

Arden to be taken possession of by friendly,
gentle bands  to have all things settled
with no reference to herself. In a few
minutes a fire was blazing in the lavender-scented
best bedroom, and she was l3ng
wrapped in shawls, in a low chair-bedstead
drawn to the hearth. A little table by her
side held her cup and saucer, and a book,
and by the window, Susie, as quiet as a
mouse, was learning her French verbs by
the fading light. Everything was homelike
and easy and quiet. For some time
Arden lay still, looking in the fire, and
wishing she had not neglected Susie since
the finishing of her picture. She was still
weak and unstrung, and her own negligence
and Susie's ready kindness both appeared
very great affairs in her hazy consciousness.


'Susie ! ' she called at last.

Susie rose and came to the hearth,
kneeling down by Arden's sofa.

I don't think you're like the apples

and the hemlock, Susie. I think you're
the kindest person in the world.'

'Like the apples, dear?' said Susie,
fearing her friend was wandering in her
speech.

Yes  don't you remember? You said
I only cared for you as I cared for the
orchard. And then I didn't come and see
you. But it wasn't that I didn't care  I
was so miserable.'

And are you worrying yourself about
me? ' cried Susie. ' Oh, my dear, beautiful
little Princess Sylvia, I never expected
you to care I '

Mut I do,' said Arden softly, letting
one small hand rest on Susie's shoulder.

 Thank you,' said Susie reverently ;
and for a long time she sat very still,
neither moving nor speaking. At last she
stirred.

Miss Lawrance ! ' she said.

Yes,' said Arden.  I'm better.'

'Really better? Ah, yes, you look

more natural like, and your hands are
warmer. Do you think you could bear to
hear me tell you something? '

Tell me something ? Why, yes  of
course.'

'It's not a story,' said Susie. * It's
quite true  it's dreadful. Oh, God, how
can I ever have done it ! '

It's about you?' said Arden, anxiously.

'Ah, yes,' answered the other, 'more's
the pity.'

She stopped for a little while and bent
her head down into her knees.

'What is it, Susie dear?' said Arden.
Please begin to tell me.'

'Yes, I must tell you, though I can't
rightly judge whether I'm wrong in doing
so ; but when you said, dear Miss Lawrance,
that you cared for me, I felt it was dishonest
to hide it any longer.'

Hide what ? ' queried Arden.

Oh. me, the secret that's eating my
heart out ! I'm a miserable girl, and yet

I ought to be very happy, for Fred
Masters loves me. But I've promised
not to tell, and that's the harm of it.'

'Oh, Susie, poor little Susie!' cried
Arden, sitting up on her sofa.

I've been so miserable and so dishonest!
Every time mother or Harry's done me a
kindness while I've been so pettish and
fractious, I've longed to ask them to strike
me instead. Perhaps then I shouldn't feel
so mean.'

But why don't you tell them ? ' said
Arden. ' It's very simple. Is your brother
so pretence ? '

'So what?'

Masterful, overbearing, such a tyrant ?'

Harry a tyrant ! ' cried Susie in amazement.
' Harry ? Oh, he's the kindest
and dearest lo me of every one in the world.
Why, when he was quite a lad, before I
was born, he gave up his schooling to save
father from the drink and all of us from
ruin. If he's ever unmannerly, Miss lawrence,

it's because he's spent his life so for
us and served us so  ever since he had
sense to see what's right and what's wrong
that he's had no time to spend on himself.
Harry a tyrant ! Fancy ! Why, the
first thing I remember is his teaching me to
walk ; and he used to carry me round to
all the beasts and teach me what they liked
and what we kept 'em for. But you're
looking tired.'

 No,' said Arden. ' Please go on.'
Never was such a brother,' continued
Susie. 'AH the things he'd missed he
made sure I should have  schooling, books,
leisure, time to study every day. And
when I was thirteen we lost some money ina
bank, and there was some talk of my
coming home from school at Stratford. Oh,
how I cried ! And Harry wouldn't hear of
it ; he said my education shouldn't go the
same way as his, whatever happened. So
he sent me back to school, and left off
courtier Rose Kino.'

soh, why did lie do that?'

"Cause he couldn't afford to marry.
Was'nt it fine ? '

But what did she think, poor girl ? '

Oh, she married Ned Swinburne. He
went a courting her the same year.'

Did Harry  your brother  did he
miss her much ? '

I don't know. He never said so.'

What was she like, this Eose ? '

Mrs. Swinburne, of Raynham ? Shea
good, comely, rosy-cheeked young woman
with four little children who all look the
same age, and a splendid dairy.'

But how could you let him do it,
Susie ? '

I don't know. Harry just said he 'Id
rather I went back to school ; and I wanted
to go, ever so.'

He's a good brother. How could you
keep a secret from him, Susie ? '

Ah ! God only knows how hard it's
been ; and what's worse is that I know it's
wrong,'

Why don't you tell him at once 
now ? '

Now ; but I promised not ? '

Still, you told me.'

True. Oh, dear Miss Lawrance, what
shall I do, I wonder ? '

Of course,' said Arden, " you must go
and tell your brother ! '

But Fred '

A fio for Fred ! he's not fit   I beo
your pardon, Susie.'

Oh, I know Fred's not so fine a character
as Harry ; but that's all the more
reason why he wants me ; and he loves
me ; and I promised him.'

Then tell him you retract your
promise.'

Then he would think I do not trust
him.'

Because you trust your brother !
What nonsense ! He's much more likely
to think that if you deceive your people,
you'll deceive him too. Your duty's clear.

 You're sure, Miss Lawrance ? '

Quite sure.'

 I believe you're in the right said
Susie slowly.

Well, and when will you tell him ;
your brother, I mean ? '

Next Sunday, the day after tomorrow,'
said Susie.

I wish you'd tell him now,' said Arden
in her petulant, tired voice. ' I can't think
why you wait so long.'

Don't you see, Miss Lawrance,' explained
Susie blushing, ' I only see Fred
on Sunday mornings at the school, and it
would be so mean to tell without giving
him fair notice. Of course I could send for
him and tell him, but I never would meet
him in the week for his pleasure ; and just
to grant him a meeting now on purpose to
tell him I won't keep my promise  that
would seem meaner still, don't you understand.'


I don't understand at all ! ' cried

Arden ; ' the mean thing is to deceive your
brother ! '

Ah, yes I ' sighed Susie.

And yet,' said Arden, afraid of striking
too hard, ' I'm sure you're very good, Susie,
all the same ! '

It doesn't seem much like it,' said
Susie sadly ; ' but now you must try and
sleep a little, my dear.'

Arden dozed oflP into a happy rest ; and,
sitting silently by, Susie too was not unhappy
; a great peace and quietude stole
into her soul. She was no longer troubled
by her fault, for she had determined to renounce
it, even should that renunciation
include her love. She would at all hazards
do the right. But as yet she was free from
the penalty of doing right ; as yet she still
could keep the dear, strange thought that,
to the man she loved, she was supremely
necessary. She had not been happy before ;
for her conscience had left her no peace. Sha
might not be happy hereafter, for probably

VOL. II. E

lie would lose her lover. But for these
few blessed, quiet intermediary hours she
wore, as it were, her martyr's crown and
her bridal wreath together.

Her peace was strangely little troubled
by Arden's obvious contempt of her lover.

She herself owned that Fred was in the
wrong ; but already she was used to forgiving
him. Moreover, in Susie's frank,
outspoken rank of life, it was natural for
unmarried girls to know what faults they
mio-ht expect from their husbands. They
looked for no ideals. Susie, for instance,
high-principled Susie, was grieved but not
surprised or shocked to know that her lover
was sometimes the worse for drink. When
she heard it she sighed, she did not blush.
She had thought, with an admonitory heartache,
that there would be so much the
more pain and trouble in store for her.
Susie's conception of marriage was strangely
different from that of the girl who lay
asleep by her side. Arden would look for

love, and care, and mutual interests. Susie
expected hard work, active management,
responsibility labour and pain, much discouragement,
and possibly, in time, the
sense that her husband blamed her for being
old and faded. Yet the idea of shrinking
from such a future did not suggest itself
to her.

Some months ago Susie had done her
best to dissuade a neat little dairymaid
from marrying a drunken lout.

You know he drinks, Nan ! ' she had
said.

Miss, Miss.'

And he's fond of women.'

No answer, but a curtsey.

And he's backbone lazy

'Miss, Miss, please, Miss. But if I har
to 'ave him, I har.'

Susie had laughed, scolded, and pitied.
It flashed across her, as she sat by Arden's
side, that her own attitude was much the
same.

*"2ia.

CHAPTER XVI.

LOST AND FOUND.

Arden was delighted with the Farm.
The simple, abundant, busy life, the quaint
surroundings, the kindly, intelligent faces,
had a dignity and position of their own.
She did not feel so out of place here as in
the slovenly semi-gentility of the Bushes.
So, at least, she said to herself, prepared
to see everything rosy in a place where
she was so kindly treated. It was very
sweet to Arden to be again a person of
importance, a blessing and not a burden ;
in such a sentiment, vanity and gratitude
shake hands.

She spent a happy morning, trotting
after Susie round the dairy, so clean and

fair, with its red tiles, and big yellow
bowls of creamy milk ; or round the farmyard,
where the turkeys struck her with
dismay, and the downy yellow chickens
with delight. There were two young
calves and a litter of pigs. Arden clapped
her hands with enjoyment, and was as
pleased as a child.

Susie laughed, and petted her ; but
when Arden drew the likeness of the
youngest calf, its soft uncertain legs in
their baggy skin straddling under the
weight of the thin body and large head,
then Susie was all admiration. She did
not know how to serve enough this fair,
delicate girl, with her childish ways, her
helpless orphaned sorrow, and the gifts
and graces which appeared unmatchable
in Susie's eyes. And Arden was well
enough content to accept this lavish and
headlong admiration. For that morning,
she forgot to think of Rome.

Arden was easily persuaded to spend

that day at the Farm, and only return
to the Bushes after church with Mrs.
Lawrance on the morrow. There was
much to do at the Farm. She filled all
the flower-glasses, practised on the old
piano, chattered to Harry Williams about
the state of the crops, about Rome to
Susie, and to Mrs. Williams about her
tooth-ache.

They were all enchanted to listen ; and
by the end of dinner-time Arden considered
them, save the Roses, the most
intelligent people she knew.

She had not much sense of humour,
or surely she must have laughed at the
quaint juxtaposition. The Williamseses,
narrow, local, energetic, strong of mind
and strong of nature. The Roses, cultured,
shallow, cosmopolitan, familiar with
a whole world of things the farmers of
West Raynham never dreamed of.

For the people of West Raynham are
of West Raynham ; they are wise in crops

and cattle ; they take their politics on
Sunday from the ' Birmingham News ' ;
and their utmost idea of strangeness or
romance is embodied in Guy Fawkes.
The people of Eome are of Rome. They
inherit three great civilisations, and claim
acquaintance alike with Trajan, Sisto
Quinto, and Victor Emanuel ; they are
the next-door neighbours of Michelangelo
and Praxiteles ; Nero and Seneca, the
Borgia and Savonarola, have become
familiar types to them ; they have learned
the wisdom in good and evil of the Italian
Renaissance. Each set of people is, intrinsically,
of equal value. The mistake
is when those from Rome, going to
West Raynham, look for Roman attributes
there.

This is what Arden did. She did not
perceive the real worth and character of
her new friends ; she did not enter, as
at an opened door, into their different
mode of life, and judge it by Its own conditions.

She did not so much as perceive
that they were different. She liked them,
and so she thought they resembled the
other friends she also liked. She exaggerated
their acquirements, and did not find
out their character.

The afternoon swung by, and the two
girls, who had been talking in the garden,
came in to tea. Harry Williams was not
in ; and while Susie helped to lay the
table, Arden, sitting on the settle, began
to fill a quaint old punch-bowl with York
and Lancaster Roses. The shadow cast
by the high oaken back fell over her ; she
could not be seen save from the hearth.

How late your brother is ! ' she said
at last.

Yes ; most likely he's gone to Farmer
Willis's about the harvest. He's the only
man in Arden that has a proper " scars
'

A what ? ' cried Arden.

A machine that rakes up the fallen

ears. I don't like it myself. I'd rather
give the poor folk their leasing.'

Oh, dear me ! ' said Arden ; ' what
lots of things there are I don't understand
! '

Poor little Princess ! Well, I won't
trouble you any more with the Farm.
You can't be expected to take it in.
Shall I sing while you finish your roses ? '

Please, Susie, if you will.'

Susie sat down to the piano, and, with
a quaint little glance at Arden in her
shadowy nook opposite, she struck into a
fine old air 

Who is Sylvia, who is she,
That all our swains adore her ?

The fine deep voice thrilled through
the quiet room, where the fading daylight
and the flickering brightness of the
fire were contending together. The last
level sun-rays fell on Susie as she sat in
her light cotton gown, singing ; her resolute
head well poised ; and now and then

a fitful flame lit up, among the blackness
of oak and shadows and mourning-clothes,
Arden's sweet face and golden hair, her
white swift hands moving among a lapful
of gay striped roses. Suddenly the door
was heavily flung open. Susie stopped
her singing for a second, and smiled at
her brother as he entered. But the smile
died off her face, her cheeks whitened, and
she sat still as stone, her hands upon the
keys, quite rigid and grey ; while Arden,
bent over the flowers, save nothing  was
herself unseen.

The door swung to, and Harry came
forward. He walked heavily, like an
old man, with bent shoulders and sunk
head.

 Stop your singing,' he said ; and
flung himself wearily down on the red-cushioned
window seat, huddled in his
coat, his head in his hands bent down
and hidden.

Then for a moment there was a dreadful

silence in the room. It was not till
some minutes after that he raised his head
and spoke.

Little maid,' he said, very gently ;
'Susie!'

Susie rose. She knew what was
coming.

Come here,' he said ; ' come here,
Susie, and speak to thy brother.'

The girl went quietly across the room,
and with a low cry she sank to the
ground b}' her brother's side. He put
his arm round her shoulder, and with
the other hand he raised her face, and
so for a long moment he sat, looking
sadly into her hollow eyes.

Susie, my girl,' he said at last ; ' have
I been a harsh brother to thee ? Nay,
answer me, dear ; don't cry. Why didn't
you tell me, Susie, of your fine sweetheart
? '

I promised,' sobbed Susie ; ' oh, dear,
Harry ! '

You promised ! And do words go
for such a deal, Susie, and love for
nothing ? I never bad thee tell me of
thy sweethearts, that's sure enough. I
didn't think to deal with my sister like
a cozening lawyer. Susie, there should
ha' been no need of promises between us.'

 No,' said Susie. ' It was a lie, my
silence.'

A lie ! ' repeated her brother.  Think
how much it is, when we've trusted each
other so ! You've been my friend as well
as my sister ; and now  if you was a
man, Susie, I'd turn you from my doors ;
but you poor women ! '

'Oh, Harry, Harry ! ' sobbed the girl.
Don't sav it  don't be kind to me for
that ; oh ! can't I ever make it right
again ? '

No, Susie ; what's done is done.
You've acted a lie ! and a lie's an unfed
thing between friends. I can't any
longer think you the girl you was.

That's long gone by. There's an ugly
blot on your soul, Susie ; and, clearly as
I love you, what can I say to the folk
who make out you've kept your body no
cleaner ! '

What ? ' cried the girl, starting up to
her feet ; ' what, Harry ? '

Down i' th' village,' said her brother,
through his teeth, ' down there, they say
as my sister's young Masters' mistress.'

Ah ! ' cried the girl, clasping her
hands across her face.

They say cruel things,' he went on,
a pack o' lies ; but there's an ugly truth
at the bottom. They say, down there, as
you've met him at the school and at the
church, regular, for weeks past ; they say,
Susie, as you made the worship of God
a cloak for your sins and shameful secrets.
And one coarse brute  I struck the lie
down his throat before he saw me 
swore, with a laugh, that he'd seen you
kiss young Masters in the church.'

 That's true,' cried Susie, coming
nearer.

And if that's true,' shouted her
brother, ' by God, it may all be true !
and my only sister a common woman.
Keep ofF! '

He pushed out his arm with a movement
of disgust, and but for the high
settle, which stood behind her, the girl
would have fallen to the ground. As it
was, she leant against it, sobbing in her
throat, her head drooped forward, her
hands twisted.

At this moment, Arden, who had been
standing horror-struck and silent by the
hearth, came rapidly forward ; the end of
her apron was twisted through her belt,
and made a loose pouch still full of roses.
Susie ! ' she cried, and ran to the choking
girl ; then, holding both her hands, she
dragged her forwards with an impassioned
movement.

See, Mr. Williams,' she cried, ' it's
Susie, Susie. Dare you doubt her ? '

I must,' groaned Harry.

Last night,' went on Arden, with
rapid speech and flashing eyes, 'she told
me all  everything ! my dear, brave, noble
Susie ! She told how she had been drawn
into loving a weak, vain fellow, half from
compassion and half from his gay, handsome
face, and how, in a weak moment,
she promised for his sake to keep it a
secret. And how she fretted, and was
miserable at deceiving you, and how she'd
always loved you since she was a baby you
taught to walk.'

Don't 'ee,' said Harry, quickly.

And she told me,' persisted Arden,
that she'd been tempted often to tell you,
but she dared not break her promise until
she was set free. And he wouldn't release
her, the coward!  (be quiet, Susie). And
at last she determined to break off her
engagement if needs be, and tell you herself
on Sunday  tomorrow. Oh, that she
had told it one day sooner ! '

Harry looked up. ' Go on he said.

She waited till Sunday, you know,'
Arden continued, ' because  and this you
mustn't be angry at  she used to see
Mr. Masters at the school, and never in
the week. She never would see him any
day or any time you wouldn't have heard
of. Never ! ' said Arden, bending forward
with Susie's hands still clasped in
hers.

Thank Heaven for that,' said Harry ;
she's not false all through then, liar
though she be.'

How can you say so ? ' cried Arden ;
one false step she made, and after that
her very goodness led her on and on the
wrong way. She wouldn't break her
promise, though she oughtn't to have made
it ; and then, when she determined to tell
you at all risks, she wouldn't take an advantage
of her lover, and waited to tell
him fairly first. She's done wrong, but
she's not wicked.'

Sylvia ! ' cried. Susie, and loosing her
hands from Arden's lie flung her thin,
wasted arms round the neck of her friend
and lay, helpless and sobbing, on that kind,
protecting shoulder. For one moment her
brother looked on while Arden's tender
hands soothed the trembling girl. Then
he got up and stood in hesitation.

Give her me,' he said at last. * Give
me back my sister! Susie, I was wrong,
deceived ; you're alius ray dear good girl.
Speak, little maid ; speak, Susie ! '

He took her gently in his arms. She
lifted up her face, streaming with tears.
But I love him, Harry,' she cried ; ' don't
think I consent to hate him ! If he came
into the house now I should know it. I
should know if he was out in the lane. I
should go to him and forgive him. You
mustn't forgive me, Harry, until you knov/.
I love '

The words failed from her lips, and

VOL. II. F

her head fell back. Great sobs choked her
utterance.

Pore ! child,' said Harry. ' I know ; I
know. Don't take on so, darling. My
poor little sister, the worst is done with
now ! '

CHAPTER XVII.

FRIENDS.

Poor Susie lay, speechless and senseless,
on her bed upstairs, with her mother
watching beside her. She had now been
ill for thirteen days with a low nervous
fever, not dangerous but slow. It was
perhaps the kindest thing that Fate could
have sent her, releasing her from thought,
and triply endearing her to the hearts of
those she had wronged and wounded ; so
that now she lay quiet in a lethargy of
weakness, while her future was decided for
her. Downstairs, Arden, who had been
persuaded to stay on and help Mrs.
Williams in watching Susie, was talking to
Harry. They were sitting on either side
 2

the hearth, deep in conversation, the broad-shouldered
farmer in his shiny broadcloth,
and the delicate, refined young girl ;
despite all difference, they talked like old
friends, for favouring circumstances had
brought them close together.

I think she's better to-day, Mr.
Williams,' Arden was saying, as she
stooped towards the fire to see the colours
of her crewel-work . She chose the proper
strand, and threaded her needle. ' I shall
have to go home again soon,' she went on.
Harry shuffled uneasily on his seat.
It 'full be hard work to spare you.
Miss Lawrance.'

Now that's very sweet,' said Arden ;
I'm sure at the Bushes they did not find
it hard work at all. They were only too
pleased ! '

I can't think it likely,' said Harry
Williams.

Alto I ' cried Arden. ' But I can't
bear them any grudge, for I have been as

happy to stay as they were to spare me.
I've been very happy here.'

You're very good, I think said her
companion, ' You've come into our house
in our sore need, and made us happy in
spite of it, and taken a share all the same
as if you was one of us. If that's your
happiness. Miss Lawrance, 'tis a blessed
gift.' He spoke so seriously that the easy
tears rose to Arden's eyes.

Ah ! ' she cried, clasping her hands in
her pretty foreign way,  that's what I was
dying for  to belong to some one, and take
a share. In my grandfather's house I
never was at home.'

Harry went very red. It seemed impossible
that she could mean that she belonged
to them, mere farmer people ; that
she found this house of his a home. He
tried to look as though he had not heard,
while the words sang and rang in his ears
like a peal of wedding bells.

And here, you see,' went on Arden,

there really seemed a place for me. Oh,
I never could forget that first morning
when your mother, half distracted, kept
asking poor, unconscious Susie where she
had put the key of the linen-cupboard.
Why is it that the saddest things make
one laugh as much as one cries ? '

Do they ? ' said Harry, grimly. ' They
make me wish to knock that villain
down again, and harder nor the first time,
too.'

Do you know where he's gone ? '
Arden inquired.

 Not I, nor care, neither. He's a bad
'un wherever he may be ; but I've done
with him since he's gainsaid that wicked
gossip as far as in him lay, and I did
give him a good 'un in the eye,' Harry
chuckled.

I think you were quite excusable,'
cried Arden. ' I don't blame you at all,
for my part.'

 Blame me, Miss Lawrance? Why, I

couldn't ha* done less for my sister. I
couldn't ha' done less.'

It seemed so comic to Arden, this favour
of knocking out for one the teeth of one's
lover, that she began to laugh, to the evident
offence of her hearer. Country people
are sh} of being laughed at, and Harry
was no exception to the rule. But after a
moment he seemed to forgive her, regarding
the pretty little figure with a pitying smile.

'You're so young,' he said; * it comes
handiest to you to laugh at all th' events
of life. But 'tis pore work, pore work,
laughing at men's villainies. And for the
matter of that 'tis poor work enough
wreaking one's anger on the scoundrel.
Easy enough to knock him down and turn
him out o' his parish; but, none the less,
my dear little sister (so merry, so clever
with her fingers as she used to be) is lying
upstairs like a senseless log.'

Harry dropped his head between his
hands, and stared gloomily into the fire.

Hadn't it been for you, Miss lawrence
he went on, ' I think I should ha'
been tempted to curse God ; so awful was
the blow. Fancy, in one hour to have all
I most believed in changed to a deceit, a
wicked cheat ! I was almost too dumb-foundered
to be angry, even. Oh, I
thought Susie 'Id ha' told me 'twas all a
lie; but when she stood there, and let me
say what I would and think what I would,
without so much as a shake o' th' 'eat, I
I  oh, 'twas too much for me ! '

Don't think of it ! ' said Arden softly.
She had left her seat, and was kneeling in
front of the fire, warming, her hands.

Nay,' said Harry, looking down at the
sweet face lit by the fire-flicker, ' nay, I'll
rather think how, in the worst and thick of
the trouble, you came forward, with them
striped roses in your apron falling on the
floor one by one. And your words was
sweeter than any roses, red or white, for
they gave me back my trust in little Susie;

nor any blessed angel out of heaven cudn't
seem more marvellous-like to a man, or
more full of pity and kind mercy, than you
did then, Miss Lawrance, holding the little
un' up in your arms till I cud take her
back with a willing heart.'

Arden put out her hand. ' Thank
you,' she said.

'Tis you, Misses I must thank. I
thought I'ld like you to know, that's all.
But you're crying, I declare!' exclaimed
Harry in dismay.  What can I ha' done ?
What can I ha' said? Great orkerd brute I
am.'

Nothing,' said Arden ; ' I'm quite
happy. Only, you see, I'm  I'm not used
to having any friends.' Harry stared.
At least,' she went on, ' I've got three
friends in Italy, only I don't know where
they are. But that's so far away ! I've
got no friends here,' she said in a piercing
tone.

 Oh, Missie ! ' said Harry Williams.

 Except yon all,' went on Arden, ' all
of you. Don't you see that's what I'm
crying for ? '

Oh ! ' said Harry, blankly.

Because,' explained Arden, 'I'm so
glad. Because we are friends now, aren't
we?'

Miss Lawrance,' said the poor, bewildered
farmer, ' if you'll have us for friends,
as love and honour and thank you, and will
do all our lives ; if you'll take us for your
humble friends, 'tis but like your sweetness
and goodness. I can't say more.'

'Ah,' said Arden very softly, ' it's all
settled then ! We're friends now.'

They sat a little longer alone in the
brown, dim parlour ; but neither cared to
say anything more after that. At last
Arden went upstairs into the room where
Susie was lying, so still and quiet. She
sent Mrs. Williams downstairs and set herself
by the white, peaceful bed. There was
no sound, save now and then the yelp of

the watch-dog, or the sleepy chirp of a
half awakened bird. Arden was happy.
She was thinking how nice it was to be
good, to be of some use in the world, and
how natural it came to her when she was
not crossed. This was the sort of life she
had meant to lead when she left Italy
behind; it was a sweet, noble life, she
thought. She could not help feeling that
she made a very picturesque figure in that
troubled household; but her vanity was so
innocent and artless that it only brought
out the sweetest lines in her face  a wistful,
yearning, devoted look. Just then
Susie woke and turned round.

Sylvia ! ' she whispered.

Arden bent over her and kissed her
softly.

Dear Sylvia,' said the weak, tired
voice. ' I'm at peace now, at peace.
You've saved me, Sylvia ! '

CHAPTER Xviii.

THE LITTLE RIFT.

Well, my dear Mrs. Masters, I am sure
you will never repent of your generous
decision.'

The Rector was standing in Mrs.
Masters' drawing-room, rubbing his long
white hands and smiling, as he prepared to
take his leave.

'Don't go, Mr. Law,' said his hostess;
or I shall think you came for nothing else
but to wring a promise out of me! '

The Rector drew up a chair and sat
down.

It is seldom difficult to persuade you
to generosity,' he said.

 I don't know about that,' answered

Mrs. Masters, drawing back her long neck
with a quick, habitual bridle. ' I don't
think I like being persuaded. But certainly
I hate to do anything mean.'

It will be a kind and delicate attention
to go and see the poor girl. She has really
behaved very well,' said Mr. Law, with an
appeal in his voice.

And Fred behaved very badly, you
mean, I suppose ? Poor Fred ! ' Mrs.
Masters gave an impatient sigh. ' Well, I
acknowledge she has turned out more
reasonable than I expected.'

 I applaud her determination, for my
part,' affirmed Mr. Law ; ' unequal marriages
are seldom fortunate.'

 He was regularly trapped into the
engagement, I consider, poor boy!' cried
Mrs. Masters. ' It was a most preposterous
notion; but I won't quarrel with the girl,
since she has given him up.'

It must have been an effort to resign
him,' said the sagacious Rector.

It was, no doubt. Indeed, I should
have gone to see her before  it was my
natural impulse  but for the absurd scene
that brother of hers made with my poor
boy. I believe he considers it all his doing
that I have sent Fred away for a while 
out of his yellow-haired sister's clutches.'

Well, well,* said the Rector, in his
most deprecating voice ; ' we are agreed
that she has relaxed them.'

Yes ; and I have agreed to be magnanimous.
But I shall expect a great deal
of applause, I forewarn you.'

You never cease to deserve it, my
dear friend,' declared the Rector. 'But
now I must go and see old Mrs. Barnes.
I promised to be there by four.'

Mr. Law rose and took his leave, well
pleased with his success ; for he knew the
most effectual answer to all village slanders
would be for Fred's mother to call upon
Susie. Now she had given her promise he
knew she would not fail. But Mrs.

Masters chafed sorely against the bonds
she had forged for herself, and from which
there was no honourable escape. For a
long time she wandered up and down her
drawing-room like a wild creature in a
cage. Oh. the hateful promise ! It was
too much to expect of her. She took up a
book and threw it down again; began her
work only to throw it aside. At last she
rang the bell.

'Don't get the tea till five she ordered;
I am going into the village.'

Thus it happened that on the last day
of Arden's stay at the farm a loud knock
was heard at the entrance door. Susie was
lying on the sofa, still pale and weak;
Arden had picked up the ' Siege of Disant,'
and was kneeling by the fire to catch the
light on her page, while Farmer Williams,
who had just come in from his turnip-fields,
delivered a solemn warning, with inflammation
of the eyes at the beginning and
total blindness at the end of it. Arden

laughed. Then came the knock at the
door.

who can be there?' cried Susie. ' The
carrier's gone by hours ago.'

Perhaps Mr. Law's stepped round,' suggested
her brother.

Oh, no, he came yesterday. I wonder
if Betsy heard the bell. Yes. Why it's
somebody coming in,' said Susie.

Arden dropped her book and rose to
her feet ; her cheeks, burned red by the
fire, blushed to a deeper colour when she
perceived the tall, handsome woman who
entered the room.

Mrs. Masters ! ' cried Susie, going very

white.

Yes, my dear,' said the great lady.
Now pray don't excite yourself ; lie still ;
I'm sure you are still very delicate.'

Susie couldn't answer, so many memories
choked her throat.

Mrs. Masters went on, giving her time
to recover : ' What a charming home you

have here  really most picturesque, I declare
! It would be quite a trouvaille to an
artist, I assure you, quite a treasure trove !
It has been in your family a great many
years, I think, Mr. Williams ? '

 Two centuries and more,' growled
Harry.

Yes. No wonder you are proud of it.
And how is your mother. Miss Williams ? '

I will go and tell your mother, Susie,'
said Arden, glad of an excuse to escape.
As she closed the door behind her she
heard Mrs. Masters say 

A relation of yours, I suppose.'

Somehow she felt very angry. She'
called Mrs. Williams, and then went upstairs
to her own room.

A relation of the Will asses ! Was
that another insult of Mrs. Masters'?
Arden looked in the glass. The neat
foreign dress, the graceful figure, the refined
face, were reassuring to see. She
wondered what pleasure Mrs. Masters

VOL. II. G

could find in persecuting her. Of course,
she did not look like a relation of the
Williamseses. She began to smile a little
bitterly as she contrasted her own image
with Susie's Raynham frocks, and Mrs.
Williams in her wonderful caps. ' Perhaps,'
Arden thought, ' I have been wrong
in letting myself drift into an intimacy
with such people.'

The bare thought startled back her
customary frame of mind. How silly she
was to care what Mrs. Masters chose to
fancy! The Williamseses were her good
friends, and she should know whom she
liked. She would give Mrs. Masters no
occasion for patronising her ; that, at least,
was certain. At this moment she heard
Mrs. Williams calling her in the passage.
I'm coming, dear Mrs. Williams ! ' cried
Arden, and flew to the door. She had
never noticed before how much like an
upper servant the little woman looked.

'Is Mrs. Masters gone?' inquired
Arden.

Yes, Miss Lawrance,' said her hostess.
And tea's ready if you'll come, Miss
Lawrance.'

Arden ran down the staircase and flung
herself on her knees by Susie's sofa.

Oh, I'm so glad that woman is gone ! '
she cried. ' Hasn't she tired you to death,
coverings with her awful voice and her condescending
manners ; " Non ragioniaw! di
lor, ma guard e passage '

Arden sprang to her feet and struck an
attitude. ' Really quite a trouvaille ! ' she
exclaimed. ' Most picturesque, I'm sure.'

Though the farmer roared with delight
at Arden's mimicry, Susie would not laugh.
Now, that's ill-natured of you, Sylvie,' she
cried. * It was really kind of her to come
and see me.'

Maybe 'twas kind and maybe 'twas
impertinent,' growled her brother. * Leastways,
I'm one with Miss Lawrance ; I
don't like her.'

*Nor do I,' cried Arden. but she
o 2

thought Harry's speech had never sounded
so broad before.

All tea-time, the quartette  usually so
peaceable  seemed to be playing a game
of cross-purposes ; for Mrs. Williams, who
thought the visit an immense honour and
satisfaction, kept appealing for sympathy
which Arden would not give.

She's an odious woman ! ' she declared
at last.

La ! Miss Lawrance, how you take my
breath away ! ' cried little Mrs. Williams.
Why, Mrs. Masters is a born Arden.'

One would think you lived here under
the feudal system ! ' cried the indignant
girl.

'Well, Princess Sylvia,' said Susie,
'one may say there's never been a time
when there hasn't been an Arden at the
Hall and a Williams at the Farm. 'Tis
natural we should feel our position.'

 Mi da sui nerviV cried Arden, and
jumping up from the table she went to the

hearth and picked up her book. But she
did not read ; she felt that she had behaved
ungraciously, and that is not a pleasant
feeling for a saint and a heroine. At last
she looked up and saw the farmer standing
by her, looking at her with grave concern.

I've been very rude,' cried Arden, with
a charming gesture ; ' will you excuse it
for this once ? '

'La! Miss Lawrance,' said Harry,
there's nothing to overlook. Of course
you're not used to know coarse, orkerd
folk like us.'

Arden was immediately propitiated.

Oh, yes, I am ! ' she cried, running to
kiss Susie. ' You're my real friends, my
only friends in England.'

She behaved so sweetly during the rest
of the evening that no one guessed  not
even she herself of the little rift within
the lute. It was her last night at the
Farm.

The next morning she went to her

grandfather's house. The two old people
did their best to welcome her ; Mr.
Lawrance tired himself with asking questions
and telling old jokes, and Mrs.
Lawrance got out her best quince marmalade
for tea. But Arden missed the real
gladness that her presence had called out
at the Farm; she had, in fact, been made
so much of there that the pathos and
friendliness of this meagre little welcome
home seemed quite flat and insignificant.

She sat quietly in her place at table.

You're looking but poorly, child,' began
Mrs. Lawrance, after a long and silent
inspection. ' You're no credit to the Farm
with them pale cheeks.'

'We'll freshen 'em up a bit, Nannie,'
said the old gentleman. ' She's missed her
drives, I'll warrant ; they've got no pony
carriage at Williams's.'

Oh, they have,' cried Arden, ' a spring-cart,
grandpa, and such a nice fat old
horse ! I used to drive to Ra3mham nearly

every day to fetch Susie's medicine from
the chemist's.'

Pore child,' said Mrs. Lawrance in her
most commiserating drawl. ' I've never
rightly forgiven myself that I let yer go to
Tuke's alone.'

Never mind,' said Arden. ' If you had
taken me, I should never have gone to stay
at the Farm.'

'Well, well,' old Mr. Lawrance began,
I shall have to go and ask Mrs. Williams
what weed they squirted on your eyes to
make you so enchanted.'

They were very glad to see me,' said
Arden, simply ; but the sentence had an
unfortunate ring, and alas ! Mrs. Lawrance
was never wise in time.

You can't say, Sylvie,' she began, in
her plaintive voice, * as your grandpa's
not been glad to see you, and I too, when
you're amiable. But sometimes you are
that fratchetty and discontented-like, I
haven't it on my conscience to look

pleased. But if you consider, as you
appear to intimate, as we grudge you the
bit of food '

I'm sure ' began Arden indignantly.

Away, nay, she didn't mean it, Nan ;
she said nought that was capable of giving
offence,' put in the old gentleman. ' You're
a good little girl, Sylvie, and we're both
glad to see you about again, child.'

Thank you, grandpa.'

Just fetch me the big Shakespeare,
there's a good girl. ' We're reading Hamlet
in the evenings now.'

Arden fetched the book, and for an
hour her grandfather's slow and husky
voice was the only sound in the room, delighted
with the one candle, placed between
her grandfather's book and Mrs. Lawrance's
work-basket.

At last the act was finished, and the
book put away.

I've been thinking, dear,' said Mrs.
Lawrance, stooping over her husband,  as

we 'haven't shown Sylvie that parcel the
carrier brant her yesterday.'

All rio:ht, all rioht ! ' said the old
gentleman ; ' she can wait till the morning,
I suppose ! '

But Mrs. Lawrance had already opened
the cupboard door, where Arden spied a
high, narrow wooden case. It was her
picture sent back from Birmingham.

CHAPTER XIX.

PIGSKIN WILL LAST.

Mr. Lawrance, quoting his favourite
author, had often told his grandchild how
misfortunes come, not as single spies, butin
battalions ; yet Arden, notwithstanding
the rejection of her picture, was quite
unprepared to defer still longer the hope of
meeting her childish friends again. Her
thoughts often turned to Gerard and Ellie,
for she was not of a nature to forget, and
the few impressions that her nature ever
really received were very lasting. She had,
therefore, been grieved when the Roses had
left her so long without writing, and when,
about a week after her return home, the
postman brought her a letter from Cairo,

she could hardly open it for the very
nervousness of her eager pleasure.

At last she made up her mind to read
the letter, and breaking open the envelope
discovered the precious thin sheets ; not
quite as precious as they might have been,
for they were written in Ellie's hand, but
still a memorable feast for that hungry and
fasting little heart.

She began to read 

Shepherd s Hotel, Cairo.

'DearArden,  Yesterday's mail brought
a whole sheaf of your letters, which had
been lying at our Roman apartment until we
could forward a reliable address. Gerard
says you will think us very heartless ; and
mother asks me to send you a Ime at once,
as she doesn't begin to get any stronger
yet. 1 can't say I feel much like writing
letters, for there is absolutely nothing to
say. It is much pleasant reading yours.
I fear you are not having a good time at

your grandfather's place. It must be a
"one-horse concern," as Daniel Willis used
to say. I should think even Daniel Willis
would be an enlivenment. Where do you
shop? You cannot get your clothes at
Warwick, I presume. They will send over
from the Bon Marche in the Eue du Bac ;
but it is always a risk trusting to measurement.
You may, however, be quite certain
of their gloves ; they are excellent. It is
very different shopping here ; the stores
are very dear, and I cannot say I ever feel
certain that their style is quite the latest
thing. One has a feeling that it was very
novel yesterday. I don't believe but you
might get something at Leamington. The
Sargent once spent a winter there. They
found it very dull ; no theatre : all the
people hunt, for an excitement. They went
back to Boston the week before we left
Rome. Mole sent you her affectionate
regards ; she is grown very intellectual,
and has let her bang grow long. Well, I

can guess it is in anticipation of Boston.
All this time I have not told you how weare.
Mother coughs more than she used
to do, I am afraid ; but her spirits never
run down ; mine do, I must declare ; one
feels so outlandish here, and I don't believe
I like having no femme de chambre. All
the servants in the hotel are men and
natives. Gerard says I am very parochial.
We left Elise at Marseilles with her relations.
Perhaps that is why I feel so dull.
One can't have a good time with all the
responsibilities of one's wardrobe hanging
over one. It is awful to think how wee
shall get those trunks across the desert ; we
shall never do it in the world ! Gerard is
looking very well. He is quite devoted to
sketching. The other day he met Miss
De la Rue in a mosque ; he is devoted to
her also. Do you remember how he used
to rave about her ? But that was at
Newport, before your time. Anyhow she
used to snap her fingers at his ravings.

She has quite lost her looks, and is dying
of consumption. I must say if I had to
die I should like the complaint to becoming,
or else I should not be on view to
my admirers. We are going on to Syria
after Christmas, to Mount Lebanon, Mount
Hermon, the Mount of Olives, the Holy
Land, the "entire figure," to quote Dan
Willis again. I shall feel like crying for joy
when I can look forward to going no further
than down Beacon Street. I don't think I
should love to live in Europe for a finality;
but I suppose this is not Europe. Here
we appear to be always on the go. If we
survive the desert and the brigands, we
shall be in Rome in May ; then we are to
stay a month with the Curses at Pegli.
I presume we shall go home via Leghorn ;
we would all prefer starting from Liverpool
; but it depends on mother's health.
If she is sick, she will go as much as
possible by sea. I must say I shall think
it hard if we do not spt nd a week or so in

Paris. Gerard said I was to tell you that
if we stop in London, he shall run down
to Arden and fetch you up to spend a day
dth us at our hotel. Does one say "down "
or ''up" to London ? I know there is a
superstition. Gerard would have put in a
line but he is dining with the De la Rues.
He is quite in the swim, and knows all the
best people. I have to stay at home with
mother. Gracious ! what a long letter I
have written ; it is so difficult to stop
when one has fairly got started off. I
suppose I may as well stop here as anywhere
else. Mother sends her kindest
love, and I remain, dear Arden,

Your ever affectionate friend,

Ellie.

Pes.  I forgot to tell you we shall beat
this address until New Year. After
then our letters should be sent care of the
U.S. Consul, Bey rout, Syria.'

Arden crunched the letter in her hand

with a certain feeling of indignation. Her
long, frequent, tender letters, 'a whole sheaf
of them had deserved something more than
this frivolous reply. Perhaps she should
have found some satisfaction in the well-meant
and friendly little letter ; but the starving
beggar to whom you give a stone does
not use it to stop a chink in his hovel wall :
he is more likely to hurl it at your head.
And Arden, usually so gentle and girlish,
felt for a moment a passion of anger when
she finished Ellie's epistle  the Rue du
Bac, Mole Sargent's fringe, Beacon Street I
were these fit answers to her expressions
of affection, her appeal for sympathy? So
she asked her burning spirit, revolted at
Ellie's lukewarmness. But she never res
seated to herself that phrase concerning
the fair Miss De la Rue ; and yet this
disaffection of Gerard's was perhaps the
wounding point of the letter. Not that
she had ever so much as fancied herself in
love with him. But Gerard was her oldest

friend, her special chum ; she relied on him
to remember her. And already it seemed
he was so engrossed with newer friends
that he could not spare the moment to
send her a line of good wishes. And then
the phrase floated up to her lips about the
Roses' having known Miss De la Rue at
Newport ' before your time.' Her time !
It had begun when she was eight years old,
nearly ten years ago. And now they could
put off her desperate need, her hopes, her
clinging affection, with stupid phrases
about Daniel Willis and the difficulties of
provincial shopping ! But all the while
that her lips blamed Ellie, her heart was
sore with Gerard.

She seized her hat and rushed out of
the house, with the letter still crumpled in
her hand. She began walking quietly, as
was her habit when greatly moved, up the
orchard path into the hill meadow ; there
she sat down on the burnt grass on the
brow of the rise, and, throwing off her hat,

VOL. II. H

let the cool morning wind blow in her hair.
The breeze, the large, simple view, the
loneliness, enveloped her with a certain
quiet. But she felt very sad, very deserted
and desolate. She fell to thinking of old
times, of her happy Roman childhood  oh,
what would she not give to find the mere
outside of it again ! to hear the noise of
the fountains in the streets, to see the
endless steps of the Trinity dei Month,
with the branches of flowering trees, from
the gardens behind, waving over the low
brown walls, to hear the sweet voices of
the nuns floating down it ! She remembered
the little ring her father had given
her  it was on her finger to-day : the same,
only a little worn and small ; as the love of
Rome was in her heart. Her father had
wished to leave Rome, the Roses had forgotten
her easily enough. Was she the
only person who cared to be constant?
In her present frame of mind the fancy
galled her. Henceforth she would care no

more for her friends than they cared for
her. And then there drifted out of the
forgotten places of her memory Ellie's
childish phrase about making friends of
people passing through. Let them do it !
Ah, she thought, they had always done it !
She was, and had been, no more to them
than Daniel Willis, Mollie Sargent, any
chance amusing new-comer ; and she had
o;iven them her very heart in exchange.
She felt tricked, insulted, sore. She would
no longer care for them ; she would answer
EUie on her own terms.

Miss Lawrance ! ' said a friendly voice
from the gate.

She looked up ; there stood Harry
Williams, leaning over the rail and looking
anxiously towards her. He seemed a sort
of screen between her and the dreadful,
wearying memory of the past. She j jumped
up and ran down the hill to the gate, and
stood there ; one hand with the letter in it
H 2

held to her side, and the other reached out
in friendly greeting.

Oh, I am so glad to see you ! ' she
cried. * Come in and talk to me ; I feel so
lonely.'

She held the gate open with an inviting
smile, and of course the hapless farmer
entered.

It was indeed a wonderful moment for
him. He had missed Arden sorely ; his
home had seemed but a sunless place without
that glancing presence. All the force
of a dogged and obstinate nature he had
centred on her as its prize, all the passionate
devotion of his heart. He had never
seen any one like her. She was so good,
so beautiful, so sweet and friendless. And
yet  even while he longed to protect and
champion her to shower all manner of
love and service upon her  he never lost
sight of the barrier between them, the
barrier of rank and position which, from his
standpoint, it appeared impossible to overleap.

His father had married above him
indeed, but not a lady like Arden, who was
the loveliest lady he had ever seen. He
had expected when he saw her again that
she would have drifted further apart from
him, now that she was out of his house and
had returned to the company of her own
people. But instead she had flown to him
like a bird to its nest  had run to him with
open arms. Poor Harry, ignorant of the
truth and putting the most favourable construction
on Arden's welcome, was wandering
in a Pool's Paradise of delight. Although
he loved her so dearly, he felt an
acute thrill of joy when he realised
her lonely and friendless life. She might
come to him so for warmth and shelter;
would not he gladly spend the dearest forces
of his heart in her defence and service ?

All this while these two persons, thinking
so differently, were strolling side by
side up the steep rise of the meadow.
Arden, who was weary of her thoughts.

SO much less sweet than her companion's,
broke the silence.

this isn't like your pastures, Mr.
Williams,' she began, smiling in his face
and thrusting the little point of her shoe
into one of the great fissures in the

turf.

'Taln't in very good condition,' assented
Harry, too much engrossed with the smile
and the foot to care very much about the
land.

What should you do with it if it were
yours ? ' inquired Arden.

If t'wur mine ? ' said Harry, with a
look of bewildered, impossible gladness.
Oh, the land you mean ? '

 Of course,' said Arden. ' What should
you do ? '

Well, you see. Miss Lawrance, this
land's in regular bad condition. I should
turn it up and drain it and drench it with
good manure  them Brummagem oyster-shells
'ud do, button waste and stuff  and

SO I should let it lay fallow for a season ;
potatoes then 'iicl be the most likely thing,
and the next year t'wud be fit for cereals
and roots, or you cud lay it down in grass
for the dairy.'

I wish it were yours ! ' cried x\rden ;
it's a pity to see everything falling into
rack and ruin for want of a little
care.'

And so you wish t'wur mine,' said
Harry, more than ever charmed. ' I wonder
what th' attorneys 'ud make of you, Miss
Lawrance ? '

I'm afraid no one would make much
of me,' cried Arden. ' I'm a failure ! '

Harry began to laugh ; but, seeing that
she really looked sad and almost bitter, he
stopped and gazed at her anxiously.

D'ye think so ? ' he said very gently.
'- You mustn't give way like that, Missie :
'tis only that you're moped and withered
up at the Bushes, with the old gentleman
so ill, and Mrs. Lawrance '

He stopped short.

Arden began to langli. ' Oh, it isn't
only that ! ' she cried, and then Harry saw
the letter crumpled in her hand.

Bad news ! ' he said. ' Pore child, I'm
sorry.'

Yes,' replied Arden, touched by his
concern, ' it is bad news, although no one's
dead, or ill, or anything of that sort.' She
glanced up at him. He looked so kind that
she went on ; ' but, you see, these are my
very oldest friends  my very oldest  and
they seem to have forgotten all about me
already. It's very soon ! ' said Arden, with
tears in her voice.

Brutes ! ' ejaculated Harry, clenching
his fist.

No,' said Arden, ' they're awfully nice
so long as you're there. Every one  and
they most of all  used to be so sweet tome.
And now not one  not one  remembers
me.'

Harry did not speak at first, but as she
waited he burst out :

I'ld like to punish 'em, I would ! '

Arden smiled. She had felt so weak
and desolate that this ferocious championship
was welcome to her.

AYe won't punish them,' she said, with
a wan smile, ' we'll forget them ! '

Taint so easy forgetting,' said Harry,
carried out of himself by her appeal to his
sympathy. ' Haven't I tried by day and
night to forget thy sweet little face by my
hearth and thy clear voice in my ears ? 
And all no use, no use.'

Arden looked up frightened. 'Mr.
Williams ! ' she cried.

Yes  me  Williams,' he went on, with
a moment of passionate self-assertion ; ' look
down on me as much as you like. Xo
doubt you'll never speak to me again. But
love is stronger than many waters as I've
read in the Bible, and though I know I'm
a fool  an uplifted, foolish dreamer  I've

dared to love you, dear. How cud I help
it?'

Arden said nothing.

How cud I keep thinking he went
on, * as you're a lady born and I a rough
orkerd lout of a farmer, when I found sou
lying senseless in Tuke's little parlour ; and
when I took you home, so childish and
frightened-like as you wur ; and then when
you came out like an angel and gave me Susie
back ? How cud I help it. Miss Lawrance,
think of that.'

Yes.' said Arden timidly.

Not as ever I hoped, in my sober senses,
as I cud be more to you than Susie's
brother. But, for all that, the thought of
you is alius with me. I get no peace by
day and night. Oh, God, how hard it is
that I should be so different ! '

Don't,' said Arden, laying a light little
hand on his arm, for his passion was piteous
to witness.

It must be so ! ' said the farmer more

calmly. 'I must just look on, I suppose,
Awhile they slight you and mother you to
death. But if ever you want summit as 1
can do, Missie, you'll remember I'm alius
there.'

Thank you,' said Arden.

And you won't be hard on Susie ?
Poor child, 'tis not her fault, and she fair
worships you. Miss Lawrance. I'll keep
out of your sight. I'll not trouble you anymore,
I promise. But you won't remember
it agen the little 'un ? '

No,' said Arden.

I'll leave you now then, Miss Lawrance.
Forgive me if I've taken a liberty
as frightens you. 'T won't happen agen.
Good-bye.'

Oh, I'm so sorry ! ' cried Arden.

Nay, don't 'ee be sorry ; my life's the
sweeter to me, as well as bitterer. I'll bea
better man foret henceforward. I'll keep
the memory of your sweet goodness in my
heart, and I won't be so hard to them

as have wronged me. But now I'll leave
you, Missie. Good-bye.'

He turned slowly round, without reaching
out his hand.

Stay,' cried Arden. ' I don't think 1
want you to leave me ! '

CHAPTER XX.

I'll love you true.

An hour afterwards Arden was upstairs,
safe in her room at the Bushes. As yet
she did not realise the promise she had
made ; she did not understand all that she
had implied when she had told her lover
that he might stay  that she would accept
his love and service. She had not promised
to love him. She had told him to wait
and hope. She felt frightened now ; she
would willingly draw back. And yet she
was proud that so strong a heart should
own her sway. To do her justice Arden
did not think, in that moment, of the
difference of rank between her lover and
herself. In that hour of fear and hope,

and bashful new-born passion, she merely
was a woman and he a man ; she the
defenceless, he the would-be lord and
servant and protector. She feared, not to
condescend, but to surrender.

This mood passed, and Arden grew aware
that her lover was a squire of low degree :
that he did not look or speak or think the
same as, for instance, Gerard Rose. Butin
her present soreness of heart the difference
was welcome. Let go the conventional
polish and the shallow smoothness,
cried her spirit ; choose the substantial
worth plain and solid. She wanted a
refuge from herself, and from the world,
and Harry was strong and kind and sure.
Nor did Arden realise to the full how
much lower than hers was his social and
intellectual platform. She had lived so
little in England, knew absolutely nothing
of English society. The English she had
known were birds of passage, all alike in
the boarding-house equality of Brown and

Brabazon. They were all foreign names
to her, Williams as good as Arden ; and
the language too was foreign. She did
not think the ' dialect,' as she called it, a
stamp of commonness ; the difference between
the tongue of an Albizzi of Florence
and a Borghese of Eome, between the
people of Milan and the people of Naples,
was as marked as the difference between
the speech of Harry Williams and of
Gerard Rose. Of course he was only a
farmer. But Arden's imagination Alas
impressed by the picturesque gloominess of
the old Farm in which his family had
lived for more than two hundred years in
homely plenty and comfort. Among the
Americans she had known, travelled and
cultured nouveaux riches among the
painters and singers living here and there,
wherever a studio was good and cheap,
such a thing was impossible. She found
the idea full of dignity, of repose. She
would be glad of such a resting-place.

She sat quiet, trying to think, and ever
finding her thoughts float oiF into a dream,
until the little servant came to call her to
dinner. And when she went down she
said nothing about the things which had
happened that morning. They seemed,
indeed, unreal. But as she sat quiet
afterwards, in the dusk, she heard a sudden
ring at the bell and Harry's voice in the
hall. So it was to be all made known, it
was neither a secret nor a dream ! She
started up to make her escape, but the
door opened and Harry took her hand.

I want you to stay and listen,
Sylvie,' he said.

Mr. Lawrance, asleep in the great old
velvet chair, started out of his doze and
looked round him.

What, Williams ? ' he began, ' so
you've come to see my little girl. Very
kind of you, I'm sure, very kind ! She
never stops telling us of all the charms
and wonders of the Farm.'

Mr. Lawrance was quite awake now.
He looked, Arden thought, more dignified
and impressive than she had ever seen
him ; there appeared a difference she never
had noticed before between the old gentleman,
urbane and condescending, in his
rumpled old clothes, and the high-coloured
black-haired farmer in his glossy broadcloth
and blue tie, awkwardly smiling
through a blush, as he twisted the brim of
his hat in his hands. She wished it were
over, settled, either way.

Mr. Williams has come to see you,
grandpa, not me,' she said.

Eh ? ' cried the old gentleman, * come
to see me, has he ? Anything wrong with
the fences again, Mr. Williams ? '

'Xo, Mr. Lawrance. Not as I know
of,' said Harry sheepishly. ' I've made
bold to mend them rails in the Five Acre.
But it's not of such every-day business as
I be come to speak.'

Arden blushed. ' I think I'll go,'
she said.

vol. II. I

Nay, Sylvie, wait a bit cried her
lover. ' Mr. Lawrance, don't you see
what's up ? I've come to ask you if I
may see Miss Sylvie to pay her my
addresses-like. I know it is a bold thing
for the likes of me to love her ; but I do ! '

'Dear me!' cried Mr. Lawrance,
settling his spectacles to look the better
at the young farmer, ' this is very unexpected
 very. I really can't commit
myself to an opinion.'

No wonder,' said Harry, ' as you
should think me uplifted., So I be ; so I
be. But I don't want Missie here to
pledge herself to anything. 'Tis only a
chance to make her bear with me as I ask
for. She's free as air, Mr. Lawrance ;
and if she don't grow fond of me by-and-by
there's no occasion as she should
go any further. 'Tis a wife I want, nota
slave.'

Arden looked up. She liked to see
him so, bold and modest.

Yell, well, Sylvie,' said her grandfather,
' I suppose you must go your own
gait ; I can't interfere. But I can't imagine
you a farmer's wife, child.'

There's no call, Mr. Lawrance, as
you should fancy her any different. I cud
keep my wife like a lady, I'm proud to
say. She'll never have to sile her white
little hands with looking after the beasts,
I'll warrant you. She could set all day
in the best parlour on the sofa and read
her book. She shut have everything she
set her heart on, and never do a stroak o'
work from morn till eve. I'm a rich
man now, Mr. Lawrance. I've nigh a
couple of hunted acres of land as turns
me in a good fairish profit come fine
seasons and come foul. I'm not so poor
as my wife should break her back with
housework.'

Yes, yes,' said Mr. Lawrance ; ' but
some one must look after the house ! '

There's Susie,' ventured the eager

I 2

lover, ' as knows every stock and stone in
til' old place, as 'ud be proud to stay on
and see after the manaoino; o' tliinss.
I've got a little house in Wood Lane as
she cud live in with my mother, and come
backwards and forwards every day, or they
cad stay on, just as Sylvie likes. No need
to think of the work, Mr. Lawrance ;
there's many an old woman in Arden as
'ud jump for joy to come and manage for
us. for twelve pound a year and her keep.
There's a plenty of old women, but there's
only one Sylvie as ever I set eyes on.'

I don't say no,' said Mr. Lawrance,
and I don't say yes. The fact is, it is not
in the pale of my jurisdiction ; not in the
pale of Do you love him, Sylvie ? '

Arden started.

Oh, Sylvie!' cried her lover, ' I don't
ask thee to love me. Bear with me, dear,
and let me stand up for thee and take care
of thee, and have the thought and love of
thee alius in my heart. It's a great

sacrifice, Sylvie, to bid you make for the
likes of me. But you're loanly, Sylvie,
here, and I'm loanly ; and I'ld love you
true and firm till death do us part.'

That's so long,' cried Arden, with a
little shudder. ' What shall I do ? What
shall I say ? '

Pore child ! ' cried Harry. ' You lookin
a maze, like, with doubt and wonder.
Down* t you get stabbing over me, Sylvie.
I'ld like to save you trouble and not to
saddle you with it. If you'll trust me, if
you'll only trust mee, I'ld so smooth and
soften things for your resting on 'em. But
now I'll not take up your time. Muster
Lawrance. Like enough you're busy this
harvesting time, only I thought it best to
be plain and straightforward.'

Arden looked on while Harry and her
grandfather made their brief adieux. She
did not go out to the door with Harry, but
ran up to her own room. There she
thought to unravel the fancied skein of

her heart ; but, weary and tired, she fell
asleep in the straight-backed red armchair
by the hearth. She slept long and deep,
and dreamed sweetly  dreamed of Rome,
of Gerard and Ellie, of her father, and
Mr. Rose, with his thin face and hollow
voice. Then she woke with a start, for
she dreamed she had strayed away from
her companions and was lost, alone, in the
chill, grey shadow of the ilex-trees.

CHAPTER XXL

woo'd, harried, and a'.

It was all settled at the apple-gathering
Susie had pressed her friend to come to, so
Arden laid her doubts and fears aside, and
left the chill and narrow kindness of her
home to fid light, warmth, merriment,
and welcome at the Farm. It was a beautiful
September day, warm and sunny. On
the orchard that Arden had painted, the
sun shed its mellowest rays, and the grass
was all flecked and streaked with light.
There were ladders set against the trees,
and the men lying along the boughs
tumbled the red and yellow fruit into baskets
that the women held up beneath. It
was while Arden was holding up a great

osier basket for the apples that Harry in
the tree sent pelting down, that she determined
to leave her dull, vacant home, and
make a part of this busy, PPy household.
If he should ask me again,' Arden thought ;
and before their work was finished he had
asked and she had consented.

She did not regret it that evening
when, as they all sat roasting apples round
the fire, Harry told his mother and sister.
The pride and delighted incredulity of
Mrs. Williams sweetly flattered the poor
lonely girl, who had of late grown drearily
accustomed to find herself merely a stranger
in the way. And Susie flung her arms
round her new sister's neck in a burst of
grateful affection. Harry was kind, too,
and gently considerate, asking her questions
about her old foreign life, and never
plaguing her with the newer claims of his
devotion. She was left free to become at
home in her new house, simply and without
demonstration. And though, when at

last lie rose to leave, her cheeks were wet,
for she had been talking of her father, she
was not unhappy. It was pleasant to
belong to somebody, to have rights and
duties and a place in the world again.

She was not, indeed, ' in love ' with
Harry as she had known some of her friends
to be in love. On the other hand, she
cared for him very much more than certain
other friends cared for their husbands, who
had been held to make brilliant marriages.
Arden, brought up with somewhat foreign
notions, considered herself quite sufficiently
devoted. She had a great trust in Harry;
a quiet, reliant affection. She liked him
to take care of her; it pleased her to seethe
hold she had upon him; and though
she did not see him very often, she was
sorry when he went away.

Yet she certainly did not wish for an
everlasting tete-astute. She used all her
influence to persuade Mrs. Williams and
Susie to stay on in the old home. And soit

was arranged; but the best parlour,
locked up for years, was refurnished as a
special sitting-room for Arden. It was a
large, light, pleasant room on the opposite
side of the passage to the common parlour
and higher than that, for to get to it you
went up a little flight of steps. The wainscot
was painted apple-blossom colour ; the
hangings were all of white holland, and
the chairs and the new sofa were covered
with it. John Lawrance's pictures hung on
the walls ; and there was a bookcase full of
books which Arden had chosen in Leamington;
and her guitar hung by a red
ribbon from the wail. The windows were
filled with geraniums and fuchsias. It
looked like the bower of a bride.

A little staircase with a carved rail led
to a big bedroom above, which, like the
sitting-room, had another door leading onto
the landing; so that the occupant of
these two rooms could be sociable or retired,

as fancy prompted. These were to
be Arden's special share of the house.

In October they were married. It
was a quiet wedding, one Sunday morning
before the service began. Mrs. Williams
would indeed have liked to make a
show  it was not every farmer's wife
whose stepson connected himself with the
quality!  but Arden pleaded her recent
loss, and of course she had her way. Soone
Sunday she drove to church, with Mr.
and Mrs. Lawrance, closely wrapped in
furs, which left no rushing visible of the
short gown of white satin underneath ;
and at the church door she met her
bridegroom, Susie her bridesmaid, and
Mrs. Williams all a flutter with ribbons
and ostrich tips. Her grandfather gave
her away; and scarcely did she understand
the step she had taken before the brief
service was over, and she was Farmer
Williams' wife.

They passed down the fast-filling

church, where eager hands outstretched
from every pew greeted the bridal pair,
while hearty voices blessed them. And
every voice said something kind of Harry.
He strode down the aisle erect and proud,
with shining eyes.

I have to keep nudging myself to feel
it's true,' he whispered to his silent little
bride.

At last the shaking of hands was done,
and the voices came to an end. Then the
little wedding procession stepped up to the
sunny churchyard. A rank of school-children,
to whom Mr. Law had given
some late roses and chrysanthemums, stood
in the porch of the church; and as the
bride and bridegroom came up the steps
from the aisle below, they threw their
flowers with a hearty will, pelting them
with sweet and bitter blossoms. One
caught in the lace at Arden's breast; it was
a blood-red chrysanthemum, fair to see,
but with the smell of wormwood.

She smiled at the children and stuck
the flower in her bodice as she stepped
out where the October sunshine lay like
palest gold over the mounded graves. It
fell, too, on her white dress and sweet,
smiling face.

'Happy the bride the sun shines on ! '
shouted the children ; and Harry pressed
the little hand that lay so lightly on his
arm.

So they were married, and all her
struggles over. At first the bird beats
wildly against the strange, confining bars,
but soon it is reconciled and makes of the
cage a home. It is true that not only
singing nightingales, but even chirping
robins, die in confinement ; but there are
many more that live  linnets, canaries,
thrushes, blackbirds, even the wild and
soaring lark. So that the chances are for
happiness. And Arden surely might be
happy now that in this cold foreign land
she had found a love that was warm and

familiar, to be hers till death. Poor little
frozen bird, unable to find food or shelter
in the winter nights, surely the comfortable
cage stored with grain and wool will
be a happier world for its piteous helplessness
!

When the wedding breakfast was over
and Harry and his bride had left the
Bushes for their honeymoon at Leamington,
Susie and her mother took their leave
and walked home together. Mrs. Williams
was full of conversation. Mrs. Lawrence's
moulds and made dishes, the cut glass and
dessert knives, the Venetian decanters and
Faience fruit dishes (which John had given
his mother sears before), filled her soul
with wonder and envy. At the same time
there was an absence of solid fare which
she could not justify to herself on such an
auspicious occasion; and Susie had to listen
to many pros and cons as she walked
wearily home. She was very tired and
still weak from her illness, and sad

thoughts of her own frustrated love would
keep breaking through the talk of Harry's
wedding. It was an effort to answer her
mother's merry chatter; but the effort
braced her heart and did her good.

I wonder now,' said Mrs. Williams,
where they got the notion of them
chicken-patties from? They were very
genteel.'

'Ycu mio'ht ask Mrs. Lawrance,' su
rested Susie.

So I might, I suppose, the two houses
being connected.' Mrs. Williams bridled
a little. ' Although I can't quite say I
approved of having no substantial victuals.
What do you think, Susie?'

Well, it was very early, mother dear.'

Of course,' rejoined the elder lady.
But in my young days  and you knows I
used to move in very genteel society before
I married your dear papa  in my young
days, as I was saying, a wedding breakfast
was always quite a solid meal.'

Perhaps the fashion's changed put in
Susie.

May be replied her mother doubtfully
; ' perhaps ; but what muddles me is
this. One never knows, concerning the
way they carry on at the Bushes, how
much of it comes from Mr. Lawrance being
a quality-man, and how much from his
wife being a servant-like, as one might say.'

It is puzzling, I suppose,' assented
Susie. ' You might ask Sylvie which is
the correct fashion.'

Ay, so I might, Susie! ' cried her
mother. ' That's certain, Sylvie's a real
lady  quite distinguish, as we used to say at
school. Every inch a lady she is, the dear
child.'

And so good, too ! ' cried Susie ; ' so
sweet and kind and helpful. I'm sure I
thank God every night for having sent her
to us ! '

It 'full be a comfort,' said Mrs. Williams,
'to have her always in the house.

Many's the time I've wanted some one to
give me a hint about my caps and dresses.'

'I'm sure you couldn't look nicer,
mother,' cried Susie, gazing with admiring
eyes at the odd little liberty-gibbet at
her side.

That's all very well,' said her mother
but there's a different cash about Sylvie's
things. We shall do matters now in a
very different style, and get into quite
another set, no doubt.'

We can't desert our old friends,' cried
the girl.

Who talked about deserting, Susie ? '
said her mother severely. ' They mustn't
be presuming, that's all. I can't have the
Kings and the Williams forced down Sylvie's
throat.'

Susie said nothing.

You see,' her mother went on, ' she
will naturally want things done in the way
she's always been accustomed to. I must
give Harry a hint about his boots ; 'isn't

VOL. II. K

decent of him to come to tea so muddy.
Shell have quite a genteel influence over
him, no doubt, and I'm sure there's room
for improvement. I'm quite longing,
Susie, as you should get married too  so
nice as weld manage the wedding ! '

Oh, mother,' said Susie in a hushed
hurt whisper, 'you know that can never
be!'

And why not, I should like to know ?
Now don't tell me you can't forget him 
nasty, low-minded fellow  or I shall say
you have no proper pride. Of course I
don't mean you to marry young Warner.
I should always say No, if I was you, to
the likes of him. But Sylvie has plenty of
acquaintances among the gentry  she said
as much herself  and a nod's as good as a
wink to a blind horse '

Mrs. Williams gradually stopped her
harangue, conjuring up a golden future, in
which Susie was married to a foreign Count
with ardent black eyes and a thrilling tenor

voice. Mrs. Williams  who prided herself
upon her freedom from insular prejudices
was so elated at the distinction of this
idea that she had not half exhausted its
resources when she reached her own gate.
She did not notice it and was going further
on, when Susie stopped her.

'Why, here we are, mother!' she cried.

'We shall see what we shall see,'
replied Mrs. Williams oracularly.

There was plenty to do during the
bride and bridegroom's absence ; for
neither Susie nor her mother would have
been happy, had not everything in the
house shone and glistened as brightly as
they hoped their Sylvie's future might.
They gave themselves little rest from
their endeavours ; washing all the prettiest,
long-treasured china for Arden's
rooms, and filling the bowls with pot-pourra
; transferring all her treasures from
the Bushes to her new home ; unpacking
her things, and laying them neatly
X 2

in her drawers, between sprigs of lemon-plant
and lavender, that she might find
all ready to her hand, and feel herself
indeed at home. There was great business
in the kitchen, also : plum-puddings and
mincemeat to make, and a grand baking
of cakes and dainties. When the last day
of the honeymoon was over, there was
still so much to finish that Susie rose
long, long before the wintering sun began
to shine. A final polish was given to
all the brass and woodwork, a final
daintiness to Arden s quarters ; the few
rare flowers that grew in the sheltered
kitchen window were plucked and put
in water on her table ; immense fires
blazed in the grates ; the easiest chair
was drawn to the hearth. At last, the
spring-cart was sent to the station ; it
would hold but two, so Curtis was despatched
with it, with orders to walk
home ; and then, there being no speck
or dimness left throughout the house,

Susie and her mother went upstairs to
make themselves as orderly. Susie, even,
had scarcely finished her swift adornment,
before she spied the cart coming down
the lane, at a great pace. ' How glad
they are to get homes. ! ' she cried. In
another moment, the whole household was
at the door.

Welcome, my daughter Sylvie ! ' cried
little Mrs. Williams, with tears in her
eyes. The cart stopped ; Harry sprang
down, and lifted out his bride. But
could that be Sylvie  that pale, listless,
weary girl, who smiled wanly at them,
and walked, without a word of thanks,
into the room they had made so beautiful
for her ? She sank into the great
chair with a weary sigh ; and they all
stood looking at her  Harry, beseeching
and hurt ; Mrs. Williams, amazed past all
belief; Susie, with tender kindness and
concern. But Arden did not look up.
Oh, I am so tired ! ' she sighed at last ;

and her head fell back against the chair.
Susie came forward quietly. ' That's it,'
she cried ; ' she's tired out. Go away,
you foolish people, and get her some
tea, instead of wanting to kiss her. I'll
see to that.'

La, Susie ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Williams ;
but she took Harry's arm, and walked out
of the door which Susie held open for
them with a show of mock imperiousness.
But, once the door was shut, the
girl dropped her pretty airs, and ran to
Arden's side.

What is it, my darling  what have
they done to you, my sweet Princess
Sylvie ? ' she cried, as she dropped on
her knees by the chair and took Arden's
cold hands in hers.

Arden opened her eyes, and smiled.

Dear Susie 1 ' she said.

What is it, darling ? ' implored the
younger girl.  Are you ill ? or  unhappy
? '

Arden stooped forward, and leant her
head on Susie's shoulder.

Oh, yes,' she cried, ' I am miserably-unhappy.
Ashy didn't you  why did not
some one  let me know what I was
doing ? 1 can't live, Susie ; I'm sick of
life it's hateful!'

What, Harry ? ' cried his sister. ' Is
he bad to you  Harry ? '

Oh, no, he's good enough,' said the
young bride, wearily ; ' too good, I think ;
only I am so tired of it all  so very,
very tired.'

She stopped for a little while. ' And
I am only seventeen,' she went on ; * so
young ! How could I know what it all
meant ? I have been so much alone ;
I've never had a sister, or even a friend
all of my own. How could I know,
Susie, what it would be like to have
some one always there, day and night,
no place to call one's own ? To be,
soul and body, always in sight of someone

else  always to be watched, looked at,
talked to, kissed  oh, I have longed, longed
to be alone, for just one hour, and I couldn't
have it ; if I said a word, he looked so
grieved! And I don't want to grieve
him, you know, Susie. T do love him :
only it kills me to belong to him.'

Sylvie 1 ' cried the other girl. ' Oh,
I don't know what you mean! There
must be something behind.'

And I'm so young ! ' moaned Arden,
wearily ; ' it may go on for years, and
years, and years.' The tears, the young
sweet-sour tears of self-pity, escaped from
her closed lids and fell on to her hands.

CHAPTER XXII.

NEEDLES AND PINS.

Susie persuaded her mother and Harry
that nothing ailed the poor little bride,
beyond some natural nervousness, and an
excessive fatigue. They were very kind
to her, hiding their disappointment under
renewed efforts to please her; and Arden
tried her best to be grateful. But there
was a change in her, not to be disguised.
Week by week, she grew frailer and
paler, and her fresh little face became
quite wan and drawn. She was, however,
the least presuming of daughters-inlaw,
never claiming any share in the ordering
of the house, which she left entirely in
Susie's capable hands. She quite fulfilled

Harry's promises, and sat on the sofa in
her parlour all day long, reading a book
over the fire. Susie took care that she
should have time to herself, and without
a word managed to divert Mrs.
Williams from her plans of always leaving
some one to keep Arden company.
And so, for many hours a day, Arden
might, if she chose, read or dream alone,
as she had done m the old days. Butin
the old days the winters were not
so cold and dreary, and the girl herself
had not always felt so tired, so nervous,
so old, so deathly sick. When the new
year came round, you would not have
recognised, in that pale, drawn woman,
lying back, with closed eyes, the pretty
girl who had looked so happy and shy
at the apple-gathering. But the little
household at the Farm looked at her with
proud and loving eyes.

She will be all right, now !' cried Mrs.
Williams, nodding mysteriously. And

Harry's great love of her grew stronger
than of old, swollen by fresh tides of
tenderness and compunction.

Arden was to be a mother ; that happy
secret made a new gladness in every heart
round the great fireside on winter evenings.
But Arden herself, lying a little
apart on the easiest couch, did not feel
very glad. She was so ill, poor child ;
it seemed that there would be no end
to these weary, restless nights, the sickening
waking, the exhausted days. And
she had a great dread of the future.
Sometimes, nevertheless, she brooded tenderly
over the sweet new life that should
belong to her  should satisfy her, and
answer all the longings of her heart ;
and at such times her weariness seemed
a little price to pay. But they were
not very frequent, these maternal impulses.
Arden was not eighteen herself. It
is older mothers who love their children
most.

The sad, long winter dragged away,
the frosty ground grew soft with February
showers, the spurge-laurel broke
into flower under the firs on the other
side of the lane, and the deep snow
melted off the pasture-lands ; the cattle
and the herds, long pent-up from the
cold, were driven out again to grass,
whisking their tails in the air, and bounding
gladly, though their coats were rough
and shaggy and they had lost their comfortable
roundness. For since mid-december
the snow had lain thick and white
upon the ground, and the beasts in their
dark stalls and folds had lived off dry
hay and roots.

The spring was early that year, and
by March the grass sprang green and
fresh in the meadows, and daisies and
primroses began to lift their starry
heads on every bank and ridge. The
buds were swelling on the bushes, though
the trees were bare, or only brushed at

the tops with a faint, promising red.
The blackthorn was white in the hedges,
the birds began to twitter, the sky cleared
and lightened, fresh and blue, above the
fresh greening world. The commons were
a blaze of yellow gorse. Flowers springing
everywhere, birds crying and calling,
sunlight and sweet air, all showed the
spring was here. And by the kitchen
fire the weakest of the weanling lambs
lay in its warm basket : every few days,
Susie would bring into Arden's parlour,
a flannel-covered hamper, where yellow
downy chickens pecked and chirped. It
was impossible to feel very miserable, in
the midst of all this new, springing life ;
and Arden grew gay and loving as of
old, taking the little lamb for walks up
and down the passages, and feeding the
chickens with sopped bread and beer.
Perhaps it was not good for the lamb
to be kept trotting about on the stone
floors ; and some of the fledglings certainly

died from over-feeding ; but no
one would have dreamed of crossing
Arden's fancy for them. It was so pleasant,
so relieving to see her look bright
and natural again.

I've been in the house three months ! '
she said, one day, with a sigh. ' I should
like to go out again, Harry, when you've
got through with your sowing and
ploughing.'

Won't have me drive thee to-day to
Farley Common ? ' cried Harry, overjoyed
(although last year he would not have
left the ' Five Acre ' to Curtis' s tender
mercies,* for any woman alive). 'It's fair
glorious upon the common, now, with
the sky so blue, and the skylarks singing
in it, and the gorse out in bloom, in the
likeness of a sheet of gold.'

Oh, I should like to go,' said Arden,
if you'd care to take me ! '

That would I, my darling,' cried her
husband, as he came round and kissed

her. It made him so happy to serve
her, when she would let him, and it was
sweet to see the flush of pleasure in her
pale cheeks again. Arden leant her head
against his shoulder.

I'm so glad the spring has come,
Harry,' she said ; ' something tells me
we're going to be happy now.'

I'm happy, Sylvie, winter and spring
alike, whatever befall us, if thought by my
side, and out of pain.'

Dear Harry ! ' said Arden, stroking
one of his hands.

Thought easier, to-day, I fancy, love ? '

Oh, yes,' said Arden ; ' well and
contented, and in a good temper, for
once.'

She laughed a quick little laugh, and
with a sudden movement draofoed doTvn

CO

her husband's shock head with both her
hands. ' You love your cross old wife,
don't you ? ' she said ; and looked at
him with tender mockery. But she set

him free without the kiss he had hoped
for.

We're quite old married people, now,'
she said, as if in excuse.

Ay, Sylvie, so it is. How can I
thank you, darling, for all thought done
for me ? My happiness, my love ! before
I had thee I was often lonely, even with
the little 'un alius after me. But now,
Sylvie, there's not an empty cranny in
my heart. 'Tis right full of thee, my
girl ; and all my days are full ; so that,
if I'm busy with the sowing, I think
only of how thou'lt like to look at the
harvest ; and I look for the apple-blossom
more than the fruit, 'cause you'll want
to paint it, you said. And I declare if
I don't think more o' the lambs than
the vows, since you've taken a fancy
to have them fuller you about. See
what a fool thought got for a husband,
Sylvie ! '

Then you've been quite satisfied,

Harry ? ' she said, with a wondering
query in her voice. ' You've been happy,
all these months ? '

Oh, my love, I never rightly knew
what 'twas to be happy afore ! '

I'm glad,' she said ; and then kept
silence, wondering.

Arden went out that afternoon for her
first drive. Tender hands wrapped her
round and placed soft cushions at her
back ; but their care was all in vain. Over
Farley Common the sky suddenly grew
black, and the sun beat luridly upon the
golden gorse. The air was still  the birds
sang over-loud. Arden had alighted to
pluck some primroses, and, deaf to Harry's
warning, would not believe in the storm to
come. She looked very pretty and wayward,
with her hands full of flowers.

But love, Sylvie,' cried Harry, ' I tell
'ee the storm's gathering overhead.'

Look at the sun ! ' cried Arden ; ' what

VOL. II. L

nonsense ! It's only because you want to
get me in.'

Well, then, dear,' pleaded her husband,
at his wits' end, ' won't get into the cart todo
me a pleasure, storm or no storm.'

Not I ! ' cried Arden. ' I think it's
very selfish of you to plague me so.'

'Selfish, Sylvie?' said Harry, quite
bewildered.

Alt7V I It's the first time I've enjoyed
myself for months ! '

'Well,' cried Harry, heroically, 'say
I'm a beast  but come.'

In a moment,' said Arden calmly, and
went on gathering her posy.

Harry stood and looked at her, utterly
helpless. She was going further away from
the cart towards a little stream whereby
some lady-smocks were lilac already. As
she went, she hummed to herself an airy
Italian song. She seemed in no hurry.
Harry would have liked to pick her up in
his arms and carry her away, but he was

afraid of hurting her. She was, in fact,
quite unassailable.

 Come, Sylvie, love said Harry in
despair.

Oh, what lovely lilies ! ' cried Arden,
and stretched out her hands to gather the
delicate white cups and rank odour of the
wild garlic.

At that moment a brilliant flash of
lightning ran across the common. In a
minute the thunder pealed. Arden hurried
to her husband. ' I'll come now, Harry,'
she said, dropping her malodorous lilies,
and clung to his arm like a frightened
child. But it was too late. The rain fell
in drenching sheets ; before they reached
the tethered cart they were both wet to the
skin, and there was a five-mile drive before
them. Before Arden reached home she was
very ill, and for many days after that she
lay in danger of her very life. So much
was saved by skill and loving care, but
when at last they carried her downstairs to

L 2

lie again on the sofa in her blossom-coloured
parlour, they knew that the hope
of many months was dead. No child would
be born with the roses to fill the wide old
house with life and mirth.

CHAPTER XXIII.

OLD FRIENDS.

One warm April evening, Arden, filled
with the restlessness of Spring, slid away
from the busy circle by the fireside, and,
seizing her gardening cloak and hat, went
out into the quiet garden. She had often
done so of late ; for sometimes, when Harry
and his sister were settling the affairs of
the Farm, while Mrs. Williams dozed in her
chair, a terrible sense of isolation would
rush over this married child, and make her
long to be indeed alone. Then she would
escape into the quiet night, where the
white flowers in the borders trembled
dimly through the dark, and the trees were
tall and dim, and the air blue above. She

would pace to and fro here, calmly, till the
vague yearning in her soul was soothed to
rest.

But to-night there was no such dimness.
The full moon lit up the furthest
spaces of the clear blue sky ; the stars
alone were dim and flickered ; all the earth
lay broad and calm, washed in the pale
greenish light. One could see so far, and
the wide valley looked so fair that Arden
did not care to linger in the garden ; she
loosed the watch-dog in the yard, and,
wrapping her long cloak round her, she
passed through the gate on to the broad
white road, barred here and there with the
fantastic elm-tree shadows.

How beautiful the view would be from
the rise beyond the canal bridge ! From
there one could see in broadest day a landscape
always edged with dim blue misty
woods  so far could one look. And in this
unearthly light the scene would indeed be
strange and fair ; so Arden, with Tory at

her side, set bravely forth, a little wondering
at her own venturesomeness, although
the dangers that she ran were not appalling,
for the hill was scarcely a ten minutes'
walk away, and her road lay through the
straggling village street.

She reached the rise, and stood to look
upon the view. It was a wonderful and
vague expanse, trembling in the wan light
of the April morn  every detail, clear but
thin, and, as it were, in profile. Fair as
the valley was, the sky was fairer and more
necessary to the scene ; it looked as deep,
and clear, and greenly blue as the still
spaces of a waveless sea ; and on its surface
of untroubled calm, flecks of foamy cloud
were splashed in airy lightness.

Arden stood and gazed, leaning against
a gate. The wonderful sight took all the
trouble from her soul ; it was too fair to
leave at once, and yet too cold to stop still.
So she walked a little way further on,
descending the hill on the other side,

promising herself one final view from the
summit, when, in a few minutes, she should
turn back for home.

She herself, wandering swiftly in her
dark cloak and grey dress, singing under
her breath, appeared some fairy denizen of
the moonlight as she flitted softly down
the hill.

In the bottom, further down the lane, a
young man was standing where three roads
met, looking at the sign-post, almost defaced
by the showers of many winters. ' To
Raynham,' was clear on one of the arms,

Clin ' was still discernible on the

other, but the one which pointed ahead
was past all deciphering.

Well, it can't be Raynham, and it

can't be Clin ' said Gerard Rose. ' I'll

chance the other one.'

So he strode straight forwards up the
rise. He walked quickly on, looking to
right and left ; at last he neared the top.

He stood for a moment and looked at the
beautiful night.

I presume there's an inn where I can
sleep for the night. It looks a quiet, peaceful
place. Dear little Ardent '

The young man, as he spoke, moved
out of the shadow of the hedge in which he
had been standing, and came into the light
of the road. Suddenly a weak cry caught
his ear, and at the same moment he perceived
a shadowy outline, familiar and
strange at once, standing in front of him.

Arden ! ' he cried, in some alarm.

'Oh, Gerard, is it you? I was so
frightened ! How did you come ? I
thought you were in Syria.'

Evidently not,' said Gerard ; ' but,
my dear child, how can they let you roam
about alone at this time of night? It's very
wrong.'

They don't know I'm out,' cried Arden.
Oh, they'll be so glad to see you ! I've
often talked of you.'

Gerard looked at her. ' So you're
happy?' he said, with a query in his
voice.

Oh, yes. You must come home with
me. You can't think what a beautiful
home I've got. Mais dun character
You'll be sketching it all day long.'

 Is that so?' said Gerard, a little surprised,
for she had never seemed enraptured
with the Bushes in her letters. 'But 1
guess I want to hear about you, Arden
dear, not the house.'

Oh, I'm all right,' said Arden ; ' at
least, I've been very ill. How is Mrs.
Rose?'

111, Arden ? And they allow you

Anyhow, it's an impossibility that you
should continue here.'

How cross you are ! ' said Arden.
You might put it off until you've seen
me a little longer. Oh, Gerard, it is so
nice to see you again ! '

'It's very "nice" to hear you say so.

every time said Gerard, gazing at her a
little wistfully.

They were now at the bridge.

How beautiful it is in this sweet light ! '
said Gerard.  Like a forgotten page out of
Shakespeare's comedies.'

That's the house,' cried Arden ; ' that
black and white one, among the apple-trees.
And, oh, Gerard, you mustn't be
surprised if he's not quite the sort of
person you expected to see. Really, you
know, he's of a much older family than
mine, and they've lived in that house
three hundred years. And he's so good
and kind.'

A much older family than yours ? '
cried Gerard, in his old, gay, mocking voice.
Of course I know you're quite a special
person, Arden; but, my dear girl, do tell me
how one's grandfather, even yours '

Arden began to laugh. ' Oh, you silly
boy ! ' she cried. ' It's not grandpa ; it's
Harry.'

Gerard stared at her in dumb surprise,
suddenly chill and afraid.

Didn't you get my letter ? ' cried Arden.
Oh, you haven't been to Beyrout ? '

Gerard shook his head.

'And you don't know?' went on
Arden, rather frightened. ' Oh, Gerard,
I'm married ! '

For a moment the young man said
nothing ; he was cruelly taken aback. But
the strong desire not to show Arden how
deeply he was moved, helped him to keep
under his anger and amazement.

You must own it is rather a surprise ! '
he exclaimed.

Yes,' said Arden. ' But come and let
me show him to you. He's only a farmer,
you know, Gerard.'

Indeed ! '

It was a night of surprises, certainly.
Gerard felt a bitter conviction forced upon
him that, however brutal the Beast might
be, Beauty would find no difficulty in

marrying him if there were no one else in
view. But it was too bad of Arden ; she
must have known he cared for her.

Arden suddenly stopped.

You're not one bit nice, Gerard ! ' she
cried ; ' you've not wished me joy or
said one single kind thing. Are you
ashamed of me because I've married
a farmer ? '

Why no, Arden, dear,' said the young
man, not without an effort. ' Only it
requires more ingenuity than I possess to
say kind things about a man whom I have
never seen and have only heard of as
Harry," in a vague sort of way ; but I'm
sure he's an excellent fellow, or you would
never have married him. I guess we can
get along,' he added, more generously.

 Thank sou, Gerard,' said Arden ; *oh,
how is Miss De la Rue ? '

Miss De la Rue !' cried Gerard, amazed,
I believe she's dying, poor girl. But how
on earth did you hear of her ? '

Ellie told me,' said Arden, with a
voice of profoundest sympathy.

Told you what ? ' cried the other, asa
dim lio:ht beoan to break on his mind.
 Little mischief - maker ! You didn't
believe her, Arden? You didn't think I
could care for her ? But are you going to
take me in with you, Arden?'

Of course,' she said ; ' you are to stay
with us. It is so nice to have a home of
one's own ! '

The door was open in the fearless
country fashion, and, taking Gerard by the
hand, she led him down the queer little
passage, always breaking into flights of
steps, into her blossom-coloured parlour.
She left him there, and ran into the other
room, where Mrs. Williams was still dozing,
Susie and Harry still doing accounts, as if
no great event had surprised the world
since Arden left them.

Harry,' she cried, in a quick, eager

voice, 'the most wonderful thing has
happened ! '

Harry looked at her. Never since he
had first seen her swinging the honeysuckle
trails as she walked singing down the lane,
had he seen her look so gay, so young, so
fair. Her eyes danced and sparkled, her
lips curled up in the charming, youthful
smile of a faun ; she looked the very
incarnation of careless love.

Well, and whatever it be, I'm glad of
it, Sylvie,' said her husband ; 'you look
quite your old self again, so pleasant like
and well.'

Dear old Harry ! ' cried Arden ; ' but
you'll never guess ; I may as well tell you.
Gerard's here ! '

Gerard ! ' said Harry, uneasily. He
seemed to hear again the dull flap) of the
yellow blind against the chemist's window,
to see the dim lighted room, and Arden 's
senseless face.

Why, certainly,' cried Arden. ' Have

you forgotten all the times I've told you
about him  my friend, who used to play
with me when I was a little girl?  and you
don't remember ! ' There were infinite
reproaches in her voice.

Yes, dearie, I remember cried Harry.
I'm fair glad he's come since thought so
pleased to see him. Thought not left him
in the lane ? '

No,' cried Arden, ' he's in the parlour.
Oh, Harry, I am so happy and pleased ! '

And so am I, then, darling.'

Here he is,' said Arden, as they came
into the pretty white room. She went in
first and Harry followed her, wearing a
sheepish rustic simper of embarrassment.
Gerard came forward with his handsome,
nonchalant air. He stood before Arden
with his fine smile, waiting for her to speak.

Gerard,' said Arden, suddenly a little
grave, ' this is my husband ! '

CHAPTER Xxii.

TWO S COMPANY.

Mrs. Williams was almost as pleased as
Arches that Gerard should stay at the Farm ;
but she had the unusual good sense, to keep
to herself the plans that her motherly
mind matured reo-ardino; him and Susie.
A nice pleasant-spoken young gentleman,'
she called him once to her daughter, ' far
more genteel than that worthless young
Masters.' But Susie's reddening cheek
and flashing eye warned off this enthusiasm
for comparison.

As for Gerard he troubled himself very
little about the yellow-haired Susie. He
felt, all the time that he acknowledged their
kindness and worth, a certain irritation

VOL. II. M

against these underbred, respectable,
countrified people, who had deprived him
of Arden in the very moment when, after
much painful hesitation, he had resolved
to throw prudence to the winds and marry
her. He had never even dreamed that in the
meantime she would marry another man ;
and that his successful rival should be a
mere good-humoured lout of a farmer, was
a galling addition to his grievance.

Nevertheless he permitted the good-humoured
lout to continue his host,
although a dozen times a day he reproached
himself with the fact. But it was not
easy to get away ; for Williams pressed
the new comer to remain, being anxious
to please his little wife, who had recovered
her old gay spirits since Gerard's arrival.
Harry, for his part, was not vain, and saw
no reason why his wife should not have
been ' moped ' in her dull quiet life with
him, nor why the excitement of seeing an
old friend should not dispel her melancholy.

So with cordial hospitality he pressed
Gerard to stay for a while. And Arden
herself was so pleased, so eager, so merry ;
taking Gerard over all her premises, exploring
barns, fowl pens, hay lofts, stables, folds,
like a happy child. It would certainly be
difficult to leave her, thought the young-man.
And, after all, no one guessed that he
had come as her lover, not merely as her
friend. There was no harm done to any
but himself by that blunder, reasoned
Gerard. He had accepted the situation,
so he stayed on.

It must be owned that after the first
few days Gerard's visit became a veritable
trial to the slower witted farmer. Unable
to retaliate, but conscious of an indefinable,
unsuitable antagonism at work ; he
was always being made to feel his own
inferiority, always being reminded that he
was a new comer in Arden 's life. From
all their reminiscences he was naturally
shut out. Sometimes it flashed across him

M 2

how unfit he was for the refined, graceful,
delicate young girl at his side. He and
Susie, she and Gerard, seemed the denizens
of different spheres.

And indeed it was plain that Gerard
thought the same. He did not mean to
goad and torture the unhappy man, who
every day felt himself sinking further and
further below the level of his bride. He
believed that the farmer did not understand
the little half allusions with which he
pointed the difference between them ; butin
truth, it was Arden who did not understand
; not a syllable was lost upon her
husband.

Nevertheless Harry held his peace for
Arden's sake, and even assented to half
her praise of Gerard. Thank Heaven, it
was impossible to suspect her guileless,
gentle nature ; she seemed more than ever
sweet, more than ever undeserved, to Harry
in her innocent gaiety, her childish eagerness
to make her friend and her husband

each admire the other Harry would not
for worlds have darkened her pretty, simple
happiness.

Nevertheless it was bitter to think how
recently his love had touched her. 'Do
you remember ? ' Gerard would begin, and
harden's eyes would flash and the colour
strike up her cheek ; now he could never
make her look so glad. Yet he was glad to
see her happy ; he could not (he kept saying
to himself) be such a fool as to be jealous,
for the dear little girl was more loving and
kind to him than she had ever been before.
Her nature seemed to expand in happiness,
like a pimpernel in the sun. Indeed, these
were very happy days to Arden, who
never dreamed that Gerard could have
thought of her with lover's love, nor
deemed it possible that her husband could
be jealous of Gerard.

One fine evening they were all sitting in
the wainscoted parlour, and while Susie
sang an air of Handel's, Gerard was turning

her pages ; Mrs. Williams stopped her
talking to gaze at them with eyes of pride ;
and Arden and her husband, seated in the
settle, talked in hushed voices not to mar
the music. Susie had a fine voice, but she
sang without style and dragged the time ;
so that to Gerard's fastidious ear her performance
was a pleasure much alloyed.
When he had finished thanking her and
pointing out one or two fiorifure which she
might alter, Susie conscientiously sat down
and tried the air again, as though he had
been giving her a music lesson. Gerard,
who wanted to talk to Arden, stood by her
side listening with a sort of careless weariness
; and while he was standing so, his
eyes fell on the settle where Arden, with a
bewitching pout, was lifting her arm to her
husband to show a long scratch that the
kitten had made. Harry stooped down
and kissed the wounded wrist, saying
something to his wife that made her laugh
and lift her blue eyes to his face. It

was a pretty, harmless little scene ; but it
filled Gerard with ud controllable aversion.
He longed to get Arden away, to have her
to himself. Just then Susie finished.

Bravo! ' said Gerard hurriedly; ' that's
much better, Miss Susie. Arden, I guess
it's your turn now to come and warble.'

 Ay go, Sylvie love,' said her husband ;
thought forgotten thy singing of late.'

I'm so comfortable,' said Arden lazily.

 Do come, Arden ! ' implored Gerard.

It sounds so strange-like,' said the
farmer, with a slow amused smile, ' to hear
my wife called by her must name. 'Tis the
name of the village, you know, Mr. Eose.'

I know,' said Gerard, ' but her old
friends always called her so.'

Harry's face darkened. It was not a
fortunate speech.

I'll sing, if Harry wants me to sing,'
said Arden. ' Gerard, what shall my song
be to-night?'

Sinof me a sono of Zion ! ' said the

young man. He had seated himself on the
other side of her, with his arms crossed
behind his head, in the corner of the settle.
He looked at her.

A hymn ! ' cried Susie, with round eyes.

No, Miss Susie ; I mean the other Holy
City: Rome, the Eternal.'

Shall I sing,' said Arden, ' that song
the Saracen pedlars used to sing ? Don't you
remember when Ellie was photographed as
one of those women, and I cried so because
Papa wouldn't let me be done too ! '

You were nine years old then,' said
Gerard.

And you a year older. I used to think
you so clever ! '

graze for the past tense ! You're
through with that delusion now, I presume.'

They both began to laugh, and though
Arden's hand was on his arm, Harry on
the further side of her began very painfully
to realise that only two are company.

Sing,' went on the young man, ' a certain

song you used to know  but you must
fetch your guitar !  that always seems tome
the most magical thing in the world.
It's Venice ! ' Arden shuddered, but the
speaker was too engrossed with his simile
to notice. He went on :  The shady spaces
of the empty vestibules we look into as we
pass, and the silent women with long black
shawls draping their heads and shoulders,
and then beyond the cool monotony of sky
and lagoon, where the quietness and lap
of the waters seem another tone of the
universal greyness. It's all in that song ! '
He began to hum it sotto voce.

Oh, Gerard,' cried Arden, with tears
in her voice, ' you shouldn't speak to me of
Venice ! '

She turned away her head and laid it
on her husband's shoulder.

Miss Susie,' said Gerard, with a despairing
blandness, ' I guess I want you to
sing '' Despised and rejected." '

Mrs. Williams smiled through her doze.

The long evening dragged itself wearily
away, but the next morning Arden came
down to breakfast singing.

It will be my birthday on Saturday,'
she cried.  I shall be eighteen ! '

Foot' like to give a party, Sylvie ? '
said her husband.

 There's no one to ask but grandpa
and Mrs. Lawrance. No ; that would not
be very gay  but I don't want to be gay.'

 Why, Sylvie, what a sigh ! Thou's
never growing melancholy, to be so old ! '
said Harry.

But Gerard was looking at her with
comprehending eyes.

I understand,' he said, in a low tone of
sympathy. ' Anniversaries are cruel days.
No,' he added rather louder for Harry's
benefit, ' we won't keep your birthday,
Arden. One doesn't feel much like exposing
one's birthday at such decrepitude
as that, Mr. Williams.'

The farmer chuckled slowly. ' That's
a good 'un,' he said, ' that is.'

Gerard looked at Arden.  Then that's
fixed,' he said ;  we don't celebrate your
birthday. Now, Mr. Williams, let us give
our manly energies the task of finding out
the surest way to hide that shameful fact.
As for me, I don't begin to have a first
idea ! ' but the moment after, while Harry
was still chuckling over his fantastic spirits,
the vouno fellow added 

 I have it. Let's go to Stratford-on -
Avon ! '

Done,' said Harry, ' that 'uU be a good
thing over. ' T'wur too wet to go their
when we wur at Leamington.'

I know,' said Gerard quickly ; he certainly
did not want to redit the scenes of
their honeymoon with the bride and bridegroom.


Oh, Gerard ! how nice of you to think
of it ! ' cried Arden. ' I've so often wanted
to go ! '

I wish rid ha' thought of it,' said
Harry meditatively ; ' but what with th'

vows failing, and the ploughing, and one
thing and another, I've been that mazed
and muddled I cud think of nothing but
worries.'

And I've been so ill, too, poor old man!'
said Arden.

Ay, that's what I meant,' said Harry
gratefully. ' Thou knows I don't care
much for aught else.'

Well, I imagine I had better go upstairs
and write some letters,' said Gerard, pulling
out his watch. He was a little sore that
when he had made the suggestion, Harry
by some feminine juggle should get the
credit of it. Something of this feeling
inspired the note which he went to
write.

Dear Ellie,' it began  ' it is now
a fortnight since I encountered Arden
in the lane and was borne off to her rustic
home. Certainly it is very rustic, and
experience teaches that while rusticity
in a house is charming, the same quality

as a personal adjunct is apt to pall. Asa
finality, I don't believe it would wear.
These remarks may be taken as applying to
the family Williams, who are as excellent
boors as this land of beer and fog has yet
turned out. It is very odd to see Arden in
the midst of them ; she has not yet found
out their boorishness, and takes all their
pretensions au grand series. It appears
to me they have a good many pretensions.
The mother is a fussy old woman in a cap,
who aspires to be genteel. The daughter
is a serious prig, who dresses like a second-girl
and aspires to Girt on. As for the
farmer, he has aspired so much in marrying
Arden, that there is no need for him to do
more than remain le mari de Madame. I find
these people an interesting study. Their
life is very narrow, very local, and they
take it very much in earnest. But you
must not suppose a New England earnestness.
This is more material, and infinitely
little concerned with the religious life. The

soul, like the mind, does not exist for these
prosperous country people.

None the less there is a certain shrewdness,
as distinct from ideas, under their
well-nourished and dominant physique.
The daughter, in particular, engages my
attention. She has, I am certain, a character
of no common type. There is, in her
manner of turning all her fugitive and futile
scraps of learning to account, a wisdom and
aplomb one does not expect in a three-century
farmhouse. Evidently she distrusts
me. Sometimes, when I catch the serious
gaze of her greenish, very steadfast eyes
stealthily fixed upon me, I feel like shuddering.
Elle est capable de tout ! One can
imagine her marching straight to her purposed
end, unembarrassed by a single
passion, a single pang. So much flashes
out in a glance now and then ; else she is a
girlish, countrified, slim, and rosy creature.
For her portrait, imagine Becky Sharp or
Emma Ovary at sixteen. This, of course,

is as she exists in posse \ in esse she remains
an undeveloped child. I have, however,
heard of an affair with the Squire's
son which for rapacious passion and cool
ingenuity surpasses either prototype.
Frankly, you perceive I return the compliment
of her distrust.

Arden's girlish friendship for this cold
and singular Erscheinung has for me the
fascination of that other tragic spectacle,
the bird charmed by the venomous snake.
Joconde herself, I believe, is not more chill,
more potent, more deadly in her serpentine
magic than this inexperienced Susie
Williams. Life is rich in possibilities. It
is these which the true artist should apprehend
and immortalise. In crude reality,
the possible is often disregarded. This girl,
with her capabilities for infinite crime, and
triumph, and influence, may doubtless marry
a vulgar farmer and become a vulgar shrew.
Oh, for an hour of Balzac, to seize the
moment and develop it ; to reveal her

character in its potentiality and astonish
the world with the actual realisation of
the dormant evil ! But Balzac is dead.
Seriously, Ellie, it has occurred to me that
my real sphere lies not in painting, not in a
mere capture of impressions, but in the penetration
of character. Sometimes I feel the
divining rod twitch and jerk in my grasp.

So much of the sister, for whom, by
the way, it is clear that Mrs. Williams
designs your honoured brother. There is
a not pathetic comedy in the situation.
This girl, afraid of me, perceiving my
grasp of her dubious past, my insight into
her possibly atrocious future, doing therefore
her best to conciliate me ; I, interested
in this problematic soul, pursuing it with
ruthless penetration, plucking the heart
from its mystery. Meanwhile, the old
fussy, vulgar mother, sits smiling and nodding
in the background, ready at any moment
to weep, and smile, and cry, ' Bless
you, my children ! "

As for the farmer himself, he is an
honest lout, a worthy boor whose soul is
buried in his turnip fields, five fathom
deep and more. He is evidently immensely
relieved by my presence ; it saves him the
trouble of amusing his fine lady bride. I
do not think he cares much for Arden.
With that sort of man, passion is fierce but
brief. Now that he is sure of her, he
disregards her. Nevertheless, his narrow
soul is honest, placid, incapable of resentment.
He regards jon with the same
slow glance of amiable suspicion that his
cattle lift from their pastures at the noise
of your presence. Under his buffalo
hide of sluggish apathy, impenetrable to
the keenest darts, there exists a heart,
shrivelled but kindly. I like the farmer,
per se but as Arden's husband I deplore
him.

As yet the revelation has not dawned.
She has not yet found out that she is
dying of ennui. She is still the same as

VOL. II. N

ever, wonderfully 'pretty-appearing," as
they say at home, and with more charm
than any other girl begins to have. There
is a sweet incongruity in her happiness,
for I fancy she is happy. I could, at
times, believe her to be dead in love with
him. It takes so little to satisfy a woman ;
give her any husband, any children, she is
sure to love them ; their character is a
matter of detail. This, at least, is true of
the Teuton woman. Perhaps it is not
true of our finer and more nervous
race.

So you see, dear EUie, there was no
need of your elaborate warning. I guess I
shall get along very well with the farmer,
though I must allow his stamp of character
is a little too much toujours roshif. I
believe he considers mine toujours scuffle.
This is an obstacle to perfect mutual comprehension.
But as for Arden, I am not
going to make love to her. Poor child,
I care for her too well to wish to hasten

the day of apocalypse which surely must
arrive. And I am not likely to ruin my
career by a hopeless and guilty passion.
After all, you know, I am from Boston,
not a mere hoidevardier.

I am truly sorry to hear poor Nellie
is so much worse. Grive my best regards
to her and to Colonel De la Rue. It is a
pleasure to hear that the Mater is so
much better in Cannes. I shall have
finished my painting in a few more weeks,
and then, if you feel like meeting me in
Paris, we will have a good time there together
before returning to the Riviera.
Does that idea smile on you ? If you are
pleased, show your gratitude by being very
lovely to poor Nellie.

'Well, good-bye, my dear El; I shall
see you before long.

 Believe me, not a tragic villain,
But your affectionate,

Gerard.

N 2

'Pes.  You need not be alarmed at
the Borgia Miss Susie ; the portrait is
perhaps a little " heightened " (as we said
in Boston), for literary purposes. I guess
we shall fix it along together.'

CHAPTER XXV.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON.

Gerard took rooms at the inn, so as to be
freer for his painting ; but, nevertheless,
he was continually in and out of the Farm.
He and Susie became excellent friends,
and had many a laugh over such details
of his Borgia conception of her as he chose
to impart ; but generally they spoke of
Arden, on the rare occasions when she did
not make a third in their merry banter.
Gerard and Arden were indeed constantly
together. He took her long drives in the
spring cart, which left her rosy and fresh ;
and she painted at his side from the same
point of view. They were such old
friends, and so soon to part, that they

thought the time wasted which they did
not spend together ; not that Arden would
have chosen to neglect her husband, but
the farmer was just now overworked with
the first flush of his hay harvest. He
could only spare a hurried moment for
breakfast and supper, dining in the hay
field, so that Arden had plenty of leisure
to bestow on Gerard.

The village, unused to this American
liberty, formed its own opinions, and these
were as scandalous as village gossip can
suggest. But the household at the Farm
was ignorant of these evil tongues. Mrs.
Williams, Susie, Arden, and Gerard were
a very merry and innocent party. And
Harry, too, tried to be gay, though a
sudden overmastering jealousy would
sometimes choke his throat and seem to
stop his heart.

But though he was jealous, Harry
would not for the world have let Arden
guess his misery. He did not suspect her

of any one disloyal thought. He knew her
to be true and good. But he remembered
the pallid ailing wife whom he had striven
in vain to cheer, and he looked on this gay
fresh girl who enjoyed her life so well since
Gerard had come. He had done her, so
he would think, a grievous wrong in
marrying her, who could never really love
him. And then the sight of her merry
face would pacify him. ' Let her be happy
if she can, poor child,' he would think ;
and notwithstanding his secret anxiety he
could not resist a hopeful mood. She was
certainly happy now. Would she be happy
still when Gerard had left ? Such was
the problem, fraught with despair and
rapture, which haunted him by day and
night. What would the answer be ?
Sometimes it seemed so clear that his wife
had learned to love him at last, that Harry
took the answer for spoken ; and then he
would be very happy. Then he would
gladly upbraid himself for his jealous

fancies. It was a sin to suppose the most
innocent error in such a spotless life.
Arden was his, only his! Let her give
the overflowing and remnants of her love
to whom she would.

But alas ! sometimes, suddenly, unaccountably,
this happy assurance would
fail. He would look at his wife's pale
face and reproach himself bitterly for
having brought upon her a trouble that
she did not comprehend ; or she would
sigh over some remembrance to which he
had no clue ; or she and Gerard would
laugh at some allusion he could not guess.
They were always laughing at things he
could not understand ! It might be they
laughed at him, too!

Are you tired, poor old man ? ' Arden
would say, and come and lay her arms
on his shoulders, stooping to look at his
face. Then, at her pretty solicitude, the
frown would relax ; he would love her
more than ever.

harden's birthday morning dawned bright
and clear. It was the 12th of June. All
the wild roses were full in blow, and the
streams smelt of the meadowsweet and
willow herb upon their banks. The summer
was early, and the driest pastures were
already cut for hay. They might have
begun to mow the low-lying meadows,
and in secret Harry's right arm longed to
be sweeping the scythe through the flower-grown
grass. But it was Arden's birthday,
and her wish was doubly law.

They set out for Stratford by the
morning train, four young people, Mrs.
Williams having elected to stay and get
their supper ready. Arden was so eager
and delighted that her husband reproached
himself bitterly for having so long refrained
from giving her so simple a
pleasure.

Thou's been sorely moped, my love,'
I fear,' he said, with a sad kindness.

Oh, no,' said Arden; ' one can't go out

in the winter, you know, Harry. But now
oh, do let us go lots of expeditions ! '

Gerard laughed.

Farmer Williams thinks of his standing
hay ! '

Now this was a little too near the truth
to be quite a well-chosen pleasantry.

I hope, young man,' said Harry
grimly, ' as I think of my wife first.'

Why, certainly,' said the incorrigible
Gerard; * don't you see I meant to make a
joke?'

Arden laughed. ' We're always making
jokes,' she said; and 'they're so small no
one else can see them. It takes quite a
long apprenticeship to see the points ! '

Ten years hence,' went on Gerard,
we shall have you and your brother, Miss
Susie, just as frivolous and inconsequential
as myself; all alike corrupted by this
young woman's unholy influence.'

It seems odd,' said Susie simply, * to
think as you've known her so much ; longer
than we have, Mr. Rose.'

Harry said nothing, but his face grew
set and cold.

Susie was the next to speak.  Oh,
look,' she cried, letting down the window,
' oh, Sylvie, Harry, there it is 
there's Stratford! .1 was at school there,
you know, Mr. Rose, when I Alas a little
girl. Oh, Harry, promise me as you'll
take me to see Miss Wakefield. 'T would
seem so strange-like not to go. And
there's the river; we must row on the
river.'

'That's good,' said Gerard; 'and we
must go to Shakespeare's house, and seethe
tomb in the church, and drive to Anne
Hathaway's cottage, and give ourselves
dyspepsia with three-cornered Stratford
cakes.'

D'you mean Banbury cakes ? ' said
Susie, wondering. ' I never heard ought
o' Stratford cakes.'

Oh, delightful,' cried Arden, clapping
her hands; 'Gerard caught tripping! So

you don't know everything at Harvard,
quite? There's just a trifling point or so
of local colour you can pick up better in
Europe, eh, Gerard?'

Strangely enough, though this joke
was very small, no one laughed at it so
heartily as Farmer Williams.

The train stopped, and they got out
and walked down the wide streets of the
bleak little town.

Well,' said Gerard, as he looked about
him, ' I have often longed to see this place.
It is the Mecca of our drama. I guess,
when the " Mayflower " set out for Plymouth,
the Pilgrim fathers little dreamed
that of all the towns in the old country
there would be none for which their
children would cherish so fantastic a devotion
as for the birthplace of the Stratford
play-actor. Nothing strikes one so much
in life as the incongruity of things. I call
that an incongruity; they would have
called it a degeneration; Harvard would

call it the influence of culture. To me it's
simply incongruous. There's a delightful
humour about it. And the place itself,
that's incongruous too. There's no breath
of romance here; no comedy-idleness and
sweetness, as there is about Guysclifl', or
Stonehenge, or Kenilworth. I can see no
reason why Shakespeare should have to be
born in this bare little town. It's just the
one bleak, prose little place in this Elizabethan
shire. All the rest is pure pay sage
pour rire as Vernon Lee says somewhere,
or Colin, I don't know. Just the effects
for a stage ; low-lying meadows full of
king-cups and lady-smock, the bend of a
full, sleepy river, a plank bridge ; or that
mill at Guysclifi* with the balcony for the
stage Princess to come out and sing upon,
and the cascade in front, with the ivied
Hall breaking through the trees. And
Warwick; there's an Ariosto-Fletcher
magic for you ! That grey enchanted
castle rising mystically from the grey water

overtopped with willow-boughs ! And, at
the back, hilly streets of mediaeval houses
for the retainers to royster and fight in.
There was the place for a playwright to be
born! But here, as I said  I can't allow
why Shakespeare should be born right here.
It gives no stamp, I guess, this place ! '

Hard words break no bones,' said
Harry rather grimly. ' He wur born here,
you see, Mr. Rose.'

I'm so sorry you don't like it ! ' said
Susie. ' We all think it beautiful  Shakespeare's
Stratford.'

Why, certainly,' cried the young man;
don't you see that is the beauty, Miss
Susie? There's nothing cheap about the
effect ! If this town had possessed the
feudal charm of Warwick, or the dreamy
romance of Kenilworth, or the comedy-picturesquely
of Guyscliff, there would
have been no surprise in Shakespeare
having been born here. But as it is, it's
touching! One thinks the man and the

place intrinsically finer for their being so
little in obvious relation to each other.
Shakespeare is not the mere product of
Stratford, nor Stratford the mere surroundings
of Shakespeare. They become
valuable entities ! One respects the lasting
attachment which the greatest poet of all
time lavished on these winter-beaten
streets. " It hallows him that gives and
him that takes." I declare, Miss Susie, I
think you are much to be envied, having

lived in this town.'

Oh,' said Susie, rather blankly ; ' I'm

glad you like it.'

Isn't he clever ? ' cried Arden at the

same moment, turning to her husband; but

as she turned round she thought she caught

an irreverent sentence on his Hps. Surely

it could not be? What?

Fine words butter no parsnips '  so it

sounded.

Harry ! ' she cried ; ' are you angry ?

Why, what's the matter?'

Perhaps if lie had told her then, she
would have understood in time that he felt
himself neglected, but he would not cross
her pleasure. He smiled to see her so
eager and childish.

'Nay, nay, little maid,' he cried; 'I'm
not angered. I meant it for a joke-like, as
Muster Rose 'ud say.' A slow grin
widened on his face at this shooting of the
enemy with his own revolver.

So glad,' said Gerard, with his fine
smile; but he was rather cross. He had
let all his theories be disconcerted.

They walked on in silence. ' Where
shall we go first?' asked Arden.

What difference ? ' said Gerard.

Only that we must begin somewhere.
I suppose a birthplace is as near a beginning
as anything can be. Harry, which is
the way ? '

Here we are, Sylvie ! '

It was indeed the well-known, timbered
house. They rang the bell and entered.

Why, Harry,' said Arden, in a caressing
whisper, ' it's not half so pretty as our
house at home ! '

I've alius liked th' old house,' replied
her husband in as Iowa voice; 'but Sylvie,
love, I never thought it fit for the likes of
thee ! '

I've been very happy there,' said
Arden. And, as they went together
through the narrow little house, all
Gerard's banter failed to bring a frown to
Farmer Williams' serious brow. It was
a very happy party that laughed and
theorised in the tumbledown brown chambers
where Shakespeare played his childhood
and dreamed his youth away. They
liked to imagine  Arden and Gerard  the
many times in which that house had seen
him in disgrace ; they invented superior
young friends of his, who had doubtless
come to see him in the back shop, and were
afterwards held up as examples to him by
his parents; they fancied the excuses he

VOL. II.

would make to slip away to Anne Hathaway
in her pretty cottage, and discussed
the attraction which an older woman has
for boys of genius. Gerard had just begun
upon the remonstrances of old Mr. Shakespeare
when his good-for-nothing son proposed
to join the strolling players, when
Harry interrupted the flow of his would-be
Elizabethan tongue.

Muster Rose he said rather awkwardly,
'I fancy there's a fairish number
o' sights we've got to see.'

That's so,' said Gerard, comprehending
in one glance the serious faces of Susie and
the attendants. ' It doesn't do to mock
the idol in his temple,' he whispered to
Arden, as he led her out.

She laughed. Harry's face clouded
over again; they were always laughing
together.

They passed the old grammar school
where Shakespeare got his slender schooling,
and then they set out for the church.

that stands so well between its broad green
avenue and the sleepy river at the back.
They wandered silently through the aisles,
and looked at the storied tombs with their
rough carving.

'Odd, isn't it?' said Gerard, 'that in
the very years you always call the 
of the Fine Arts in England, your
grandees could get no better tombs carved
for themselves than their great-great grandfathers
had been accustomed to ! What
surface ! What paucity of detail ! It must
have been a real martyrdom, anyway, for
some travelled courtier and dabbler in Art
to know that when his time came he would
have to repose under the weight of such a
thing as that. Shades of Pisano and Delia
Querela! They all went to Italy, your
lords and scholars. Why in the world did
they never bring some carvers back ? '

We're in church,' interposed Susie
softly ; but she was quite as much shocked
at the criticism as the sacrilege. It was all

o


80 fine and rare to her. Gerard bowed, and
kept silence till they reached the chancel
and the painted bust of Shakespeare.

 Well, I declare,' cried Gerard. ' It's
the most pathetic thing I ever saw. Is
this all they could do for Shakespeare ? '

They stopped and looked at the portrait
with interest and wonder; but, after
a glance, Arden strayed away. When
Gerard lowered his eyes he saw that she
had moved forward, and was looking at the
nearest monument.

It is indeed a contrast to the rude
figure-head which stands for Shakespeare's
presence in his church Two young people,
in the beautiful, careless dress of the court
of Charles II., are looking out of a square
carved frame at the passers-by. Handsome
youth and beautiful girl, undimmed by age
or change, wearing their lace ruffles and
bygone finery with an easy grace as out of
date as these, they still look out at the
altering world with a facile, indifferent

interest ; as though, seated in their opera
box, they were looking on at a play.

'I like them best,' said Arden, looking
up. ' What a difference ! ' and she glanced
back at the painted bust.

Yes,' answered the young man. ' It's
apocalyptic ! It brings home to me, with
a shock of understanding, the whole social
difference between Shakespeare and his
London world. The little glover's shop
never told us that ! But this. Oh, one
understands the sonnets now ! Let him be
what he would, greatest tragedian since
Aeschylus, greatest comedy-writer of all
time, friend and accepted equal of Elizabeth's
finest courtiers ; one sees now that
he never really was on their level. He
was always hopelessly above or below them.
He was Shakespeare. He was Shakespeare
the glover's son. He lives for all time ;
but while he lived on earth he was never
the equal of these two beautiful, careless,
renowned young people.'

No,' said Arden. ' That's very true.'

They had the advantage, living, certainly.
Look at that vulgar painted face,
with its pompous complacency of sitting
for its portrait. Bourgeois to the end of
the finger-tips ! And these graceful, facile
creatures, with their beautiful manners and
unburdened hearts and brains. He might
have created such a young fellow as that ;
he could not become it.'

Yes,' said Arden again ;  I like them
best.'

Harry, who for some time had been
listening in growing dudgeon to Gerard's
harangue, came forward at this moment.
He slipped his hand almost roughly
through Arden's arm, and drew her to
him.

Noah the less, my lass,' he said,
thou's cast in thy lot with th' other side.'

CHAPTER XXVI.

LAUGHING AND CRYING.

It was hot in the hay field ; one of those
days of fierce sudden heat that flit like
tropic birds across the temperate changes
of an English summer. The haymakers
looked flushed and heated, as they wielded
their pitchforks in the striking blazing
sunlight. One woman, who had turned
faint from the heat, was sitting in the
shade on a bank ; while Arden  a vision
of coolness in her muslin frock and flapping
Siena hat  stooped down to question
her.

You feel better now? ' she inquired.

Yes, Miss, that I do. Lor' bless you,
Miss ; Mum, I ought to say ; as asks your

pardon said the haymaker, rising as she
spoke.

Do you think you could walk to the
house, up the shady path ? '

Lor' yes. Miss. I believe I could.'

Then go along,' said Arden. ' You
ought not to try and work again just yet.
I'll set you your dinner in the cool kitchen.
You'd better not try dining here with the
rest. It's nearly twelve,' she added, looking
at her watch.

The haymaker curtsied out her thanks,
and walked away.

Dio ! e covent ! ' cried Arden, as she
threw herself down under the tree. ' But
I suppose I must even face it.'

She sat for a minute or two quite still,
looking at the busy scene.

And I am dying of heat,' she mused
aloud, ' sitting still in the shade in a muslin
gown with a sunshade over my head. Poor
things, how can they do it?'

 This poor thing can't do it any more ! '

cried a merry voice, and Gerard, all in
white linen, with a pitchfork on his
shoulder, sauntered up to her, and threw
himself down at her feet. ' I'm killed,
sire ; and his chief beside, smiling the boy
fell dead," ' he quoted, sighing.

All very fine,' laughed Arden, ' but I
don't think much of your heroic devotion.
Look at Harry.'

Look at Napoleon ! ' he cried. ' I
never pretended to that ! '

Well, then, look at me,' said Arden.

With all the pleasure in life ! I never
want to look at anything more " fine-appearing
! " But I can't say I perceive the
devotion  much.'

Gerard ! ' she cried ; ' and Harry said
I had been of so much use.'

Ornament, I should suggest,' replied
the other ; ' that's more in our line, I fancy,
Arden. Let me see, was it three swathes
of hay that you tossed over, or two. Two,
I think.'

I didn't mean that, you stupid boy !
Of course I can't make hay in tight sleeves,'
she exclaimed, with triumphant logic.

Oh, no, of course not,' said Gerard
humbly. ' It's so sensible to wear tight
sleeves on such occasions ; I might have
expected it of you. Of course, you could
not work ! '

All very well to laugh ! I suppose
you were asleep when it happened.'

' What happened ? '

Ah ! I shan't say. You were asleep,
evidently.'

I did seem to perceive a piece of melodrama
in the distance,' said Gerard musing,
or perhaps I dreamed it. I appeared to
notice a young woman throwing herself
upon the prostrate body of a haymaker, and
maliciously emptying a mysterious phial
down the poor creature's eyes and mouth.
She expired soon after in agonies. But I
didn't seem to care to allude to the crime
in your presence.'

Gerard ! ' cried Arden, starting up ;
you horrid boy ! Well, I'm going to get
her some dinner.'

The murdered victim ? ' exclaimed the
young man, leaping to his feet in mock
alarm. ' Not alone, misguided fair, not
alone shalt thou venture into that ghastly
presence.'

Very well,' said Arden, ' come along.
I don't think you're much use down here,
anyway.'

Oh, generous praise, not to be answered
in words ! ' cried Gerard. ' My gratitude
swells out my heart to silence. But if the
devotion of a lifetime '

'Open the gate!' commanded Arden,
laughing. ' I shall think you have got a
sunstroke next.'

They went laughing up the rutty lane,
made for the carts to travel up and down
by. Harry paused in his work to look
after them a moment.

'Don't you want to know, Arden?'

said Gerard at last, after an interval of
silence, ' don't you want to know when I
am going away ? '

Going away ! ' Arden stopped still.
 Oh, no ; I don't want to know. Don't
tell me ! ' she cried passionately.

Gerard looked at her, surprised.

you're overtired, dear,' he said, ' with
the sun and the walk. Take ray arm.'

Neither said anything, till, as they
passed through the richard, Gerard looked
at the two new golden piles.

Before the last rick is thatched,' he
said, ' I shall be gone away.'

Arden raised her eyes. * I shall be
sorry to have you go,' she said.

And I. Very sorry. We must not
lose sight of each other, Arden.'

No,' she said. ' It's not that I'm afraid
of. It's the actual saying good-bye. It
kills me saying good-bye ! It's like losing
things by death ; you feel sorry when anyone
dies, and wish you had done more for

them. I feel like that about parting. Oh,
often I have felt a kind of anguish to leave
a place I have nor, been very specially
happy in  some holiday place we have
just visited and then left ! I was always
miserable to leave. How I used to strain
my eyes to get the last look ; and how I
used to try and fix in my mind just the
way things were arranged in the inn-parlour
; because I should never see them
again ! I always feel that I shall never see
things again. And when one's friends go,
it's like wrenching a piece out of one's life.'

Yes said Gerard; 'I remember, when
you were a little girl, how miserable you
looked when we went back to Boston. Dear
little Arden, I never forgot your face then.'

'How wretched I was! I've always
had that feeling about letting things go ; it
seems as if nothing else could ever be so
precious. And do you remember Ellie's
telling me to make friends of people
passing through ? '

 No,' said the young man. ' How like
her ! ' He laughed softly.

But I never did, you see,' said Arden.
You and EUie, my husband and his sister,
are all the friends 1 have in the world. I
have never cared very much for any one
else. It will be dreadful to let you go.'

 But I shall come again, Arden, often,'
he cried. ' Dear Arden, do you think that
out of sight will be out of mind, with me?'

Oh, I don't know,' she said, impatiently,
'and I don't care. What have I
to do with the future? I don't understand
it ; I can't feel that it's real : it's all blank,
dim  ghosts without faces.'

She covered her eyes with her hand,
and leaned her arms upon the high gate that
led into the yard. After a moment she
looked up.

 No, I can dream back the past, but
I can't realise meeting again, not even
papa.'

Come iuj Arden,' cried the young man,

drawing her by the hand. ' You must
come in ; you'll be ill.'

They went in to the pretty blossom-coloured
parlour, cool and fresh after the
heat. 'I can't sit down yet,' said Arden,
 I must go and get the woman her dinner.'
She went out, and Gerard, left alone, took
down from the wall her well-remembered
guitar, and began to thrum on it idly, ashe
recalled Italy, his childhood, Arden.
As he was playing she slipped in behind
him, and stood listening in the doorway,
till he began to sing, still very softly, some
quaint pifferari song, ' Bella Emma  mai
fascia.'

Arden glided forward quietly and
suddenly.

Oh, give it me back,' she cried  ' my
old life ; I was so happy then, so happy.
Why did it not last? But it's gone, and it
can never come over again  never  never.'

She sank into a chair, crying bitterly.

CHAPTER XXVn.

THE WITNESSES.

Harry stayed in the hay meadow, working
harder than his labourers. He only stopped
one moment, to glance at Arden as she
flitted out of the field in her fresh white
dress, and then he gave a proud sigh.
'Wasn't for naught, as I told the old
gentleman, Sylvie 'ud never break her back
o'er the work,' he chuckled to himself as he
set to making hay with redoubled energy.
It inspired him, in the hot blazing field,
with the seed of the hay pricking his eyes,
while his back ached and his hard hands
blistered with the strenuous tossing and
lifting ; it inspirited him and refreshed him
to recall that gay sweet vision, white and

cool, whom his labour kept so far from toil.
Only the brightest thoughts visited the
farmer this morning, for looking on the
abundant harvest of the field, with over
the hedge the full-eared corn already turning
pale yellow, it was impossible to fancy
anything but prosperity in store.

But perhaps his previous anxieties had
told upon him, perhaps his energy was too
violent, for after a few minutes Harry
staggered and nearly fell. He recovered
his balance and stood leaning on his pitchfork,
while the air swam with lights before
his eyes and surged into his ears, something
seemed to snap in his brain, and
every moment the sense of being drawn
back into nothingness would recur, but
less forcibly time by time. At last the
farmer was able to. stand erect ; he tossed
the pitchfork away.

Neil,' he called,  I've got a bit of a
stroke, I fear. 'Tis naught, man, naught
to be afeard on. I'll just step up to th'

VOL. 11. p

'ouse and stop work a bit. You'll look
after the men.'

He walked out of the field, half sorry
to have to leave his labourers, and half
pleased to think of Arden's nursing. How
good she had been to poor Maggie Jones !
It was almost worth while being ill in
the midst of the harvesting, to come in
for her tender kindness, to feel her soft
hands cooling his brow, to hear her
anxious, fearful voice ; at least so Harry
fancied.

He reached the house, and went straight
up to their bedroom, that he might wash
and brush away, as much as might be, the
traces of his illness before showing himself
to Arden. It was characteristic of the
man, that even when he longed for her
sympathy most, he tried to disguise his
illness lest it should frighten her. The
face he saw in the glass looked so purpled
and heavy that it took himself aback.

 It's well,' he muttered, ' as I didn't go

straight in. I should ha' frightened the
poor little maid out o' her seven senses.'

There was still a great noise rushing in
his ears, so that all sound was uncertain; but
Harry thought he recognised the thin notes
of the guitar. He imagined Arden sitting-alone
in the little parlour (for in his confused
illness he had forgotten Gerard),
sitting alone and suddenly seeing him ill,
letting oro her instrument and running: to
wait upon him. The impulse of tenderness
that this image awoke was so strong in
Harry's heart that he felt he must see her at
once. He could not wait tc put himself in
order ; he would just look from the door
that opened on the little stair leading down ;
he would only look through the door and
glance at her, and retreat before she could
see him. His hand was on the knob, and
as the door opened the music floated in.
Yes, it was the guitar, suddenly, unaccountably
it stopped ; and then crying ! Was
that a woman's crying ? In his eagerness
p 2

Harry stepped out on to the staircase.
There beneath him, on the low ch;ur by
the hearth, the chair they had chosen
together at Warwick, Sylvie was crouched,
sobbing desperately. Gerard was kneeling
at her side ; he had caught one of her
hands ; he was begging her to stop, but
she went on crying.

 I was so happy, so happy then ; and
it can never come back.'

It was a terrible reaction from his
dreams. He felt the blood rushing to his
head, and a blind fury coming over him
from without, like a cloud. A desire to
strike, kill, destroy, that was not anger.
For he was, in his inner self, sensible of
no violent wrath, only of a terrible despair.
She did not love him, then. He had not
been able to make her happy. He had
ruined her life, hopelessly, beyond restitution.
She was crying, and he could not
console her. That youth down there might
have consoled her ; they loved each other.

All this he dimly felt, while the blood
surged and thundered through his veins ;
while he saw everything turn red, and
bright lights beat in his eyes, while a new
fierce, strange desire to leap out and
murder, awoke in him like an appetite, like
the sudden instinct of the tiger tasting
blood.

At last he cried out, and Arden
lifted her face. How pale she was !

The sight of her awoke the impulse to
shield her, which had dominated him so
long that it was dominant still, unconsciously,
even in this chaos of passion aud
loss. She must not be frightened, she
must not be frightened ! The thought
came to him as a natural habit, and it
saved him from murder.

He came downstairs heavily, slowly,
passing by Gerard and taking Arden's
hand. She clung to his shoulder with the
other arm, crying out that something had
happened.

Ay, ay,' he said, ' summit's happened.
Summit as has happened often
afore, and 'full often happen agen ; bnt it
shan't hurt thee, Sylvie, more nor I can
help. What was I saying ? '

Again the sense of failing: and darkness
took him ; he groped for a moment with
his hand. It touched Gerard, standing
irresolute on the hearth. Harry drew it
back, with a swift impulse of loathing.

You'll better go, young man,' he
said ; ' it's best you keep away. I don't
bear 'ee no ill-will, but I can't rightly
stomach the sight of 'ee. Sylvie, is there
any one in th' 'ouse ? '

She told him, sobbing with vague fear,
that his mother and the servants were in
the kitchen, drawing the beer for the men ;
and the sick harvester was there also.

Ay, ay ; call 'em all in,' he said, ' all
on 'om as you can find. It's all I can do
for you, little 'un : all I can do. It 'full
show 'em all as I trusted you. But don't

'ee cry, Sylvie ; thou's a young woman,
thy life's all to come. Well, well ! Tell
'em I'm in the brown parlour. I'll be
there as soon as any. It's all I can do,'
he muttered to himself, as he staggered
heavily across the passage. ' Poor little
maid, I can't set her free and I can't make
her love me. I can but trust en her.'

He stooped down when he had reached
the other room, looking for something in
the old bureau where he kept his ledgers,
and when he raised himself with the
parchment in his hand he saw Sylvie, his
stepmother, and three or four of the Farm
servants huddled together in the doorway.
Mrs. Williams sprang forward, but he put
her aside with a gentle authority not to be
denied. His face looked very grey, and his
voice was weak and thick. The group in
the doorway looked at him for orders :
they had a confused notion that he meant
to stop the harvest.

Sit ye down,' said Harry at last, * sit

ye down over there and listen. I'm a
going to read you my will. Curtis, Kingston,
Swinburne, here, you witness as I sign
my name  and now listen, all on you  
Mrs. Jones and all  ay Neil, there you
are. You're the witnesses

He stopped a moment ; no one dared
to speak, but Arden gave him one swift
appealing glance. She could not understand
what it all meant, it was all a dreadful,
clueless mystery. ' Nay, Sylvie,' he
said, ' don't 'ee cross me. I'm that
withered I can't rightly think. . I got
it done the day th' insurance officer refused
me. Well, I'm glad on it now, glad on it
now . . . .'

His voice died away, and he remained
for a moment silent, his face vaofue and
almost meaningless, a dazed look in his
bloodshot eyes ; but the silence remained
unbroken. Arden had fainted unnoticed.

Yes,' he went on, speaking as if to himself,
' I got it done when we wur in Learn-norton

together. And th* insurance officer
refused my life  a bald, fattish man with
a blear eye, be wur. I never liked the
looks of him. But I thought : '' Well, old
chap, say what you like, it shan't make
any difference to her ; she shan't be any
the fuss for it, I can tell sou, the poor
little maid." '

A smile played over his lips. He
seemed to forget his hearers.

And yet,' he went on, ' I never thought
o' proving ir. I might ha' dropped down
sudden and left her with her thirds, as
if rid no call to make it good to her. But
it's all signed fair and clear, all fair and
clear, afore the witnesses.'

The words seemed to rouse him from
his retrospect.

 You're the witnesses, remember,' thundered
Harry, ' and, as you look for the
kingdom of Heaven, I charge you all that
you alius say and swear that this is my
true will and testament. And if so he's

the Devil and the powers of them below
should ever lead me away to sign aught
different it's to be o' no account, them
other wills. Don't you think it binding,
if ever I be so led away as to say aught
agen a second marriage. I might go mad.
I feel it,' said Harry softly ; ' there's
such a spinning and rolling in my head
as though I were Raynham mill-wheel
churning the water, turning and turning
for ever.' He put up his hand to his head
for a moment, with the pathetic wonder
of a strong man suddenly ill. * But
I'm sound enough now,' he went on 
sane in mind and body, as the document
runs.'

Mrs. Williams had started to her feet
at the mention of the pain in Harry's head.
She only waited for his voice to stop to
break out into wailing lamentations.

'Oh, th' arrow leaves!' she began,
' where's Susie put the powdered yarrow
leaves ? I alius keep 'em all ground up

and handy, these ten years and more ; and
now, now, she's got the key down m the
hatfield.'

Nay, mother,* said Harry, ' sit ye
down. There '11 be time enough for talking
and doctoring after.'

He took the opened parchment in his
hand and rose to his feet, as if in reverence
of the occasion. The servants rose too, and
Mrs. Williams, who was sobbing loudly
with her handkerchief pressed to her eyes ;
but Arden, scarcely recovered from her
faint, lay back unmoved and almost insensible.
It did not seem to touch her,
this strange and fearful scene, or to be
more real than the memory of dreams that
haunt us on the brink of waking. She lay
back wearily, as if suffering it to have its
way.

This is my last will and testament,'
began the farmer, in a sing-song drawling
voice, quite unlike his passionate utterance,
written this second day o ' December,

I being; then sound and sane o' mind
and body, in the Bath Hotel at Leamington.


Whereby I leave to my dear and
much-loved sister, Susan Williams, the
cottage in Wood Lane with the garden
appertaining, and the three cottages known
as Ford End with all lands and appurtenances
thereto ; and these I leave her with
my love.

And I leave my stepmother, Sarianna
Williams, th' interest of five hundred
pounds Consols for the term of her natural
life, the same being half of the fortune
left me by my mother Margaret Williams,
in her own right, which I bequeath now to
her that has been a second mother to me,
the same to go at decease of th' aforesaid
Sarianna Williams to th' aforesaid Susan.
And I bequeath the aforesaid Sarianna the
cottages at th' end of th' orchard, for the
term of her natural life, to descend thereafter
to the aforesaid Susan,'

Ohj Harry!' sobbed Mrs. Williams,
but she dared say no more.

And all the rest of my land, property,
furniture, and estate in whatever kind, the
two h under d acre o' land with the 'ouse
and buildings appertaining known as
Williams' Farm, the land and 'ouse in
Preston parish known as th' Apple Tree
Farm, the five hundred pound Consols
being the other moiety of my mother's
private fortin and the seven hundred pound
in Warwick Bank I leave, in testimony of
the perfect trust and love I bear her, to the
absolute disposal and control of my dearly
beloved and honoured wife  my dearly
beloved wife  Sylvie ! '

The husky sing-song tones were suddenly
broken through by a choking cry.

Sylvie ! ' he called again ; but, as she
rose, he did not look at her or seem to see
her, staring round wildly with bloodshot,
eyes.

It's come,' he cried at last. ' Thou's

free, Sylvie.' He fell heavily to one side,
like a tree cut through at a stroke, his
head striking against the corner of the
settle with a heavy sound. He did not
move ; he did not even groan, but lay just
as he had fallen on the floor.

Arden sprang forward, dazed, aghast.
She flung herself down upon the floor,
peering into the dead man's face, kissing his
hands, calling on him wildly.

Harry, Harry,' she kept on crying and
calling, ' look at me, speak to me only,
dear Harry ! I can't live without you.
Oh, my husband, my love ; I can't let you
go, Harry ! Oh, God ! he doesn't understand
! '

Alas ! No. It was too late ; he would
never understand. The one word that
might have saved him could never reach
his palsied brain. He had died for the
want of it, and now he could not hear.

But all through the afternoon and
through the night, long after the doctor

had pronounced the last fluttering, impotent
breath of life extinct, Arden sat
upstairs, dry-ejed, in a still chamber, with
her dead husband's head lying in her lap.
She did not weep ; but every now and
then the air was rent with a sighing,
gasping cry ; and every now and then
those who passed outside the closed door
would hear her calling frantically on the
deaf, unconscious man, who had never
denied her slightest wish before, who would
not hear her now, though she broke her
heart with calling.

And side by side downstairs two other
women crouched, weeping bitterly, and
shuddering afresh at every echo of her
cries.

CHAPTER XXYIIL

AFTERWARDS.

The harvest was all gathered in, the
harvest that no master surveyed with pride.
The house was quiet and desolate, there
would be that year no merry-making. The
master was dead and in his grave. Two
women, clad in crape and very pale, occupied
the blossom-coloured bridal parlour.

And you will not stay and help me?'
Arden was saying. She looked ill, but
there was no fear now that she would lose
her reason or her life. Horror, not grief,
had threatened to turn her brain, and the
horror was past. She had grown familiar
with the cold, holy look on Harry's face.
It only spoke to her now of love and loss.

I can't, Sylvie,' said her stepmother-inlaw.
' I'm sorry for you enough, poor
child, goodness knows. I wish I could
have been of more assistance. But there's
Susie to think of first.'

Yes,' said Arden. He was dead who
had given his first thoughts to her.

Dr. Grant's quite positive,' went on
Mrs. Williams, * as she'll recover if I take
her away at once. He says he knows a
lady at Warwick who was quite as wasted,
and she recovered. She must stay at least
a year, he says, and we're to travel about
as much as may be, so as to keep her mind
off it. I don't know how we could have
afforded it, but for you, Sylvie.'

Poor Susie,' sighed the widow, ' poor,
poor Susie!'

'I wish she'd consent to see you,
Sylvie,' went on the other. ' 'Isn't my
fault; but, poor child, she is not answerable
for her actions. She keeps crying out

VOL. II. Q

against you ; it's terrible to sit by and
listen.'

Arden shuddered.

There, there cried Mrs. Williams,
'you mustn't take it so to heart. She
don't know what she's saying, poor child.
But you mustn't fret if I can't make her
see you, Sylvie. I aren't so much as
speak of you before her, even to tell her
of the deed of gift.'

 There is no need,' said Arden, in the
same colourless, unvarying voice. ' I would
rather you did not tell her now. When
she gets well you shall tell her, and she
will be glad to come back to the old place.
I shall be gone then.'

'And what will you do with yourself,
Sylvie?' asked the little old woman,
kindly.

I shall go back to Rome,' said Arden ;
I would like to do some good with Harry's
money, but I don't know how. I shall
paint, I think : I shall find something to do.'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Williams. 'But I
meant about the property.'

The lawyer tells me the tenants are all
riofht. There's nothing here for me to see
after It's for you, now, to see after a
tenant for the farm. It's Susie's now.
As for me, I had better go home; I don't
understand this country.'

Ah, poor child,' said the other ; ' you'd
best get back to your own ways and your
own friends. You're not fit to rough it
among the likes of farmers and suchlike.'


Xo,' said Arden, quietly. ' I don't
think I am fit to live.'

Poor child, poor child ! ' repeated the
older woman tenderly, smoothing the little
hand that lay on the widow ledge. ' I'm
sure I wish I was free to give my mind to
nursing you up.'

You have been very kind,' said Arden,
and she bent down and kissed the wrinkled
prettiness of Mrs. Williams' face. ' I think
q2

you saved my life ; and you might have
hated me, like Susie

La, Sylvie ! ' cried the older woman ;
but Arden had gone, had drifted away from
her side.

It was now a month since the farmer
had fallen down dead, so suddenly, never
to move again. Susie had nearly died of
grief: of silent, overmastering grief; and
now there was but a hope of life. She was
young, she might recover, but the shock of
her brother's death had terribly shaken her
in mind and body. Her love for Harry
was as old as her life, it had been the very
mainspring of her life ; and now he was
dead. As the conviction of his jealousy
forced itself upon her mind she had grown
to hate the frail slight nature which had,
unwittingly, goaded him to death. She
could not bear to hear any one speak of
Arden. The poor young widow would
have been terribly desolate but for kind
little Mrs. Williams, who, forced for the

first time in her life to take the lead in an
emergency, surprised no one more than
herself by her skill and courage. Everything
had been left to her ; all the
arrangements. So that when Arden left
her she had no time to sit and muse on
cruel destiny, like the young widow
upstairs. She went to finish the necessary
packing.

They were to start for Normandy next
day, she and Susie. The one hope of
saving the girl lay in change ; they were
to start as soon as possible, and there was
much to be done first. Not the least
difficult of the tasks which the little old
lady had set herself, was the persuading
Susie to say good-bye to her sister-in law.

It was long before she succeeded. [But at
last, in the morning, when their boxes were
being heaped upon the waggon, Susie gave
in. Mrs. Williams ran to summon Arden,
who was haunting the corridor like a lonely
ghost. ' Come in, Sylvie,' she cried, with

a gleam of brightness in her tear-swollen
eyes. Arden entered.

Susie was seated on the foot of the
bed, dressed all ready for her journey.
There was a terrible alteration in her
face, her features looked large and stern,
now that the flesh had fallen away from
her cheeks, and her blue eyes were hollow
and large, with an implacable glitter in
them.

Susie! ' cried the other girl, falling on
her knees by her side.

Get up,' said Susie, sternly.

Arden obeyed. She stood looking at
her sister-in-law ; she forgot to think of
herself, she was so sorry for her.

Can you forgive me, Susie?' she said
at last.

Susie did not answer.

Oh, Susie, Susie!' cried Arden, terrified
at a resentment incomprehensible to
her. ' You can't go away like this and
leave me. We may never see each other

again ; and I, too, am miserable. I've lost
him, too. Look at me kindly once, Susie,
for good-bye ; you're his sister.'

Yes,' said Susie ; 'good-bye.'

She held out her hand, but not willingly;
rather as if she would accomplish a promised
hateful task. Arden seized the
little hand and stood holding it.

Why won't you look at me, Susie? ' she
said. ' It was not my fault, God knows.'

It was not your fault, I suppose ! '
said Susie, looking at the weeping girl
with severe pardoning eyes ; ' it was
not your fault, but it was your nature ;
and I shall never forgive you.'

Arden looked at her a moment, but
she saw it was hopeless to plead. Besides,
she thought Susie under a delusion,
and dared not cross her deranged fancy.
Good-bye, my dear little sister,' she said,
very sadly, and loosed her clasp. Then
she turned away, and left the girl alone
with her mother.

Arden had no mother to console her.
She went into her little white parlour,
bare now, and stripped of her treasures,
for the new tenant was coming in within
a week. She sat by the window and
looked drearily out, while Curtis and
Neil placed the old-fashioned luggage
on the waggon. Then the trap came
round, and Susie, closely veiled, got in.
Mrs. Williams ran into the parlour, and
kissed Arden. ' Good-bye, . my other
daughter ! ' she cried ; then she, too, got
into the spring-cart, and they drove
away, leaving Arden alone behind. She
sat there till dinner-time, when she
could not eat ; but afterwards she went
upstairs, and began, wearily enough,
to drag out her boxes and fold her
clothes.

It was growing dusk when she heard
a voice in the hall ; it was Mrs. Lawrance's
voice. She ran down, glad of the
familiar sound.

Come in, come in,' she cried ; ' I am
so glad you are come ! '

Oh, Sylvie ! ' cried the elder woman,
I'm sure I've intended coming every
minute, but your grandpa's that ill I
couldn't bring my mind to leave 'im ;
and this morning, when I heard as they'd
left you alone, I sent over for Mrs. Willis
to come and keep 'im company, so's I
might come round and see you.'

Thank you,' said Arden, sitting down
on the red-covered bench by her visitor's
side. ' It was good and kind of you
to come. I'm sorry grandpa is ill.'

Oh, Sylvie,' said Mrs. Lawrance,
beginning to cry, ' most likely 'tis sent
as a judgment upon me, as couldn't
endure to be out of his tarts, so
jealous and exacting as I was ! Oh,
the judgments of God are terrible hard
to bear ! I fuller him about day and
night, up and down the stairs, traipsinc
in and out of all the rooms ; I never

dare to leave him a moment ; and yet
he don't appear to recognise me.'

'Who?' said Arden. 'What is it?
What new trouble ? '

You may well say that,' sobbed Mrs.
Lawrance. ' Oh, I mind me so well how
he was accustomed to say they never
came single. So clever and informed ashe
alius was. And now, now '

Tell me,' said Arden, softly ; ' don't
cry ; let me help you, if I can.'

You're a good child,' said the elder
woman, gratefully. 'But I don't rightly
know how to explain it, Sylvie. He's
been terrible shake all this 'ear ; I've
often told yer so. And the shock o'
Williams' misfortune was too much for
him. We're both in the same boat,
Sylvie, you and I.'

What,' cried Arden, ' is he dead ? '

Not in his corporal state ; but his
mind's dead, Sylvie, his mind's dead.
He as alius was so clever, too ! He's

forgotten me, and al the time we've
lived together. He rambles al over the
'ouse, looking for your father, child.
Door after door, he opens them, and
'' John ! " he calls ; and then, when the
room's empty, as it alius is, he turns
round to me, and says, " Mrs. Warner,"
he says, as you know was my name afore
he married me, '' I think my son must
have gone out." '

It's dreadful ! ' said Arden, horror-struck.


So it is, child, so it is. And al day
long, it's the self-same weary search, over
and over again, in al the rooms, and it's
alius John, he wants, or his first wife.
And if I make so bold as to touch his
sleeve, and say, '' Won't you sit down a
bit, dear ?" he turns quite sharply round,
and speaks to me as if I was a stranger.'

I am sorry from my heart,' cried
Arden. ' Poor Mrs. Lawrance ! '

Yes, Sylvie,' went on the elder

woman.  I've after and after felt repentant
as I didn't love you better ;
but I was so swallowed up in your
grandpa' ; I never tbaat of anything but
'im. And now I'm gone clean out of his
mind. I'm no more use to him than
any other woman  only to keep him out
o' the way o' the furniture, and see as he
don't stumble on the stairs.'

She could not speak for a minute ;
then she went on again in a weak, broken
voice 

At last, I'm put to it so, I've come
to ask your assistance, Sylvie. I'm fair
exhausted, traipsing early and late ; and
it flashed across me, as, may be, you'd
come and help nurse ; you being 
yourself, with your husband dead ;
and in trouble, so jealous as he was.'

Jealous ! ' cried Arden, starting to
her feet, her eyes flashing. ' Do they say
that -jealous ? But they don't know,' she
went on, in a softer tone ; 'no one can

know, but I, how good, ard generous,
and noble he was, my Harry ! ' She
stood for a moment, her hands clasped,
looking before her with shining eyes.
Then she came up to the elder woman,
who was still sitting on the ottoman, and
still crying. ' Come, Mrs. Lawrance,' she
said, ' take me home with you. Let us
try together if we cannot help poor grand-papa.'


EPILOGUE.

It was a warm spring morning at the
Bushes. Mrs. Lawrance was standing in
the porch speaking earnestly to Gerard
Rose.

I'm none so disconcerted as she was
out, Mr. Rose she was saying, ' since it's
afforded me th' opportunity of putting ina
word. I'm sure you've my best wishes,
if they'll do you any good. Twas alius
my opinion as you'll have made her a
better 'husband than that poor hot-tempered
Harry Williams, as she worships like a
saint.'

Does she ? ' said Gerard eagerly, a
little surprised.

La, yes. She never seems to so much

as think of anything without a reference to
what eld ha' that of it. But, as I was
saying, you're much more fitted for Sylvie
than the likes of he  though it 'full be bitter
to spare the child  she's the sunshine of
the place, I alius say.'

She was always so sweet and gay,' said
Gerard.

/ remember when she Alas very different,'
said Mrs. Lawrance ; 'but now she's
so considerate and has such a way with her
as her poor grana 'full do anything for her,
though he alius calls her by her mother's
name.'

Indeed ; and where shall I find her ? '
asked Gerard.

Most likely she'll be coming over the
fields from the churchyard. She's been to
lay some violets on Williams' grave. She'll
be coming back by now, for dinner's at 'alf-
past one,' said Mrs. Lawrance, pulling out
her watch.

Gerard took his leave and walked towards

the fields. He had got as far as the
canal bridge, where he had, stood with
Arden two years ago, where he had first
heard of her marriage, when he saw her in
front of him coming down the hill. She
did not see him, for her eyes were looking
far away beyond the horizon ; a very sweet
and patient gentleness was in her face and
bearing. When she came near the bridge,
she saw him standing near her.

Gerard ! ' she said, without any surprise.


Yes, Arden, I came to see you. I
want to know if you are well and Happy.'

Oh, yes ! ' said Arden softly, ' I am
waiting in peace.'

Gerard looked at her with a certain
exasperation. He would rather she had
been less calm, less contented. Still he
felt awed by her aloofness.

I am happy now,' she went on, ' for I
have been sitting by Harry's grave. I
always feel so quiet there, so sure of meeting

him aoiiiri. It is just such a day to-day
as it was the spring before last, when
he took me to Farley. Ah, you were not
there

Xo,' said Gerard ; ' but are you going
to live here, Arden, in this village? '

I don't know,' she said. ' Grandpa
wants me now. I am able to be of some
use. And soon my sister and her mother
will be coming home. Susie wrote to me
yesterday's

Don't you ever look back ? ' cried
Gerard, a little impatiently ; ' don't you
regret the old life? Don't you wish ever
to come back to Italy  to Rome ? '

Yes,' said Arden, ' I look back. I
think how much happier I ought to have
been. I think how discontented I was with
my happiness. And I try and learn to be
content and patient, and to care for other
people, like Harry.'

The tears had risen to her eyes ; she
looked dreamily away.

VOL. IL R

You never understood him, Gerard,'
she said. ' No. I don't want to go back
to Italy, I think ; not for always. I should
feel so far away from him there ; he never
went there. But this was his home ; he
always lived here. And the places he has
left me belonged to him, and I can do all
the things for him that he meant to have
done ; and the people all knew him. They
lived on his land and took his wage, and I
belong to him too, more here than anywhere
else. He never seems very far off from me
Harry!'

Gerald looked at her for a moment.
Yes, there was something unreal in the
sweet passion that lit up her face. Yet
none the less she looked happy ; and
stronger, too, than she had seemed two years
ago. Then he held out his hand.

Good-bye, dear,' he said ; ' I cannot stay
any longer now.'

'Good-bye,' said Arden. She did not
ask him to stay.

Something fell out of her dress as
she moved her arm. Gerard stooped and
picked it up for her. It was a little bunch
of the violets she had laid upon her husband's
grave.

