CHAPTER I.

A Young MATHEMATICIAN.

T Long ago, there lived in the city of Strasbourg
a worthy burgher named Christian
Dasipodius. Very highly esteemed was this
man by his fellow-citizens, and there were few
among them who had not an approving word for
him This was a little remarkable, inasmuch
as Christian was by no means a rich man. It is
true that he had a goodly house of his own, and
wore his fur-bordered gown of stout murrey-cloth
with the best of them, and held his head
high among the wealthiest of his merchant
brethren, looking every inch the honest trader
in skins and furs that he was. Still, comparatively,
Christian Dasipodius was poor ; he had

11

\

not contrived, after the wont of so many of his
fraternity, to lay up much goods for many years.
In earlier life he had met with one or two heavy
pecuniary losses ; and afterwards, when Fortune
did smile on him, and everybody said that now
Christian really bade fair to be a rich man, there
began to develop in him some rather rare
characteristics. He found it, for example, so
utterly impossible to pass unheeding by a distressed
fellow-creature, or to withhold any help
it was in his power to afford stragglers up the
hill of life. If some poor but honest young
apprentice, whose years of servitude had just
expired, chanced to cross his path, and Christian
saw him painfully toiling to amass the little
capital necessary for setting himself up in his
craft, he immediately began to think of his own
once meagre purse, and how to him, in early
days, a friend in need would have been a friend
indeed ; and then he would come forward with a
word of encouragement on his lips, and nice little
gold pieces in his hand, which the recipient was
to repay only at some date quite convenient to
himself.

Now and then it happened this convenient
date was so long a coming, that Christian knew

he would have to bid farewell for ever and a day
to his gold pieces ; but then he always consoled
himself with the reflection that if his generosity
had been misplaced, or went otherwise unrequited,
it was far oftener his privilege to see
those to whom he had afforded such timely aid
pushing on with a lighter heart and better
courage. It is, perhaps, needless to reiterate
that Christian's generosity had not made him
a richer man by so much dross sterling ; but
it did make the pure metal of his nature shine
out through his eyes, and in his kindly smile ;
and perhaps there was not to be found in all
Strassburg a happier, more thoroughly 
man than Christian ; but this
was before his great sorrow fell upon him, a
sorrow in whose presence all his pecuniary trials
and losses faded to nothingness,  the death
of his wife. Christian, who was a handsome
fellow, and might have chosen pretty nearly
where he would from among the maidens
of his native city, had with that perversity
innate in the masculine mind, chosen to fall in
love with a beautiful Lorraine woman, whom he
married. One son was born to them. This boy
while inheriting his fathers tall, well-knit figure

and manly features, was endowed also with much
of his mother's soft, intelligent beauty ; and as
the boy, whom they christened Conrad, grew up,
it was small wonder that the parents were very
proud of their only child.

At an unusually early age, Conrad evinced a
talent for figures and geometry, and an affection
for Euclid which mightily astonished his schoolmates.
His mother, marking the bent of the
boy's mind, bade her husband mark it too ; and
Christian, with something of a sigh  for he
would so infinitely have preferred to discover
in him a talent for skin-dressing, said : " Good 
let it be so, then ; and I will spare nothing that
Conrad may learn all he seems to have such a
fancy for. Mathematics is a grand science, and
has made men famous and honourable  only he
must work." And Conrad did work ; and his
mother watched him with a proud, thrilling
heart, longing earnestly for that day when
her son should take his place among the great
and learned of their city. But years  many
years ere that day could come, the mother's
heart had ceased to throb, and her marvellously
beautiful eyes were closed in death. A sharp,
brief illness carried her away from Christian and

her child, and the two were left alone to fight
their life's battle together.

Christian's grief at his wife's loss was great
indeed ; he thought when for the last time his
lips touched that face so fair even in death, that
he could never again be the man he had been :
and he was right  the smiles rarely brightened
his honest face now ; and somehow, when they
did come, they only made it look the sadder.
Nevertheless, for the sake of the boy, through
whose eyes the soul of her he so dearly loved
seemed still to commune with his, Christian did
strive hard to recall a little of his old cheeriness.
Grief is more transitory in youthful natures, and
dearly as Conrad had loved his mother, time
blunted his sharper sorrow for her loss ; but he
was always wont to say, that when he tried to
think what his guardian angel was like, it was a
bright, beautiful form, like his dead mother,
which his mind's eye saw ; and though there
came a time when he loved as he never believed
he could have loved, and the girl who won his
heart was pure and good as one fancies the
angels are, still not even she supplanted the
guardian angel of his boyhood ; for dead or

living, a good mother is always a good mother
to the end of one's life.

When still quite a boy, Conrad had been
placed in the school or studio of Chretei
Herlin, a monk of the Benedictine Monastery
of Saint Thomas, who, in the seclusion of the
cloister, had made himself one of the greatest
mathematicians and mechanists of his age.
Possibly if Herlin and his contemporaries could
rise from their graves now, and see the wonders
of our day  our printing-presses, our looms, our
Renters, our locomotives, our sewing machines,
and all those countless other contrivances for
making steel and wire do duty for human sinew
and bone, they would, in their humility, tell
themselves that they could have no place now
among men. And yet, who but men like Chretei
Herlin and Conrad Dasipodius, with their
thoughtful brains, their plodding industry, and
poor clumsy apparatus, could have smoothed
the way for our Brussels, our Jacquards, our
Stephenson, and all the rest of that noble
company which has applied its knowledge to
the uses of every-day life, and given us comforts
and conveniences of which those Middle Ages
might not even dream ?

At all events, Conrad Dasipodius did not disgrace
his century; and Chretei Herlin was vastly
proud of this aptest among his pupils, and loved
him with that glorious kindred-spirit love which
sometimes does exist between master and pupil,
when jealousy does not step in to dull its brightness.
Sometimes Herlin would smile, and say
to the elder Dasipodius : " The world will forget
all about Chretei Herlin, Master Christian ; and
that is only as it should be ; for what am I but a
poor unworthy monk ? Still, methinks that now
and again, I shall hear the good Strassburgers say
as they pass my grave, ' Oh, yes, the old monk
Chretei ! he lies there. Once he was something of
a teacher to the great Conrad Dasipodius ' ; and
then I shall smile proudly enough in my coffin,
I can tell you, and sing my Gaudeamus."

"He is a good lad, Father Chretei," Christian
would answer with glistening eyes ; and then,
with a feint sigh, he generally used to add :
But you will bid him come home more betimes
of a day ? I see so little of him now, and I
would fain have him more with me. He is a
good son, and does not neglect his old father ;
but still his heart is all in his work ; the boy
toils too closely."

And truly Dasipodius did toil from morning
till night, and from night till near morning
again ; he was for ever at his problems and
his experiments, never daunted by obstacle or
defeat  for ever toiling, persevering on towards
what he had undertaken, and happier and more
content over his work than my Lord of Hapsburg
himself. The necessity for eating and
sleeping troubled him somewhat ; but he satisfied
these demands of Dame Nature in a manner
as niggardly as she would possibly countenance,
and a crust of black bread, and a draught of thin
red wine, were as good as a feast to him. As for
sleeping, it was difficult to say when the young
mathematician ever did rest his busy brain, for
the lamp seemed always to be gleaming up long-after
midnight in that little turret chamber at
the angle of the furrier's house  which, in
compliment to his son's mathematical and
zoological talent, Christian had long ago named
the "Silver Dial" for every house in Strasbourg
was then distinguished by its sign.

There was no doubt Conrad was burning the
candle of his youth at both ends. It fretted
the elder Dasipodius to see this. " It is my
own fault," he would say ; "I urged on this

willing horse of mine too hard at first, and now
he has taken the bit between his teeth, and
nothing will stop him. Thought killing thyself,
Conrad." Then Conrad would smile, and a very
winning smile it was. " Why now, Vaterchen,
what would you have ? You who have worked
so hard all your own life too ! "

Nay, but not at night ; your health will
suffer, and you will blind yourself poring over
these crabbed figures, and then all these coils
and springs, no thicker than threads. Why, see
now, this wheel is hardly big enough for a flea
to take hold of ! "

Oh, that wheel, for example. Yes, it is not
altogether a bad piece of workmanship. It is
cleanly turned out, but the cogs must be filed
down a little more  just a little " ; and so,
talking to his wheel, Conrad would find his
way, without looking, up the turret staircase,
all impervious to parental expostulation.

It was about this time that the civilised world
was making great advances in the science of
mechanics ; and perhaps since Sol, the primaeval
time-marker, had first begun to rise and set,
never before had such an impetus been given
to improvements in zoology. The town of

Nuremberg had claimed for itself the invention
of the coiled watch-spring, and carried on a
large trade in the manufacture of its celebrated
" Nuremberg eggs," as watches came
almost universally to be called. Strassburg
was also very foremost in efforts for the
advancement of the sciences ; and especially
she had been the nursing mother of several
learned geometricians and mathematicians,
among these being Chretei Herlin. Some
who understood such matters predicted, as
we have seen had Herlin himself, that the
young Dasipodius would rival him ; but as
yet Conrad was a comparatively unknown
toiler, silently working his way among a
dozen or so of other students in Herlin's
shady old monastery studio, and when night
came on, and his comrades took holiday, he
would go home to the Dial, and mounting the
turret staircase, would work on at the labour
he delighted in, until worn out at last, he would
snatch a few hours for rest.

THE STRASSBURGERS' DILEMMA.

FT1W0 hundred years earlier than this time, the
-*- great architect Erwin von Steinbach had
enlarged and beautified Strassburg Cathedral,
and at about the same date, a clever artificer
had contrived to make a curious mechanical
clock. A wonderful work was this clock,
and ever since, it has been the pride and
admiration of the city. It told the time very
well, and that is no doubt a desideratum in a
clock ; but it did much more than that, for it
had a pert chanticleer who popped himself out
of a little cupboard, and clapped his wings
when the. hour struck ; then it had a tiny
carillon which tinkled merrily ; and so, take
it for all in all, one would be a mere heretic
to say that this horologe had not been in
its time a good catholic clock, and creditably

done its works of supererogation. But the
clock was not infallible  indeed that word
was not yet invented  and once or twice of
late had not been up to time at all ; and one
fine day this old clock, having seen many a
generation quietly laid to rest from their
labours, began also to think and to feel itself
past work, and struck  struck for the last
time.

Now, whether it is some dear one whom the
good God has taken home to a better world, or
whether it is only your pet but worn-out saucepan
which cooked omelettes and other galimafries as
no other saucepan ever can, it is so very disagreeable
to find yourself suddenly without what you
have been so long used to call your own. You
feel aggrieved and injured beyond measure, and
wish you had treated your possessions better
while you had them ; and so it was with the
Strassburgers and their clock.

It has no business to wear out," said one.

The Town Council ought to have seen to it
long ago," said another ; " but there, what can
one expect from such a pack of old women ! "

It is a shame. How am I ever to tell now
when my Hans is coming in to dinner ? And if

it is not ready to the minute, he always growls
like six bears ! " sighed a good wife.

Kunz will always be pretending now he
didn't know it was so late ! " scolded another
whose spouse was somewhat inordinately devoted
to the shrine of the " Golden Bull " opposite.

Rudolf will never be keeping his tryst
properly by the river now ! " sighed a maiden.

What's the use of a clock that won't go ?
tell me that, gentlemen ! " thundered Burgomaster
Niklaus von Steinbach, at the next assembled
Town Council. And then everybody
went to look at the clock, setting their arms
akimbo, and scowling and frowning. It was all
of no use however ; there was the clock, and there
still as death were its hands, the long one at
eleven, and the short one at twelve, and not one
hundredth part of an inch further would they
budge  no, not if my Lord Bishop himself had
anathematized them with bell, book, and candle.
But the Bishop only said : " My children, things
will wear out ; we must have a new clock ".

And the Town Council said that was a happy
thought of my Lord's ; and forthwith a resolution
was put and unanimously carried, and then
drawn up by the town-clerk on a stupendously

lengthy roll of parchment, to the effect that the
cathedral clock being worn out, it was desirable
a new one should be commenced. Moreover, that
aforesaid clock, having been a work of considerable
ingenuity and skill, it was but just and
right, and proper, that the new Horologe
should, in every particular equal, and if such a
thing were possible, surpass its predecessor.
And to this end, only one truly and greatly
versed in the curious science of zoology, should
be entrusted with the preparation, and building
up, and putting together of such Horologe.
Therefore this was to give notice to all whom it
might concern, being those mechanicians and
artificers who felt in themselves that they were
competent and able to undertake so great a
work as the making of the aforesaid Horologe 
that these aforementioned mechanicians, mathematicians,
and artificers in zoology should
make ready their plans, and devices, and designs,
and send them in on a certain day, for the consideration,
and selection, and choosing, by the
most honourable and well-born Town Council.

Further, it was made known to these competitors,
that on its completion, an adequate sum
should be awarded out of the municipal treasury

to the successful candidate and maker, and deviser,
of the Horologe. And furthermore, all men
were to know, that the day on which aforesaid
Horologe should be completed, was to be celebrated
throughout the city as a festival day,
and a general and universal holiday.

Here was a good chance for somebody ! and
all the candidates set to work, and began to
make their estimates, and then, the appointed
date having arrived, they sent them in. There
was a good round dozen of competitors, but the
greater number of them were soon distanced ;
and the choice at last lay between three, Chretei
Herlin, and his two pupils, Conrad Dasipodius
and Otto von Steinbach. Opinion differed almost
uproariously as to the merits of those three
designs. Some admired Otto von Steinbach's
vastly. It was so showy, and had as many
painting and gilding capabilities as a piece of
gingerbread ; as to the inside of it, well  there,
what did that signify 2 who would ever see the
inside of it ? Some folks did so love to quibble
over trifles. Wasn't Otto von Steinbach descended
from the great and famous architect
Irwin von Steinbach, and what could any one
want more ? Nevertheless, many grumbled and

said, if it had not been for his name, Otto would
have been out of the running altogether ; and
certainty he had no right to have been even a
bad third. Otto, however, counted on the influence
of his uncle Niklaus the Burgomaster ;
but he was out in his reckoning, for Niklaus said
his nephew's design could not hold a candle to
the one submitted by Conrad Dasipodius ; and
Otto said this was a crying shame and scandal
for a man not to stand by his own flesh and
blood, and that he did not deserve to have a
nephew at all. Enlightened spirits who failed
to see that ancestry had any voice in the
question, balanced their decision very carefully,
but the choice fell at last on Chretei Herlin.
Meritorious and beautiful as Conrad's design
was declared to be, and even in some respects
superior to Herlin's, still, all things considered,
they chose Herlin's design, for the old monk was
a tried and long-trusted man among them, and
reputed, above all others, for experience in his
craft.

Although proud of the distinction conferred
on him, Chretei Herlin would have been well
content to have seen Conrad Dasipodius entrusted
with the work : " For," said he, " I

am long past my threescore now ; and young
brains are clearer than old ones, and Conrad's
plan was better than mine ; but Fiat Voluntas
Tua Domine ; and if it please Thee, my poor
mantle shall one day fall on the boy's shoulders."
Then he set to work at the Horologe, and Conrad
helped him.

It would have been out of all nature, if the
younger mathematician had felt no pang of disappointment
at the Town Council's final decision.
Dasipodius had spent time and infinite care over
his design, but who can ever excel, without being
thwarted once and again ? Then too, compared
with Herlin, Conrad thought himself as nothing.
Who, indeed, was worthy to make the clock, but
he who was to make it, Father Chretei ? Otto
von Steinbach, however, did not quite see things
in the same light. " It was a shame," he said,
every way. The old man was already in his
dotage ; he might have had talent in his day,
but nearly all the designs had been handsomer
than Herlin's, and certainly he did not hesitate
to consider his own immeasurably superior. As
for Conrad's designs, they were poor, decidedly
poor. The fellow, you see, was such a slow coach.
Why, to his knowledge, Dasipodius had spent

12

nights and days concocting those few ideas of
his, and putting them on paper ; whereas he,
Otto von Steinbach, had dashed his down in
less than no time, just a scratch here, and a dot
there, and you had it. Of course, if the Town
Council could afford to set aside hereditary talent
in this wholesale fashion, that was its business ;
but to his thinking, it was absurd that such pig-heads
should be allowed to give rein to favour
and prejudice in this way." And these opinions
Otto would air to each chance individual of
his acquaintance whom he could buttonhole. It
was a great theory with Otto von Steinbach, that
every thing in Strassburg went by favour and
prejudice ".

THE "LILY-FLOWER

should it be favour and prejudice which
 blinded the eyes of Sabina von Steinbach,
the Burgomaster's only child, to the attractions
of her exquisite cousin Otto ? Really Otto
found it a hard matter to accredit such ill-taste
to so pretty a girl as Sabina !

Pretty Sabina undoubtedly was, with an indescribable
charm about her absolutely bewitching
; the gentlest, simplest-minded maiden
in all the empire ; and yet, withal, in her way
the most dignified little woman imaginable. No
wonder the old goldsmith loved her as the apple
of his eye. Only within the last year it was,
that Sabina had come home from the convent
near the old neighbouring town of Freiburg.
Niklaus' wife had died when their little daughter
was barely two years old ; and the child
had ever since been under the care of her aunt

Odille, Superiors of St. Marie's Convent. This
lady did her duty very faithfully by Sabina ; and
when, at the age of sixteen, she left the convent
to come home and keep her father's house, there
was not in all Elsass a thriftier, cleverer housewife,
or a more accomplished little lady, than the
daughter of the Burgomaster of Strassburg.

Niklaus had a large house, and a goodly retinue
of servants, and the Mother Odille had
been careful to instil into her niece's mind, that
it was her duty to learn to be able to instruct
these, or to put her own hand to anything when
occasion demanded ; and to this end Sabina had
been thoroughly initiated into all those domestic
mysteries essential to daily creature-comfort.
Besides, however, Sabina's peculiar genius for
compounding conserves and condiments, and
making such venison-pasties, as have been never
before or since equalled, she could spin, and embroider,
and play on the virginal, and sing very
sweetly ; and then, too, she could read very passably
indeed ; so that as times went, Sabina
was quite accomplished. The Mother Odille had
also had some idea of having Sabina taught to
write, but when she broached the subject to her
brother, Niklaus negatived it very emphatically.

No daughter of his," he said, " should ever
hold a pen, if he could help it. Your women
who want to be as clever as men, were never the
ones to make a hearthstone happy. No, no ;
write, forsooth  what next ? " Well, Sabina had
no great fancy for learning to write ; she did not
care to be inking her little fingers just for the
sake of being; like a few learned ladies, who
scrawled ugly marks' on vellum and parchment,
because they had got it into their heads that it
was quite the thing to do.

And so Niklaus von Steinbach was very proud
of his daughter, and it was a day of days for
him when, for the first time, he walked one
Sunday morning to Cathedral Mass with her
little hand resting on his arm. Many a glance
was cast at the girl as she knelt beside her father
in the crowded nave before the high altar. Otto
von Steinbach, among the rest, thought she was
uncommonly good-looking, that little convent-bred
cousin of his; and he glared jealously
on one or two of his male acquaintance, who
betrayed by their covert stares that they were
of his opinion. Among the crowd of worshippers
that same morning, chanced to be Conrad
Dasipodius ; but, as Otto was wont to declare,

Dasipodius was always so aggravating attentive
to the special business in hand, be it what it
might, and the special business just then being
High Mass, some time passed before the mathematician
looked up from his missal. Possibly he
might have persisted in playing this Saint
Anthony part to the end of the service, had not
his ear caught the tones of a soft voice, mingling
with his friend the Burgomaster's deep, thorough
bass, when tho Tantum Ergo swelled forth  a
voice so clear, so distinct? from other voices, and
yet so exquisitely gentle and subdued, that he
turned to see what manner of woman it was who
sang ; and when he saw T her, it seemed to him
that nothing so lovely as that face had ever rejoiced
his eyes, unless, indeed, it was the picture
up yonder of Our Lady,  no, no  not sail-faced
Mater Dolores ; farther along there, nearer the
altar, that gentle young Mother Mary, with the
bright, glad smile. And so, having once looked,
he could not choose but look again, and many
times ; and when Mass was over, he lingered on
the broad porch steps, just, as he told himself,
to bid Master Niklaus a civil good-morrow ; and
when, as it chanced, the Burgomaster stopped,
and held out his hand to Dasipodius, and said :

This is my little daughter, Master Dasipodius,
you must bid her welcome home to Strassburg,"
his heart beat a thought faster, and his pale
cheek flushed ever so slightly ; and then  then
the old man and his daughter passed on.
Holy Virgin ! but what a pretty creature she
has grown, to be sure ! " said Niklaus' friends
and neighbours among themselves : and afterwards
they said as much to Niklaus himself : 
Why, Burgomaster, she is sweet and fair as a
lily-flower. "

Aye, aye ! " murmured the well-pleased
Niklaus. " Yes, a lily-flower, so she is  a
lily-flower ! "

After that Sunday morning, it was no great
wonder that Sabina von Steinbach, like thousands
of other pretty young girls, since the beginning
of the world, began to be able to count her
admirers by the score. A very ardent one
among them was Otto von Steinbach ; Sabina's
beauty was very much to his taste, and then
that dowry, which he knew the wealthy goldsmith's
daughter would have, considerably enhanced
her other attractions. As to the near
relationship between them, well, one would
of course have to get a dispensation for that ;

but dispensations were to be had, and the game
was worth the candle, quite worth it. And
so Otto von Steinbach decided that he would
marry Sabina ; and began to set about those
little preliminary formalities which custom
demanded on such occasions. Somehow, however,
his wooing did not speed so fast as it
ought to have sped ; Sabina would so foolishly
insist on treating him in that sort of cousinly
fashion which is flavoured with too strong a
spice of fraternal affection, to please a would-be
lover. Of course, Sabina being a woman,
and a young and pretty one to boot, had in
her something of the coquette, and liked her
cousin's homage very well, just as she liked
to hear the sighs of those other Corydon who
flocked about her ; but she treated all with the
greatest impartiality, troubling her head little
enough about them, and as to her heart, that
seemed not to have the shadow of a share in
the matter ; and when Niklaus used jokingly
to ask her who was to be the chosen one, she
would only laugh merrily, and say that they
were " a jack of silly geese, and not one of
them was to be chosen ".

Now and again Conrad Dasipodius would lookin

at the Burgomaster's for half an hour of an
evening on his way home from the studio ; but
that was an old habit of the mathematician's ;
his father Christian and Niklaus had been
schoolmates, and the friendship thus begun in
youth, had continued on through life, and there
was nothing these old men so well enjoyed, as to
sit down and enjoy a friendly quarrel together
over a beaker of Burgundy, for luckily their
politics did not in the least agree. Niklaus
was all for ceding Strassburg to France, a
subject which had already begun to be mooted,
while Christian was dead against the cession.
Strassburg, he contended, had been the Fatherland's
time out of mind, and the Fatherland's it
ought to remain to the crack of doom ; but
Niklaus would tell Christian that he was a
sentimental old pig head  was not Germany
already a vast deal too big and unwieldy for
its own comfort ?  wasn't it divided against
itself ? and what good was Strassburg ever to
get out of such a state of things ?  whereas
France w T as a grand united thriving monarchy,
with men at its head who looked well after its
affairs ; why, there couldn't be another opinion
about it at all. Christian, however, maintained

that there was another opinion, and he stuck to it
to his dying day, and Niklaus stuck to his ; and
perhaps if these two old men could come back
from Skadowland now, they might still find
something to talk over regarding this question.
And so Niklaus and Christian being such fast
friends, it was natural that Christian's son
should look in now and then at the Burgomaster's.
Moreover, Conrad had lately had
business with von Steinbach. The goldsmith
was negotiating about certain precious stones
required for the interior mechanism of the
new clock, and this transaction brought Dasi-
potius into yet more frequent communication
with von Steinbach. Therefore, as Sabina
told herself, it certainly was the most natural
thing in the world that the mathematician
should come and pass half-an-hour or more
in their old dining-hall, at least three evenings
in the week. When it comes to be a question
of precious-stone dealing, one cannot of course
be too careful down to the smallest minutiae ;
and Sabina began quite to like these visits of
the young mathematical professor, and indeed
to look forward to them. It was so good, she
thought, for her father to be having a chat with

a clever man now and then, instead of being
always obliged to bend to her little feminine
intellectual level, and that of the every-day
people with whom he ordinarily had to do.
And then really, although often she could
not altogether follow the learned current of
their confabulations, it was very pleasant to
sit by at her spinning or her embroidery-frame
in the mullions window, and listen to the
grave, quiet tones of Conrad's voice, which to
her had in them something far more agreeable
than the magpie chatter of her cousin Otto
and the rest, Then too, it seemed to her
that his accents sounded still more strangely
sweet, when he turned, as sometimes he did 
not often  specially to address herself; and she
thought that never were such good, kind,
beautiful eyes as his  yes, so incomparably
more beautiful  so different from any other
eyes she had ever seen ; and she would read
them to herself, just as she used to read in
her little Book of Hours, until their glances
lived in her heart and her memory, every
whit as much as the prayers did ; and she
came by degrees to meditate long and often
upon them  for indeed there was in their

quiet, thoughtful earnestness, much food for
meditation  until the girl found herself no
longer fancy free, but loving Conrad Dasi-
potius with all her heart.

Yet, what a terrible state of things ! To
think that she had fallen in love, as people
call it, with this tall, grave, learned gentleman,
who could have as much idea about her, as he
had about a gingerbread doll. Oh, it was
humiliating ! terrible ! and Sabina began to
fret herself greatly about it ; but there was
no need at all, because Conrad Dasipodius had
had many ideas about Sabina, a great many 
they had come to him, much as they had come
to her, sitting by the mullions window, and
watching the crimson glory of the setting sun
lingering round her fair head, and crimsoning
the tips of those little white fingers, as they
daintily twined the silken threads ; and at such
times his heart beat with a strong new-found
love. Sometimes, when these sundays had quite
faded, he fancied that curious crimson flush still
hovered about her transparent brow and cheek,
but then lie feared he might be mistaken, that it
was some defect in his eyesight, for indeed his
eyes had been troublesome to him of late  that

it was all a delusion, a mere pleasant dream, for
it could be only your dashing, showily-dressed
fellows, such as Otto von Steinbach, for instance,
who were likely to have any chance with pretty
maidens of eighteen ; and then Dasipodius began
seriously to reconsider that old resolve of his
about taking the vows in Saint Thomas' monastery.
It had always seemed the best course he
could adopt ; for a man who intended to devote
his every energy to his profession, there was
nothing so good as cloistered seclusion. Once
there safe under its protection, one could work
on from morning till night  ay, from night till
morning even, unshackled by tiresome custom,
undisturbed by those drones and frivolous
creatures of the world, who make the student's
life hideous to him by their thoughtless interruptions.
Only the monotonous tinkle every hour
or so of the bell calling to Nones or Compline,
for the utterance of a prayer and a psalm, which,
at all events, must do more good than harm.
No carling cares in the peaceful monastery ; no
distracting pangs born of unrequited or misplaced
love, which make a man unfitted for life
or for death. None of these things ; and so
Dasipodius resolved not to allow the germ of his

love for the Burgomaster's daughter to spread
in his heart, until there might be no wrenching
it away without fearful damage. But yet  yet
Conrad, as became so great a mathematician,
weighed and calculated, and watched, and
thought, and pondered, until it began to dawn
upon him, that perhaps fine clothes and a few
surface accomplishments need not be all in all
to a woman ; and gradually he found himself
saying, as lovers will say : " No  is she not so
different from other girls this dear, darling,
little Sabina  she has some sense " ;  he did not
add in so many words, li for she likes me" ; but
he began to think she might like him, and so he
grew bolder and bolder, until one evening he
brought her a dark red rose, and begged her
wear it for his sake, daring, as he offered it,
to lift his eyes to hers just for one little
moment, and then it must have been  either
that deeply-blushing rose, or else the red sun
was at his tricks again, for there came that
red glow in her cheeks, and the lily fingers,
as they fastened the flower in her bodice,
trembled and grew chill ; and almost before
Conrad knew what he was doing, the little
hand was in his warm grasp, and he had

said : " Sabina  I love you  say, can you love
me?"

And Sabina nestled to his breast, and said :
"Yes, Conrad".

And there was one kiss, one rapturous
murmur, and so ended the suit of Conrad
Dasipodius with Sabina, the Burgomaster's
daughter.

"favour and prejudice."

rpHEEE was, however, a third person concerned
in their wooing, a very important person
too  the Burgomaster ; and it was doubtful if he
would look favourably on the plan the lovers had
marked out for themselves. Sabina had her
dower, and Conrad, at his father's death, would
inherit a modest fortune, but the day when that
should fall into his hands, he hoped was far distant
; beyond this, he had nothing but what his
own exertions brought him. Truly, the incentive
to work had now become, if possible. greater than
ever, and the desire to gain money, hitherto a
very secondary consideration, had grown very
strong indeed, ever since that little tete-h-tete he
had had in the dining-hall with Sabina von
Steinbach. All the money, however, which he
was likely to earn, would not make anything
like a fortune suitable for laying at the feet of

the wealthy Burgomaster's daughter. Still von
Steinbach was not exactly a hard, money-grubbing
man, and Conrad's hopes ran high when he
explained the state of things ; but Niklaus said :

Now look here, Conrad Dasipodius, you are
the last man in Strassburg I should care to
quarrel with. To the best of my belief, you're
a good fellow, and I know you're a clever one,
and some day I've no doubt you'll be making a
great name for yourself in the world. Meantime,
what are your means for keeping my
child ? "

"Your daughter refuses to speak of leaving
you just yet, Master Niklaus ; and I am content
to wait, until I can offer something worthy her
acceptance."

That sounds all very well. Meantime, I am
growing old. Supposing, for example, I should
die?"

We will suppose no such thing, Burgomaster."


Don't interrupt ; I say, supposing I should
die, who is to take care of my Sabina then ? "

Who but I ?" fervently said Conrad.

And live on love, and nothing a year, paid
quarterly ! You're crazed, Conrad Dasipodius ;

13

go back to your wheels and your coils, and forget
my little maiden. It is best for you."

Dasipodius, however, had no heart for work
until the other matter was settled, and this he
told Niklaus ; and the old man's eyes glistened
with something of pride and pleasure, for he had
a sincere liking and admiration for the young
mathematician ; still he laid his hand on his
shoulder and said : " How can I blame you,
boy ? for this Sabina is the best and fairest girl
in Strassburg, but your suit is in vain. Go, I
have other views for her  go ! " And if Dasi-
potius had pleaded all night, he would not have
succeeded in extracting another word from the
old man.

The truth was, that only that very morning,
two offers of an eligible kind had been made
to the Burgomaster for Sabina's hand ; one of
these proposals was made by an offshoot of the
great and noble house of Eberstein. This gentleman's
fortunes were, however, somewhat dilapidated,
and he had a notion that Sabina von
Steinbach's dower might help to build them up
again. The Burgomaster's keen eye saw through
all this ; nevertheless, he thought it would be a
fine thing to see his darling an Eberstein. The

other proposal was from Otto von Steinbach.
Now Otto at present was certainly no richer
than his fellow-student, Dasipodius, but he had
great expectations from an old great-aunt who
idolized his handsome face ; and this lady being
very aged, and full of dolorous ailments and
twinges, could not last many months. At least
so Otto thought, and he represented as much to
the Burgomaster.

You know," he said, " she herself is always
saying : ' Please God, I shan't last long ! ' "

And you say, Amen ? " queried Niklaus.

Well, look here, you know, I  I  well, it's
hard on a fellow, just because favour and prejudice
"

My good Otto, go and tell your tale to
Sabina in your own way."

And Otto went. " Poor Otto ! " said the
Burgomaster, when he was gone, " he'll never
set the Ehine on fire ; but there's no harm in
him, and if Sabina  well, well, we shall see. At
any rate, there can be no favour and prejudice."

This was true, for the Burgomaster did not
interfere in his daughter's choice between the
two suitors ; he permitted each to plead his
cause in person, a permission which, by the bye,

the careless Conrad had omitted to ask ; but
Niklaus was a little taken aback, when he found
that his daughter had rejected both the one and
the other. The scion of the noble house of
Eberstein did not stay to tell the Burgomaster
of his discomfiture, but hardly trusting his own
ears, shook the dust of that ungrateful household
from his feet, and mounting his jennet,
rode off for ever and a day.

Neither could Otto von Steinbach grasp the
fact that his cousin had refused him. " What,
Sabina," he had said to her, " you are mocking
me ! Have not I told you I think you the
prettiest girl in Strassburg ? and I say there
is not one who would suit me so well for a

wife "

Nay, nay, cousin, 'tis all a mistake "

A mistake !  Himmelsdonnerwetter, I swear

No don't, Otto. Pray hush."

I will not hush. I say, I do not care loue
pin what becomes of me, if you're not my wife.
Do you hear ? "

Yes, Otto, I hear ; I am so sorry."

Sorry, Alter Teufel /" Then he paused, and
his voice softened. " Look, Sabina, only see !

I am on my knees before you  I, who have won
favours from noble ladies. Yes, Sabina, I could
whisper a tale or two "

Don't, Otto, and get up. It is so foolish to
see you there."

But when I say I love you, Sabina, you cannot
turn from me."

Yet she had turned away, weeping. Her
tender little heart, which shrank from seeing
the smallest insect in distress, was sorely disturbed
at sight of Otto's face. He mistook
those tears for signs of relenting ; but soon the
girl dashed them aside, and turning to him
once more, said : " Otto, some day you will find
one who will love you dearly. For me it is impossible,
since I love already."

Otto von Steinbach started to his feet. " So,"
he said, " then I have been supplanted ? "

Yet  no," proudly answered Sabina  " not
supplanted ; I never loved but him."

Him !  who ?  who has dared "

11 Otto ! " There was a world of reproof in
Sabina's voice ; and Otto stood momentarily
abashed. Soon, however, recovering himself,
he demanded : " Whom is this you love ? "

"Conrad."

Conrad who ? "  there was only one Conrad
in the world for Sabina  " not Dasipodius ? "

Sabina flushed rosy red, and nodded gently 7 .
Otto, however, burst into a loud, mocking laugh,
and said that if maidens chose to sigh for the
moon, that was their affair ; but that everybody
knew Dasipodius had given all his heart
to his profession, and had none of it to spare for
love-sick girls.

Nevertheless," said Sabina, the red blood
dyeing her brow crimson with indignation, " he
loves me, ana I love him. You had best go
home, Otto von Steinbach."

Furious with jealousy, Otto rushed from
Sabina's presence to the Burgomaster's little
room behind his workshop, where Niklaus
was busy sorting a new consignment of
rubies and pearls. " She has refused me ! " he
cried.

Niklaus looked up. " She has refused  rejected
me, I say ! "

So ? " interrogated the goldsmith. " Then
my Lord Count has won the day."

What Lord Count ? No ; it is that that
automaton, Conrad Dasipodius."

But it cannot be, nephew. Only this very

morning I explained to the child that it was out
of the question."

"I would have sworn," burst forth Otto, "that
there was favour and prejudice at the bottom of
this. And you knew then, all the time."

Certainly I knew the two creatures said they
loved each other ; but I told them it could not
be, and that they must think no more about it,"
placidly answered the Burgomaster, laying a pair
of pearl earrings in their velvet case.

But they do think more about it. I tell
you, Uncle, not five minutes since, Sabina
declared her love for Conrad Dasipodius tome
 to me ! "

And that satisfaction was more than you
deserved, if you brayed at my little girl as
you are braying at me now. D'ye think I'm
deaf ? "

But you will not permit this folly. You
will speak to Sabina."

It will not be in your favour, nephew ; and
were it not that I believe your love-fancies had
stolen your manners, I would turn you out of
my house."

Otto stood silent, fidgeting at the smart gilt
buckle on his hat. The Burgomaster knitted

his brow, and tapped it thoughtfully with his
finger.

You think then' he said presently, " that
these two really love each other ? "

Ay. It would seem so," said Otto chokingly.

And no favour or prejudice about it ? " continued
Niklaus, with a half-smile. But Otto
made no answer ; he rushed out into the Dom-plats,
and tore home to retail the story of his
wrongs to his sister Kadegund.

Niklaus von Steinbach meanwhile locked up
his jewels in his strong-room, and went in to
dinner, his thoughtful mood still on him.
Sabina looked pale and tearful.

Poor little one ! " said the old man to
himself. " Now if she had but a dear mother
to sigh out her pretty troubles to ; but fathers
are just lumps of wood in affairs of this sort.
Sabina," he said aloud  the young girl started
" what did the Count say to you this morning
1 "

He asked me to marry him, Vaterchen,"
answered Sabina, growing pale.

And you  what did you say ? "

I said it could not be."

And why, prithee ? "

I do not love the Count, Vaterchen. 1 '

Humph ! And what may Otto von Stein-bach
have been talking to you about this long
while ? "

Sabina looked up imploringly, but she knew
her father's humour, and she faltered : " He
asked me to marry him, Vaterchen."

And you  what did you say ? "

"That it was impossible."

And why now, mistress ? "

"I do not love Otto von Steinbach."

Love  what has that to do with it ? "

No answer.

Speak ! " thundered the Burgomaster.

It is everything," said Sabina, looking down.

Everything !  everything, is it ? Oh these
women ! these women ! " groaned Niklaus.
Child, I gave you credit for sense above
the average of your kind, and positively you
are crazier than the rest of them."

And the Burgomaster, turning away, thrust his
hands deep down into his coat pockets, and
strode to the hearth, where he stood glaring
into the logs, and crushing to powder the
stray bits that fell smouldering. Sabina burst
into tears. " Well, now, what have you to cry

about, child % " he asked moodily, still staring at
his logs.

Oh ! father dear  don't. Leave me to myself
! " sobbed Sabina.

But von Steinbach had no such intention ; this
was not at all the issue he wanted to arrive at.
Have you seen aught of Conrad Dasipodius
this day or two ? " he asked, and with his hands
still in his pockets, he stole a keen glance at his
daughter from beneath his eyebrows' grizzled
penthouse.

"No ! " promptly answered the girl, but the
bright blood flew to her cheeks, and in spite of
her best efforts, her voice shook.

"That is strange! You have forbidden him
the house belike, as you have your other
swains ? "

No, nor that neither ; but she thought her
father had ; and a very grievous thought it
was to her.

Neither have I forbidden him ; but he will
not come again yet awhile. I know all about
it, child ; Conrad Dasipodius is an honourable
man, but he is poor, and my Sabina has the
dignity of our house to maintain ; so I say
it cannot be thought of for an instant. I

respect this man  I think well of him  very
well  I don't mind saying I do ; but he's poor,
poor as a rat, and I say it cannot be thought of
for an instant." Then Niklaus drew himself up,
and looking very stern and adamantine ; and
gathering his gown about him, he strode majestically
towards the door, and lifting the arras,
said : " Now dry thy tears, child, and when I
come back, let it be my own little Lily's bright
face again. There, kiss me then ; but these
love-nonsense do so put me out. You're
happy enough with your old father ? Hey,
kiss me then  hey ? " And so the Burgomaster,
happy in the conviction that he had
warded off a troublesome little domestic worry
very successfully, went across the courtyard
through the drizzling sleet back to his affairs.
Sabina listened until the last echo of her
father's footsteps died out, then she threw
herself down beside the hearth, and burst into
a passionate fit of weeping ; but at last, when
the kind tears would no longer flow, and only
hard, cruel sobs shook her quivering frame, she
sat and gazed thoughtfully into the fire ; but
no comfort came to her, the logs were damp and
sputtered crossly, and the rude north wind

outside whistled a discordant duet with the
rattling sleet, and to the girl's ears their
refrain was : "It cannot be thought of for an
instant !  It cannot be thought of for an
instant ! " until it made her head ache sadly,
and she laid it down for rest on the old house-cat's
furry pillow of a body, moaning out :

Oh ! Mitte dear, but I love him ! I love
him so dearly !  what shall I do ? "

Then Mitte, gathering her velvet paws still
closer up under her comfortable self, began
to purr out ever so loudly  " Courage, Sabina,
Sabina ! Dear heart  Courage ! " and the great
clock up in the corner began to burr (indeed he
had been at it all the afternoon, only Sabina had
not heard) : " Wait-tic !  wait-tac ! " and this so
perseveringly, that presently the clock silenced
the sputtering logs, until they began to warm
through, and make themselves quite pleasant ;
and then, just for a moment before going to
bed, the winter sun looked out good-humouredly,
and smiled down the harsh north wind, and
quenched the spiteful hail, and by the time
night had set in, and the Burgomaster had
come back, Sabina looked quite herself again ;
and Mklaus congratulated himself very highly

on his tact. " Ah, these women and their
fancies ! " thought he. " See now, it has all
blown over ! " But it had in no wise blown
over ; only Sabina smiled as she listened to
the advice of the steady old clock up in his
dark corner : " Wait-tic  wait-tac ! "

FATHER Crete's BEQUEST.

TT was marvellous what sterling advice that
- lumbering old piece of middle-aged machinery
gave Sabina von Steinbach, for it actually
anticipated the very words of her lover himself
when they met again ; not this time in
the shadowy, stately old dining-hall, but down
at the favourite holiday trysting-place by the
river, where in summer time it was always so
bright and pleasant, but now dreary and chill
enough. Sabina had wandered down there all
alone to think her thoughts. Had you told
her she had done so in some undefined hope
of catching a glimpse of the beloved face,
she would have been quite indignant ; and indeed,
she had no reason for supposing that
Conrad would be anywhere but in Father
Chretei's studio at that particular midday

hour ; nevertheless, fate did bring them face
to face. When that which she had certainly
longed for did actually occur, and her lover
stood by her side, her heart beat tumultuously,
and looking round, she would have escaped,
but Conrad caught her by her trembling hand.
Is it to end like this, Sabina ? " he asked.

My father has forbidden it," she said.

Sabina, your heart is not changed  you
love me ? " and he hung very breathlessly
on her answer.

"I love you  now and for ever, Conrad!"

Ah, dear little one ! then all is well, and
you will wait till I grow rich for your sake ?
I know your father would not deny you to me
then. You will let no other stand between
us, Sabina ? "

il Who can stand between us, since I love you,
and you love me?" asked the girl, lifting her
eyes proudly to his.

God bless thee, my own !  but listen, little
one. There will be rich suitors who can give
you now  to-day  tomorrow, fine clothes,
jewels, all that 'tis said women love best ; whilst
I  I can but bid you wait, and so  what then,
child ? "

Then ! " murmured she smiling. " I will
wait ! Now let me go."

No, no ; I have something more. Tell me,
what if unkind, jealous tongues spoke ill of me
to you  what then ? "

Now, Conrad, how could such a thing be ?
You who do none wrong," chided she.

Dear child, I strive to do none wrong ; but
the world is very cruel. Still T think it is but
my own jealous love for you, which put such
thoughts into my heart ; I should forget them,
should I not ? " Then he took her in his arms
and gazed intently on her. " It seems to me so
good that Heaven has given you to me, darling ;
I think I could work miracles for your sake.
And you ? You will be brave for mine ? "

Sabina took the slender, nervous hand in hers,
and softly caressed it. Suddenly the mathematician
snatched it from her, and passed it
hurriedly across his brow, as if in pain. Sabina
looked up at him in startled enquiry ; he smiled
and drew her closer to him, but silently ; and
for a while he seemed lost in thought. At last
he said : " Tell me this one thing before we part,
child : supposing  supposing all these bright
dreams  I dream for you  fade out  supposing

any trouble, any affliction, for instance, should
come on me "

Now what do you mean, Conrad ? " interrupted
the poor child, gazing up with eyes full
of bewilderment into her 'lover's eyes, which
were looking down at her with an almost mournful
eagerness; though they brightened again as
she spoke. " How should I know what I mean ? "
he said  " unless, dear little one, it was that I
meant to try you. Forgive me, Sabina."

But it is wicked ! " pouted she ; " you have
no right to talk so. Our Mother Odille would
say you were tempting the good Providence, and
she would give you ten Paters to recite for your
sin."

And the Mother Odille would be right. It
is wicked to meet troubles half way," acknowledged
Conrad humbly ; but Sabina, still knitting
her brows, said : "It is growing dark, and
my father will be wanting me. Farewell, Conrad."

Nay, but you have not forgiven me, you sage
little woman  nor kissed me," pleaded the
mathematician, with a smile so bright that it
reflected itself in Sabina's face.

I shall tell my father I met you," she said,
as the last cloud cleared off.

14

Do as thy pure heart bids thee, dear one."
So they parted, and when that evening
Sabina sat down with her father for their indispensable
game of draughts, she did tell Niklaus
of the meeting down by the river, and the
Burgomaster said : " Humph  is it your move
first, then ? " and the wooden clock said: "attic,
wait-tac ! " and Sabina was content.

Meantime, the new Horologe was making progress.
Chretei Herlin's pupils had each been
assigned some portion of the task. One had the
wheels to fashion, another the measuring of the
weights, another the damascening of the case,
another, whose home lay away in the depths of
the Black Forest, was employed on the carving of
the figures which were to adorn the wonderful
piece of machinery. To Otto von Steinbach was
apportioned the work of cleaning aud renovating
what was fit to be used again of the original
clock ; and sorely he grumbled at the task.
Look here now," he said, " who ever set eyes
on such abominable clumsiness ? What fools
people must all have been two hundred years
ago ! It is enough to make a cat laugh, if only
one had not to cry with vexation." To Conrad
Dasipodius, Herlin entrusted the delicate coils

and spring wheels  in short, all that which constitutes
the soul and life of a clock.

As for the old man himself, he was obliged to
be content with looking on, and directing the
labour of the others ; for somehow, each day his
fingers seemed to grow more stiff and nerveless,
and consequently less capable of delicate manipulation,
so that at last the superintending of the
work actually fell into the hands of Conrad Dasi-
potius, his senior and favourite pupil ; and one
day the old monk, laying his hand on Conrad's
shoulder, said to the other young men : " Listen,
my children ; I feel that death is very near tome,
and yet our Horologe is but just begun.
Now I have consulted w T with the Council, and they
consent to my desire that Conrad Dasipodius
shall succeed me in the carrying out of this great
undertaking. Here are the deeds and documents
formally making over to Conrad Dasipodius the
task assigned to me. The reward goes with it ;
and the sum I should have received will now,
on the completion of the Horologe, be his. Say,
do you agree to look upon Conrad Dasipodius
as your future master ? Are you willing to
obey him, as hitherto you have obeyed me ;
and will you, under his supervision, complete,

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF IUJNO*

to the utmost of your ability, the work of the
Horologe ? "

We will ! " unanimously replied the students
and workmen. It went very much against the
grain with Otto von Steinbach to say "We will,"
and he would readily enough have raised a dissentient
voice, but he knew very well that not
only his companions one and all, but also the
whole town was in favour of Dasipodius being
Herlin's successor, and it was consequently more
than useless for him to demur, so he contented
himself with explaining to his friends, that as
usual, favour and prejudice were prevalent in
Strassburg.

So the work went bravely on. Father Chretei,
still in his old seat by the monastery casement,
would watch his children, as he always called
them, at their work ; and his eyes would rest
proudly on Dasipodius, and a smile would lighten
up his worn face as, from time to time, the
student would turn to consult him on some
intricate detail, for the old monk's brain was as
active as ever it had been, and only the tired-out,
fragile body refused to work any more.

One morning, as usual, a lay-brother entered
the studio to call the monk to early mass.

Chretei sat alone in the silent chamber; the casement
had blown open, and the snowflakes drifting
in, had softly enshrouded the old man's hand as
it rested on the parchment outspread before him.
His dusky cowl had fallen slightly back, and the
lamp at his side had gone out, but the pale
wintry dawn, now peering up almost into the
crevices of the vaulted roof, dimly illumined his
pale features ; yet, as that lays-brother came
closer, he could see a bright light there, so unearthly,
so rapt, that he fancied some grand new
thought must have suddenly thrilled through
his brain, and he paused ; but Chretei moved
not.

"It is time for Holy Mass. Come, Father
Chretei," said he, in a low, awe-stricken tone,
and gently touched the old man's hand ; but he
started back, for it was ice-cold. One greater
than that poor lay-brother had been there before
him, and said : " Come ! " and obedient to that
summons, the mathematician's meek spirit had
gone to rest for evermore in the Eternal Presence.


radegund's inspiration.

"IT THEN the good Strassburgers are asked who
' built their magnificent cathedral, they are
apt to say that it was Erwin von Steinbach, and
that what he left unfinished, was completed after
his death by Sabina von Steinbach, the architect's
daughter. Furthermore, they will point
out with no little pride, tw r o statues of great
beauty over the south doorway, carved by this
Sabina's own fair hands. Erwin and his daughter,
however, who lived in the fourteenth century,
only added to and beautified the main building,
of which a great portion already existed dien
Charlemagne  nay, when Pepin le Bref was
king. In the eleventh century, Bishop Werner
of Hapsburg further improved it, and from time
to time, interior and exterior adornments were
added ; but it was reserved for Erwin von
Steinbach to perfect the beauty of the glorious

fabric. It was Erwin who erected the west front
and the curious tower, with its winding staircase
rising to such a giddy height ; but ere this work
was done, Death laid his hand on the old architect,
and his son John, and Sabina his daughter,
reigned in his stead.

Tradition said that Sabina's life had been an
unhappy one. A passionate, unrequited love had
for a time deprived her of her high intellect, and
finally driven her into a convent, where at last
she ended her wretched existence by her own
hand. The tale went, that the ghost of the
sculptures walked the cathedral at midnight; and
many a time and oft, successive sacristans had
fled in affright from the sanctuary, averring,
with much shivering, that the white, bloodstained
robes of the unhappy woman were
plainly visible amid the delicate tracery and
fretwork of the choir.

It is not, however, with the architect and his
daughter that this story has to do ; years must
carry the gentle reader on apace. Yon Stein-bach
is a time-honoured name in Strassburg now.
Is not, indeed, Nitrous von Steinbach its Burgomaster
? and look, too, at Eadegund von Stein-bach,
the Burgomaster's niece, in whom, after

fitfully smouldering through two centuries, the
old genius has burst forth in all its brilliancy.
A clever artist is Kaclegund von Steinbach.
Some years ago her strong will and adventurous
spirit took her to Italy, where she studied in the
schools of Venice and Padua, living there her
strange, haughty, independent life,  dreaming
before Cimabue and the Bellini, catching inspiration
from Fra Angelico, lost in contemplation
before Kappa el's angels and madonnas,  then at
last coming home again to old Strassburg city,
she established herself as an artist in the house
built by Erwin himself, and her brother Otto's
by inheritance ; and became a celebrity. Her
studio was the haunt of the dilettanti. Many
a rich burgher and noble lady would come to
Eadegund von Steinbach that she might paint
their portraits, and a pretty price she charged
them for her work ; but they did not mind that ;
it was quite the thing just then to be painted by
this clever artist, and one acquired much additional
lustre from it in the fashionable world. It
was not, however, all pure undiluted pleasure to
her clients, for Radegund was not as a rule
affable or conciliating, and it was by no means
a comfortable process to sit for some hours in her

scornful presence, very often without the interchange
of a dozen words ; but then, as they
said, Eadegund was " peculiar, a genius," and
what not, which was supposed amply to condone
for all the airs and graces it was her
humour to indulge in. On the face of it, one
might have marvelled why it was that Eadem
condescended to make pictures of such
commonplace mortals as these citizens and citie
but that would have been to betray a
very superficial acquaintance with this woman's
character ; she worshipped notoriety, and she
found that fame and notice came to her more
prodigally through a portrayal of broad Teutonic
countenances, and of portly bedizened
stomachers, than through the really artistic and
beautiful work towards which her good angel
naturally inclined her.

Now it happened that this good angel contrived
to bring Eadegund's fame before the
notice of the Bishop of Strassburg, and ere long
the good man, ever ready to encourage native
talent and industry, had commissioned her to
paint a picture altar-piece for the chapel of
Saint Laurence, in the north aisle of the
cathedral, and Eadegund produced a work which

crowned her fame. Half Elsass  nay. connoisseurs
came from all parts of Germany and
France to see the famous Saint Laurence, and to
sro away tilled with admiration which, in countless

instances, was extended to the handsome
artist herself. Those enthralled by her genius
offered her large sums to leave Strassburg and to
establish herself in Paris or other famous capitals
of Europe ; those enchained by her beauty
offered marriage and titles : but Hadegund would
listen to none of these proposals : she haughtily
declared herself content with her present condition,
and said that no consideration would ever
again induce her to leave her native city. As
to the altarpiece, Radegund had thrown her
whole soul and spirit into it. She had represented
the Martyr standing beneath a graceful
Moorish arch, his dark robes falling to his bare
sandalled feet, waves of dusky auburn hair,
streaked here and there with golden, flowed back
from a brow illumined by a marvellous intellectual
glory. The firm, derisive lines of the
beautiful mouth and chin were softened by an
impassioned sweetness ; but the supreme loveliness
of that picture reigned in the eyes  deep,
earnest, somewhat heavy-lidded, unfathomable

- they were, with a certain sad wilfulness
about them, and with the fire of thought
brilliantly, eagerly, steadfastly burning. There
was. too. a world of character expressed in the
slender but manly hands,, and in the slightly-drooping
attitude of the tall figure.

Many of the Strassburgera declared that they
could see in the Saint Laurence a certain sort
of resemblance to their gifted Fellow-citizen, the
Professor Conrad Dasipodius. and one or two
remarked as much to Badegund : but the artist
always tossed her beautiful head, and said :
i; Like Dasipodius. indeed ! and what, forsooth,
had she to do with Dasipodius \ As
well say that she, Radegund von Steinbach,
was like that awesome figure of Ate in the
justice chamber of the Rath-haus !

And so she was  sometimes ; yet this resemblance
between Conrad and the Saint Laurence
was curious. Sabina von Steinbach. for instance,
must surely have noticed it, else why did sh
invariably betake herself to the Saint Laurence
chapel to tell her daily rosary in, before any other
quiet spot in the cathedral I and what a glorious
thing to be an artist Sabina thought it was ! " If
I could paint like that 1 she would murmur to

herself, " I'd make books full of Conrad ; but
for me  poor, stupid, e very-day me  why, when
I even try to remember how his dear face looks,
it just goes away altogether ! And yet I love
him ; while Eadegund  ah ! now, if Conrad had
but loved Eadegund, and Eadegund had loved
Conrad "  and then Sabina paused in her cogitations,
to try and imagine to herself how one
could be a living woman and not love Conrad ;
but hardly succeeding to her satisfaction, she
went on : " Well there would, I mean, have
been two wonderful people together then ;
while I can only spin and keep house, and
make marchpane and such like. It's true
Conrad says never was such marchpane as
mine  but to be an artist ! Oh, 'tis a grand
thing !  and yet, somehow, I don't believe
Conrad admires Eadegund a bit. Now that is
so odd  poor Eadegund ! "

Each little Sabina !

Meanwhile the critics continued to be enthusiastic
in their praise of the picture. 
Exquisite ! wonderful ! charming ! marvellous
light and shade !  the artist has surpassed
herself ! Nothing short of inspiration
could have produced such a work ! "

Among these worshippers at Radegund's shrine
was Bruno AYolkenberg, the surgeon ; many looked
upon him as the favoured aspirant for her hand,
but lookers-on do not always rightly understand
these things. It is true that Badegund accorded
Bruno favours which the common herd sighed
for in vain, such as lending an ear to, and even
asking his opinion concerning the effects or
groupings in her pictures ; but then Bruno
Wolkenberg was a walking Encyclopaedia of
historical and traditional lore. Then too 
albeit that in the healing art, surgery was his
strong point  he was a very clever chemist,
and had discovered many little secrets for the
improvement of colours and pigment-mixing,
greatly valued by Badeguncl, who was too true
an artist ever to pass by anything which might
add to the greater excellence of her pictures ;
and the surgeon was proud indeed when
she would make use of his talents ; and his
heart, where this woman reigned sole empress,
thrilled proudly when leading him to her
studio, she unveiled for him her finished .


You like my poor picture then, Master
Bruno ? " said Radegund, watching; his face.

Like ! " echoed the surgeon ; " that is no
word for it  it is glorious ! It is inspired ! "

A sigh escaped Eadegund's breast, but she
was silent.

"It is the face of a demigod ! " went on
Bruno, clasping his hands.

You are a false critic, Bruno Wolkenberg,
or I have utterly failed in my conception. I
aimed at creating a saint, and you talk to me of
demigods ! "

They are one and the same, Kaclegund, and
you know it," said Bruno : " you, who acknowledge
that the Divine fire burned in the souls of
those we call heathens "

There, there, Bruno ! I know you want to
be saying that Aristotle was every whit as good
.as Saint Augustine, don't you ? Well, do I
gainsay it ? But still, it is so hard to be told
that my poor Saint Laurence here, is nothing
greater than a Jason or a Hercules. I flattered
myself," continued she, gazing lovingly at her
work, " that I had contrived to throw into
those eyes a glimpse of that hopeful serenity
which, after all, even you and I, Bruno, must
own, seems to be exclusively a Christian
heritage."

And so you have," rapturously exclaimed
Bruno ; " you are a magician, Eadegund ! there
is no need to write, as some have to write,
beneath their pictures : ' This is a saint ' : your
exquisite art has concealed art, and all the world
can tell at a glance that this is a man  not,
mark you, a perfect man ; a Christies Redemption,
whose divinity, even in its humility, asserts
itself  but here is a fallible humanity, and none
but you, Eadegund, could have limned those
sweet, sad eyes, with their luminous, far-away
look, seeming to gaze on visions beyond mortal
ken. And yet they are true to nature ; for I
have seen such eyes," added Bruno, turning a
sudden glance on Eadegund : " yes  I know ;
they are  they are the eyes of Conrad Dasi-
potius ! "

And no others," said Eadegund, in calm
tones.

An excellent model, truly ! " said Bruno,
with the faintest ring of jealousy in his voice.
The glance of those eyes must have lingered
long in the brain which has thus reproduced
them."

It would be a poor artist who could pass
unheeding by such excellence," answered Eadem

her own eyes now riveted on the painting.


That is true  dear old Conrad," assented
the surgeon ; " and yet,' ; he went on, as though
thinking his thoughts aloud, " it is so strange 
so passing strange ! "

What is ? " sharply asked Eadeguncl.

That eyes so full of expression should be 

should be " and then Wolkenberg stopped

abruptly.

Should be what ? " breathlessly demanded
Eadeguncl, catching at his sleeve.

Nothing," said Bruno, disengaging himself.

Fool ! " said Eadeguncl ; " what was it you
were maundering about this minute ? "

Nothing  I do not know what I was
saying " : and the unfortunate surgeon's face
flushed to the roots of his sunny curls.

No ; there never was such an idiot as
you," angrily retorted Eadegund. "Go home,
Bruno ; I am tired of you. I fancy sometimes
that you have more sense than those others
calling themselves men, who come dallying
their time away here : but not one  no, not
one of them would insult me like this."

"How, Eadegund," implored Bruno, " tell me

how have I offended you ? what did I say ? what
have I done ? "

Done  but it is so like you, Bruno Wittenberg,
beginning a sentence, and then stopping
right in the middle. You are so boorish  so
ill-bred."

"But that is better," pleaded Bruno, "than
to betray secrets."

THE BEST OF ALL WORDS."

A SECRET ! Eadegund was after all but a
daughter of Eve ; and Bruno was utterly
undone. If this honest surgeon had a secret,
why did he say so ?

A secret ? " echoed Radegund ; " you are a
brave one to keep a secret ! Why, you have
told it already."

Surely no," said Bruno, in a startled voice.
What did I say ? Tell me, Radegund  in pity
tell me what I said ? "

I understood you," she answered, in calm
even tones, '"'that Conrad Dasipodius was blind."

No  by Heaven ! I did not say that. I
swear I did not," said the distracted surgeon.

Now, Bruno Wolkenberg," and Radegund's
tones were still calm and measured, "it is so
useless quibbling with me."

But" said Bruno.

There is no but. You have merely confirmed

ray suspicions. It is not news to me ; I
have watched Conrad Dasipodius at his work
again and again."

"And a marvel] ously interesting subject he
appears to be to you," said Bruno stiffly.

I have already told you so," answered the
artist.

"Farewell  good-night, Badegund ," saidBruno,
making a wretched imitation of Kadegund's tones
and manner. " I have an appointment. I must
go. Success to your picture."

Wolkenbeig was distressed and annoyed ; in
the first place, this woman had stolen from him
a secret which he would rather have cut his own
skilful right hand off, than have let slip ; and
then, moreover, he felt very jealous and angry.
It was all true, doubtless, that Dasipodius had
centred his affections elsewhere ; but what, forsooth,
was that pretty little lily of a Sabina
beside this glowing rose of a Eadegund ? What
Ulysses could withstand such a syren, let Penelope
be ever so fair \ " And then Bruno, turning
to take, what he fondly persuaded himself was
to be a farewell glance, again encountered the
glamour of those eyes, and the dangerous
witchery of that voice.

Bruno," she murmured. " Leaving me like
this ? "

You have stolen my honour, Eadegund, ,,
said Bruno, striving to hold his own.

Ah," said she lightly, " still harping on that
nonsense about your friend Dasipodius ? Why,
you foolish Bruno, did not I tell you I had
already guessed the mighty secret long ago ? "

That is all very well," grumbled Bruno, in
slightly mollified tones, " but you were not
sure. Now it is utterly in your hands ; and if
it were known, it might be Conrad's ruin.
Swear to me, Badegund, that you will keep
this secret."

"There, there  why should I not," she
said. " What should I do with it ? Am I a
gossip ? "

Wolkenberg consoled himself with the reflection
that she was not. In all Strassburg there
was not a woman whom the artist could call
friend. Those of the gentler half of the community
who were not jealous of her, feared her ;
while one and all pronounced her " peculiar " ;
and Badegund, always frankly declaring that
masculine society was pleasant to her than all
the female acquaintance in Strassburg, did not

in the least put herself out of the way to remove
any impressions of her it pleased her compeers
to form.

"Am I a scandal-loving old wife, or a chattering
schoolmaster ? " she went on. " Do you really
think so poorly of me as that ? And I have so
often told myself that I might call you friend 
perhaps my only friend  Bruno," and Eadegund
gently laid her hand on the surgeon's sleeve.

"My life  Eadegund, would it were something
dearer than friend."

Nay," answered Radegund, "it is the best
of all words ; there is no other so true, so honest,
believe me, Bruno. Your friendship is very
dear to me," and Radegund's eyes glistened
truthfully and frankly up into Bruno's, but the
surgeon sighed.

You put me off like this," he said.

Ah, true," answered the wily Radegund.
Yes, we have strayed from our subject. Well,
Master Wolkenberg, I will keep your secret
if "

No," said Bruno stoutly, " there must be
no conditions."

Yes  yes  listen now, Bruno ; tell me this
one thing, only this :  how has it come about,

this blindness of your friend's ? What is the
cause of it ? "

Oh," said the surgeon, with a relieved air,
that is easily answered  overwork and anxiety.
Such things Avill kill a man sometimes."

But anxiety about what ? About the Horologe?"


Yes, yes ; and if I'm not mistaken, there's
something of the woman in it as well. Folks
like to blame this cause, and that cause, when
things so wrong; with a fellow, but there's
generally a woman at the bottom of it, Kade-
gun, let the top be what it may."

But Conrad Dasipodius has such a superior
mind," argued Badegund.

Precisely why it's all the worse with him.
Extremes meet, and the more superior-minded
a man is, the more heaven, or purgatory, or 
somewhere, seems to let a woman make a fool of
him."

Then you think it is this affair with my
cousin Sabina that worries him \ "

Yes I do. If a man loves a girl, and things
go against his marrying her, isn't that a worry ?
And there's nothing in the world like worry for

setting nerves wrong

>>

But still, it is so curious  do explain to me,
dear Bruno "

No," said Bruno resolutely ; " if I were to
explain all night, I should not be able to make
it clear to you, Eadegund, nor for the matter of
that, to myself. We surgeons can only say
this is the effect of that, which is the cause of
this and the other, and so we go on travelling in
our circle. It is true, that years make this circle
a little larger, and a little larger, but God only
sees outside it. Maybe hundreds of years hence,
when we are all dead and gone, He may let
those who come after us, see outside it too."

But in this case  Conrad's 1 mean  everything
may all be the other way. It is just
possible he may not think the game worth
the candle," said Eadegund.

Nay," said Bruno; " if a man find his happiness
in his game, the candle may cost what it
will."

But then he may not find happiness in it,"
she insisted.

u Who can tell ? " said Bruno, beginning to
grow provokingly vague again. " Sabina von
Steinbach is pretty and winsome, as so many of
our German maidens are, but "

But what ? " asked Radegund, with ill-repressed
excitement. -

"Well, she is not my style," he said, gazing
rapturously on the dark-haired beauty before
him. "If I "had lived in the old hero-days,
Eadegund, I believe I should have admired
Brunhilde far more than Kriemhilde. One
always fancies Kriemhilde fair, you know."

And you would have been wise, Bruno,"
said Eadegund, laughing harshly, " for all the
world knows Kriemhilde grew into a vixen,
despite her golden hair and heaven-blue eyes."

Was there not a cause, Radegund ? " asked
Bruno, in a grave voice.

Oh, there ! do leave those old-world queens
and heroes alone," she said testily ; "I was
speaking of "

Yes, I know," said Bruno ; " and I  nay,
Radegund, do not tempt me to forswear myself.
We have discussed the subject far too long
already. Bury it now, let it be as though we
had never spoken of it." But Radegund did not
answer. " Let me kiss those lips, Radegund,
once  this once, and it shall be a token between
us that you and I have plotted together
to smooth by our silence this path of Conrad's,

which is so rough and hard. By heaven ! but
he is brave ; there is not a nobler heart living !
We will stand by him and help him  shall it be
so, Eadegund ? "

Ay," said Eadegund, with her gaze transfixed
on the canvas, and then Bruno tore himself
away, but his heart was brimming over with
.a new hopefulness ; Eadegund had never before
been to him, as she had been to-night, so gentle,
so womanly and tender, almost caressing. Did
she then love him after all ? and was the day

at last coming; when " Oh, Eadegund ! "

murmured the surgeon again and again to himself,
as he threaded his way through the dark,
narrow streets, ankle-deep in the wet slush of a
temporary thaw, " Oh, Eadegund, my queen !
my queen ! Eadegund ! "

And that night it seemed to Bruno Wittenberg
as though the slippery old pavement were
of shining gold. But Eadegund von Steinbach
sat in the lonely studio, before the Saint Laurence,
until twilight became pitchy darkness ;
and still, when the curfew rang out, she had not
stirred, but with her face buried in her folded
arms, sat brooding  brooding.

OH DARK, DARK, DARK, WITHOUT ALL HOPE
OF DAY ! "

TT was a sad day for the monks of Saint
* Thomas, when they bore their brother to
his quiet grave in the little grass-grown God's-acre
attached to their chapel. The Bishop and
his chapter had offered a prouder resting-place,
in the glorious cathedral itself, for the body of
the dead mathematician ; but like Saint S within,
Chretei Herlin had bested that he might be laid
only " where the bright dews glisten, and the
rains of heaven fall ".

When the last wreath of flowers, white as the
snow which was falling, had been reverently laid
on the lowly mound, and each of all that crowd,
lately gathered about the grave, had gone down
again to his world, ecclesiastical or secular,
Conrad Dasipodius lingered on there alone.
Alone ! his heart yearned bitterly towards the
good friend who had gone from him  for friend,
in that word's fullest and completest sense, the

monk had always been to him. It had been he
who had tended and fostered the earliest germ
of the boy's talent, until the bright blossom had
begun to burst forth; and then he had striven to
place it before the eyes of men, that they too
might look on its great excellence, else perchance
it might in its too great modesty, have blushed
on unseen amid surrounding mediocrity, and
Strassburg would have left unrecorded the
mathematician's name in her long list of illustrious
children. Still, however much disposed
to admire, the world is so utterly incapable of
that sympathy, that reflection as it were of a
man's own soul in the being of another, which
goes so far towards the perfecting of real friendship
; for this, Dasipodius had been alone able
to turn to Chretei Herlin. Whenever some bold
new thought had flashed across his brain, it had
not seemed to be thoroughly and truly his own,
until he had shared it with Father Chretei ;
and often indeed the sunlight of the old man's
profound knowledge and long experience had
illumined and matured the conceptions of his
pupil. But now Father Chretei was dead, and
all that free interchange of thought must cease
for ever ; and who might replace the dead ?

Moreover, Conrad's very superiority isolated
him in the midst of his fellow craftsmen ; it
was declared on all sides, both by those who
understood such matters, and by those who
did not, that Professor Dasipodius was their
leading mathematician, and for such an one
to betray ordinary humanity's weakness, for
such an one to appear to be yearning for
sympathy, much more for encouragement,
would have been to cast him from his reputation's
newly-earned niche for ever. No, Conrad
Dasipodius had to pay the penalty of fame ; and
yet he did stand especially in need of sympathy
and counsel, just at that time when the only one
who could have entered into his perplexities had
been taken from him. Just at that crisis when,
above all other turning points in his life, he most
needed an adviser.

And yet," he murmured to himself, "it is as
well mayhap, it would have been a grief to
Father Chretei ; and after all, he could have
done nothing for me. Ah ! what  who can
do anything for me ? Great God ! What
crime have I committed that Thou shouldst
visit me thus ? Can it be indeed, as some
would have us believe, that I have pried too

deeply into Thy mighty secrets % No, no ! for
it is Thou Thyself Who hast bidden us increase
our talents tenfold ; and yet ere this  my one
poor gift is ripe  Thou wouldst take from me
all  all. Oh ! if I might but come to thee again,
Father Chretei. Now, before this world grows
dark, quite, quite dark to me ! Is there no
mercy, no pity left in Heaven ? Let me die
now, Father Chretei  Father Chretei ! My
God, to think that it must come ! "

The mathematician flung himself on the
newly-made grave, and gripped the cold, hard
snow in a frenzy of grief and despair. His hair
fell trailing along the ground, and his slender
frame seemed almost rent asunder with bursting
sobs ; while those grand, earnest eyes  not alone
little Sabina's dearest pride, but the admiration
of all who looked on their marvellous intelligence
and brilliancy, were dim, grievously dim,
with tears of bitterest mental anguish. It is
always terrible to see a man weep, and to weep
like this ! The good Strassburgers would certainly
have not recognised their calm, stately
Professor Dasipodius in this despairing figure
outstretched on the monk's snow-covered grave.

The hours passed, and still the young man lay

all unheeding there ; heat or cold seemed alike
to him, for he had but one haunting miserable
thought that shut out all sensation of aught else,
and no comforting word came to bid him go
home and take heart again, only the longer he
thought, the deeper grew his despair, and
athwart its utter darkness shone no gleam of
consolation. Darkness within  without ; darkness
everywhere, and for evermore !

Noon had long since come and gone. The
brilliant clearness of the winter day had already
faded, and a few snowflakes began noiselessly to
light amid the folds of the mathematician's long
black cloak. The candles burning in the chapel
for the departed monk, began to glimmer out
more brightly through the windows, and
presently the brethren of St. Thomas passed
in winding procession up the narrow pathway
towards the little edifice, where they were going
to sing the Vespers for the Dead ; but Chretei
Herlin's grave lay some yards off the beaten
path, and none of the monks chanced to see
Dasipodius.

"Requiem eternal dona eis Domine, et
lux perpetua luceat reis,"

sounded their antiphon gently through the crisp
frosty air upon Conrad's ear.

Amen ! " assented the response ; but if
blessed Mother Mary herself had stood by his
side then, and whispered, " Peace," he would
have said, " There is no peace," and thought
she mocked him.

Conrad Dasipodius ! " said a voice.

If the mathematician heard, he recked not to
answer. " Conrad Dasipodius, what do you
here ? " now asked the voice, and unquestionably
it was a woman's voice.

Then Dasipodius stirred and roused himself to
look up, and as he looked, he passingly wondered
how long he must have lain there ; for it seemed
to have grown so dark, and he could only discern
the faintest outlines of a woman's dress and
figure.

Do you not know me, Master Dasipodius ?
You cannot see me ? " said the woman. " It is
I  Eadegund."

Eadegund  Eadegund von Steinbach ? "
asked he, " and alone here at this hour i "
Then he strove to rise upon his feet, but a
sudden giddiness seized him, and a pain,
sharp as a dagger-thrust, shot through his

forehead, and all faint and cramped with the
cold, he had great difficulty in recovering himself.
" You have been belated," he said presently
; " you will let me see you safe home
again, Mistress Eadegund ? "

Smiling with something of a patronising air,
the woman replied, " Nay, our ways are not the
same ; besides I do not fear, and it is none so
late."

It must be near five of the clock," returned
Dasipodius.

Why, 'tis not yet four," she answered,
scanning his countenance curiously.

Then are we to have another snowstorm ;
for it grows dark as night ? "

The woman came closer to him now, and
ventured to peer still more searchingly into
his face. " Cannot you see me, Master Dasi-
potius ? " asked she.

He started slightly. "See you? Oh yes,
certainly ; I can see the outlines of your gown
quite plainly. Yet, pardon me," he added,
recovering something of his natural manner,
that makes it but the clearer to me, that it is
time for fair ladies to be safe indoors."

But Eadegund vouchsafed no answer ; her

piercing black eyes only scrutinized his face
more eagerly than ever. " Cannot you see me,
indeed ? " she asked.

Heilige Maria / No, I say, not clearly.
How should I ? Am I a cat, that I should
see in the dark ? " he said, with an impatient
laugh.

But indeed, Master Dasipodius," persisted
she, "it is none so dark."

The flush which had risen to the mathematician's
pale cheek when he had first found
himself observed, died quite out now, and was
succeeded by an ashy paleness. " Not dark ?
not dark ? " he faltered uneasily.

"No, the sun is not yet set. It is none so
dark," said Eadegund, in clear hard monotone;
then she waited, calmly silent.

Not dark ? " he said in a hoarse whisper.
"Nay, but you are jesting? Oh! Eadegund,
do not trifle with me," pleaded the mathematician,
wildly clasping his hands across his eyes.

"Do I ever trifle ? " she asked, proudly
drawing herself to her full height ; then she
added in a slow, clear, hard voice  " Conrad
Dasipodius, I know your secret ; I came hereto
tell you I knew it  You are blind ! "

16

Blind ! "

The mathematician, stretching out his hands
with an imploring gesture, staggered forward ;
Eadegund would have caught him in her arms,
but he thrust her aside, and fell once more
with a heavy groan on the grave.

Requiem eternal dona eis Domine, et
lux perpetua dona reis,"

came the antiphon from the chapel.
Amen ! " was the solemn response.

A WOMAN S GUILE.

T3ADEGUND stood for a while gazing silently
down on the man at her feet, and in her
eyes was such a strange gleam of mingled love
and hate and triumph, that it was hard to determine
which passion predominated there.

Oh, Conrad!" at last she murmured, kneeling
down beside him on the chill snow ; i: Conrad,
look up. It is such agony to see you like
this. Do not turn from me  from Eadegund,
your  your friend  Conrad ! "

The artist's voice grew strangely gentle as she
bent over him and laid her hand caressingly on
his shoulder ; but the mathematician shivered at
her touch, and clutching for support at the beam
of a tall grave cross beside him, he raised himself
to his full height and turned on Radeguncl. His
eyes seemed to confront hers now, and they
looked as ever they had looked, so clear, so

gravely intent, that Eadegund's bold gaze
quailed beneath them, and she thought that
indeed it must have been he who had jested
with her ; but alas ! although not totally 
not stone blind  there only floated poor dim
shadows before Conrad's eyes now ; chapel and
grave-cross, the clouds overhead, the snow underfoot,
Eadegund's pale face,  were veiled for him
in one confused distracting haze.

Eadegund," he cried, " it is false  I am not
blind, by Heaven no, I am not blind. I see you
as you stand there ! Look, I am touching your
mantle," and stretching out a wavering, uncertain
hand, Dasipodius raised the border
of Eadegund's cloak ; but she only laughed
scornfully, and taking from her breast a small
illuminated missal, opened it haphazard, and
thrust it before his eyes.

Not blind ? not blind ? " cried she ; " then
tell me what is written there. Eead  you
cannot. No, Conrad .Dasipodius, you may
delude the poor fools down yonder ; but none
ever yet deceived Eadegund von Steinbach."

And Bruno  has Bruno indeed dared to
betray this to you  you ? " exclaimed the
mathematician, again turning on her like some

wild despairing animal at bay ; and in that last
word was a contemptuous echo, which grated on
Badegund's ear. " There is but one in all Strasbourg
knows of this  Bruno Wolkenberg. No,
no," he added, as though speaking to himself,
"it is not possible."

Oh, yes !" softly murmured Eadegund ; " 'tis
possible, Master Dasipodius, quite possible. For
love, crimes have been committed."

And what is this but a crime ? " burst forth
Dasipodius in bitter wrath. " By Heaven! fora
physician to babble of secrets entrusted to his
keeping, is every whit as foul as for one to
betray the secrets of his confessional ! For
such-like deeds, priests have been unfrocked,
and I will have this treachery of Wolkenberg's
nailed to the pillory door, that all Strassburg
may read. And to think that he should have
told it to you, mistress  you."

Ay, even to me, Eadegund, who am no more
to you than the snow under your feet. It is so
strange, is it not, Master Dasipodius, that Bruno
Wolkenberg should have chosen me  me, from
whom you turn so disgustfully away."

Ay, it is strange, and I would have trusted
Bruno with untold sold," said the mathematician,

musingly. "And now, mistress," he said, turning
coldly on Eadegund, " what use are you
going to make of this miserable secret ? It is
a fine piece of woman's gossip, no doubt. A rich
by-word to echo through the city ! By all that
is sacred, I will have you pilloried for this dishonourable
thing, you and your paramour.
Shame  shame ! "

Eadegund writhed, and her pale face grew
bloodless and grey, but controlling her voice,
she said, in calm unruffled tones : "I forgive
you that speech, Conrad Dasipodius, because
you know  you must know  that this Bruno
Wolkenberg is nothing to me, nothing beyond
a good friend, a faithful spaniel "

The spaniel shall be flogged "

And let all Strassburg know what you would
keep hidden ? No ; I will save you from yourself.
Listen, my friend, you are so mistaken ;
you are unjust to Bruno Wolkenberg, and tome."


Dasipodius turned impatiently away, but Eadem
spoke on : " Listen, I tell you, I suspected
something of this blindness. Bruno  nay, do
not start ; you would never be really angered
with him, your friend, poor Bruno ; why, Bruno

would die to serve you, and think his life well
given, and so should I," she added, dropping her
voice softly ; " and yet, Bruno "

"Go on," interrupted Dasipodius sternly, "you
were saying you suspected that my sight was
failing me."

I did," she answered, " and I merely said as
much to Bruno. Nothing more, on my woman's
honour."

"Honour ! 'tis well, indeed, for you to talk of
honour, who have stolen Bruno's like this," retorted
Conrad with heaving breast.

Nay, but for your sake it was, indeed. 'Twas
all for your sake," murmured Radegund ; "I
loved you, Conrad "

A hot burning; flush suffused the young man's
brow.

Oh, do not mistake me," continued she,
narrowly watching the play of his countenance.
"I loved you, of course, as a maiden should;
as a sister might love a brother. I should be
but a poor romantic fool to love you after
any other fashion ? Should I not now  Conrad
? " And with bated breath she waited his
answer.

Nay, do not mock yourself and me, Mistress

von Steinbach," stammered the mathematician ;
it is unseemly."

Again the artist's cheek blanched to a sickly
whiteness. " I say I had a friend's sympathy for
you, and I have been thinking so much, too, of
Cousin Sabina."

And what of Sabina ? " he said.

Well, your little Sabina  she is yours. Is
it not so ?  confess now."

Mine ! " groaned the mathematician. " Oh,
misery ! misery ! "

A shade of colour returned to Radegund's
cheeks ; and lifting her dark eyes she tried
again to read that troubled face. " Do you
indeed love Sabina von Steinbach ? " she asked.

"As the light loves the sun."

Radegund shrank back, and once again the
faint flush forsook her cheeks, and left her
face deathlike. " Could none be to you as
she is ? "

But the mathematician did not seem to hear
her voice, and it was to himself he cried out
bitterly, " Sabina, my own, my darling, must I
lose thee for ever ? "

And why for ever ? "

"Because you, woman," he cried fiercely, "have

blazoned my affliction abroad ; and henceforth
the world will deem me little better than an
idiot  a blind idiot. I thought to have kept
this terrible secret to myself, until the Clock
should be finished."

To what end 1 " asked Eadegund.

Then I should have been rich, comparatively
rich ; the reward is high for the making of this
Clock, as you know well ; and even if a man
be blind, and deaf and dumb to boot, so only hebe
rich, the world thinks him perfect enough,"
said Conrad, with a hollow mocking laugh.

And Sabina, what of her ? What would she
think ? "

Hold your peace about her ! Are there
fiends abroad in woman's shape, that I am to
be tortured like this % " said Conrad, nervously
clenching his slender hands. " I had not
thought  I had not foreseen, I say  it seemed
to me that this visitation of mine might perhaps
remain always what it has so long
been  a mere dimness of sight, which I have
taught myself to bear patiently  ay, almost
even to forget ; and had not you crossed my
path, I would have died ere this secret should
have been noised abroad."

Aucl you would have hidden it  how \ Tell
me that. How was it possible ? "

Because the good God has been with me,"
answered the mathematician, reverently baring
his head ; " because, while my sense of sight has
been gradually forsaking me, my sense of touch
has been so sharpened, that I can do without
my eyes ; nay, I have become so skilful, that
not one has detected this growing dimness of
sight ; blindness it has not been. None would
have detected it but for you, mistress," and then
the mathematician turned on his heel, but Kade-
gun caught him by the cloak. "Oh, Conrad,
stay one moment  have some pity; listen, listen !
I call the blessed Saints to witness, that your
secret has never passed my lips."

Dasipodius paused. " Do you swear this ? "
he said.

Casting herself on her knees beside the grave-cross,
she laid her hand on it, and again solemnly
swore that she had not betrayed him.

So, that is well," and Dasipodius uttered a
sigh of relief.

Do you forgive ? " murmured Radegund.
Say you forgive me, Conrad."

"Ay," he said, "I forgive you. Your Eve's

curiosity tempted you to this, you poor woman ;
but for him who calls himself a man, for Bruno
Wolkenberg "

"And what of Bruno Wolkenberg," demanded
Eadegund. "Touch but one hair of his head, and
this very night your secret shall be in every
mouth in Strassburg."

"And is it so that Eadegund von Steinbach
keeps her vows ? What did you swear anon ? "

I swore I had not told it. I did not swear
I would not tell it."

There is no match for a woman's guile," said
Conrad, his lip curling with a scornful smile.
"And the price of your future reticence, mistress
? " he asked.

Pardon for Bruno Wolkenberg. And forme,
a few moments' space to hear me to the
end."

Say what you will, but say it quickly,"
answered Conrad dreamily, beginning to wrap
himself up in his own thoughts once more.
I would fain be at my work again," and he
pointed down towards the city. " There is much
to be done."

"Ay," repeated Radegund, "there is much
to be done, and how are you to do it ? "

Oh, Kadegund, has it become your mission
to torment me. Have I not told you that my
affliction was not too heavy to bear ? and for
this  this deeper shadow which Heaven has but
now cast over me, well, it will pass away again ;
it is perhaps but temporary  the effect of this
cold, and of long; watching. Bruno has often
said it might be so ; he has told you thus much,
Kadegund \ " asked the mathematician wistfully,
and forgetting for the moment all his indignation.

"Bruno says that any undue agitation would
render you the more incurably blind ; but it is
all the same," she continued, in hard, cruel
tones, " he holds out no hope for you in the
end, Conrad Dasipodius."

A heavy sigh escaped Dasipodius, and then,
with a sad smile, he turned to the artist, and
held out his hand.

I know," he said, " I understand it all now ;
and Bruno has been too gentle-hearted to tell
me this himself. Poor old Bruno  but he was
wrong, quite wrong, if only that he caused me
to be angered with you, Mistress Kadegund, I
would not have had this. I pray you forgive
me," said Dasipodius humbly.

As Kadegund laid her hand in Conrad's, her

stern, pale face softened, and flushed with a
rare glory.

So then," he said, " you will help me to
guard my secret ? "

I would help you more than that," she said,
with her hand still in his ; "I would help your
work. My eyes shall be your eyes."

You are very good, Mistress Eadegund," he
said.

"But you do not accept my aid? You are
too proud to be dependent on a woman ? "

"Thanks to the good God, I need be dependent
on woman nor man neither ; but I shall
not forget your goodness," and he raised her
hand to his lips.

Goodness " sighed Eadegund, " goodness
plays a sorry part in this ; but we will not
quarrel about words. You and I are fellow-workers,
Master Dasipodius, and my poor aid
is at your service, and then, when our Horologe
is done, there will be bright things in store for
you and  and Cousin Sabina, will there not ? "

"We dare not ever look too far into the
future," said Conrad gravely, and in tones of
deep sadness.

The Scripture says : ' Sufficient unto the day

is the evil thereof,' " said Eadegund, in a mocking
voice. " Do you mean that, Master Dasi-
potius ? "

I meant no such thing," he answered coldly ;
and now, mistress, since as you say our paths
are not the same, I will bid you farewell, and
God speed."

Till we meet again," and Eadegund, gathering
her hood about her head, glided away through
the now deepening shadows.

Give you good evening, Master Dasipodius,"
said a voice at Conrad's side, and it was the
voice of Niklaus von Steinbach. " How is it you
did not see me ? better employed, hey ? but this
is a dreary spot for a rendezvous with fair
damsels, hey ? "

There has been no rendezvous, Master
Niklaus," answered Conrad.

By the blessed St. Laurence, I could have
sworn I saw a kirtle at this very spot. Yes,
there it goes now, down yonder among the
gravestones."

That is your niece Eadegund, Burgomaster.
She and I have been speaking together ; we met
by chance."

Oh, ha, hem !  I see. Good night to you,

Master Dasipodius," and the Burgomaster passed
on in the wake of his niece, whistling softly to
himself, and knitting his brows in a puzzled way.
He did not know whether to be more well-pleased
or nettled that that little affair between Conrad
and Sabina was seeming to vanish " quite
like smoke," as he put it to himself. " But this
niece of mine  ah, there'll be no playing fast
and loose with her. Well, well, I suppose they'll
suit each other. Kadegund's a splendid genius,
no doubt, she only wants keeping straight ;
and Dasipodius will be making his way in
the world one of these fine days." Niklaus
paused and sighed. " Well, well, perhaps it's

best as it is, and yet I'd have sworn " The

Burgomaster was fitting his big key into the
door of his house now, and his cogitations
were interrupted ; but when the draught-board
was laid out, and Sabina and Niklaus were
arranging their pieces, he told her how he
had seen Eadegund and Conrad Dasipodius
together in the churchyard ; and Sabina only
said, " Yes, Vaterchen ? I think it is your
move first to-night," then she played so badly
that she put her father quite out of patience.

A FAMOUS CLOCK.

IV/TEANTIME the new Horologe was making
rapid progress. That is, it was making
rapid progress considering that it was a Horologe
of many parts  no less, indeed, than nine.
Herein," says Father Chretei's descriptive
preamble, which had been laid before the
Town Council, "herein are nine things to be
considered."

First then, this astronomical clock, which is
twenty feet high, stands in the west end of Strasbourg
Cathedral, and is divided into a great many
compartments. A cornice decorated with curious
allegorical figures runs across the base. That is
divided in the centre by a circle containing a
smaller one, in which two angels, one on either
side, point out the days of the week, the Anno
Domini, the Leap Year, Movable Feasts, Dominical
Letter, and many other such details as are

to be found in an almanac. A little above
this are the planets personified as they name
the days ; for instance, on Sunday, the sun
drawn in his chariot, and so on. Above these
is a minute dial, flanked by figures of children,
one of which holds a sceptre, and he moves it
when the clock strikes ; the other child holds
an hour-glass, of which the sand runs with the
time of the clock, and which he turns when the
clock strikes. iVbove this minute dial is another
dial, on whose outer rim are marked the twelve
hours of the day, and these are pointed out by
the head and tail of a dragon, while in its centre
is a curious astrolabe, showing the motion of
every planet, the position of the sun to the
moon, &c. The fifth thing to be observed is
a circle, in which are set forth the two signs
of the moon's rising and falling  a hollow in
the surface shows at what quarter she has
arrived, and an index points out her age.
The sixth thing consists of four little bells,
whereon are struck the quarters of the hour ;
at the first quarter comes forth a little boy,
who strikes the first bell with an apple, so he
passes on to under the fourth bell, until the
second quarter, when a lusty youth comes

17

forth, who strikes two bells with his dart, and
then succeeds into the child's place at the fourth
bell, until at the third quarter there comes forth
a man-at-arms, albert in hand, who strikes
three bells ; he, too, passes on into the place
of the youth ; then at the fourth quarter, comes
forth an old man with a crooked staff, and with
much ado, being old, strikes all the four bells,
and finally stands still under the fourth quarter.
Then, and mark, this is the eighth thing to
be considered, comes Death into a compartment
above, and at each quarter he is supposed to
snatch each of these former ages away with him;
but close beside him conies our Lord Christ, and
drives Death in, only when the last quarter is
heard, Christ gives him leave to go to the bell
hanging overhead, and then Death strikes the
hour with his bone. Then, the old man underneath
and Death above him, both go in together.
The ninth thing, completing the details of the
structure itself, is a tower, containing a merry
chime, which rings out at three, seven, and
eleven, each time a different tune, and at
Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, a thanksgiving
unto Christ ; and when the chime is
done, there is a cock standing at the top. who,

stretching out his neck, shaking his comb, and
clapping his wings twice, crows thrice, and this
he does so shrill and naturally as would make
any man wonder.

Besides this, the clock is decorated with
many rare pictures. Machinery is also conveyed
into the tower of the Cathedral itself,
which works a dial on the walls outside, whereon
the hours of the sun, the courses of the moon,
the length of the day, and such other things
are set out with much art. There is beside,
a curious celestial globe, supported by a pelican,
standing out three feet from the clock itself;
it moves from east to west in twenty-four
hours ; a separate motion describes the sun,
which runs through its signs once every year ;
the third motion describes the moon, which
runs her course in twenty-eight days. So
that in this globe you may view the motions
of the sun and moon every minute of an hour,
the rising and falling of every star."

From the above description, it may well be
seen that many hands were engaged in producing
this curious specimen of decorated mechanism.
The chief part of its wheels and movements were
entrusted to the care of Isaac Habrecht, a native

of Schaffhausen ; while its quaint carvings were
wrought by his brother, a youth of about sixteen,
named Kaspar. Very proud was Isaac Habrecht
of this young brother, and well he might be, for
not one in all the broad Black Forest could
approach Kaspar's talent for wood-carving.
Gifted with a highly fanciful and graceful
imagination, and with a delicate touch and
power of manipulation, Kaspar excelled in his
art, and it was a joy to the eyes to stand by
and see how loyally his hands obeyed the
workings of his brain. Other details were
carried out by the rest of the students, all of
whom were picked men and skilled. The naked
wooden case or framework of the Clock had
been set up in its place, in the west end of
the cathedral, awaiting there the good pleasure
of Eadegund von Steinbach, to be clothed
by her own fair hands in gorgeous allegorical
paintings. As yet, however, these paintings
were but faint fore glimmerings of their brilliant
future ; for Eadegund was not to be
hurried, she chose to do her pictures at her
own time, and no other. They would be
ready, she said, when all the rest was ; and so,
as to the when and how of their doing, Strasbourg

neither cared, nor, indeed, ventured to
enquire.

Only Prudentius, lay Brother of Saint Thomas',
and custodian of the cathedral keys, found occasion
for deep and enduring displeasure against
the artist ; and still more against my Lord
Bishop himself. Prudentius' choler was stirred
by the fact of Eadegund von Steinbach having
demanded for herself a key to admit her within
the cathedral walls at any hour, day or night,
which might suit her ; thereby obtaining a
power altogether independent of Prudentius'
keys. " Take it how you might," he argued,
it was wrong, practically and theoretically
wrong. What, pray, would Saint Peter himself
have to say at such an infringement of his
prerogative ? Could not my lord see, with half
an eye, that the Protestants would at once seize
on it, as a tacit admission that there were, after
all, little side doors into Heaven, independently
of the Apostolic Grand Entrance ? and then, of
all people in the world, to give this Eadegund
von Steinbach, this proud, arrogant, overbearing
creature, a right to do as she thought proper.
This woman who wanted keeping down in her
place, with a pretty strong hand, too  no, it was

fundamentally, radically bad ; an iniquitous precedent
my lord would live to repent." And
Prudentius sighed, and felt that in that little
key a gem of the first water had been wrenched
from his crown of office.

Notwithstanding, the sacristan had brought
the indignity on his own head ; and it had
come about in this wise : One evening just as
dusk was fading into darkness, Eadegund von
Steinbach had applied for admission to the
cathedral, in order to take some measurements
for her paintings round the cornice-work of the
Horologe ; but she came at an inauspicious
moment, for Brother Prudentius had already
bolted and barred up for the night. It was
his invariable custom to have this duty pretty
well completed by the time the last lingering
worshippers were about to leave the edifice ; for
he loved not to be left all alone amid those dim,
silent aisles. He could never be sure at what
spot the terrible shade of old Erwin's daughter
might chance to loom forth. Moreover, on the
evening in question, Prudentius had a nice
cutlet of version just clone now, as he felt
sure, to a turn, awaiting his coming in from
the cathedral ; he had himself set it down by

the fire in his own little cupboard of a lodgment
next the sacristy ; and as it was a maigre day,
he felt it desirable that the fragrance from this
morsel should not proclaim itself too far abroad.
So, what with one thing and another, Prudentius
did not want to be kept kicking his heels in the
chilly cathedral, waiting on Eadegund's will and
pleasure, and he told her so much.

How he said it never transpired, but Prudentius
was a man of many words, while Eadegund
could ill brook opposition ; probably she left him
in the midst of his peroration, for he was afterwards
heard to say, " She turned and glared 
positively glared at me, and then stalked out
through the doorway, with never a word but ' I
will settle this matter with my lord himself.
Himself ! mark you ! and so by Saint Benedict
she has too, and my lord has actually taken from
me my little cloister door key, and given it to
this painting-woman ! Oh, it is abominable.
The Bishop is as blind as a mole ; only think
what a kettle of fish he is brewing for himself,
to go letting this Eadegund have the run of the
place day and night. Why can't she abide by
my rules like decent folks ? Ah, well, living or
dead, they're a strange lot those von Steinbachs.

Mark my words now, one of these fine nights
she'll be picking a quarrel with that ghost cousin
of hers, up in the choir yonder  ah, it's awful to
think of ! " and the sacristan shivered. " But
there, my lord is always letting himself be
hoodwinked. Yet what can you expect ? He
only knows womenkind with their church faces
on, and has not a notion what overbearing cats
they are. But I know," nodded the worldly-wise
Prudentius, " and I know I'd have eaten my
head off before I'd have given in to this
Eadegund ; there'll be mischief come of it assure
as I'm alive, see if there won't."

THE Pass-key.

IX/TEANTIME Radegund, on leaving the flustered
sacristan, made her way straight to
the Bishop's Palace, and demanded an audience
of the chaplain. It was growing late, and the
good man was beginning to nod over the missive
he was transcribing for my lord, to an ecclesiastic
of his diocese, who, said Rumour, was tainted
with heresy ; but the well-known face of
Radegund von Steinbach roused him, and
inwardly marvelling what could bring her
there at such an hour, he rose, and silently
waited for her to tell her errand.

I wish to speak with my lord," she said,
answering his enquiring glance.

My lord's audience has been ended these
two hours. To-morrow "

Will not suit me. I must see him now."

But it is impossible. The Bishop has retired
for the night."

"To bed?"

 No  not precisely. To his private chamber,
and is now probably at his devotions."

'Say Radegund von Steinbach desires to speak
with him."

But this is informal, it is not the custom. *

In this instance custom must be waived.
Go instantly, and tell my lord that I desire to
speak with him on business connected with
the Horolog .

The chaplain wavered ; the Horologe was a
special hobby with my Lord Bishop, and he
was in the habit of looking in very often at
the studio to watch its progress ; and Conrad
Dasipodins stood high in his favour. Moreover,
the chaplain, stealing a glance at Radegund, saw
in her eyes something which determined him on
at least going to acquaint the Bishop with her
demand. He soon returned, bringing word that
the interview was to be accorded: and Radegund,
with her sweeping garments gathered about her,
followed the chaplain through a long vaulted
corridor, terminating in the audience chamber,
but that was all dark now, and they turned off
to the left, down a narrow and tortuous si one
gallery, until they reached a low arched doorway

hung with dusk . Sere the chaplain

paused, and lifting the curtain, signed to Rade-gun
to enter ; theta bowing low, he left heir.
- i deep was the silence reigning in the
chamber, that Radegund believed herself
alone ; and her artist eye busied itself with
snarling gone of its details. Tapestry, wrought
with from biblical and ecclesiastical lore,

decorated its walk ; only the rn end

in the depths of an arched alcove, from
whose centre hung a bronze lamp, tl
light dimly illumining tall altar beneath,

whereon stood a pyx surmounted by a silver-gilt
crucifix exquisitely chased, and flanked by
tall candlesticks of the same precious metal
The candles in these were delighted now, and
only the lamp's gleam revealed the figure of a
clad in a long purple sit k, kneeling

on the little sand This man's tea-fares

were quite lost in the obscurity; but the
dignified outline of the bending neck and
shoulder ded to Bad gund the |

of John, Bishop ( : burg.

i.khy .splitting of the burnt-soul
on the hearth, the silence remained unbroken,
for Badegund stood by the entrance still as some

statue, until the Bishop, crossing breast and
brow, rose from his knees, and with one lowly
bend of his stately form, turned from the little
shrine, and taking a small lamp which stood
beside him on the floor, approached the fire,
and kindled the wick from its flame ; then
placing his lamp on the table, he looked at
Eadegund with keen, enquiring eyes.

Now Eadegund von Steinbach was a clever
woman, and more than once had rendered the
Bishop signal services, which he greatly valued.
Despite his lofty bearing, John of Manderscheid,
Bishop of Strassburg, was a humane and gentle-hearted
man, conscientious to an almost painful
degree ; but very early in his episcopate he had
found that to be a truly just ruler, was indeed
a superhuman task. In that portion of the
Church Militant which it was his lot to
govern, there was many a one, innocent
enough possibly in the sight of Heaven, who,
judged by an earthly tribunal, would have been
found by no means impeccable, and some folks
were then vastly chary of making an appearance
even as witnesses in the justice hall. It was
but recently that the terrible Vehmgericht itself
had fallen into abeyance ; and for a political

mistake, or an awkwardly expressed religious
opinion, heads were still frequently known to
fall ; but the Bishop of Strassburg would avail
himself of any fairly obtainable sub rose information
rather than suffer those summary
proceedings, which were the order of the day,
and which appeared to him only a very slight
modification of lynch law. By means of such
information, he was able to grasp the bearings
of a case which would otherwise have escaped
him.

Oftentimes he would ask himself if this were
doing evil that good might come ? but he took
refuge in the argument that the diseases he
had to treat yielded to no ordinary remedies ;
and then the Bishop would, in his heart of
hearts, curse the fate which had thrown him
upon such evil times  such curious times,
when Christians by no means loved one another,
and scarce two men were to be found
of one mind in a house ; when Catholic had
no shadow of a doubt that his Lutheran fellow
creature was Anathema Maranatha, and Calvinist
was much exercised to decide whether
Catholic or Lutheran would lie the lower in
that howling perdition to which each was

inevitably doomed. Those heresies whichever
and again from the beginning had
cropped up in the Church, were aggravating,
troublesome problems enough no doubt, but
at least they had had in them some show of
reasoning, and compared with the Shibboleths
men pronounced now, were easy to solve, and
had always left a man leisure enough to prepare
himself for Heaven, and to make himself useful
in this life besides. Or, on the other hand, had
it but pleased God to have cast his lot some
century or two later, by then of course men
would have settled to their entire satisfaction,
all that so greatly disturbed them now ; and
there would be no more wrangling, no more
bitterness, no more spiteful challenging of each
other to make clear in poor weak words, those
things which all the words under the sun are
powerless to express  no more polemical .controversy
; and then the Bishop sighed, and
thought how pleasant it would be to live in
those good times, for he shrank from controversy
as he would have shrunk from the Upas
tree's shade.

Still he felt that as in Germany, and for
the matter of that, in France and Spain, and

away there in England too, everybody was talking
at once, and no one paid real attention to
what the other might be having to say, there
was no probability of matters being immediately
settled. He had, therefore, long since made up
his mind to act as well as he was able for the
welfare of his flock, and if he could adjust
matters without faggot, and axe, and rack, he
always did ; and many a time Eadegund von
Steinbach had helped him to this desirable
consummation, by recapitulating to him what
she had chanced to hear discussed in her studio,
which was a grand centre for the news of the
day. The wits, the savant, the clergy, fine
ladies and gentlemen, all flocked there ; and
the latest utterance from the Vatican, the most
modish style of farthingale, that queer notion
about the earth's rotatory movement, the newest
heretical vagary, the noblest design for a sword-hilt,
and a hundred other topics were aired in
Eadegund's studio ; and the Bishop knew that
nothing worth remembering ever escaped her.
This is an unwarrantable intrusion, child,"
he said, looking with some anxiety at Eadegund.
By what right do you demand an interview at
this late hour % "

By right of my art," answered Eadegund.

The Bishop's eyes opened wide.

Your art, forsooth ! and could it not wait
till morning ? "

No, my lord," said Eadegund.

I tell you," continued the Bishop, an angry
scarlet spot kindling on his thin pale cheek,
that for this untimely interruption, I could
put those clever fingers between the thumb-screws,
and spoil their daubing "

"And the Horologe," softly concluded Eadem


The Bishop paused ; the Horologe was
his hobby  to see the Horologe in all its
complete glory was a desire very near his
heart.

And what has the Horologe to do with
it ? " he asked.

"This much, my lord," she answered, "that
unless you consent to the requisition I have
come here to make, I hold myself justified in
withdrawing from my share of this contract " ;
and Eadegund drew forth a roll of parchment
which the Bishop recognised as the written
agreement between Eadegund and the City of
Strassburg for the decorative painting of the

new Horologe. " With your leave, my Lord
Bishop, I will read."

But ," said the Bishop, who was very

tired.

I," pitilessly began Eaclegund, " Eadegund
von Steinbach, do hereby promise and undertake
to cover and adorn the cornice, entablatures,
panelling, and divers other portions of the new
Horologe now about to be builded in the cathedral
of this good City of Strassburg with fair
and fitting adornments of paintings, the said
adornments of paintings to be completed before
or by the date of the public dedication of
the aforesaid Horologe to the service of God, and
for the use and benefit of the citizens of this city.
Furthermore "

Yes," said the Bishop, repressing a yawn,
'tis indeed drawn up in right clerkly style,
but "

Furthermore," continued the ruthless Rade-gun,
"it is conceded that every aid and
furtherance for the better and more perfect
carrying out of the aforesaid painting work
be accorded to me, Eadegund von Steinbach,
and that no lets, hindrance, or obstacle of
whatsoever kind or sort  mark that, my lord 

18

be placed in my way, else shall this contract
be null and void. You mark, my lord ? "

Of a certainty yes, my child," assented the
Bishop.

Furthermore," sternly continued Kadegund,
"I do hereby acknowledge that in consideration
of my promised service, I have received a portion
of the guerdon to be paid for my labours. Here
it is, my lord," and drawing from beneath her
mantle a bag of money, the artist pushed it
across the table towards the Bishop. " Take
your gold again, but count it  not a florin
has been touched."

But ," said the Bishop.

And now to destroy this contract," she
said, folding the parchment again and again,
until it was but an inch-wide strip ; then she
brought it near to the lamp's flame, but still
at a safe distance. " This piece of skin shall
shrivel like a heretic, for like a heretic it has
broken faith." Then, for the first time, she
paused, waiting for a reply, and the Bishop
hurried to seize his advantage.

But the requisition, child," he said.

I am coming to that," answered the politic
Eadegund, who had but hung her threats like

Damocles' sword over the Bishop's head; "it is
simply that I require a key to pass me into the
cathedral  to paint  when I will."

But," contended the Bishop, " Brother Prudentius
is in the cathedral from dawn to sunset."

Brother Prudentius," answered Kadegund,
is precisely the let, hindrance, and obstacle
of which I complain to you, my lord. Brother
Prudentius is a coward and a glutton ; he is
afraid of ghosts, and he is always talking about
his supper."

Concerning ghosts, my daughter, which
treats of the supernatural, many erudite and
holy men hold the opinion of our worthy
Prudentius. The cathedral, as you are well
aware, is said to be haunted. Regarding
supper, that treats of the natural and lawful
desire of the carnal man," and here the Bishop
cast a glance at his own simple evening repast
spread ready on a distant buffet. " I cannot see
that Prudentius is specially blameworthy."

Not blameworthy ? " interrupted the artist,
when he is for ever blighting my truest
inspirations ! They come to me, my lord,
always with the twilight and the stars ; then,
too, comes this dolt, this idiot with his jingling

keys and his hideous grin. ' Time's up, mistress.'
he says, ' we may take holiday now.' Think of
that, my lord," and Radegund's brow crimsoned
at the recollection.

But he is right. It is this zeal, this love for
your art, which is too great for your body's
health. Look," continued the Bishop, taking-one
of Radegund's thin hands in his, and
holding it to the light, "how wasted and
fragile are these fingers ; and your " eyes too
are so hollow, child, and your cheeks so wan
and pale. When do you take rest ? "

Rest ?" muttered Radegund. " No, no rest !"

But that is wrong, sinful. Is it not our
Lord Christ who speaks of the night as that
time when none can work ? "

And is it not He," retorted the artist, " Who
said the ' wind blowed where it listeth ; thou
canst not tell whence it cometh, or whither it
goeth ' ? And so it is with us artists, my lord ;
many a dazzling, tedious, garish day passes, and
our hands and brains are so lifeless, that the
fools and money-grubbers call us nicknames,
and chide us for a lazy, worthless, pleasure-loving
herd, who only cumber the ground ; but
when the sun sets, and the world sleeps  when

the black cloud-curtains gather about us, and
without all is hidden, then it is that the lamp
of our souls grows brighter than Heaven's stars,
and memory and phantasy come forth  oh, the
night is beautiful ! "

But," argued the practical Bishop, " one cannot
go painting in the dark."

"Are we toiling only when the brush is in our
hands ? You mock me, my lord. Cannot your
soul, which so loves the work we do, tell you
that we must be free, free to come and go into
the presence of our creations as we will ? We
cannot brook to be girded hither and thither
at the bidding of pitiful earth-clods like yon
Prudentius."

That is all very well," said the Bishop ;
but your fellow worker now, the mathematician,
whom many a time I have heard
you say is not to be matched for devotion
to his great art-knowledge  he does not complain
of our cathedral rules. Your friend I
mean. Conrad Dasipodius, he is content to
work by day."

The night and day are alike to Conrad
Dasipodius," and Eadegund's voice trembled
somewhat ; " I mean," she added hastily,

that it is his nature to be as accurately
balanced as a piece of his own clockwork."

"And yet he too is an enthusiast, an artist."

Truly," said Eadegund ; " but who can
ever be like Conrad Dasipodius."

Indeed, he is no ordinary man," answered
the Bishop. "A noble nature ;  but you are ill,
Eadegund ! " for Eadegund had grown very
pale. " Poor child, poor child ! what is it
that ails thee ? What can bring back those
old bright looks ? Tell me ! " and as the old
man laid his hand kindly on Eadegund's
shoulder, a w T arm tear fell on it all unbidden ;
but Eadegund would have nothing to do with
the luxury of tears, and brushing the intruder
away, she said with a harsh, unreal smile, which
troubled the wise Bishop far more than tears
could trouble him " The key, the key, my
father ; that will make me as happy as a
queen."

But," said the Bishop, resorting to his last
forlorn remonstrance, " what if you should set
the cathedral on fire with your lamp ? "

Tush ! " said Eadegund, with no small
impatience, " give me the key."

What if folks ask "

Tell then that Kadegund von Steinbach
works at their Horologe. Now, give me the
key."

But they will never understand "

And what then ? Surely a Bishop is lord of
his own cathedral. What a piece of work is this,
about a poor little morsel of iron ! "

But it is just this little morsel of iron which
gives access to the entire cathedral. If anything
should go wrong, the blame would fall on you.
Have you considered this ? "

I have considered all, my lord. Give me
the key, and let me go."

"With a sigh the Bishop turned towards a
massive oaken press ; unlocking it, and opening
a secret drawer, he produced from it the coveted
open sesame. Then he crossed the chamber, and
lifting some drapery which hung before one of
the casements, he pointed across the moonlit
courtyard to a low iron-clamped door, sunken
deeply into the cathedral wall ; placing the key
in her hand, he said, " Take it, it is my own
private key ; Prudentius has its duplicate  it
only admits through yonder door."

Badegund's fingers closed greedily on the
coveted prize, and then she hurriedly turned

to depart. " Since when have you learned to
despise the benediction of Holy Church ? " asked
the Bishop, in a tone of reproach.

Forgive me, my lord, I forgot," said Rade-gun,
and then she came back and knelt at his
feet. "May Christ and t His Blessed Mother
watch over thee, and guard thy ways," said
the Bishop solemnly. Radegund murmured a
very low amen, then she was gone.

These artist-folks  what wayward creatures
they are ! " thought the Bishop to himself, as he
lay down that night on his bed ; " and, Holy
Mary, how irritable ! Still, Prudentius does
know how to make himself terribly tiresome,
I am quite aware of that. What a glorious
work this Horologe will be, perfect within and
without. Conrad Dasipodius and Radegund von
Steinbach working hand-in-hand. A masterpiece
indeed. " Then the Bishop fell asleep, and dreamed
of the Horologe.

SPIRITS OF HEALTH, OR GOBLINS DAMN'd ? "

"Text morning, as usual, Brother Prudentius
came to unlock the cathedral doors.
Utterly beyond the power of words would it
be to describe the Sacristan's horror at finding
his domain already occupied by  the ghost !
Sabina  not the living, rosy, comfortable little
daughter of Niklaus the goldsmith, but her
terrible ancestress, the two centuries-dead Sabina
von Steinbach. There she  It  stood halfway
up the nave, shading Its ghastly face with
Its shadowy hand in a haze of bluish green, and
the blood goats all staining Its flowing white
robes. Ah ! grisly, fearsome sight ! And
Prudentius would have turned and fled, had
not a sepulchral voice called him by his name,
prudentius!"

And Prudentius stood all rooted with terror
to the spot ; then staggering forward, sank on his
knees, not three yards from the apparition.

Pruclentius ! get up ; don't be a fool."

With quite military promptitude the Sacristan
obeyed. If that awful voice had said: u Prudentius,
stand on thy head," assuredly, had the
encumbrance of the flesh permitted, he would
have striven his best to obey. "Heaven help
thee," continued the voice ; " was ever such a
craven ? Do you take me for a ghost, that your
jaws clatter in that fashion ? Speak, fellow."

Pardon  forgive  gracious " stammered

Prudentius, thus adjured ; then he broke down.

Forgive, yes ; you did but your duty, poor
wretch ; but I warn you not to attempt ever
again to dispute the right of way with Raclegund
von Steinbach ; do you hear ? " and the Artist,
for she it was, came near and sternly measured
the breadth and length of the unhappy little
Sacristan. She had stepped into the shadow
now, and the mists of his extremest terror
clearing from his eyes, he began to perceive
that the ghastly haze which had enveloped her
was but the azure and golden reflection of those
glorious choir windows, in the sundays, pouring
down on the cathedral floor, and that Kadegund
von Steinbach and no ghost stood before him ;
but the blood-flecks, ah ! were they not still

there ? Well, the Artist had already been two
hours at her task, and some small patches of
vermilion had fallen from her paint-brush onto
her bodice, just as in these days an ink spot
or two will now and again stain the garments or
the fingers of careless literary ladies, and at least
that bright red had an advantage in being
picturesque.

"And now," continued Eadegund, "leave off
mopping and mowing, and get about your business,
as I am doing." Then she turned and
began silently to survey her morning's work.
It did not strike her that there was any need for
wasting words in explaining to the little Sacristan
how she had succeeded in obtaining the
start of him in his own peculiar hunting-grounds,
and Pruclentius was himself but too glad to
escape from her on such easy terms to " affairs
demanding," as he hurriedly explained to her,
immediate attention " right away there in
the Lady Chapel at the other end of the
cathedral. Certainly his mind was relieved
when he found that the ghost was, after all,
but the mortal Eadegund von Steinbach ; yet
only comparatively, for Pruclentius stood in the
deepest awe of this dark-eyed handsome woman.

That she had dealings with the supernatural, he
never doubted, therefore on these and many
other grounds she was much to be avoided.
As to her beauty, she was not all his style.
Beauty indeed ; why, was she a morsel like the
widow Hedwig, who always had a chatty word
with him, when he went to cater for his community
at her kraut stall. There was beauty
if you like, all plumpness, and wholesomeness,
and colour. No angle about her.

Not a scrap neither, like that sweet little
maiden, Niklaus the Burgomaster's daughter,
who came so regularly every day to tell her
beads up yonder in Saint Laurence's Chapel, and
whom, if he could tell a cat from a king, Master
Dasipodius was so sweet upon. No, Prudentius
was certain that Eadegund von Steinbach was
uncanny, and he was neither by any means the
only one who thought so. Mother Etzel was
saying just i\\Q same only last week, when this
Eadegund had caught her in the act of pulling a
hair or so out by the roots, from her imp of a
child's head, for sitting in the middle of the
gutter ; and there out in the street, regardless
of all appearance, if my haughty madam did not
rate her in such sound fashion, that she was

actually driven to promise she would not do it
again, just as if one was not to do as one pleased
with one's own child ! And then, too, when the
blind beggar's clumsy brute of a dog got his
leg broken under the trooper's horse, if this
Eadegund, who hasn't ever a word to throw at
a Christian, didn't actually kneel down in the
mud, and bind it up with her own hands ; and
didn't the beast keep licking them all the while
instead of biting, as it would have done, if only
her flesh had been true Christian flesh. And the
leg healed in no time too, like magic. Like 1 
it was magic ! and now there was this dog and
his idiot of a master ready to worship the ground
she trod. Some folks said Eadegund was a
genius.  Well, we all know what that means,
genius or witch,  witch or genius, and Mistress
von Steinbach would come to a bad end. Why,
you had only to look at her, to see the devil
peeping out at the corners of her eyes  Heaven
save us all ! and then Prudentius always shivered
and crossed himself, at least half a dozen times.
But now Eadegund had aggravated her
offences ; she had bewitched the Bishop.
Never before perhaps had such an instance
of the frailty of poor human nature been known.

Here was my lord, goodness and righteousness
itself, a man apparently incorruptible, and yet to
be hoodwinked by a woman just because she
happened to be able to smarten up a piece of
dirty canvas with paint ! It was a sin and a
shame, if ever there was, to see how he had
given in to all her whimsies, and now this getting
the run of the cathedral was just of a piece withall
the rest. She had been, as usual, twisting
my lord round her little finger, and lost no time
about it neither ; and now, if it pleased her, and
of course it would please her, she would be
turning night into day. Yes, there would be
Walpurgis night in the place before long, and all
respectable God-fearing folks would be terrified
out of their wits. In such soliloquy the Sacristan
relieved his mind, when he had put the
cathedral's length between himself and the
Artist. Then he proceeded to replenish the
stops with holy water, " for," said he, " there'll
be oceans full of it wanted, if this Eadegund is
to have the run of the place ".

Time however proved that Eadegund was
quite content with her own corner of the
cathedral, where stood the outworks of the
Horologe. There, by virtue of her little passkey,

she came and went at her own will, and
never so much as knew whether there was such
a personage as the fat little Sacristan about the
precincts at all, and although this put him sorely
out, it was only, he said, of a piece with all the
rest of her ; " despising dignities " ; and then,
too, all things considered, perhaps he liked it
best as it was, and so there ensued an interregnum
of perfect outward serenity, and the
great work of the Horologe went prosperously
on.

Conrad Dasipodius also came and went to his
work ; and to the learned in zoology, the clock's
interior was even more beautiful than its exterior.
Once or twice Sabina and her father had been to
the mathematician's studio to see the wonderful
work, and very pretty and amusing she thought
were all those wheels and chains and shining
brasses which were being gradually knit together
into a marvellous whole ; but she liked infinitely
better the quaint automata which were to perform
their parts outside. Those were clever
things indeed, and when the artificers, gratified
by the pretty little lady's notice, set the awkward
arms and legs of the puppets into all sorts
of wonderful attitudes for her pleasure, she would

clap her hands and cry aloud with delight: "Oh!
but how lovely ! and it was you, of course, who
cut out this darling little man's great nose, and
stuck all his five fingers in so nice and straight?"
she said one day to Dasipodius, her eyes brimming
over with pride and admiration.

Nay, I cannot accredit myself with such sort
of skill," answered the mathematician ; " that is
the work of Kaspar Habrecht here," and he laid
his hand on the boy's head. But Sabina's countenance
fell: "You seem to care for those needles
and bits of chain, and things, much more than
you do for all these handsome little wooden
ladies and gentlemen," she said.

They are dearer to me, certainly," admitted
Dasipodius, with a grave soft smile ; " for these
needles, and chains, and wheels are the life and
soul of the Horologe, Mistress Sabina."

And what of Eadegund's  my niece's share
in the work ? " asked Niklaus. " She gives us
little of her confidence ; but you  you have seen
what do you think of it ? "

"My Lord Bishop considers it very admirable
so far ; and there is not you know, Burgomaster,
a better judge of painting in all the
city than he is."

And you," insisted Niklaus, " what is your
own opinion ? "

"I am no competent critic," answered Conrad.


But," said Sabina, with a little moue, " you
can say whether or not you think it pretty, I
suppose ? "

I have scarcely seen it, Mistress," evaded
Conrad ; and Sabina was enchanted with his
reply. To her jealous little ears it seemed so
plainly to say : "I do not trouble my head about
Eadeo'und and her doings ".

Yet doubtless in the innocence of that heart
of his, which was all Sabina's, he would have
accorded Eadegund's productions their well-deserved
meed of praise had he been able to see
them. But he could not see them ; the magnificent
pictures danced before his eyes like great
blots of scarlet and purple, and dazzling yellow,
without shape or outline, just as now the bright
farthingale and silver-laced bodice of his mistress,
as she tripped about from bench to bench, made
him giddy ; and it was only when her shapely
head and neat rounded figure flitted between
himself and the casement, that with an agonising,
although outwardly imperceptible straining of

19

the eye-nerves, he could distinguish her beloved
form from the clumsiest wooden block awaiting
the carver's chisel in his studio.

Ever since that bitter grief-day, when he lay
in the snow on Chretei Herlin's grave, Dasipodius
had become nearly stone-blind. There were
moments when his vision cleared a little, but
that only made the returning darkness still
darker ; and yet, with all their Will-o'-the-wisp
cruelty, and false whisperings of hope, the
mathematician was very grateful for these
light-flashes, because he was able to clutch at
them as they came, and so to use them, that
they should teach him what to be doing in that
future when they should come no more ; for
Bruno Wolkenberg, the surgeon, had told him
that the hour must come when they would cease
altogether. That time seemed very close at
hand now ; for while at first he had had many
consecutive minutes of comparatively clear vision,
as the days passed, their angel visits grew fewer
and farther between ; but once or twice ina
week, and then one week  two weeks would
pass and they came not at all. Still, come or goas
far as the Clock was concerned, it mattered
little enough to Dasipodius ; his nature's incorruptible

honesty would at all hazards have
prompted him to give up the public work he
had undertaken, had he believed that it would
have suffered by one hair's-breadth from any
incapacity consequent on his deprivation ; but
Dasipodius was no more incapable of fulfilling
his trust now, than he had been in the days of
his perfect eyesight, and never perhaps was the
great principle of compensation more thoroughly
demonstrated, than in the blind mathematician's
case. Nature had but carefully gathered up all
the essence of the one lost sense of sight, to
mingle it with the sense of touch, and to the
world no grain of his wondrous power had been
lost by his personal calamity ; for with all its
alleviations, a calamity it undoubtedly was.
What can blindness be else, even to the
dullest, most insensitive human atomy on the
face of the earth ? but on such a nature as the
mathematician's, to which the blue sky, the
waving grass, the glance of his old dog Eappel's
wistful eye, the ripple on the river, the wings of
the dragon-fly glistening in the sun-light, the
purple and golden sheen of a painted window,
and all those million sights which wean the
mind from for ever looking: inward on miserable

or merry self, spoke so eloquently, the deprivation
fell heavily indeed.

Yet who should talk of Heaven being unkind,
or life a blank, now Sabina loved him ? Had
such a compromise been possible, he would not
have bartered this love of his for a thousand
eyes ; why then should he murmur, he whose
lot was so immeasurably more blessed than that
of others ? Barely even the shadow of a thought
that Sabina might love him the less for his
affliction ever came to distress him. On the
contrary : " Had this affliction befallen her,
as it has me," he would argue to himself,
"would that have lessened my love for her?
Dear little one ! no, surely;  love is love, and
she loves me, that is enough." And had it
been merely a question between himself and
his mistress, he would, in all thorough trustfulness,
have confided to her his sad secret ;
but on this same secret hung every question
of his future, and of hers. Sabina was in all
things a very woman,  that was perhaps why
he so devotedly loved her  having all the
idiosyncracies of a woman ; and had he told
her of his blindness, how could he be sure she
would not fall a weeping and lamenting for her

lover's hard destiny, and so let the world know
what he so earnestly desired to keep hidden ?
Or, refraining from that, as possibly she might,
for Sabina was a brave little heart, she would
nurse her grief, and let concealment " feed on her
damask cheek," until Niklaus, and he himself 
though his own eyes might not see her faded
looks  would be driven distracted about her.

As to objections which the Burgomaster might
raise against his child's uniting her fortunes with
a blind man, he pondered much over that ; and
a conflict had arisen in his heart, as to whether
honour and his boundless love for her did not
urge him to give her up ; but that curious
mingling; of common sense and of sentiment which
were characteristic of the mathematician's nature,
argued that, as a man, Sabina's father approved
him. Moreover, Niklaus liked money, and providing
a man was an honest fellow besides,
Dasipodius believed that with a little demurring,
the goldsmith, if all else went well, would come
to forgive the blindness, and at least that part
of the question must take care of itself. " I
cannot put folks into my skin, and nothing short
of that would ever make him, or others, believe
that my eyes are not essential to their Horologe ;

and, at all hazards, the secret must remain a
secret." And so Dasipodius went about his
work with calm self-possession, and it so grew
and glorified beneath his ringers, that his co-workers
would look on in loving wonder and
admiration, and say that their teacher was
inaugurating a new era in mechanical science,
and that his fingers seemed almost enchanted.

Ay," muttered the only one among them
whose wondering were mingled with envy
and malice, " he is possessed,  he needs scarce
look at what he is doing. His eyes are as often
cloud-wandering as on what he holds in his
hands. Do you mark that strange look in his
eyes ? " demanded Otto von Steinbach of his
comrades.

"It is inspiration," said they.

ct It is the devil ! " said Otto.

Old-world TALES.

Upper is just over in the Burgomasters
 house. The table is not yet cleared, and the
ruddy wine lying low in the silver flagon gleams
in the soft firelight, while the jaws of the great
larded boar's head seem absolutely again with
delight at the marks of havoc which have been
made into his particular region. Master Niklaus
von Steinbach is just going for a little 
or so longer back to his counting-house,
to look through some memoranda concerning
a consignment of precious stones for which
he is in treaty for the new cathedral Horologe.
Conrad Dasipodius has himself called in about
this matter on Niklaus, and the Burgomaster,
although, as he told himself, matters were a little
awkward just then, could but invite his visitor
to share their evening meal, and Conrad accepted
Niklaus' invitation with a well contented smile.
That was all reasonable enough," Niklaus
thought, "as far as it went"; but when, after

supper, he found that negotiations could only be
brought to a successful issue by consulting some
documents locked up in his strong-room, he
began to feel much put about at the notion of
leaving the two young people together. " It is
dangerous," he grumbled to himself, " most
dangerous ! " and then he made something of
an attempt to induce Dasipodius to go to the
strong-room too, and look over the documents
with him. The mathematician said, however,
there would be no use whatever in his going, and
he would, with Master Niklaus' good leave, much
prefer staying where he was. And so, without
referring to details which perhaps were best left
alone, Niklaus could not see how he could gainsay
him. " I can't afford to quarrel with
Dasipodius," he said to himself, as he crossed
the flagstones of his courtyard ; " and it's just
as likely that these two have forgotten all

their fancies by now, and even supposing

A murrain seize this lock ! has the Ice King
got into it ? " and in a vigorous tussle with the
stubborn bolts of his counting-house door, the
Burgomaster forgot ail about that dangerous
tete-astute in the dining-hall.

Meantime, Sabina had seated herself by the

fireside and begun to spin; the light of the lamp
hanging; from the middle boss of the carven
ceiling was put to shame by the dazzling blaze
of the flames roaring up the spacious chimney,
and throwing the stately shadow of the mathematician
on to the oak-panelled wall behind him,
as he stood facing the young mistress of the
house. Stealing a shy glance up at him, Sabina
thought that never had his beautiful eyes looked
more beautiful than now.

Do you remember the puppet that so pleased
you the last time you were at our studio ? " he
asked presently.

Which do you mean. Old Father Time and
his scythe ? "

"No, the beautiful youth, Cupid."

"Ah, yes," and Sabina blushed, though she
hardly knew why.

"It is finished. Kaspar placed the bow and
shaft in his hands this very noon."

That is capital," said Sabina, with sparkling
eyes.

It is the last of the figures. They are
finished now."

Why, then, the Horologe is done ! " delightedly
exclaimed she.

Nay, not quite that," answered Dasipodius
with a sigh ; " much of the machinery lacks
completion as yet ; and some of what is done
is not as good as I would have it."

Ah, but you are too particular  you are
indeed," she said, looking up at him ; " the
Bishop was talking with my father only this
morning, and he told him that he thought
the Horologe simply perfect, and my lord
must know, for he can talk Hebrew and Greek,
and  "

Dasipodius smiling and shaking his head, fixed
his eyes wistfully on the fire. " There was once a
mouse  " he said.

Once a mouse," echoed Sabina, swiftly but
very noiselessly turning her wheel-handle, for
she dearly loved a story. " Go on."

And this mouse had lived all his life in an
old oak chest in the sacristy of a church."

"Ah, I know!" interrupted Sabina, "like the
St. Thomas' Church, or even perhaps like our
glorious cathedral itself 1 "

No, I think not ; it was only a poor little
country church, and the sacristy was of course a
very small place indeed."

Well," said Sabina, in rather disappointed
tones.

But then the mouse thought his wooden
chest a splendid apartment. ' How large it is ! '
he always said to himself, as he ran round and
round in it."

Dear little thing."

Well, one day it happened that the curate,
who was looking for some old parchments, opened
the lid of the chest, and out popped the mouse."

Oh ! " said Sabina anxiously, " did the good
father see him \ "

Not a bit of it, he was far too busy to worry
his head about a scrap of a mouse ; and so the
little thing got safely away and hid himself in a
hole in the sacristy wall, until everything was
still again, then he summoned courage to put his
head out : ' Ah,' he said to himself, ' but this is
a fine large place if you like '."

''And did he live happy there for ever after ? "
asked Sabina.

Dear child, no ; for after he had run round
and round it for a day or two, he chanced to
catch sight of a line of daylight shining under
the door, and he contrived to squeeze himself
through into the church."

Ah ! " said Sabina softly, " with the blessed
Christ Child and His dear Mother, and all the
holy angels !  the beautiful church itself ! And
he was happy then, Conrad, quite, quite content
? "

Alas, no ! " and then the mathematician
paused. " It is true our mouse said just what
you say, my Sabina : ' Ah, one can be  must
be happy in this great beautiful place t ' and fora
long time he stayed there, and grew into a
steady and most respectable mouse. And he
grew fat, as church mice now and again do, dear
child. I am afraid he ate too much of the bread
that used to be in the church for giving to the
poor. At all events he stayed there for a longtime,
feeling himself very comfortable. Somehow
at last, however, he began to grow restless,
and when he used to hear the sweet choir music,
it seemed to him that after it had filled every
corner of that vast place, some of it still floated
away  away, out beyond those beautiful walls
and fair windows, and he wanted to discover
where the music went, and one day he followed
it, and found himself outside the sheltering walls
of that brave old church."

Oh, the silly, silly mouse ! " regretfully
cried Sabina.

Outside, amid broad green fields, with the
free air playing round him, and telling him a
thousand things he had never heard before  and
the blue sky overhead ; but when he looked w T ell
up all round, he saw several black clouds "

"And just served him right !" said Sabina,
with a majestic nod; "how he must have
wished himself safe back inside the dear old
church."

No, I don't believe the clouds frightened
him ; he had such a great deal to think about
besides ; and when he had looked all round with
his bright eyes as wide open as ever they could
be, he was amazed to think what a very little he
could see after all. ' Oh, now I know,' he said,
1 that it is limitless. I cannot run all round and
round here. I positively believe it has no
walls ! ' "

Well, and so what became of him ? " asked
Sabina, for the mathematician seemed to have
come to his story's end.

That is more than I know," said Conrad.

What a stupid story," said Sabina ; " I hate
stories that don't finish off nicely. Tell me,

Master Dasipodius, do you think those terrible
thunder clouds killed him ? "

I think not, dear little one, the good God of
all is so great and merciful "

Yes," said Sabina, " that's true, and it might
be made a nice story if  if "

If what ? thou clearest of all little mice,"
asked Conrad, quitting his post, and preparing
to seat himself beside Sabina, when an appalling
sound, beginning with a savage growl and ending
in an agonized screech, made him start back in
alarm: " Himmelsdonnerwetter ! " he exclaimed.

Ah, get away ! you've trodden on the cat,"
cried Sabina, stooping down, and tenderly taking
the aggrieved Mitte up in her arms, she began
to cuddle the creature back to its normal
quiescence. Meantime the unhappy Conrad
stood afar off ; an indignity offered to Sabina's
cat was, in her eyes, all the deadly sins rolled
into one.

Poor Mitte," he ventured to say at last,
groping for the creature under the table on
hands and knees, " but I am so sorry ; I would
not have hurt you for the world: Here, Mitte,
Mitte!"

She is here. Don't you see, safe in my lap.

But it really was very awkward of you. you
know, Conrad, when the poor thing was right
under your eyes  staring you in the face."

Was she % " said Dasipodius absently.

Of course she was," indignantly said Sabina.
What has come to you ? I do believe you areas
blind as a mole."

Conrad's cheeks flushed, and he laughed uneasily
as he said, " ]\Iitte's eyes are certainly
very charming "

Yes, are not they ? " and Sabina's frown
grew less terrible.

But somehow I don't care for them, when
Matte's mistress's eyes are shining on me."

That is nonsense," said Sabina, laughing a
low, happy little laugh ; then Conrad took undisputed
possession of a seat beside her.

Yes, rub her head so, that will make her
good-tempered again," and Conrad continued the
rubbing process, till at any rate Ytitte's mistress
grew good-tempered again, and Mitte purred
enough for all three, singing on her comfortable
music, even after Conrad's hand had strayed
from her tabby crown, and possessed itself instead
of Sabina's little hand ; and Sabina let her
hand be, but, like happy people sometimes are,

the two were very silent ; the old clock was able
to say, " Wait-tic ! wait-tac ! " over and over
again before either spoke. At last Conrad said,
Dear child, you love me still ? "

"Yes, Conrad."

And you are trusting me ? You do not
repent of your promise ? "

I will not answer you, Master Dasipodius."

Conrad  say Conrad, Sabina."

I will not, until you have promised to ask
no more foolish questions. Is it not enough
that I have already told you I love you, and
how should I be weary ? "

But it is I who weary for thee, my darling.
It is only half-living, Sabina. when you are not

We must wait, Conrad ; things will come
right." And while the old clock endorsed this
announcement, Sabina's little hand stole up
and stroked the student's thin cheek.

But I cannot bear to see you so pale and
anxious," she said.

"It is nothing, little one," he answered, "but
what must be."

"Nay, it need not be; it comes of sitting up

so late, and toiling so closely over your work,
and your eyes look so  so "

So what ? " demanded Conrad ; " tell me ! "

Nay," she answered, " I cannot tell. I think
it is so bright that I mean, and yet so strangely
tired."

Yes, I suppose they were  I mean they do
grow tired. A little dim even now and then ;
but press these dear lips on them, my little love,
and it will make them well,  quite well again,"
and the mathematician stooped his stately head,
and Sabina kissed those poor sightless eyes, and
then she laughed merrily, and said he took such
odd fancies into his head ; and altogether that
was quite a half-hour of Paradise, while Niklaus
the goldsmith still tarried in his strong room,
and there was only Mitte, the mother of a
hundred kittens, to play propriety  and she
dropped asleep, as chaperons sometimes do.

When you are my wife," said Conrad
presently, " I mean to  hush ! What is that ? "

Nothing," said Sabina.

11 I mean to . I tell you, child, I hear a

footstep in the courtyard."

Nonsense," said Sabina.

"Is it your father coming back ? "
110

No, it cannot be ; there is no stick."

Niklaus sometimes had a gout-fiend in his left
leg, and wherever that leg went, the stick, like a
familiar spirit, had to go too ; and all Strassburg
knew the sound of the Burgomaster's stick.

How fanciful you are ! " said Sabina, pushing
aside her wheel, and going to the lattice, she
opened a movable pane, and listened.

Look out," she said, turning to her lover,
who had followed her, "and satisfy yourself; 
there is not a creature there."

The mathematician put his head out, and
listened intently ; what his eyes might not see,
he thought his ears might hear, for they had
become preternaturally keen ; but there was utter
silence in the spacious quadrangle, now illumined
by the bright clear moonlight, and save the
broad flight of steps, with its heavy stone
balustrade, leading up to the dwelling part of
the house, there was no object to cast any
shadow. When earlier in the evening, Dasi-
potius had come in through the little door
built into the massive wooden entrance gates,
he had carefully bolted it behind him, for he
knew that the goldsmith was very particular
about having his household all safe under lock

and key by sunset. " There never was such a
place as Strassburg," lie always said, "for rogues.
And he had pretty maids and precious jewels to
answer for." And so, if people wanted to be let
in after dark, they had to announce themselves
by the great house-bell ; therefore it must have
been, as Sabina said, the mathematician's fancy,
and Dasipodius began to think she was right, and
secretly hoped that his blindness was not making
him nervous. Then the lovers turned from the
window, and came back to the cheery fire.
"How bitter cold it is to-night," said Sabina,
kneeling down in front of the blaze, and spreading
her hands over it.

You have chilled yourself at that open
window, dear child," said Dasipodius, chafing
the cold little fingers in his own hands, and
kissing back the warmth into them.

Nay," she answered, " but all the evening it
has seemed so chilly, as if some lattice must be
open. There ! There it comes again ! Someone
is walking over my grave," she said,
shuddering, just as old wives will say.

"Now it is you who are fanciful," smiled
Dasipodius ; but Sabina' s face did not reflect
his smile, her eyes were fixed on the blaze,

and some bright tears welled slowly up into
them, and brimmed over. She was trying to
gaze into futurity, and the brain-pictures she
made saddened her. Such a strange mood as
this the Burgomaster's sunny-tempered little
daughter rarely fell into ; how doubly strange,
then, that she should fall into it now ! When
her arms actually rested on her lover's knee,
and he was whispering to her words that sounded
sweet and blessed as the whisperings of her
guardian angel,  indeed they were one and the
same, for Sabina's guardian angel just as often
wore a black doublet as white flowing robes and
spotless wings, and its face was spiritualised
with thoughtful intellectual beauty, glorified by
the halo of her love. How then should there
now come this shadow of some unknown dread
to mar the feast of happiness overflowing in her
heart ? It seemed so hard to be reminded just
now that her Paradise was not an eternal one,
and that her guardian angel was, after all, but a
mortal man ; and yet of those saddening thoughts
were born words which were blessed to her
lover's ears, and which, even when that time
came when he did his best to silence their
echoing, still lived on in his memory. Very

simple they were, "Conrad," she said, "whatever
is to happen, you will know that I love you."

My own little darling one."

"Nay," she said, "but you are to say  Yes,
Sabina ! "

"Yes, Sabina."

"That is right," she said with a relieved air,
and now we will talk of other things." But
the other things just resolved themselves into
the old, old story, and Conrad began to tell her
of his plans for the future, and was just about to
begin again that interrupted sentence of his,
When you are my wife "  and all her fancies
quite forgotten, Sabina was blushing rosily,
when there came across the courtyard an unmistakable
sound of footsteps, and Sabina said,
"There is the stick," and Niklaus clattered up
the steps, and paused for a moment, ere he
entered, to contemplate the scene before him.
There sat Sabina, like the loveliest little housewife
in the world, spinning ever so diligently at
her wheel, and the tall figure of the mathematician
leaning against the lintel of the fireplace,
with that face of his, which none could
choose but look at twice, turned towards the
fair girl.

They are a goodly couple," nodded the
Burgomaster to himself, " and make quite a
picture there. They don't seem to have budged
an inch since I left them more than half-an-hour
ago, but I wouldn't be on my oath
about that." Then Niklaus' brow knitted itself
into a terrific frown, but the blue eyes beneath
twinkled merrily enough ; and had he not
owned a soft corner in his heart for Conrad
Dasipodius, he would hardly have taken it
into his head to have left him so long in the
old dining-hall alone with his Pearl of pearls.

"Here are the documents, Master Dasi-
potius," he said, coming forward into the
light, and placing some parchments in the
mathematician's hand. " They only need your
signature ; but you had best read them through
first."

Will you read them ? " said Dasipodius,
handing them back to Niklaus.

By our Lady  no ! " said the Burgomaster.
That is a strange request for young eyes to
make of old ones."

Young eyes are not always what they should
be, Master Niklaus. Mine see but badly by
lamplight," acknowledged Conrad.

Hey ? " said the Burgomaster. " What's
that ? Overstrained them, eh ? It is shameful,
scandalous, how you young folks gamble away
God's gifts now-a-days. It's the fiddle-ma-gee
clock has done that piece of mischief for you, I
suppose, hey ? "

Possibly." said Conrad.

Possibly ! I say of course it is. I tell you
what, Master Dasipodius, you young folks live
too fast now-a-days. Make money, make
money ! that's the beginning and end of your
motto. In my time we made love, and let the
money go hang."

"And jeopardised the love ? " asked Conrad.

"That's as it might be," grunted Niklaus; "but
you must take care of those eyes of yours, or
there'll be neither love nor money." Then he
took up the parchments again, and read them
through aloud to the mathematician, who put
his signature to them in such a clear firm hand,
that the Burgomaster said, " There can't be
much amiss with your eyes after all, Master
Conrad," and then Dasipodius turned to take
his leave.

"Nay," said Niklaus, "if you don't object to
an old man's company, I'll walk part of the way

home with you. I've been so busy all day, I
haven't had time to stretch my legs ; and it's a
glorious night." Then turning to his daughter,
the Burgomaster said he should be back in half-an-hour
or so, and bade her go to bed, or have
one of the women-servants to sit with her if she
was afraid of the ghosts ; but Sabina laughing
merrily said, "Spinning-wheels always laid the
ghosts," and when they were gone, she meant to
be busy a little while longer.

Well, it's plain anyhow she wants to be rid
of us," laughed Niklaus, "so come, Master
Dasipodius."

Then the Burgomaster and the mathematician
sallied forth.

"DAS Hers 1ST GESTORBEN, DIE WELT 1ST LEER."

Sabina watched her father and her lover
 cross the courtyard, and pass out through
the little wicket door, which the Burgomaster
carefully locked behind him, then she listened
until the sound of their voices and the chitchat
of the stick had quite died away in the distance,
and so at last she came and resumed her spinning
by the hearth ; and while the wheel turned
steadily, she thought her happy thoughts.
What an evening had that been ! how unexpectedly
joyful ! what a red-letter day ! and
how strange it was, she thought, that the good
God always made one's joys and sorrows come
when one was the least thinking about them !
Here had she been spinning, dressing, eating,
sleeping, day after day for ever so long past,
each day being exactly like another (always, of
course, excepting the blessed Sunday, when she

went with her father, in best silken kirtle and
furred hood, to cathedral mass and caught there
a glimpse of a certain dear face) ; and this day
had begun in just the same leaden humdrum old
way as all the others had, yet suddenly into
what a flood of hope and content had it burst !
Of hope, because it seemed to her that her
father's objections and scruples were melting
away, and at least he was to be won over ; of
content, because she felt herself so entirely
assured of Conrad's love. Her assurance on
that score seemed now so doubly sure. Of late,
some troublesome little fancies, doubts she would
not call them, concerning what her father had
seen in the churchyard, had worried her just
the least bit in the world ; and indeed, being a
most frank and truthful little woman, she had
had it in her mind to ask Conrad about that
same meeting of his with Eadegund ; but all
such intentions had long fled to the four winds.
How was it possible to look at Conrad's face and
not trust him ? and was he, who had so much to
think about and to worry him, to be vexed with
her little foolish jealousies  jealous, forsooth !
jealous of Cousin Eadegund, indeed ? Would
that be womanly  wifely ; that is, would it be

worthy of the woman whom Conrad Dasipodius
had chosen for his wife ? And then, up rose the
future again, clad now in no sombre colours, Rat
all soft and rosy and lovely ; and then, too, uprose
that past, which not a quarter of an hour
ago had been the present ; and it seemed to the
girl that the voice so grave and manly, and yet
withal so tender and gentle, lingered yet on the
still warm air of the old dining-hall, and of such
stuff as this were Sabina's ghosts.

Sabina ! " said a voice, but not now the
fancied echoes of her lover's accents : this voice,
although it was a woman's, had in it a harsh
ring, and the Burgomaster's daughter, starting
from her happy reverie, looked hastily towards
the lattice whence the sound came. " Who are
you? what do you want?" she said, with beating
heart.

It is I, Eadegund, your cousin. Do you not
know me ? Let me in, Sabina, I am dying of
cold out here."

Poor child, of course you are," said Sabina,
pushing aside her wheel, and going to the door
to admit her visitor. "But how long have you

been there ? the gates have been locked these
two hours."

Yes," shivered Eadegund, "ever since Conrad
Dasipodius came in, and I came in with him. I
could do that I suppose, couldn't I ? "

I shouldn't have thought so," replied Sabina;
that is, I mean, unperceived."

The artist made no reply, she only smiled
curiously, as she crouched down over the flame,
and spread out her thin hands in the welcome
warmth ; and as the red light flickered on her
tall figure, Sabina could not help thinking
again of that terrible picture of Ate in the Town
Hall. At last Eadegund spoke. " I've been
outside there ever so long. And there has been
another snowfall. It chilled me through and
through ; and all the time you were billing and
cooing here by the warm fire."

Oh, Eadegund ! " was all Sabina found to say.

I'm dead cold," shuddered the Artist, more
closely gathering her long cloak about her, between
whose folds the melting snow trickled
down like tears.

Let me dry it," said Sabina, trying to take
it from her shoulders.

Leave it ! " said Eadegund, snatching it

roughly from her hand. " I cannot stay. Supposing
your father should return ! "

"He would be very angry with you for standing
out there, to get your death of cold, Eadem
I can't imagine what possessed you to do
such a thing."

Don't stare at me like that, child. Holy
Virgin ! what a goose you always are ! " said
Eaclegund crossly, as her magnificent eyes
quailed uneasily beneath the enquiring gaze of
the Burgomaster's daughter. " Do you know
you are looking positively ugly now ? "

Am I ? " said Sabina, as she thought to
herself what very different stuff lovers and
lady-cousins must be made of ! but quest-ce
qu } allait-elle faire dans cette cere ? what freak
of her eccentric cousin's had led her to lurk outside
in the cold dreary courtyard at such a time
of night ? " But I will leave her to herself a bit,"
decided Sabina. " She is a little cross now, poor
thing, and that is no wonder, considering how
cold she must be."

So you are thinking I was mad  possessed,
to stand out there," said Eaclegund, after a
silence of some duration ; " possessed with what,
think you % "

I don't know," admitted Sabina ; " I cannot
make it out."

No," answered Radegund in lofty tones ;
poor child ; but I will tell you, it was with a
desire to do you a service, Cousin Sabina."

That is so kind, Cousin Radegund," said the
girl, with the inward heart-shrinking one does
sometimes have under such sort of assurance.

I followed Conrad Dasipodius hither to-night
to see if he made love to you."

And are you satisfied % " said Sabina, with
scarlet cheek and heaving bosom. " Really, I
should be very grateful for this."

Radegund waved her hand carelessly. " Sarcasm
does not sit well on you, my dear. "Wait
till your mock thanks become real ones. I say
I saw the Professor Dasipodius caress you ; I
heard his soft whispers in your ear, for I pushed

open yonder pane ; I saw " Radegund

paused and gasped painfully, " I saw his lips
pressed to yours ! "

What more, mistress, what more ? " cried
Sabina, her rosy lips paling and quivering with
uncontrollable anger."

Oh, not much more ! " mocked the Artist.
Stay, how was it ? ah, yes ! then it was Mistress

Sabina, the Lily of Strassburg, who kissed
Master Dasipodius."

"And if I did, what "

Oh, it was prettily done, no doubt. A sweet
long kiss on each eye-lid, that is how 'twas, I
think, little Cousin, and then a soft tremor,
and a blush or two. Very becoming, very dainty.
But it was all thrown away, child ; your lover
cannot see these pretty ways of yours. He is
blinds stone-blind!"

Only one momentary glance, to mark how her
shaft told, the artist stole to her cousin's
face, then her eyes fell again. Jehu ! what
demon had stolen the old frank look from that
woman's eyes, and filled them instead with
frenzied malice ? In the old days, Eadegund
von Steinbach could look all the world in the
face ; but now  now !

It is false ! " cried Sabina, " and you are ill
mad, Eadegund ! If I thought you knew all
you have been saying, I would never forgive
you ! But your hand is burning hot, and your
cheeks are dead white. What is it you want to
say?"

I am not ill !  I am as sane as you !
And I tell you, Conrad Dasipodius is blind ! "

"Don't, Eadegund ! " shivered Sabina ; " I
cannot bear to hear you talk such wild nonsense
! "

Will you have proof ? Well  what about
your cat there ? Did not he fall over it just
now ? "

But that was no wonder, Cousin Eadegund,
he was looking at me ; and the best of people
tumble over cats sometimes."

Little fool ! " said Eadegund scornfully,
he saw not you, nor your cat neither. Tell
me, did not you mark how he groped about after
the creature, when all the while you had it upon
your knee ? Why, I myself heard you say,
You are as blind as a mole ! '

But," argued Sabina faintly, "that was fun."

Fun that must have grated sharply enough
on his ears. But tell me, is it true that you
have had no suspicion of Conrad Dasipodius'
blindness ? "

No," said the girl, awed at last by Eadem
now calm manner ; then she burst into
tears.

Not when you said to-night, as I heard you
say, that his eyes had a strange look ? Not when
he himself confessed to you and to your father

that they were sometimes dim  had you then
no glimmering of the truth ? "

No ! by our Lady of Sorrows, no ! " and
Sabina was bitterly weeping now.

Well, don't cry, child ; that won't mend the
matter."

If the blurring of her own beautiful eyes
could have been a means of restoring her lovers
lost sight, the little woman would have gladly
wept on till the crack of doom ; but as it was,
Sabina strove to stay her sobs, and soon the big
round tears stole only silently down her cheeks ;
truly she tried to stay them too, but when she
recalled those jesting words of hers, whose truth
must have stung him so sharply, the tears would
have their way. " Oh, how heartless !  how
cruel she had been ! "

"And now," said Kadegund sternly, "what
do you think of all this ? "

"Think?" said Sabina, looking up through
her tears ; " I think that he might have told me
himself. It is very kind of you, Cousin Kade-
gun, to bring me this ill news ; but I wish he
had told me himself," and the tears rained faster.

"Yes," sympathised Kadegund, "he ought to

have done it."

111

I did not say ought" corrected Sabina ; "I
said I wished he had confided this trouble of his
to me. I can't think why he did not," she
continued musingly to herself.

Such a light-hearted little maiden as you are,
is scarcely one to be entrusted with grave secrets.
Remember, Sabina, this is a secret involving
much, very much ; and it is only because I
believe you to be wiser than you seem, dear
child, that I have confided it to you."

"And did Con Master Dasipodius, confide
to you this, which he has withheld from
me, Eadegund ? " stiffly inquired Sabina.

"If he did, it would have been no such great
marvel," returned the Artist. " Nay, have
patience, Sabina ; the work we are mutually
engaged on would have warranted the confidence
; but I heard it not from his lips."

From whose, then ? "

That cannot concern you, child ; and I have
no time to stand here chattering."

Oh, Conrad ! Conrad," moaned Sabina.

"Oh, but you must not be too angry with
Conrad Dasipodius," began Eadegund.

Angry ? " interrupted the girl, with a mystified
air.

Yes," replied Kadegund; " the time lias come
for you, child, to put all sentiment out of the
question. Your day-dream is past now ; and of
course any fancies which it may have amused
you to indulge in, any little feelings which
natures like yours please themselves by calling
love, are now at an end."

Will you say all that over again, Cousin ? "
said the still mazed Sabina ; " you are so much
cleverer than I am, and I do not think I understand
you."

I mean," said Eadegund, " that any thought
you might have had about being the wife of
Conrad Dasipodius will be at an end now."

"Why ?" asked Sabina, her eyes growing very
round.

Oh, you are too childish ! I suppose it is
not your intention to be tied to a blind husband
all your life ? "

Yes, it is," answered Sabina, " if Conrad is
blind."

The artist rose, and began to pace the floor.

Would not you, if you  I mean, if Conrad
loved you, and you "

Have done ! " shrieked Eadegund, clasping
her hands over her passion torn heart. " What

can you know of love ? Do you flatter yourself,
you little morsel of pink and white humanity,
that Conrad Dasipodius loves you ? "

There is no flattery, Eadegund ! " answered
Sabina proudly ; " Master Dasipodius has told
me that he loves me, and that is enough."

Poor little fool ! I thought you had at least
more sense than I find in you ; and so you really
think that this Master Dasipodius, this great
professor of mathematics, whom the most learned
of Germany and France call teacher, this man,
of whom no living woman is worthy, can stoop
to love a little doll like you ? "

I am not a doll ! Certainly I am little, and
Master Dasipodius is very tall, but he says he
doesn't mind ; and as to trying to be clever like
him, one may just as well leave that alone altogether.
I know, as you say, there is no woman
good enough to tie his shoe-string, unless it were
yourself, Eadegund ; and everyone knows "

What do they know ? " hurriedly asked
Eadegund.

"Where your heart is," placidly smiled Sabina.

What do you mean ?" gasped Eadegund.

"Ah ! but do not look like that. Is it any
shame ? Nay, fie, Eadegund ; it is a happy

thing indeed to be loved by such a worthy
gentleman as Bruno Wolkenberg."

Bruno Wolkenberg," said Eadegund, with
curling lip.

"Nay, now, Eadegund, you cannot gainsay
me. Doll I may be ; but I know all about it, and
how he worships you as if you were a saint in a
shrine ; and so he ought, for you are so noble,
and so good, and so beautiful, and charitable ;
and Conrad often says "

"Well?"

"Well  patience, dear. Conrad says that you
and Master Bruno will make a goodly pair ; and
indeed you two are well matched : not a bit like
the giant and pixie Conrad calls himself and me,"
and Sabina laughed quite cheerily. " Then you
are two such clever people ; why, Conrad says

chatted on the little woman, delighted

with her opportunity of repeating the loved
name over and over again; "Conrad says, there
is not a skilfully surgeon in all Strassburg than
Doctor Wolkenberg, let him be young or old."

"I am glad," said Eadegund coldly, " that
you esteem this Doctor Wolkenberg so highly,
Sabina ; since then, perhaps, you will not scorn
his counsel as you have scorned mine."

"I do not understand," faltered Sabina, with
another chill at her heart.

I hoped, when I came here to-night, my
own words would have sufficed to persuade you
to give up your lover. I wished to mention no
names, and I would have avoided paining you if
I could ; but you are so obstinate, child, and it
does not suit you to acknowledge that to marry
a blind man, is to marry one bereft of half his
faculties''

Truly, I cannot acknowledge that," answered
Sabina ; "but go on, you have more to say."

"Next I grew bolder, and tried to make clear
how foolish it is of you to imagine that so learned
a gentleman as Master Dasipodius should really
love such an ordinary little thing as you are."

It is curious," mused Sabina ; " I told you I
thought so, and I do feel very proud about it, I
assure you, Cousin Radegund."

But now," continued the Artist, " since my
own counsel is set at nought, I must tell you
what Bruno Wolkenberg says, for it is Doctor
Wolkenberg whom Conrad Dasipodius has consulted
concerning his blindness."

Can he cure him ? " joyfully asked Sabina.
Is there any hope ? "

None, as we count hope ; but one hopes
against hope sometimes, child. Listen ! Yet,
I fear your intellect, my Sabina, will scarcely
grasp all the signification of Doctor Bruno's
learned diagnosis."

Tell me, then, your own unlearned one,
Kadegund, so only I may know all about it,"
pleaded Sabina.

Well, then, this blindness is the effect of too
close an application to his profession, and indeed,
ever since he was a child, to study. It is an
overstraining of the eye nerves, a mischief
which, had it been attended to a year or two
since, might have been overcome, but then, as
you know, came the competition for the making
of the Horologe; and although he knew the
germs of the evil were already set, Conrad
Dasipodius made himself a competitor."

Yes," said Sabina, with a proud glisten in
her eyes ; "it was very wrong indeed of him.
Go on."

"You know the result. His temperament,
which is so sensitive and nervous "

"No; there now you are wrong," cried Sabina.
Conrad is very strong and brave ; he is not a
bit nervous."

Truly," said Eadegund contemptuously.
you are the silliest child, with your vulgar
notions about nerves. I tell you one is but
the braver for being nervous, and it is just
this subtle and delicate organization which
makes Conrad Dasipodius the man he is."

But Sabina shook her head. " No," she said,
"it is his soul."

"Put out of your head that priestly jargon
of body, soul, and spirit," said Eadegund impatiently.
" I cannot stay to explain now"  as
if some leisure moment might come when she
could  " how the soul acts through the mind
upon the body, and how this body would be buta
mere inert mass without the life-spreading
nerves with their marvellous reaction "

But about Conrad, dear Eadegund."

And just as some mysterious power does by
a mere sword-thrust, or a pestilential breath
destroy the whole body, so can it destroy or
render temporarily lifeless a separate group of
nerves, such as in the case of Conrad Dasipodius."

"And it is God who has done this to Conrad!"
cried Sabina, in awe-stricken tones. "Ah, what
sin

Don't be foolish, Sabina. We who are wiser

and untrammelled by superstition, know that it
is the Horologe which has done this, and  you !"
Then Eadegund, with a hard cruel light in her
eyes, looked searchingly at the shrinking unhappy
girl, and saw that such a triumph as she
wished for was to be hers. "You follow my
reasoning now I think, Cousin Sabina," she said.
You comprehend that this great mind has been
overwrought, and the injury it sustained has
been aggravated by mental anxiety on your
account."

How often had Conrad Dasipodius told his
little sweetheart that she was his hope-star, his
joy and consolation, but the world was all upside
down for her now ; and the bewildered Sabina
could only sign to Radegund to proceed.

"I do not wish," continued the Artist, " to
lead you to imagine that it is his affection for
you which thus disturbs him, because that would
be, as I have already shown you, a delusion.
It is rather the harassing consciousness that you
have given him your affection."

He asked for it," murmured Sabina in a
choking voice.

He did," replied Eadegund, turning pale as
death. " So much the worse that he was carried

away by a momentary impulse of  admiration
we will call it ; but when reflection came, then
being honour itself, how could he recall his
promise ? And now it is this constant anxiety
to be doing rightly by you, this struggling and
toiling night and day to grow rich because of
you "

"Yes, yes," cried Sabina, seeing once more a
glimpse of her lost sunshine through all the
bewildering mist of words, " I know he has
said that to me often,  often, for my sake."

Yes, it was so that his kindly compassion
put it to you ; but it was rather in his desire to
act honourably."

"If it is only that," said Sabina, " I had a
million times rather he should forget there is
such a thing as honour."

Spoken like a brave maiden ! but Conrad
Dasipodius will never act a dishonourable part.
He will," Eadegund continued, " earn the guerdon
for the Horologe, and then he will overrule
your fathers scruples,  they are but slight ones,
and so he will marry you, my dear."

Never ! " said Sabina, standing erect, and ina
firm low voice.

What  who is to hinder it % "

I  I would sooner die a thousand deaths
than be his wife  now."

Ah, I felt so sure that when the truth was
made plain to you your proper pride "

But I have no proper pride ! none, none  I
love him dearly, dearly, dearly ! "

Then there is no more to be said," replied
Eadegund, turning on her heel ; and as she
lifted the arras at the threshold, she paused 
"Marry your blind wooer. Tie him to your
apron string.  be his curse if you will,  vain,
obstinate, selfish, shameless thing ! " then she
was gone.

Eadegund!" cried Sabina in a voice agonised
by grief and perplexity, and, with hands wildly
outstretched, "come back! tell me  Eadegund 
come back, come back ! "

But as she brushed the blinding tears from
her eyes, and strove to collect her bewildered
sense, it was her father whom she saw standing
before her.

Hey, hey, pretty one," he said, "what! have
the ghosts been too much for you, then, after all?
By Saint Laurence, I could have sworn one
flitted by me as I came in just now, but that
Marcobrunner is heady stuff, very heady. You

were calling me, Sabina. Nay, nay, but what is
it ? " for Sabina was sobbing very bitterly now.
Have I left you too long alone 1 Shame on the
old father, then, to play you such a sorry trick.
Come, come, but I will not have you nervous
like this. So  hark in your ear, little daughter,"
and the Burgomaster drew his weeping child onto
his knee ; " you must scold your lover for
this. 'Twas he beguiled me to go farther than I
meant ; by our Lady, he has such a winning
tongue, it does one good to hear him discourse
in that clerkly style of his. None of your
pedants neither. Why, were I a woman myself,
I'm not so sure "

Sabina grew calmer, she had stifled her sobs
that she might hear her father's praise of the
man she loved so well ; praise which one little
hour since would have wafted her away into a
very seventh heaven of proud joy, and though
so bitter to her now, yet its very bitterness was
blessed.

No," continued Niklaus, stroking her soft
hair, "it is of no use for a poor old father to
try and withstand such a couple as my little
lady here and yonder noble-hearted gentleman,
and I hinted as much to him to-night."

No, father, no ! " said the girl, " you did not
do that ! Tell me you did not do that ! "

No ? But I tell you I did."

Sabina moaned and hid her face on her father's
neck. " And you are an ungrateful puss not to
be giving me a thousand kisses for it, instead of
sighing and languishing away in this fashion.
Why, that is not a bit like my honest little girl,

who always Hey ? What's this  what's

this ? J; for Sabina's weight was growing heavier
on his breast, and her white arm slowly relaxed
its hold, and slipped from his neck, and as the
Burgomaster tenderly lifted the golden head of
his lily, he saw that its rosy tints had all fled 
Sabina had fainted.

The old man bore his unconscious burden to
her chamber and laid her tenderly on her bed,
and was about to summon the women servants ;
but scarcely was the girl's head on the pillow
than she revived, and, looking up in his face,
said with a wintry smile, " I am well again now,
Vaterchen. It was very silly of me  how was
it?"

I don't know," ruefully grunted Niklaus ;
we were talking about Con "

Ah, yes, I remember ; well we won't talk

any more about him, Vaterchen. It was all a
mistake ; and you won't ever say his name tome
again, dear? Promise." And. out of that
utter trust he always placed in his little
daughter, the Burgomaster promised.

I don't want anyone but you, Vaterchen ;
you love me," she asked wistfully.

Love thee ! my pretty darling. Ay," said
Niklaus, brushing away a tear or two, for the
pale, gentle face brought back the face of her
dead mother to the old man's loyal heart ; and
what would he not have given for that mother
to be there now, for he was persuaded that
something had gone amiss with his child, though
what it might be puzzled him sorely.

Then kiss me," said Sabina, holding up her
arms to him. " Good-night, God bless thee,
dear. I am going to sleep now. It was very
silly of me, wasn't it ? but I was so tired  so
tired."

And truly indeed Nature had pity, and Sabina
slept, and there came no hideous nightmare of
despised love to vex her rest, only the gentle
moonlight stole across the floor, and spread a
soft halo about her pretty head ; and the stars
peeped in through the snow crystallised panes,

and no sound broke the silence save the voice
of the clock in its distant corner with its eternal
wait tic, wait-tac," and Sabina almost smiled as
she thought what a monotonous, steady, stupid
old thing it was.

But the Burgomaster went back to the empty
dining-hall sorely discomfited, and seating himself
by the dying fire, cogitated and cogitated ;
but although he sat there till he was frozen to
his bones, the only conclusion he could arrive at
was that " never were such creatures as women,
they won't leave you alone a minute till you
give them their way about a thing, and then
when you've been regularly bothered into letting
them have it, they don't want it  they don't
want it ! "

DR. Wittenberg.

"Drunk WOLKENBEKG lived in a comfortable
roomy house, whose exterior well
befitted the position which he had won for himself
in the city's estimation. If anyone had the
mischance to break his head or dislocate his
knee-joint, or otherwise damage himself, or if his
body suffered from any of those thousand and
one " ills that flesh is heir to," there was not
one who could set him on his legs again like
Bruno the surgeon. Only two objections were
ever brought against the clever, well-looking
doctor : he was young, that is, he was still
some years from forty, and  he was a bachelor !
but Bruno was wont to laugh down the first of
these two objections, saying it was a fault which
was daily mending itself ; and to sigh down the
second, declaring that, at all events, it was an
error for which he was not responsible, although

there were damsels in Strassburg who thought
differently ; but surely so clever a disciple of
aesculapius might have been allowed to know
best where the wound in his own heart was.
There was no doubt at all that Eadegund von
Steinbach had made that wound ; and she alone,
the surgeon felt, could cure it. Honest, brave,
loyal-hearted, and generous to a fault was Bruno:
a friend to the poor, well beloved by all, naturally
of a bright, cheery temperament, and something
moreover of a poet. He had even been crowned
by the Meister-singer s wreath, but the Meistersinger
philosophy was far less to his taste than
those glorious romantic old Mine-lieder of his
country, and he knew by heart pretty nearly all
the wild sagas and legends of Germany, and
of other lands too ; and many a sufferer's weariness
he had beguiled, and many a little one
forgot its pain when Bruno had time to sit down
and sing, or say, in his clear, gentle voice how
Siegfried the Horny slew the fearsome dragon, or
how Knight Roland fought so bravely with death
in the terrible valley ; or to tell the tale to the
little ones of the Cid's good faithful horse
Babies, or best of all, how "Walther von der
Vogelweide so dearly loved the birds, that in
112

death he did not forget them, but ordered holes
to be scooped out in his tombstone, away up
there in quaint old Wartburg city, and left
money for crumbs to be put in them twice each
day for ever, for the pretty creatures ; and how
(no greedy wretches, calling themselves Christians,
having as yet stolen and appropriated the
legacy) they came hop, hop, chirp, chirp there,
and sang to the kind old Poet lying peacefully
in his grave. Altogether, Doctor Bruno Wittenberg
was a very clever man, and a very good one,
and people said he ought to be a happy one ; but
well, had the surgeon lived but a century or
two later, he might have found a dismal consolation
in that aphorism his brother poet has sung :

There's something in this world amiss,
Shall be unriddled by and by ".

There was something very much amiss with
Bruno's world, and had been for a long time
past ; and often when this riddle worried him
more than usual, he would sit before his lonely
hearth, and vex himself almost into a fever trying
to unriddle it, and yet it was soon told  nothing
more than a hopeless love for Eadegund von
Steinbach.

Hardly so much can be said for the inside
of the surgeon's house as for its outside. Two
years previously, he had bought it in the full
hope and confidence that he should succeed in
prevailing on Eadegund von Steinbach, the
beautiful artist, to come there and be its queen
and chatelaine, and better still, his own well-beloved
wife ; but the great desolate place stood
a dreary wholesome witness to the folly of lovers
who reckon without their host. Bruno Wittenberg
believed, indeed, that he had good reason to
hope, but the lady had proved far more difficult
than he had expected. It is true, she did not
immediately consign him to despair  that would
have savoured too much of mercy to please Rade-gun
von Steinbach ; she had had experience in
despairing lovers, and knew how very soon they
were apt to find sweet consolation, and it by no
means suited her to lose from her shrine a
devotee whom it enhanced her glory to retain.
At the same time, she told him she was
wedded to her art, or at least cared for it too
well to dream of sacrificing her love to it for the
sake of a mere man ; and yet withal, she would
so smile or frown upon this mere man as the
humour took her, that at the end of two years,

he found his chains binding him more tightly
than ever, but the ordeal had done him no good.
Truly he did not moon about all unaltered and
unshaven, or visit his wretchedness on his
patients  the gold of his nature was too pure
for that ; and it was only said, that each day
seemed to make Doctor Bruno the gentler and
fuller of compassionate endurance for sickness
and suffering of every kind whatsoever ; but the
healthful bloom faded from his cheek, and the
joyous light in his eyes grew dimmer, and the
footstep, which once had seemed to bring with it
hope and health, was slower and more measured
than of yore, and those brave stories of fighting
Goth and Hun were all changed into sweet sad
ditties, like that of the hapless lovers of Roland
or of such patient obedience, faithful unto
death, as the gruesome romance of Count Alarms.
Then, too, that unworldliness and self-forget -
fulness grew upon the surgeon, until the rare
virtues almost fell into a weakness, for the
so-called poor would take advantage and extract
from him gratuitous service, when they could
very well have paid for it ; while the rich, after
their kind, worried him, calling him out at
unearthly hours to attend to fidgety little

ailments, which would have been none the
worse for waiting till morning. But Bruno had
a kind of feeling that the world might do as
it liked with him now, and whether he lived or
died, could be of small consequence to anybody 
least, perhaps, to himself. And all this to arise
out of his ill-starred adoration for the woman
who was so well able to turn him round her
little white finger, that she was no more than
justified in calling him, as she had called him,
her spaniel ! for Bruno would have sold his soul
for Eadegund, and at her imperious bidding,
would fetch and carry, coming in, to boot, for
his full share of kicks and blows.

To-night the surgeon is sitting before his
hearth, elbows on knees, and his fingers clutching
his crumpled locks, pondering over his problem.
In all that wide experience of his amid mortal
man's accidents and diseases, he has come upon
no such complication of disorders as this web of
hopes and fears tangling about him now ; and
again and again he gazes wildly up at his surgery
walls, as though hoping to find written
there something which should help him.

Bruno always lived in that laboratory ; the
rest of his house had for him a weird indescribably

desolate look. He possessed no kith
nor kin ; and excepting old Trudel, a woman
who had received him in her arms on the day
when he first came into this troublesome world,
and was now his housekeeper, and sole attendant
to his few wants, he liked to tell himself
that there was not a creature to care whether he
went tales and buttonless, dinnerless and
supperless. Wolkenberg himself was not a man
to be concerned much about such mere details,
but he was Trudel' s one thought by day and by
night, and while the faithful soul lived, there
was indeed one woman who loved him from her
heart's core. Truly her despotism almost
matched her love ; but then, as she would always
tell you, if she, who had had him in her arms
when he was scarce an ell long, did not know
what was best for him, who did ? As for taking
care of himself, there  he was just every bit as
much of a baby about it as on the day he was
born.

Bruno let Trudel have her way pretty well
entirely with himself and his belongings ; but
all her persuasions could not induce him to live,
as she phrased it, " like a Christian," and inhabit
his handsome house, instead of keeping it shut

up almost air-tight, and made a hunting-ground
for the rats and mice and ghosts ; but the surgeon
was obstinate in passing his existence, day
and night, in the great gloomy chamber, which
was his surgery and parlour all in one, while a
small recess in the wall contained the narrow
bier-like construction he called his bed. Where
was the use, he would rejoin to Trudel's representations
that Doctor Bruno Wolkenberg should
live surrounded by at least some of the magnificence
his repute and means commanded  if his
bed were of silk and eider down, he would be
more loath perhaps to come out of it, than he
was to leave the board and rug, whence one
could jump up in an instant on a sudden summons.
As to his meals, upon the self-same
principle, it was handier to take them sitting on
his little three-legged stool by the surgery
hearth, than in the fine, vast, chill guest-chamber
; because, when called away, as nine times
out of ten he was, just as Trudel had brought
him some nice, hot, savoury dish, it could be
popped down by the fire and kept hot there,
you know, even if you didn't come back till
midnight.

Then, too, those rugged, old smoke-embroiled

walls seemed to the lonely man more sociable
and friendly of aspect than the smooth-shining
wainscot and rich Flanders hangings, with their
brand new smartness, which only reminded him
of hope deferred  nay, well-nigh crushed, and
made him unendurable wretched.

Notwithstanding, in a lonely subdued sort of
fashion, the surgeon contrived to make his life
happy, when once he had got himself into his
rusty old frieze gown, and could indulge in the
luxury of an hour or two's uninterrupted experts
or research into that great art, his
devotion to which no love for woman could
deaden. And well indeed for Bruno that this
was so, for he was made of that sensitive stuff
from which so frequently spring madness and
self-murder, when hope is disappointed ; thus
work was his guardian genius.

To-night, however, he has laid work aside,
and is sitting wearily down to look at Tantalus
pictures in the fire. Outside it is blustering
and stormy, and Bruno's dog Balder pricks his
ears askance at the hurly-burly, and cowers
closer to the blaze. Old Trudel is dozing
away in her sanctum, which years ago the
surgeon caused to be made a model of snugness

for her, and in a hazy sort of way, hopes
that no one will come fetching her master out
on such a night. " Though it's more likely
than not, of course," soliloquizes she ; " for
sick folks haven't a spark of conscience, and
would worry you out of bed though you maybe
dreaming of the dear Heaven itself! And
it's now here, now there  I'd as lief be the
church weathercock as a doctor. There now !
didn't I say so ? " she cried, starting from her
comfortable posture at the sound of a knocking
at the outer door. " Never leave anybody in
peace, that they don't," she added muttering,
as she rose and proceeded to unfasten the heavy
bolts. As, however, she flashed her lamp in
the visitant's face, her ruffled old brow relaxed
at recognising the Professor Dasipoclius.

Ah ! You is it, Master Dasipoclius ? " she
cried. " Come in, come in then, out of the
rain. Have a care of the lintel; you'll be knocking
your head. Holy Virgin ! It is cold comfort
outside to-night. To my thinking, a thaw's
always crueller cold than the blackest frost ever
made ; for all the world like death-damps "

Your master is alone, Trudel 1 " asked Dasi-
potius, shaking the rain from his cloak.

Lone, poor dear, as the church weathercock,"
sighed the old woman, availing herself of her
pet comparison. " A deal more alone than is
good for him. But there's none so welcome
to him as you, Herr Professor." And then
Trudel fairly pushed Dasipodius into the laboratory,
and returned to her own sanctum, where
she folded her hands with a contented air on
her lap. Her poor Bruno would be happy now,
chatting with his friend of friends. Well, and
you would go a good long summer day's journey
before you'd find a pleasant spoken or a nobler
looking gentleman than the Herr Professor ;
hardly excepting Bruno himself.

"is there no hope?"

rFHE surgeon rose as Dasipodius entered, and
bade him a kindly welcome, though, perhaps,
a thought less hearty than usual. There
had of late come into their friendship  one
which hitherto that of Damon and Places
would not have shamed  the little rift, for each
fancied he had a grievance against the other.

In his heart of hearts, Dasipodius could not
refrain from blaming Bruno for his breach of
confidence ; and Bruno would not have been
human, had he not nursed a faint suspicion of
jealousy against his friend. Could these two
have mutually spoken out their grudges, things
might have been righted, but apart from his
promise to Eadegund, the mathematician's innate
generosity constrained him from reproaching
Bruno, while the surgeon's delicacy told him that
it would be an insult to Conrad's honour to hint
at a thought of jealousy on Kadegund's account,

because he was perfectly acquainted with all the
story of his friend's wooing of the Burgomaster's
daughter, and so there the rift remained ; not,
however, widening, after the manner of rifts,
but only jarring the once perfect harmony, and
no ordinary ear would have detected any want
of heartiness in Wolkenberg's welcome, as he
took his friend by the hand to lead him to a
seat.

Nay. No, come now, Bruno ! " laughed
Dasipodius, withdrawing his hand; "if I had
need of that, I should be undone indeed."

True," replied Bruno ; " but you are a marvel,
Conrad ; and I'd give something to change
bodies  and souls too, I expect, with you, for a
while, just to find out what that new sense of
yours is like. We ordinary mortals certainly
know nothing about it."

Don't wish to know it, Bruno," said Dasipo-
dies, in low sad tones.

Forgive me, Conrad. I have recalled the
memory of your affliction, when you are for ever
striving to hush it to sleep."

No  it never sleeps."

"Conrad! " bitterly cried the surgeon. "They
speak falsely who say God is always just ! "

Hush ! Bruno  dear old friend "

Well, well, but what would I not give to
win you back your sight."

Everything," said Dasipodius, resigning his
wet cloak, and the stout stick, without which he
never ventured abroad now. " Everything, I
know  short only of that honest love of yours."

The surgeon gazed keenly at his visitor s face ;
but saw only that its ordinary calm, almost sad
gravity had yielded to a quiet smile.

It might be worth letting even that go in
so good a cause," muttered "Wolkenberg.

No, no. You would do no such thing.
Why, I hate to hear you talk even in jest of
throwing away such a possession when once it is
yours."

How do I know that it is mine ? " growled
Bruno, with his hands in his pockets, kicking
over the three-legged stool. " How do I know

Nonsense, man, nonsense ! Where's your
patience ? "

Gone. I've had a good three years' stock of
it, and it's all gone  every jot."

Then lay in another supply. Mistress Kade-
gun will capitulate one of these days. A

woman, if she's worth the name, must bestow
her love somewhere, God bless her ! And Eadem
makes no secret about confessing you to
be her best and dearest friend, you ungrateful
Bruno  you."

Friend ! I loathe that word. It maddens
me."

"But do not let it. Women like Eadegund
von Steinbach glory in not owning to such soft
passions. But him she acknowledges to so great
a friendship for, as Eadegund acknowledges for
you, then, let her call him by what name she
will, that is the man she loves in her heart."

Did Sabina von Steinbach call you friend ? "
asked Bruno.

Nay, but then Eadegund is not Sabina,"
replied Conrad.

Truly, Sabina is not Eadegund," said Bruno
musingly.

Then each lover, falling to picturing to himself
the incomparably superior charms of his own
mistress, there was silence for some time in the
old laboratory.

It is so good of you, Conrad," said the surgeon,
breaking it at last, and, picking up his
stool, he seated himself at Dasipodius' feet, while

he began to rake absently among the embers
with an old divining rod. " It is so good of
you to talk to me like this. Not a soul besides
you, excepting perhaps poor old Trudel, cares a
fig whether I am wretched or happy, or here, orin
my grave."

You heretical, growling old Bear ! Tell me
now," said Dasipodius, feeling for Bruno's curly
locks, and laying his hand caressingly there 
let your mind's eye travel round this great
city of ours, and then count to me, if you can,
the homes where your wondrous skill has chased
away death and pain ; and then  pretending to
think none would weep for loss of you."

They would weep for loss of the good I can
bring them  not for me. I desire to be loved
for myself."

"And what is yourself but your skill, and
your skill but yourself? you dear, grumbling,
illogical, profitable servant. For what is it but
your own heart, goodness, and compassion, and
sympathy, working hand-in-hand with your
intellectual gifts, which makes you what you
are ? How can you sever one from the other,
without marring the whole  what God has so
welded together ? and that makes you what you

are, our good Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg, our dear
Saint Bruno."

Nay," said the surgeon, with a grim smile,
I should make but a poor saint enough ! "

You would have no vote in the matter. It is
the voice of the consistory which canonizes ; not
the catechumen himself," laughed Dasipodius ;
and at all events it's no flattery to say there's
many a worse saint in the calendar than you
would make."

Well," and Bruno laughed quite merrily,
it does need reforming. But it's all of no use,
Conrad ; you are very good to try and cheer me
with your gentle philosophy, and I like to ferret
your thoughts out of you if I can. But look
now, it is so easy for you to preach content, you
who have but to desire a woman's love, and it is

yours, while I " Wolkenberg paused and

sighed heavily, absently fixing his eyes on his
crucible simmering softly over the lamp flame.
What ever does go risdit with me ? When
now and again, perhaps, I flatter myself I have
lighted on a discovery which might bring renewed
health and life to thousands of one's
fellow-creatures, why, there my alembic cracks
and bursts, and the labour of days  of weeks

and months even  is all lost  all lost ! No,
everything fails, withers at my touch. While
you, whether it be Sabina's love, or whether it
be the Cathedral Horologe  all succeed with

you."

That reminds me," said Dasipodius gravely,
I came to ask you once more, Bruno, if indeed
there is no hope for my lost sight ? "

The surgeon coloured deep with crimson
shame. The tacit rebuke in the blind man's
words pierced him to the heart, and a tear of
regret for his thoughtless ebullition travelled
slowly down to his tawny beard ; and to the
mathematician's quick ear it seemed as though
his friend's breath came and went louder and
faster than its wont, until through the prolonged
silence there came a sound like an ill-suppressed
sob.

There, only think now," went on Dasipodius
quickly. " Should not I of all others have to
give a suffrage for your painting ? What should
I do without you, my Bruno ? "

Alas ! what have I done ? What can I do
for you ? " sighed Bruno.

Be a good fellow ; and tell me if these eyes
of mine will ever be worth anything again, for it
113

is all black enough about me now. So take your
lamp, and put me out of my misery at once."

The mathematician spoke cheerily, for him
almost lightly ; but his clear olive cheek was
deeply flushed, and the nails of his supple,
slender fingers were clenched into the very
flesh, as the surgeon rose, and fetching his lamp
from a distant table, returned to Conrad's side
with slow, hopeful tread. He knew there was
no more forlorn hope than this his friend had
come in quest of. Again and again Dasipodius
had submitted himself to these painful testing
at Bruno's hands, which the surgeon had deemed
might in the end lead to the restoring of the lost
sense, but each successive examination had but
confirmed his worst forebodings week by week ;
the dim sight had grown dimmer, the film which
at first had seemed like a thin veil to render
surrounding objects more beautiful, grew into a
haze which gradually blackened to a cruel mist,
until the mist itself grew dense, and then denser,
and midnight darkness supervened. Whether
in these days of continuous progress in surgical
science there might have been a chance for
Dasipodius, avails nothing to enquire. Certain
it is, that out of his soul's deep affection,

amounting to a sort of veneration, Wolkenberg
did what he could for his friend, but all his
efforts had been fruitless ; and now he prepared
for what he felt must be a mere empty ceremony.

The last time it had been gone through with,
the surgeon had darkened his dark old laboratory
to utter midnight obscurity, then lighting a lamp
he had flashed it in front of Conrad's eyes, which
had blinked at the sudden rush of light, but this
night Bruno, trying his experiment again, could
see that not a quiver disturbed those well-shapen,
heavily-fringed lids shading the grand sightless
eyes, which seemed to be gazing far away through
the dreary smoke-dried walls into some pure
illimitable distance.

You sigh, Bruno ? " said Dasipodius, as the
surgeon set down his lamp.

Did I ? " said Bruno.

Yes. Now, Bruno, tell me, did you pass that
lamp before my eyes again, as you did last
time ? "

"Yes," reluctantly acknowledged Wolkenberg;
then he added, still more slowly : " but you did
not know it."

I did not see the faintest glimmer of it.
Many thanks, Bruno, though after all, it was very

childish of me to come teazing you again. But
we poor mortals are so fond of hoping against
hope, are not we?" and Conrad's voice faltered
slightly. " What is this ? Another tear ? and
not mine ! By our Lady ! No, come now,
Bruno, old friend, I'll not have you fretting
your heart out so."

Oh, Conrad ! And they say Cod is good."

Well, yes, indeed. How can I complain.
I who, as you say, have so much  all that is
best, which cannot be taken away from me.
Hark ! " he cried, as some distant clock struck
eight. " What an idler I am ! There is a friend
reminding me of my own ewe lamb, waiting forme
at home. Do you know, my Bear, I am
beginning to care for that Horologe as if it were
some living human thing. I begrudge every
moment I am away from it."

It will be making Mistress Sabina quite
jealous," suggested Wolkenberg.

Not at all," returned the hard-headed, calculating
lover, " for it is to give her to me.
No Horologe  no Sabina."

I'm not so sure of that," returned Bruno.

Dasipodius contented himself with a smiling
She is a dear, good little girl. Now, sleep

well, old friend, and may all bright angels keep
Mephisto from cheating you into any more
miserable moods."

So, with step surer and firmer than many a
man's whose sight is clear as day, the blind
mathematician, accompanied by Bruno, made his
way out into the corridor. They had barely
reached the door before a fresh summons was
heard upon its massive oaken panels. Bruno
proceeded to undo the bolts.

There is to be no peace for you to-night,"
smiled Dasipodius, stepping aside to make room
for the new-comer. " What fresh trouble is
abroad, I wonder ? "

A rush of north-east wind forced the door
wide open, nearly extinguishing the lamp, and
literally blowing over the threshold, from the
dark street, a little figure muffled in a voluminous
mantle. Rude Boreas had played such
tricks with this cloak that its folds had become
twisted round and round, so as completely to
conceal the small person's head and face ; and
only a long tress or two of golden hair straying
and clinging outside, hinted at what manner of
creature might in time be revealed ; but the
surgeon's surmises were confirmed, when a little

white hand stole forth, and began to unswathe
the embarrassing drapery, until at last Bruno
recognised Sabina von Steinbach.

Mistress Sa " began he, but before so

much was well out of his lips, the Burgomaster's
daughter had hurriedly lifted a silencing finger
to her lips, glancing at the same time to where
DasijDodius stood back in the shadows, barely a
yard from her. Half-blinded by the sleet and
wind, the girl had still caught sight of her
lovers figure. Wolkenberg stood, sorely bewildered,
but Sabina's little warning gesture
quite sufficed for his doctor's second nature ;
and he only gazed in silence from Sabina to
where Dasipodius stood all unconscious of that
dear presence. Bruno saw that the girl's eyes
were riveted on the mathematician's face, half
puzzled, half scrutinizingly, while her hands
were clenched with agonised intentness.

Dasipodius was the first to speak. " Farewell
then, Dr. Bruno," he said, and so passed out into
the night, brushing, as he went, the skirt of
Sabina's mantle with his own long scholar's
cloak.

In breathless, statue-like stillness, Sabina
watched her lover bend his stately neck under

the low-arched doorway, and disappear in the
darkness ; and still when he was gone, she stood
as though transfixed by some terrible nightmare
dream, till suddenly, with a cry like that of a
poor, tender, wounded animal, she sprang to the
door. " Conrad ! " she wailed. " Come back,
darling  come back to me  Conrad ! " But
there was no answer, save the wind-gusts howling
up the deserted street, and the chill sleet driving
in on her death-pale face, and she sank despairingly
on the threshold. Then the pitying-hearted
surgeon approached and lifting in his arms the
poor lily, all drooping and shattered, bore her
to the warmth and shelter of his own hearthstone,
and there tended her, as he would have
tended some dear little sister of his own, back
to consciousness, and back too, as he sighing
thought, to the remembrance of some grief,
whose nature puzzled him every whit as greatly
as it had puzzled her father, no longer ago than
last night.

FAREWELL.

npHE house in the Dom Platz inhabited by
Radegund von Steinbach and her brother
Otto, was no modern sixteenth century edifice.
It had been built more than two hundred years
earlier by Erwin von Steinbach himself, for his
son John, and from him it had descended
through generations to the present possessors.
A grand old house, full within and without
of magnificent architectural beauties ; light, however,
clear, full, white daylight, was not one of
its strong points ; and on this account, Radegund
had had her difficulties in the choice of a studio
from among its many chambers. Ultimately,
however, she had fixed on one whose fair-sized
windows, looking out upon the Platz, afforded
her the best chance of tempering her lights and
shadows. Tradition declared this chamber to
have been the sanctum of Erwin's daughter, who
had followed in it the study of Painting's twin-sister

art. This circumstance duly taken into
account, what more natural than to hold the
place for haunted ? But Mistress Kadegund had
little fear of the ghosts ; she dreaded much more
those familiar lion-hunting, sight-seeing spirits,
who would seek admission to her studio, to get
a glimpse of herself perhaps, or to see the rich
carving of the famous oaken ceiling, and the
huge chimney-piece, with its quaint scroll-work,
and life-size figures ; and stand in admiring
wonder before the curious tapestry hangings,
somewhat ragged and faded now, which, it was
said, had been designed and wrought by the
world-famous architect's daughter.

It might very naturally be argued that Kade-
gun had it in her own hands to deny the sightseers
admittance, but her pride of ancestry 
and she would rather have been old Erwin's
descendant than the Emperor's own daughter 
outweighed personal considerations, and it pleased
her well that everything appertaining to the
memory of her illustrious progenitor should be
kept in remembrance. The place, therefore, was
accessible to those who sought the privilege, save
on occasions sufficiently rare, when one of her
exclusive fits chanced to be upon her. Such a fit

had possessed itself of her ever since her stolen
interview with her Cousin Sabina two days since.
During this time she had denied herself to her
most intimate acquaintance ; and now on the
third day she was by no means pleased when
she heard a voice without, asking admittance in
gentle pleading tones.

She made no response, but fiercely continued
her sketching in. Nevertheless, when the
knocking grew importunate and seemed in noway
inclined to give over until some kind of
answer had been vouchsafed, Radegund, in self-defence,
opened the door. "How is it that I

may not ? " she angrily began ; then she

paused, for it was Sabina.

May I come in, Cousin Radegund ? " asked
the girl. " I want to speak with you."

Come in then, child," replied the artist,
ungraciously enough, and leaving Sabina to find
a seat as she might, Radegund resumed her
labours at the newly-sketched canvas on her
easel, with her face well turned away from her
cousin.

; But see now, dear Radegund," said the girl,
I want you to lay down your pencil, and take
up your pen in my behalf."

All the way from her own house, Sabina had
been concocting this little speech. It is true
the nature of her errand was tearing her heart
in two, but she had persuaded herself that it
was best to pitch this confabulation with Rade-gun
in a cheerful and even jesting key, and
this pleasant little conceit of words she had
devised would, she thought, possibly help to
conciliate her somewhat difficult cousin into
doing for her the favour she had to ask. Just
that vexatious Nemesis, however, overtook
Sabina, which inevitably does overtake sore-hearted
folks when unreal stoicism strives to
conquer old Dame Nature, and she burst outcrying,
and that in no decorous flow of tears,
but a stream of bitter sobs.

Time was when in that warm, sheltering way
which was truly hers, Radegund would have
comforted and caressed the girl back to calmness
; but that was all changed now.

Upon my word," she said, " I never imagined
you were such a silly cry-baby, my dear.
What is the matter ? "

And at last she laid down her pencil, and
gazed at Sabina with cold, hard eyes, until the
sobs had subsided.

Possibly this lack of sympathy stayed Sabina's
weeping more effectually than all attempts at
consolation, for the Burgomaster's daughter
dried her tears quickly, and said, " Yes, that is
quite true, Radegund, for there can, of course,

be no more foolish thing than to cry for "

and then, despite her bravest efforts, Sabina was
near breaking down again.

Cry for what ? " demanded the impatient
Radegund.

For what one has never had," desperately
concluded Sabina.

Who has been teaching you to speak in
riddles ? " asked Radegund, lifting her brush
again.

It's no riddle," answered Sabina ; " it's the
very simplest, plainest thing in the world. You
say Conrad does not love me."

I say so ? " demanded Radegund, arching her
handsome brows.

Certainly you said so, and you are right.
If he had loved me, don't you suppose he would
have told me of his trouble."

But " interposed the artist.

No. I know all you'd say, Radegund ; but
you won't alter it, though you are always so

clever and kind, and I'm ve  very much obliged
to you for what you came and told me the other

night, and if forgive me, Kadegund, if I

had any doubt at all that it was not true, I
know now that it is, because I've asked Doctor
Bruno Wolkenberg, and he says it is."

What  what have you done ? " more
shrieked than said Eadegund, throwing down
her pencil, and turning on Sabina.

Now don't be angry with me, Cousin Eadem
It was not in the least, I tell you, that I
doubted your word, because you know, everybody
knows you are just truth itself  always.
Why, father often says, ' My niece Eadegund,' 
don't be angry now," deprecated Sabina,  " ' hasher
faults  but she's sterling gold '."

Eadegund shivered, and her pale cheek grew
aflame.

And so, of course," continued Sabina, " it
would not be that I did not believe you,  that
is, at last ; but when things have to do with 
with this sort of thing, it's the same as life and
death, isn't it ? "

Go on," muttered Eadegund.

"And so, to make sure I mean, of course,"
continued Sabina, floundering lamentably over

her choice of words, for there could be no question
but that she had secretly fled to Bruno
Wolkenberg that night with some faint glimmer
of hope that her cousin Eadegund was labouring
under some delusion  " for she looked fearfully
odd and wild "  Sabina had many a time since
thought to herself, " fearfully odd and wild "  to
make sure.

It was a seemly thing surely, for Mistress
Sabina von Steinbach to make Bruno Wittenberg
father-confessor of her love affairs," said
Eadegund, with seething anger.

I did nothing of the kind," answered Sabina,
her white brow flushing crimson. " I simply
asked Dr. Bruno how it was that Con  Master
Dasipodius had become blind."

It was a secret."

One which, before all other people, concerned
me."

And  you found I had told you no lies ? "

Don't speak like that, Eadegund," entreated
the girl. " It is so cruel  so unlike you. Listen,
I found only that it was all too true. But
we won't talk about that. It never is to be

talked about any more, when once See,

Eadegund, I came to ask you to write a letter

for me to  him  to the Professor Dasipodius.
And you will  say you will, because it must be
written, and whom dare I ask but you % because,
as you say, it is such a secret such a terrible,
terrible secret ! "

In the past happy careless years, had it once
crossed this girl's dreams that there would come
to her the necessity for writing such a letter,
she would, in spite of all objection, have had
herself taught to write ; then she could have
written her own letter, and perhaps would have
worded it differently from the one she would
have dictated to any third person whatsoever,
and might have materially changed the aspect
affairs were assuming ; but this world has always
been full of ' ifs ' and ' might have beens,' and,
doubtless, Eternal Providence cared for this
uncultured little lady every whit as much as it
cares for the girls of our period, whose un-thorough
scrappy notions of everything under
the sun from Sanskrit to sewing, render them
unfit  at least for man ; so events in Sabina's
life found their balance. Still, when it came to
setting down in staring actual black and white,
a farewell of the man she loved, she had to
summon all her fortitude to enable her to

dictate the cruel words. And Kadegund, seated
there, pen in hand, with her sphinx face, would
not help her by so much as a syllable. She
was, she said, but the instrument, and would,
of course, put down just what  Heaven save
the mark !  Sabina liked ; and thereupon Sabina
proceeded to dictate what, out of that unselfish
faithful love of hers, she imagined was the one
thing left for her to say  and the missive, in
its completeness, ran thus :

To tee Here Professor Dasipodius.

Since we last met, I have come to know of
you something which you have kept hidden from
me. You are blind. Why did you not tell me
so f You might have trusted me with your secret.
It ivoidd have been so far, far better that I should
have known all. But now, I will ask no questions,
because it does not matter. 1 desire no
answer. Your own heart knoivs that it will be
best for you and for me, that there should be no
answer, for what you have called love between us
must end. Farewell  good, dear friend '."

That won't do at all," snapped Eadegund,
lifting her pen  " that ending."

Why not ? " demanded Sabina, opening her
blue eyes wide.

It is too affectionate."

Not at all," sturdily returned Sabina. " Goon
please,' Eadegund." And Kadegund gloomily
dipped her pen into the ink.  " Well ? "

I shall always think of you "

That is ridiculous ! " and Radegund flung
down the pen, and half rose from her seat. " It
will make  everything a thousand times worse
than ever. He will not understand a bit that
you "

Oh, yes, yes, he will indeed. You don't
know Master Dasipodius so well as I do. Eadem
dear," said Sabina proudly. " I want him,
you see, so thoroughly to understand that I am
not  not a bit vexed with him,"  her voice faltered
a little. " You see now, don't you ? "

I hate half measures," muttered Radegund,
taking up the pen once more.

I don't know what you mean by that,"
humbly returned Sabina, " unless you want to
say that his not loving me is one half, and my
loving him, for I "

Ah ! For pity's sake, don't talk such nonsense.
What more ? "

1-14

Just an instant, dear, let me think. Stay,
yes, write  ' and may God and Our Lady protect
you always. Farewell,

'Your true friend'
Don't put any name."

How foolish you are, child. Why not ? "

Because I don't wish," came the feminine
answer. " He'll know without that."

But the handwriting is mine."

That is of no consequence," returned Sabina.
I mean, you are of no consequence, you know,
and so  ah dear ! what do I mean ? " she blundered
on, for her tear-bedimmed eyes were still
able to mark the frown gathering on her cousin's
brow. " I mean that when he reads it, he
will understand that  oh me !  when Master
Christian reads it to him  of course, that it
is I, and no one else. I am sure he will,
Badegund."

Then put your mark," said Badegund, forcing
the pen into her cousin's ice-cold hand, and
slowly and reluctantly Sabina marked a little
cross, but the scratchy sign was quite unworthy
of those deft fingers. When, however, the task
was accomplished, Sabina stooped down over
Badegund, and was about to kiss her farewell.

"Don't, child! You stifle me," said the
artist, roughly pushing her aside. " Say, how
do you wish this letter to reach Conrad Dasi-
potius \ "

I thought, perhaps, my Cousin Otto would
take it to Master Christian's house, to the Silver
Dial, you know, as if it had come from you,
Eadegund."

From me ! "

Some business letter, you know, about the
Horologe."

You don't forget, I suppose, that Master
Christian is not aware of his son's blindness."


Oh, yes. I did ! I did," wailed her visitor.
I  I  it all confuses me so. No, of course,
Eadegund, it must not be taken there in case

Otto shall give it to Master Dasipodius
himself at the studio. Make your mind easy on
that score," interrupted Eadegund.

And seal it now at once before I go. Will
you, Eadegund ? " asked the girl anxiously ; but
scarce had the words left her lips, than the
Burgomaster's stick rapped a loud tattoo on the
door.

"Art ready to come home with me, little
one ? " he asked, peeping in.

Niklaus had been down to the Chancellery on
business affairs, and on leaving had chanced, ashe
frequently did, to look in on his niece, and
learning from one of the servants that Sabina
was with her, he had come up in search of them
both.

"Ah, ha!" he laughed. "There you are
then ! Two women putting their heads together
that always means mischief  itching mal-echo,
eh ? So come away, baggage ; do you
know it's growing pitch dark, and hours too late
for you to be out alone, It's well I came !
Come now, those two tongues would be wagging
all night, I'll wager, about furbelows and farthing-gales
and  and what not."

If Niklaus bungled a trifle over the end of his
little speech, it was, perhaps, because he had
been going to say " sweethearts," but he recollected
just in time that something was not
quite all ship-shape with Sabina on the tender
subject, and as to Kadegund, she invariably
frowned if ever he hazarded one of the small
pleasantries he deemed himself privileged to
indulge in at the expense of any one of Sabina s

girl friends, who chanced to be favoured with a
special admirer, or whom he thought might be inquest
of such an in dispensability. " And what
maiden was not ! Isn't it all right and proper ?
Why, I wouldn't give you five batten for a
woman who'd say no to a good honest fellow
who wants her to say yes. And my niece there
has her notions too, depend upon it, for all it
suits her to ride the high horse, and make believe
she's above that sort of thing. Above,
forsooth ! she may think herself in luck for all
those big black eyes of hers, if  well, well, each
to his tastes, and if a man likes the bay mare to
be the better horse, he might get her along
fairly, if he keeps her well on the curb ; but I
don't care for her tricks myself. They may be
vices, or tackle them the right way they maybe
good points. There's no doubt that women,
the very best of them, are odd creatures ; and
Radegund, the oddest of all. Made of good
stuff though, mind you. All the von Stein-baths
are."

Now, however, the Burgomaster, prudently
refraining from any playful allusions which
might have entered his head, rolled Sabina
warmly up in her furred cloak, and tucked her

little hand under his arm, and the poor child
had barely time to glance wistfully at the still
unsealed letter, and to say to Eadegund :
You'll do it for me at once, Eadegund 1 "

"Ay  of course she'll do it  be it what it
may. Whoever refuses thee anything, little
one, eh? Good-night, niece Eadegund. Sleep
well."

And then without more ado, the Burgomaster
hurried his daughter away.

END OF VOL. I,

si

&r* *&".

m.

mm

:i. "\s4f

&' r ~> '<

&$g'&m

2*

t* M.}

I?



>j$P

&vcfoy}sx

%%

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

82.3
R79Bs

MARY C. Russell.

AUTHOR OF

"ST. NICOLAS' EVE," " LOVE LOYAL," "TRAITOR OR
PATRIOT," &C, &C.

'AS MANY LINES CLOSE IN THE DIAL'S CENTRE
SO MANY A THOUSAND ACTIONS, ONCE AFOOT,
END IN ONE Purpose" Henry V.

VOL II.

LONDON" :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LE BAS & LOWBEY,
PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1886.

v. X

CONTENTS.

H--l

CHAPTER PAGE

XVIII.  Dagger and Poison Cup 1

XIX.  " Were all thy Letters Suns, I could not see" 18

XX. A Noisy Committee 30

XXI. A Chilly Greeting 38

XXII.  Unjust Suspicions 47

Xxii "The Times are out of Joint" . 59

XXIV. "What's she worried about?" - - - 71

XXV, Nine Days' Wonder 83

Xxvi" Mere Hearsay" 97

XXVII. A Moonlight Meeting 109

XXVI1L "Affinities" 124

XXIX. "Worse than Silence" 137

XXX. A Cause Celebre 148

XXXI. "Quo fata Vacant" 172

XXXII. Otto's Little Difficulties - - - - 187

Xxxiii" Give up the Plans!" 197

XXXIV. "Inter alia" 209

XXXV. " Dolce far Niente T' 222

Xxxvi" Under the Shade of Melancholy Boughs " - 233

Xxxvii" The Old Love or the New ? " - - - 252

XXXVIII. Time's Changes 266

XXXIX. A Visit to the Dial 278

XL. Gretchen - 296

XLL A Clean Confession - 310

Xlii Otto finds Consolation - 332

Xlii " Making Night hideous" - 340

XLIV. Vox Populi 353

XLV. Old Friends 363

Xlvi How Extremes meet 374

Xlvi " Homo Sum" 387

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/silverdial02rows

CHAPTER XVIII.

DAGGER AND POISON CUP.

"DY the time Sabina and her father had bidden
adieu to Radegund, the grey wintry twilight
had deepened into blackness, and the artist
found it was too dark to seal up and direct
Sabina's letter. Merely folding it, therefore,
she laid it on the ledge of her easel, and turned
to take up her old brooding attitude in the
flickering firelight, until a message was brought
that the Bishop waited below to speak with heron
some question concerning the Horologe.

She hurried down, and my lord, who always
enjoyed a chat with her, prolonged his interview
for some time after Eadegund had heard her
brother Otto striding impatiently to and fro in

21

the adjoining room  sign unmistakable that
he was waiting for her to come to supper.
Indeed it was already past the usual hour for
the meal, and Eadegund was not sorry when at
last her august visitor took his departure.

The poor boy must be famished ! he has
been waiting this half-hour," thought she, with
the strong motherly solicitude she had for him.

To many, despite his handsome face, Otto was
not an agreeable young man. Well-born and
reared, he yet had about him a touch of that
ill-breeding which is conceit's unfailing attendant.
Of firmness of character and self-reliance
he had little ; and his weak nature had allowed
a natural jealousy of disposition to become an
uncontrollable passion. He was impulsive, and
not destitute of generosity. People were apt to
mistake his transient fits of ardour for real deep-seated
enthusiasm, but this quality for good and
for evil belonged to his sister, and not at all to
him. He was, however, quick-witted and to a
degree clever, as who of the race of von Stein-bach
was not ? but genius he utterly lacked ; and
his mediocre talents ran small chance of increase,
since he had never been able to grasp the practical
meaning of mental application. Compared

with Kadegund' s intellectual qualifications, his
were as pinchbeck to gold, but that is in no way
to refuse recognition to the qualities of pinchbeck.

Kadegund, however, whose perception of
people's shortcomings was ordinarily acute, saw
few faults in Otto ; or if she did, never admitted
their existence, and if it pleased her to tell him
of his little failings now and again, that was her
affair ; but other folks, marriageable maidens
notably, were to be filled with admiration and
sighs for her Adonis-faced brother, and when
first she heard that Sabina, instead of jumping
down the irresistible creature's throat, had dared
" little chit of a thing ! "  to refuse the offer of
his delectable self, she could hardly credit her
own ears, until  until she came to understand
who was the favoured suitor.

Otto, when he could spare a thought from the
consideration of his own perfections, would say
that he admired Kadegund, and that those who
sought her favour were not so far wrong, and in
his own rather shallow way he loved her. He
always found her a patient listener, when he
poured forth, as he very often did, a list of his
numerous individual grievances. Sometimes, it
must be confessed, he did not escape a sound

rating for his pains, on account of his weak
vacillating ways ; and Kadegund would declare
that he ought to have been the woman and she
the man ; but oftener she would pity him, and
even join in denouncing the appreciating world
he was thrown upon.

All this Kadegund would do ; but one thing
she never did, and that was to confide in return,
her own hopes and fears and joys and sorrows
to him. " Poor child ! no "  she always cheated
herself into saying. " Why should I worry him
with my vexations ? He has enough of his own."
But she knew that was a self-deception ; and had
Otto been of her own calibre, she would have
been glad to make a friend of him, this proudhearted
friendless woman. As it was, however,
the two rubbed on their somewhat gloomy
lives together in the magnificent old ancestral
mansion, and people would point them out asa
model brother and sister ; which perhaps, as
far as imperfect human nature let them be, they
were.

At zero though Otto's love affairs of late had
been, he had not lost the rare appetite with
which Providence had blessed him ; and if he
were kept waiting for his meals for even three

little minutes, he considered himself very criminally
dealt by ; and on this particular evening
he had come in, and found his sister not waiting
for him as usual, and as he considered it behoved
her to do. Otto always regarded Radegund' s
absence from the guest-room at this hour of the
evening as a personal affront ; and the worst of
it was that lately she had got into a trick of
doing so, especially while the Saint Laurence
picture had been on her easel.

Had there been, however, any shadow of
an excuse for it then, there could be none now
that the Saint Laurence was safe on the cathedral
wall, and Otto did not mean Radegund
to get into that aggravating way of neglecting
him for pictures and things. Seizing a lamp
therefore, he tore, three steps at a time ? up the
wide oaken staircase, and in his own privileged
way, burst open the studio door.

Aller Teufel ! " he cried. " I've been in ever
so long  I'm famished, Radegund, and it's an
abominable shame "

But no Radegund was to be seen. Raising
his lamp aloft, he peered among the shadows it
cast, and called her by her name, knowing that
it was perfectly possible for his sister to be within

lialf-a-yarcl of him, and yet for her not to reply.
It was another of her tiresome whims ; and one
which of late had much grown upon her, to pay
not the slightest heed when spoken to ; and you
might as well be a wooden stick at once, for all
the notice Kadegund would sometimes take of
you for hours together. Now, however, not
even her bodily presence was there ; and since
Otto had no fancy for being alone in that
great dark chamber, he turned to go downstairs
again, when suddenly the flare of his lamp caught
the picture on Radegund's easel.

What termagant creature is she putting on
her canvas now ? " he muttered to himself, as he
approached the picture. " I never can, for the
life of me, see any beauty in these viragos
myself. One of your soft dove-eyed women
now, is worth a dozen of 'em," sighed poor Otto.
By Jupiter ! didn't I say it ? Some she-demon
or other ! "

And he recoiled a step, as a pair of fierce eyes,
more ghastly from their vagueness, glared out at
him from the canvas.

A Cassandra," he went on, out of his little
Latin, and less Greek which he had contrived
to drum into his brains during his schoolboy

years, " or is it Medea ? Anyhow she's pointing
down at some piece of devilry she's been at,"
and involuntarily Otto's eyes fell to the base of
the picture whither the figure's shadowy finger
pointed. On the ledge of the easel lay a piece
of folded parchment. Bringing his lamp-light
closer to it, Otto saw that it was addressed in
Eadegund's handwriting to Conrad Dasipodius.

Now, what can she be having to say to
him ? " he mused, and as he stood considering
it with wide open eyes, a cunning smile gathered
about his lips. "Ah ha! sister mine!" he
muttered, " I have you at last, have I ? " Then
he took the letter, and fingered it laughingly.

For long past Otto had had his suspicions that
Radeo'und's admiration for the stately Professor
Dasipodius was not an exclusively artistic one.
That Nature broke the mould after having
created him, Badeguncl took a delight in declaring
; especially in the hearing of those among
her admirers who chanced to be insignificant in
stature or of physiognomy ; and this very plain-spoken
avowal set those interested to find out
the truth completely off the right scent. " For
no woman," as they argued, " ever blazons
abroad such open admiration for a man she is

in love with." Shallow arguing ! and the ways
of woman, when she so chooses, are past man's
finding out ; unless, possibly, to a disinterested
man like Otto von Steinbach.

Disinterested indeed, as far as Radegund was
concerned, Otto might be, since so long as she
would one day settle quietly down with a decently
wealthy and well-born suitor  the wealthier of
course so much the better, because then he might
rather help than hinder Otto's own worldly prospects
; the young man cared little enough who
might be the favoured one. Otto, however,
did care very much to arrive at any means which
might compass the breaking of Dasipodius' love
plighting with Sabina von Steinbach. That once
achieved, he had no fear whatever of making his
own way with her. Why not ?

And so when Otto's eyes fell on this letter
addressed to the mathematician in his sister's
own handwriting, he fancied himself quite on
the right tack, or at least hope whispered very
encouragingly to him. Still he could not quite
see how he was going to bring things into train,
and he stood and pondered, until his thoughts
assumed an exceedingly definite shape. The
letter was unsealed, could be opened and read as

easily as looked at almost  and why  why
should he not read it ? What hindered ?

Honour did for full two minutes, nearly three,
and then the meaner spirit of him whispered
that there must be no further shilly-shally, that
such scruples were absurdly, fastidiously delicate,
when in all probability, that letter contained
nothing but Horologe business ; and
supposing, after all, it did touch on extraneous
but interesting matter, was it not right and
proper that he, Otto von Steinbach, as master
of that house, should know what was going on
under his own roof? Was he not guardian of
his sister's honour ? and was it not high time
that he should set about acquainting himself
with some of those proceedings of hers which
she kept so mysteriously to herself ? Then too,
there was his cousin Sabina's imperilled happiness
to be borne in mind. Yes, the sudden clearness
with which Otto now saw these points utterly
extinguished any intrusive little scruples, and
anxiety on that score being thus quite set at
rest, he set his lamp on the table, opened the
letter  not without many glances first round
the dark still chamber, and began to spell it
carefully through. Otto, as already hinted,

being rather a ten o'clock scholar, had some
difficulty in mastering the hard words, but finding
the contents interesting, it seemed to him
worth while to persevere ; and something over a
quarter of-an-hour left him in possession of as
much as the missive had to tell ; but to grasp all
at once its full meaning was too great a tax on
his brain, and for some moments his countenance
wore an utterly dazed expression, and there, as
though rooted to the spot, he stood, striving to
set a little in order the bewildering suggestions
it had called up within him. " Blind ! " gasped
he. " Now. who would have guessed that ?
And yet  ha ! ha ! so much for friend Conrad's
inspiration, as the fools call his star-gazing.
Inspiration ? Magic perhaps ! What do I say ?
Perhaps ? Why it must be. Seeing without
eyes indeed ! Oh ! it's horrible to think of 
horrible ! Why, the cleverest person, ever so
clever  I myself can't tie even a shooting
with shut eyes ; and you mean to tell me  no,
it won't do. Besides, aren't his eyes as good-looking
 almost, as mine ? Impossible." Then
with forefinger pressed against the corner of his
wrinkling brow, and demonstrating the hollowness
of his own proposition, since he shut his

eyes fast in order to see the better into his own
mind, lie stood lost in meditation.

At last, carefully folding the letter, he replaced
it where he had found it ; then catching
up his lamp, hurried with a light heart downstairs,
and as he went, " Blind ! " was the refrain
of his paean. " Dasipodius blind !  blind ! "

This knowledge of the master's affliction
appeared certainly to have put his pupil into
a charmingly good humour ; he had not felt so
pleased with himself and all the world for quite a
long time, and went so far out of his ordinary
way as to tell his sister, who now awaited him
in the dining hall, that she was a splendid
creature, by Venus ! " And upon my honour,
I don't wonder at all the fellows being mad
about yon, my girl. Such a knack, too, as
you have of putting on your clothes. You
make a rare picture yourself, Badegund."

And Eadegund, standing there beside the
supper-table, freighted with its costly silver-gilt
and shining Venice glass, did look rarely
handsome. Unlike so many sisters of her craft,
artist inconsistencies, who drape their figures
in graceful robes of happily-blended colouring,
while they render real life hideous by dingy

dress, crumpled lace, and disordered hair, Bade-gun
well understood the value of personal
adornment.

To-night her dress, whose sheeny folds swept
the oaken floor, was of some dark tawny-coloured
brocaded stuff, cut slightly open at the neck,
and squared about the throat, and finished thereby
a band of dead gold passementerie. The
sleeves puffed and slashed with velvet a shade
or two lighter than the dress, and reaching
to her shapely wrists, were edged with a
narrow band of the same rich trimming, while a
narrow frill of fine Flemish lace shaded the
white, rather transparent hands. A broader
ruff also of this same lace set off, more than
concealed, the rounded outlines of her beautiful
throat. This same ruff of the artist's had
afforded food for much discussion in certain
circles. The feminine fashionable craze of the city
vowed it was excessively absurd and antiquated
of Badegund to persist in wearing such a stupid
limping scrap of lace ; positively not four inches
wide, and certainly, all plaited, not above an
ell long ! But there, that always was Badegund
von Steinbach to go choosing to be different
from everybody else, she did so dearly love

anything that made her peculiar. Dispassionately
regarded, one would have held the accusation
of peculiarity to lie rather on the side of
the existing fashion, than on that of the old-world
frill to which Kadegund was pleased to
remain faithful. The ruffs of the really modish
dames of that day were miracles of building-up,
and had to be " under-propped round their
goodly necks," as an irate chronicler of the period
has it, " and pinned up to their ears, or else let
fluttering, like windmill sails in the wind ".

Now the ridiculous part of all this was, that
the male sex, with that proverbial ignorance and
ill-taste which invariably marks it in questions
of the sort, took a positive delight in abusing
the charming new fashion, and stuck so obstinately
to their opinion that Eadegund's ruff was
a thousand times more decent and becoming,
that certain weak young Strassburg female minds
began to entertain serious thoughts of going
back again to the older style, in spite of such
romantic nonsense being pooh-poohed by the
stronger spirits.

Decent and becoming ! Kadegund von
Steinbach ! Who's she, pray, that she's to set
the fashions?" contended these. "Decent and

becoming ! A good joke ! " and then the huffy
outraged matrons at once became more ruffs
and stifle-starched than ever. Then, too, Eadem
was possessed with " ideas " about her hair,
and scorned to lend herself to the wearing of
wigs of many colours, or to gold-powdering, or
dyeing, or any other abominations of the sort
practised in that unenlightened age, but gathered
it all up, and wound it in coils about her beautiful
head, and fastened it with a golden dagger-headed
spilling, she . had brought from Italy ;
and altogether there was a distinctiveness and
magnificence about Kadegund von Steinbach
which made her a pleasant sight to eyes dazzled
and wearied by the glitter of beads and bangles
and gewgaws.

But to-night, notwithstanding, Eadegund's
face wears a haggard look, and the crimson
spot burning on either cheek, renders its paleness
still more deathlike.

You have kept me waiting," is her sole
response to her brother's gallant little speeches.
Where have you been ? "

I  I was home rather late," stammered
he.

Nay," persisted Eadegund, " but I heard

you stamping about in here more than half-an-hour
ago."

When a man's ravenous," says Otto, seating
himself at the table, and commencing operations
without further loss of time, "he's apt to stamp
about. It saves him from doing some awful
mischief or other ; and I'm so starving, I could
eat a board to-night. But this capon is first-rate.
You've found a decent cook at last  eh,
old girl ? " hurried on Otto nervously. " Do
have a slice of this bird, Eadegund."

No ! " said Eadegund. " I'm not hungry,
Otto. Did I not hear you go upstairs to my
studio ? "

"Yes," replied Otto. "I went to look for
you ; but you weren't there ; and  and so I
came down again."

But not directly," she said, fixing her eyes
upon him with languid curiosity.

"No," admitted the truthful Otto. " I I
stayed to look at your new sketch, Eadegund.
She's an awful woman. Who is she ? "

Eleanor of England," absently answered the
artist.

"And what may she be pointing down at so
savagely ? "

Ah ! At fair Rosamond, while she drinks
the poison."

A nice cheerful subject ! " said Otto, fortifying
his nerves with a brimming beaker of
Burgundy. "But who is fair Rosamond ? "

"That is too long a tale," yawned Eadegund ;
then with a sudden fierce energy she added:
"Rosamond wronged Eleanor."

"Oh! a love affair was it?" said Otto, with
something of unfeigned interest. "And this
Eleanor, she was jealous  eh?"

"Perhaps  I don't know. I do wish you'd
eat your supper, and not worry about the stupid
picture. I thought you were so hungry."

Otto stared at his sister. This was the
first time within living memory that he
had ever found her unwilling to talk about
her art.

"I'm so tired to-night," she went on more
gently. "Tell me, Otto, did you notice a letter
lying about up there ? "

"A letter ? a letter ? " said Otto, knitting his
brows. "Yes, I  I think I saw something of
the sort. Have you tasted the new bin of
Burgundy yet, Radegund ? By St. Laurence !
what a bloom it has. Drink, my girl," and he

brinimecl a goblet with the blood-reel wine.
"twill do you worlds of good."

Eadegund drank it thirstily. " It was addressed
to the Professor Dasipodius," she said.

Oh, the letter. Ah, yes, it might have been
for aught I know," said Otto, nervously twiddling
a spoon. It seemed to him that her eyes were
reading him through and through.

It was not sealed," she said.

Oh, hem  was it not. Do you wish it
sealed ? " enquired the accommodating Otto. " I
will fetch it down, and do it for you."

Nay, I will go myself presently."

And after supper Eadegund fetched the letter,
and tying it with a silken thread, lighted a
taper and sealed it fast.

After all," she said with a contemptuous
weary smile, "it is nothing particular," as though
it were a trifle there had already been too much
talk about.

Ah, really ! " said Otto in sleepy tones.

It has to do with Horologe affairs."

Just so," gravely assented he.

"And you are to give it yourself to Conrad
Dasipodius."

Oh, certainly. Into his own hands."

Were ALL THY LETTERS SUNS, I COULD NOT SEE

V

"A LETTER for you, Master Dasipodius,"
accordingly said Otto von Steinbach next
morning, as he entered the studio.

Thanks, Otto ; from whom ? " said the
mathematician, stretching out one hand for it.
and laying it unopened on the bench beside him.

"My sister  bade me give it you," replied
Otto.

"That is well," said Dasipodius, calmly going
on with the delicate little wire coil he was
fashioning into a spring. "Ah ! you are there
still ? " he added presently, for Otto had not
stirred, but stood eyeing his superior curiously.
Do you know, my friend, that the wheel you
finished off yesterday does not fit."

"It's right enough," said Otto, snatching
the offending wheel from his own work-bench,
and thrusting it under Conrad's eyes. " Look,

you can see for yourself ; what is amiss
with it ? "

That," answered Dasipodius, " is for Hab-
recht to decide. It is enough that he says the
wheel will not do."

Habrecht is such a grumbler," muttered
Otto, but loud enough for Isaac to hear.

Now Isaac Habrecht was a worker after Dasi-
potius' own heart ; he lacked the soul and
inventive genius of his superior, but whatever
he did was done with all his might, and done
well, and anything carelessly finished off was an
intolerable abomination to him ; and so when he
overheard Otto's remark, he did not think it
worth his while to say more than : " The wheel
won't do ; we can't be having any slop-work
about the Horologe ".

Otto turned on his heel, and noisily throwing
down the wheel, glared wrathfully at it.
He knew that he might just as well set about
endeavouring to convince the two Nile statues
that he had made his wheel well, as these two
pig-headed mathematicians, when they said he
had not ; and unless he wanted, which he did
not, to lose his appointment under Dasipodius,
he dared not argue the matter further. Turning

therefore on Dasipodius once more, he only said
sulkily : " My sister bade me tell you that letter
was urgent ".

To escape the one chance of his infirmity
being detected, Dasipodius made it his invariable
custom to request one or other of his pupils
to read aloud to him any documents which
happened to be brought to the Dial.

"Then will you kindly read it out," he rejoined,
" while I go on with my coil? I dare
not let it unroll just now."

But to read that letter was more than Otto
had bargained with himself to do. Other reasons
apart, he was horribly afraid of bungling
over the hard words ; for it was one thing to
understand their meaning, and quite another to
pronounce them properly viva voce. Muttering
therefore something about having to attend to
his unsatisfactory piece of workmanship, he was
about to hand over the letter to Isaac Habrecht,
but remembering just in time that this quick -
sighted, ready-witted man would discover all
too soon what manner of letter it was, and
would therefore come to a halt long before he
had reached its more striking clauses, he changed
his mind, and looking towards Kaspar Habrecht,

who was busy over his wooden blocks in the
embrasure of the window, said, " Here, Kaspar,
my lad. Tis said there are hopes of your
making a fair clerk one of these days  give
us a proof of your scholarship, and come and
read out this letter to Master Dasipodius."

"Ay do. That's my brave Kaspar," said
Dasipodius.

The lad looked up from his work, and came
forward, pushing his bright hair back from his
broad white brow, and with a flush of proud
content, received the missive from Otto von
Steinbacli's hands.

Will it please you to open it yourself ? " he
asked, turning to Dasipodius.

"Nay. You shall do that office for me,"
smiled his master. " I cannot spare my hands."

And so, disentangling the thread, and breaking
the seal, Kaspar read out the superscription.
To the Herr Professor Dasipodius "

Never fret your brain about the preamble."
bluntly interrupted [isaac. " Let us hear at once
what Mistress von Steinbach has to tell us."

Excuse me," said Otto, " the letter's none of
your business, Isaac Habrecht."

The clock's my business," retorted Isaac ;

and if your sister is going to be good enough
to give us a notion at last, when she means
to finish off these gods and goddesses of hers,
why "

Holy Virgin ! " cried Dasipodius, with a
nervous knitting of his brows. " Do hold
your tongue now, Isaac. There'll be no
hearing the letter all day at this rate ! Goon,
Kaspar."

Since ive last met " began Kaspar.

"A strange beginning ! " thought Dasipodius,
industriously manipulating his coil. " I saw her
but yesterday."

/ have come to know that of you which you
have kept concealed from me "

What now ? " mused the mathematician,
with a half smile. " Some fresh offence of
mine, clearly. Well, well, she is a wayward
creature ! Heaven help the man she will call
husband ! Poor old Bruno ! "
And still he worked on contentedly at his
spring-coil.

"It would have been so far, far better that I
shoidd have knoivn all," continued Kaspar in
slow mumbling tones, for it began to be very
evident to him. that the letter's contents were

not intended for this house-top sort of proclamation.


Dasipodius, however, had no such impression.
That one secret of his heart, Radegund had declared
she equally desired to keep buried in hers.
Turning therefore to Kaspar, he said jestingly :
Well, my Kaspar, but you are such a laggard
at learning after all ! Make haste and let me
hear the rest."

"Yes, get on, for patience sake," said Otto.
Is this your fine schooling ? Do you think
Master Dasipodius is going to wait till next week
for you to under out your words in that fashion.
Give me the letter," and he snatched it from the
boy's trembling fingers ; for had he not by heart
what came next. " Let me see  hem  hem 
known all  hem  hem  trusted me  hem  ah
yes, here we are," he went on raising his voice,
and reading very distinctly, so that all who
chose to listen might hear : " Why could you not
have trusted me ? Why did you not tell me you
were blind f " But then his voice was lost in a
strange clattering of metal, and jarring of wires,
and falling of tools ; and low-bending necks were
suddenly upraised, and startled wondering looks
were turned on the mathematician.

What the foul fiend is my sister talking
about ? " said Otto, looking round with widely-rounded
eyes. " Has she gone mad ? "

But Dasipodius, with his fingers stayed in
their cleft movements, sat rigid and still ; until
at last in low monotone, he said once more, " Goon
".

Yes, you know, but really  ha ! ha ! this is
too absurd. Isn't it  by Jove, really ! " cried
Otto, emboldened by the impassivity of Dasi-
potius. " Too much of a good joke. But  just
listen to this now  but I will ask no questions,
since I desire no answer. Your lion heart knows
it will be best for us both you should not answer ;
for that which you have called love between
us "

Hush ! Silence ! It is from her, my poor
child, yes. Give it me. Give it me," cried
Dasipodius, and casting down the spring and
starting to his feet, he swayed forward with
outstretched arms hither and thither, like some
stately rudderless ship, while Otto, with swift
dexterity, thrust forward the chair on which he
had been leaning, and sprang noiselessly aside.
Then, turning to his bewildered comrades, he
pointed with mocking significant gestures at

Dasipodius, who was advancing with rapid strides
towards the spot on which he imagined Otto to
be still standing, and still with his hands eagerly
outstretched for the fatal letter ; but his knee
came in contact with the chair, and he stumbled
and fell heavily forward against its sharply-carved
corner. With a simultaneous rush, the
students flew to his assistance. Kaspar was first
beside him, and kneeling down, the boy gently
raised his master's head, and laid it back on his
own breast ; next instant his jerkin was dyed
through and through with the blood streaming
down from the broad brow, and it was all his
slender frame could do to support its fainting
burden. Then, however, the elder Habrecht
came and lifted Dasipodius tenderly into his own
strong arms, and with his handkerchief staunched
the wound, gazing down, meanwhile, with loving
anxiety on the pale closed eyelids.

Let be  let be awhile, friend Habrecht. Call
not thy master back to life yet. Let him rest
only for a few brief moments, pillowed there on
thy kind heart. Rest, ere consciousness shall set
again to his lips the cup of bitterness he must
drink so deeply.

So bravely ! bravely then, Master ! " said

Habrecht, when after the lapse of a few seconds,
Dasipodius once more opened his sightless eyes.

What has happened ? " asked the mathematician
in faint, dreamy tones, lifting his hand to
his head. Then with Isaac's aid he slowly
raised himself to his feet, but his cheek was
deadly pale, and all blood-stained from the
wound which had glanced startlingly near the
temple. " That letter ! " were his first words ;
who has that letter ? Give it me."

Do you hear ? " sternly demanded Isaac,
turning to where Otto had been standing. " Give
the master his letter."

But Otto was not there, nor in any other part
of the spacious studio. Neither, although they all
searched high and low, could the letter be found.

Otto has taken it with him, no doubt," said
Habrecht. "What has he gone off like that
for ? Run after him, Kaspar, and "

Nay, stay ! " said Dasipodius, lifting his
hand. " I have something to say first."

"Not now, Master," gently entreated Habrecht,
marking how vainly the low agitated voice
strove to regain its wonted firmness. " You
will be stronger by-and-bye, and then we can
clear up this strange mistake."

No," replied the mathematician, in resolute
measured tones. "It is no mistake. I am
blind, my comrades," he went on, turning to face
them all, "utterly  stone blind, and the daylight
to me is no more than the starless night.
It has been so with me nearly all the time we
have worked together."

Blind ! " broke forth the wondering chorus.
But  no, no, it is impossible."

No, with God nothing is impossible. I
w T ould  I should like to explain to you  now 
many things, but this letter  nay, I would of
course say, this unlucky fall," and Dasipoclius
lifted his hand to his head, " seems to have unnerved
me, and my brain is all confused. Lend
me your arm, Habrecht ; I had planned to get
through so much to-day ; but I should spoil it
now, and it must go  tomorrow  tomorrow.
Nay, that is your stalwart arm, Isaac, I meant
not you ; Kaspar here will do me the good
service to lead me home."

Isaac stoutly remonstrated. He saw what mischief
the fall and that " accursed letter," as in
his own mind he called it, had wrought, and it
seemed to him hardly safe to trust Dasipodius,
weak from his loss of blood and blind  (Heaven

and earth ! was it then true ?)  with only his
young stripling brother, through the jostling
street-crowd, but Dasipodius insisted. " If you
and I are both absent," argued he, smiling
faintly, " something or other will be sure to go
amiss with our Horologe ; for what is the body
without the head ? and by my faith, I think I
have mislaid mine,  so be my representative for
to-day, old friend."

For to-day  yes then," conceded Isaac, and
Dasipodius turned to go.

Poor little coil !" he murmured, as he passed
by his own bench, where his morning's work lay
all undone. " Strangled at thy birth. But 
shall give thee new life. See to it,
Isaac," and he turned, and laid it tenderly, as if
it were some sick, breathing thing, on Habrecht's
bench. "And," continued the Master, with the
stern, somewhat peremptory, ring in his voice,
which, on rare occasions, did steal its wonted
gentleness, ' ' bid Otto von Steinbach, when he
returns, attend to those wheel-teeth at once.
Come, Kaspar."

And one hand on his good stick, and the other
on Kaspar Habrecht's shoulder, Conrad Dasi-
potius went out from the scene of his labours

into the streets, and as he passed along, man)' a
fellow-citizen doffed his hat in respectful salutation
to their mathematician. It never occurred
to the good Strassburgers to take offence because
Dasipodius rarely, if ever, returned their greetings.
It was their creed that geniuses were not
to be held amenable to ordinary social conditions ;
and, of course," said they, " he is far too deep
in his calculations and things, to be able to see
outside him as one may call it ". And in that
way the worthy folks, out of the experience of all
who had ever had to do with him of his natural
courtesy and goodness, made every allowance for
what they regarded as his little eccentricities.
But undoubtedly, on this special occasion, if
Dasipodius had been accommodated with all the
eyes of the Apocalyptic Beast, they would have
been to him no more than that unpardonable sin
against the canons of true art, a matter of superfluous
ornamentation ; since all his faculties were
turned inward, strained to gather up, and to
grasp the full significance of that strange letter,
whose ending he did not even yet know.

A NOISY COMMITTEE.

TT7HEN Isaac Habrecht, having watched his
* master safely down the winding stone
staircase, returned to the studio, he found the
whole place in commotion. Work cast aside,
benches overthrown, a deafening din of voices,
and all other impending signs of miniature civil
war. From a dozen and more of mouths praise
and blame were pouring out on the absent; chief.
True, the odds were greatly in his favour, still a
malcontent minority was not to be put down,
just because the majority chanced to idolize
Dasipodius.

Otto von Steinbach had reappeared upon the
scene, and having constituted himself fugleman
of the rebel party, seemed to be amazingly
enjoying the distinction.

Mounted on his own work-bench, and gesticulating
with marvellous energy, he was haranguing

the whole posse comitatus with shrill
eloquence.

I put it to you all," shrieked he  " to your
ordinary powers of discrimination, you know,
my friends, to decide whether this Dasipodius
has not deceived us ? "

"Ay, ay," shouted some half-dozen voices.

Deceived, do I say?" continued the orator.
"That is no word for it "

"No, no," jeered the opposition.

"Made egregious fools of us. What do we
look like, I ask ? What do we look like now,
but double-dyed asses "

Hear ! hear ! " fell the universal assent.

"And  who, I ask you, who has done this
but the man we have called  I say now, called
master, Conrad Dasipodius ? "

Ay ! ay ! So he has ! " assented Otto's party.

No ! no ! Down ! down ! " shouted the rest.

Be quiet ! Let him say what he wants
anyhow," contended a couple of neutrals.

"Well," continued Otto, "isn't it as clear,
}'ou know, as the river Ehine "

"The Ehine's as thick as mud," argued a
voice ; " and we don't so much as know whether
he is blind as yet."

"He said he was himself."

Well, granted then. Whose business is it
but his own? Anyway it isn't ours,"

Not our business ? " wrathfully shouted
Otto. " Not our business ? And we are to be
hoodwinked then in this fashion ? Led by the
nose by this blind mole of a "

Shame ! shame ! " cried nearly all. " Down !
get down ! "

But Otto did not mean to get down ; he simply
modulated his accents a little. " Well, you
know what I mean to say is, don't you see,
that a man who can't so much as tell you white
from black is a pretty sort of a fellow to belaying
down the law to a set of intelligent,
educated, cultivated gentlemen like us. Do we
not know," went on Otto, plucking eloquence
from the calm murmur of enthusiasm thrilling
through all  " do we not know, and I put it to
yourselves, one and all, that we have here among
us minds  gifted minds with all their common
senses about them  mark you, none of your "

"Keep to the point."

"Well, I am keeping to it, an't I? Minds, I
say, who understand zoology every bit as well
as this  this Dasipodius."

Only a feeble sound of assent, however, sanctioned
this bold utterance, and signs of dissent
grew so ominous, that Otto, unable to beat a
retreat, took forlorn hope in a desperate following
up of the attack. " And do we not know as a
fact," he said, grinding his heel down on the
faulty wheel, " that at the time of the competition
for the Horologe commission, this fellow's
nomination was from beginning to end a matter
of favour and prejudice ? "

Oh ho ! prove that ! " burst out the Dasi-
potions, with loud laughter. " Prove that."

"You may laugh," hysterically retorted Otto.
Just you see you don't find yourselves having
to do it the wrong side of your mouths one of
these fine days. I tell you there were drawings
among those sent in for the Horologe ever so
much superior to old Herlin's, or Dasipodius'
either."

Yours, for instance," suggested Isaac Hab-
recht, speaking for the first time.

A burst of laughter greeted this remark.

That isn't for me to say," modestly said
Otto. " Syndic Hackernagel "

"Ho ! ho ! ho ! The crop-eared Anabaptist  "

Syndic Tobias Hackernagel did not hesitate
23

to pronounce my poor work as out of all comparison
the best  the most attractive  the
most "

Ho ! ho ! Kikeriki ! Cock-a-doodle-doo !
Fish to-day Good red herring ! Fish ! "

"That is simply vulgar," said Otto, crimsoning,
and loftily waving away the delicate
allusions to his patron's early avocation. " And
it is you who are wandering from the point
now, my friends ; I didn't want to talk about it."

That was true. Time, as he knew, was not
yet ripe for him to plead his own cause in so
many words. It was one thing for these hotheaded
young fellows to enjoy a scrimmage,
but quite another to fall in with his desire of
waking up some fine morning, and finding himself
installed in the Professor Dasipodius' place.
That indeed had not so much as yet entered
their minds ; he must be circumspect, and feel
his way gingerly as a cat over a muddy road.
Still it was pleasant to think he might be driving
in the thin end of the wedge.

"All I had in my thoughts was that this
Dasipodius should be taught to know his place
taken down a peg, as the saying is ; and when
he comes here L in the morning I propose, you

know, that we give him a piece of our minds,
and  bar him out."

Never had man more lamentably mis-estimated
the temper of his audience ; and amid cries of
Shame ! Down ! down ! Let's give him a
souse in the duck-pond ! " accompanied by a
variety of ungentle lunges and clutches at his
shins and ankles, Otto ran a perilous chance of
being totally worsted, had it not been for Isaac
Habrecht, who elbowing his way to the front of
the orator's extemporised rostrum, turned his
broad protecting back on the orator, and lifting
his hand, obtained by gestures, the cessation of
yells and catcalls his tongue must have demanded
only in vain.

Hear then  hear ! " broke forth an almost
universal shout. " Isaac Habrecht ! Loch ! for
Isaac Habrecht. Let us hear what Isaac has to
say."

What I have to say ? " said Habrecht.
Well ! it's not much ; only that you ought all
to be ashamed of yourselves for a pack of scurvy
rioters. What ! Might not the master turn his
back one poor five minutes, but you must, every
man jack of you, be raising a witches' sabbath
loud enough to waken the blessed dead from

their rest ? Fine bargain you, forsooth ! to go
picking holes in other men's coats, when you
can't stick for five minutes together to the work
under your fingers. Is that the way the master
made himself what he is, d'ye think ? But look
you, friends, I'm master here for this day ; and
if three minutes don't see each one of you back
in his place, I'll have the watch turned in upon
you for rioters and tumult-mongers. I've said
my say," concluded Isaac, looking round at
Otto. " And as for you, young shepherd !
get down at once with you, and be seeing to
those wheel teeth."

And Otto, who knew the playful ways of his
comrades when their blood was up, meekly
descended from his elevation, and sitting down
before it, sulkily took up his half-smashed wheel.
Thoroughly disliking Habrecht, on account of his
eternal fault-finding with his work, he by no
means relished being beholden to him now for
salvation from his friends ; but he knew also
something of that special predilection of the
practical fellows for duck-pond pastime, and how
they would indulge in it whenever opportunity
presented itself. There being just then, moreover,
a cold thaw on, he elected promptly to

obey Isaac ; while those of his compeers who had
deprecated the late demonstration, hastened to
fall in with Habrecht's injunctions, and those
w T ho did not know their own minds, began to
feel something like shame when their eyes fell
upon the master's vacant seat, and settled
quietly again to their work ; so that when some
half-hour or so after my Lord Bishop just
looked in to see how the Horologe was progressing,
the studio looked quite a model of order
and sobriety ; and he said to Master Gottlieb,
his chaplain, who chanced to be with him, " It
quite does one's heart good to see what a quiet,
well-conducted set of young fellows those are at
the Dial. Nothing in the least ramshackle about
them."

A CHILLY GREETING.

ll/TEANTIME Dasipodius and his young 
panton had almost reached their destination.


It had been a very silent walk, for the
mathematician was lost in a maze of thought ;
while Kaspar felt that he dared not give
utterance to the distress surging in his own
young heart.

Once or twice it did seem to him that he must
break forth, and tell his master of all the love
and pity that he was feeling for him ; but then,
lifting his own sympathetic eyes to those grand
sightless ones, an awesome dread restrained him.

Kaspar Habrecht's was one of those natures
folks even commonly observant are apt to denounce
as cold and undemonstrative. It is true
that his eyes were quick to glisten up with tears
at a tale of suffering, or his clear cheek to glow

at the relation of some deed of heroism, or his
countenance to grow bright with animation, when
he could stand by, and hear some learned question
of art or science discussed ; but the boy's sympathies
had to be truly fathomed ere they
would respond; and few would have guessed
at the world of chivalrous romance underlying
his calm even demeanour and outspoken common
sense. Where many would have fallen
down and adored loudly, Kaspar stood afar
off, and offered heartfelt, silent worship.

Such sort of honour and love as this it was
that he had for Dasipodius ; but the mathematician
himself did not guess at the place he
had won in this boy's heart, as much at
first, perhaps, by those little sentences of approbation
and encouragement which he would
bestow, and which Kaspar treasured up and
made sustenance of for renewed efforts. Often
too, when Conrad had been consulting with Isaac
about the Horologe work, he would lay his hand
on the boy's head and say, "And what think'st
thou, my Kaspar ? " And in this way the great
mathematical professor had come to be idolized
by the young artist.

There could, of course, be no Orestes and

Places element in this spiritual link between
the master and his pupil. Its conditions were
too unequal for friendship, but call it love, call
it  as Otto did  infatuation, or by any other
name whatsoever, the affinity drawing Kaspar's
young spirit to the kindred spirit of Dasipodius,
made him feel acutely for the grief which had
befallen him.

Had it been me now whom the great God
had afflicted like this," he kept mentally saying
again and again, as the two plodded onward, " I
might have more understood it. But for him 
him to be blind ! To think that he cannot seethe
merry sparkles all over yonder snow-heap,
nor those splendid red apples on Mother
Hedwig's stall. Donnerwetter ! they make one's
mouth water "  (Kaspar was after all but a boy)
"nor what a witch the old frau across the
street there has made of herself with her new
vertugaclins. Not an inch of room to get past
her  waddling old goose ! " and as he turned to
look after the fashionable dame, a smile flickered
on the boy's rosy lips, to die out again, as he
remembered his master could see none of these
things.

"Ah ! and now if there isn't old Burgomaster

Niklaus, with Mistress Sabina, coming along," he
went on dismay ely. "A plague on them both !
just when my masters hardly able to walk 
much less to stand chattering in the cold all
about nothing ! People always talk such nonsense
when they meet in the streets."

And Kaspar began to consider the feasibility
of dragging his companion aside, and letting the
two pass unnoticed, but tall folks are not so easily
lost in a crowd, and before Kaspar could effect
his purpose, Niklaus, with Sabina on his arm,
came to a halt in front of them.

Give you good morning, Master Dasipodius,"
said the Burgomaster. "And were you going to
pass old friends in the street like that  eh? But
isn't it a strange time of day for you to be gadding
about ? A thousand thunders man ! what
have you been doing to yourself, with that great
gaping slash across your forehead 1 And as pale
too as the moon ! If it were not you now, professor,
but some hectoring jackanapes or other,
one would ask if you'd been at fisticuffs, hey ? "

And the Burgomaster stared up in Dasipodius'
face with wide open puzzled eyes, while Kaspar
stood fidgeting by, turning hot and cold with
vexation.

"An accident, Burgomaster," answered Dasi-
potius, "a trifling blow I gave myself just now.
It was very stupid."

"Well," nodded the Burgomaster acquiescing,
" didn't you see where you were
going ? "

"No."

"But, upon my word, it hardly looks so trifling
as you call it," more seriously continued Niklaus.
"It isn't a very long cut certainly, but it's an
ugly one to fall just there, and has damaged
your brave looks for many a day to come anyhow.
Hasn't it, Sabina ? Bless thee, little
heart ! how pale the cold has made thee ! I
say these trifling blows are not becoming, are
they ? "

But the shrinking, tearful-eyed girl only stands
mutely clinging and plucking at her father's arm,
while Dasipodius, discovering who the Burgomaster
has for his companion, flushes crimson,
and with a smile quite lacking the old gladness
which had made it Sabina's own heart's sunshine,
turns and lifts his cap. Oh me ! and had
it come to this ? Yes, it is all clear enough
and quite quite true, then, what Eadegund has
told her ! True that he has no real love for her.

Of course by this time her letter has reached him.
Oh ! how glad she is she has sent it. No real
love for her. What need of further witness ?
Is not this enough, to see him standing there,
bowing to her gravely and distantly 1 He,
Conrad, who three little days ago had called
her his life and his soul's joy, and had held
her with enfolding arms clasped to his breast,
covering her rosy lips  ay, rosy then  how
ashen pale and quivering now !  with warm
kisses  and worse than that ! oh so far far
worse !  whom she had kissed ! Think of it.
There, close where now the blood still slowly
oozes and trickles from the cruel wound. Ay,
and would she not give her own heart's blood
to do it again ? To take that dear head for a
minute  oh ! pitying Mother Mary ! only for
one gracious minute, and lay it on her own
breast, and staunch the ugly stream, and kiss
and comfort away the smarting dreadful pain ?
But he wanted nothing of all that. Has not she
seen him lift his cap, and bow distantly, gravely
to her, as to any grand haughty lady, and not
the shivering, heart-broken Sabina, clenching her
fingers into her father's ample sleeve, so that she
may not cry aloud in her great agony. " Come

away, Vaterlele, come away ! " she gasps under
her breath to Niklaus ;  and under-headed old
father,  as indeed what better had he confessed
himself to be ? he sees no more through her
piteous perplexity, than he sees through the flint
wall opposite, and is just the least trifle in the
world tetchy at not being allowed to be neighbourly.


Well, well, child  a moment then, a moment,"
he said. "Ah  bless my soul ! Never
you have a daughter, friend  an only daughter.
They're as full of whimsies as eggs are full of
meat ; that let me tell you. See now, I'm not
even to be permitted to exchange a passing word
with you, because Master Jack Frost happens
to be nipping my little maid's roses away, and
making her shiver and shake like a leaf in a
hurricane. "Well, it is cold  decidedly cold 
so come."

And with a cheery " God-speed and have a
care of yourself," the Burgomaster tucked his
daughter's trembling little hand tighter under
his arm, and passed on.

Cold ! cold !  ay, bitter cold ! " murmured
the mathematician, recalling to himself how no
word had passed Sabina's lips, save that reiterated

pleading to go away. To escape his
presence, it was so obviously her meaning.
Come away ! come away ! " How chill and
harsh and loveless those words had sounded in
the ears, unassisted by any sense of interpreting
sidit. And the mortal chill fallen on his love,
fell then on his ambition too, or at least on
ambition's nobler part. " Cold ! cold ! " he
shivered. "Yes  death cold!"

Kaspar glanced up at him with wistful doglike
solicitude in his brown eyes.

"The cold is paining your wound, master'*
he asked.

"Ay," said Dasipodius, deadly pale, and leaning
heavily on the boy's shoulder, "and my heart,
too, I think, Kaspar."

Yes," answered Kaspar. " Such a wound as
yours is enough to make the whole body sick.
Cold does cut into wounds so sharp."

Like a knife," said Dasipodius faintly.

11 But we are close now to Dr. Bruno's ; so
courage, master," said Kaspar anxiously.

I doubt if he can do much for me."

"Not do "

Nay. Never mind  any way I have a
question to ask him ; and do you meanwhile

go back, there's a good lad, and see about
that letter you were reading out to me, and
bring it to me here."

UNJUST SUSPICIONS.

rpRUDEL being out marketing when the two
reached Bruno's house, Dasipodius fortunately
escaped any of the good creature's
jeremiads over his mishap, and it was the doctor
himself who opened the door.

Can you mend a broken head, Bruno ? " the
mathematician asked, as he followed his friend
into the laboratory. " If so, here's a subject
for you."

Ay," said Bruno. " Any number of broken
heads. It's only the broken hearts our skill
won't reach to."

A prolonged weary sigh was all the answer
to Bruno's little sally, and the surgeon, who had
already begun to unroll a piece of lint, turned to
look at Dasipodius, where he had sunk down on
the truckle-bed, leaning forward with both
hands clasped upon his stick. His eyelids

drooped heavily on the ashen grey cheeks, and
it seemed to Bruno that his face had suddenly
aged by ten years with those weary hopeless
lines which had gathered about the handsome
resolute mouth.

Pouring some strong cordial into a cup, he
held it to the mathematician's pale lips.
Drink this, Conrad," he said ; "it will give
you new life''

Dasipodius obeyed mechanically, and reviving
a little, he said, " To think that it should bring
a man to this. Eh, Bruno ! We are but poor
creatures after all  the strongest among us. I
should have thought I could have borne it
better."

It's an uncommonly ugly blow," said Bruno,
examining the wound. " How the devil did it
happen ? "

Oh ! this wound ? Ah ! yes  well, I stumbled,
poor blind wretch that I am, against a
chair."

The surgeon made no reply, but went on
scraping vigorously at his piece of lint, and then
proceeded to dress the wound, looking all the
while very grave and thoughtful. " You are so
silent, doctor. Is your considering cap on this

morning ? " asked Dasipodius, with a faint
smile.

Yes," said Bruno, and he said no more.

A heller for your thoughts, my Solon."

I was thinking," answered Bruno slowly,
that your blindness has served you a sorry
trick."

"Not a doubt of that."

Had it gone a couple of hair-breadths nearer
the temple, it must have killed you, Conrad."

Yes ? "

Why yes, yes," answered Bruno, provoked
by his patient's coolness. " And might not another
such accident befall you at any moment ?
And where is our Professor Dasipodius then ? "

At peace," said the other solemnly.

Nonsense, man. Drink some more of this,
and attend to me. So. I say, where would be
Strassburg's pride, where would be Sabina's "

Oh hush ! hush ! " cried Dasipodius. " Do
not speak of her  not now  presently, presently
not yet."

"Well, well," said Bruno, out of his knowledge
that invalids must be humoured. " What I
want to say is simply, why should you strive so
carefully to conceal your loss of sight ? "

24

Why," asked Dasipodius, lifting his head
with sudden energy from the cushion Bruno had
placed beneath it,  ' ' why do you ask me such
a question as that ? I could not have believed
you would have wasted breath on it. Don't you
see that' they would perhaps deprive me of the
Horologe commission?"

"Nonsense  stuff!" said Bruno, laughing outright.
" Do you think we don't know a clever
man when we've got him better than that ?
Upon my honour, Conrad, you don't give Strasbourg
credit for much."

No," said Dasipodius, " not much."

Well," conceded Bruno, " of course it's undeniable
that the world's fuller of blockheads than
of wise ones, and you may be right, only "

Time will show," interrupted the mathematician,
" and quickly too ; for in twenty-four
hours all Strassburg will know that I am
blind."

What ! " said Wolkenberg, turning with
amazed eyes on Dasipodius. " How ? In
Heaven's name, how ? "

By the usual channel for all secrets, a
woman's tongue."

Holy Virgin ! " ejaculated the surgeon, pale

now as his friend. " Not Eadegund ? No ! she
has not played me so false as that ? "

Oh, yes. She did that long ago. But never
fret yourself on that score, Bruno. I have pardoned
your share in the matter long since. I
did not mean to have spoken of  of that mistaken
kindness of yours ! But it was weak of
you, Bruno. Forgive me, my Bear, you know
I love you far better than I love your Eadegund ;
and I could easier have borne the truth from
your own lips."

Oh, Conrad," moaned Bruno. " But I did
not betray you."

11 I thought you did."

No. As heaven will judge us all, I did not."

I believe you, Bruno, and I am glad  very
glad."

Listen," said Bruno, " and I will explain  "

No, no. I'll have no explaining, your word
is as good as a thousand of them ; and besides
that is all past and gone. Be content, Bruno,
your Eadegund has no share in the misery this
time. It comes from nearer home, so near  oh
my God, Bruno ! " and Dasipodius clutched
wildly at the surgeon's arm. "It is Sabina 
Sabina von Steinbach who has done this."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNniS

Curse all women and their tongues," growled
Bruno through his set white teeth, and his yellow
hair bristling. " But there is some devilry at
the bottom of this. Tell me more about it,
Conrad."

There is so little to tell," answered Dasipo-
dies ; and then in a few words he related what
had taken place that morning in the studio.

And the letter," asked Bruno, when he had
done, "was in Mistress Sabina's own handwriting,
you say ? "

How could I tell ? " demanded Dasipodius
reproachfully. " I have an impression she cannot
write ; but it is of little enough consequence
whether she wrote it herself, or found a scribe ; it
comes to just the same thing every way."

But Dr. Wolkenberg only rumpled up his
hair still higher with his fingers, and stared
thoughtfully into the fire. " You have the letter
of course ? " he said at last.

No. In the confusion, I suppose, it fell on
the floor. Kaspar has gone back for it now.
But that will not mend the matter. The cruel
words will still be there."

And you are sure you understood them
rightly ? "

I am not apt to misapprehend," said
the learned professor of mathematics.

Ah ! I mean, } r ou know, you are sure you
heard the letter to the end ? "

I am sure of nothing. How can I be ? "
demanded Dasipodius in tones strangely unlike
his own. " How you do worry ! Must I say
again that what I heard was enough. A million
others could not deaden their sting. Oh Bruno !
Bruno ! what hard hearts these women have ! I
could have sworn by the Holy Rood that the
child loved me."

So could I," murmured the surgeon.

There  let us speak no more of her, and for
the rest, who can tell ? Bruno, what a strange
power guides our destiny. Why, think only, it
is this heart's love of mine that 1 thought so
priceless, and would not have bartered for the
Horologe itself, no, nor a dozen Horologes  I
say it is this which has ruined all my brain's
labour, and what is left  what is left ? "

And then, just as on that day when his old
friend Chretei was laid to his rest, the mathematician,
worn out with mental and bodily pain,
laid down his head, and sobbed bitterly ; but
this time his pillow was no chill snow clod, but

his friend's warm sympathising breast, and for a
while Bruno, knowing that all his skill could
devise no such real relief, let the sobs have their
way, and his own blue eyes grew moist for his
friend's trouble, but as he sat there beside him,
he was puzzled sorely. " Ay, ay," he kept
saying over and over again to himself, " I could
have sworn she loved him."

Soon the mathematician's almost dauntless
spirit reasserted itself, and it seemed to him a
blessed thing indeed then to be able to call such
a man as this Bruno Wolkenberg, friend. Can
one ever be really alone in the world with one
true friend ? If life was to have no more sunshine
for him, at least there would be the soft
starlight, and he rose up and grasped the
surgeon's hand in his. " So now," he said, " I
have been miserably selfish to keep you from
your crucibles all this while."

But Bruno detained him by the hand, and
would not let him go.

Loose my hand, Bruno," he said, with a
saddening little effort to smile. "If we stand
mischance here all night, you will be able to
throw no light upon this question."

Do you recollect," said Bruno, desperately

rushing at his subject, " do you recollect the last
time you were here? "

"Surely I do," said Dasipodius; "just five
days ago it was."

You recollect that as I let you out, some one
else came in. Yes ? "

Yes," quickly answered the mathematician.

Do you know who it was ? "

I had a foolish idea, and as I went home I

laughed at myself for my blind fancies  shall I

tell you, Bruno  can your science explain, I

wonder, why I should have thought "

You thought right. It was Sabina von
Steinbach."

And what did she do, poor little one, out in
the cold and darkness ? Tell me, Bruno, what
brought her to you at such an hour ? A stolen

visit "

To ask me if you were blind."
"A practical-minded maiden, truly," scornfully
laughed Dasipodius. " Having picked
up her suspicions, heaven knows where, she
came to the fountainhead, and you said
yes ? "
"I did."
God forgive you, Bruno, you served me an

ill turn," and the gloom gathered heavily on the
mathematician's brow.

I did it for your sake  for the best "

Naturally. You always do," said Dasi-
potius bitterly, " as you told that other
woman."

You are unjust," answered Wolkenberg. " If
you had seen her "

If I had seen her ! If I had seen her ! Oh
great heaven, how have I been betrayed by the
two I loved best in all the world ! "

I say you are unjust "

And you are weak as water. Farewell,
Bruno Wolkenberg. When Kaspar returns with
that letter, be so good as to send him after me
to my house."

And turning on his heel, the blind man strode
out into the street alone, more utterly alone
than ever he had felt in his life. For him love
was dead since Sabina was false ; and friendship
a mockery, now Bruno had proved himself unworthy.
Only the Horologe was left. Henceforth
that would be to him friend and mistress
and all. He had always loved it as if it were a
human thing, as men do love their brain
children, and now now that he had, as he told

himself, lost all else, it would be to him a
thousand times more dear. It owned now his
undivided love. He was like Faust before the
arch-fiend came to tempt him away from his
crucibles with fair dreams, and ruin him with
sweet longings worse than vain. It was with
him now at last, as Heaven from the first had
meant it to be, and henceforth he would be able
to give himself life and soul, and heart and body
to his work, just as the priests of old Greece
belonged to their temples. And he had thought
to subdue destiny. Fritter his God-given life
away on poor, fickle, foolish, perishable human
affection ! Had presumed to imagine that his
heritage of intellect and genius might be made
to go hand in hand with it. But he saw his
error now. He had come to feel how blind 
how doubly blind, more densely blind mentally
than ever he could be physically  he had been.
Now he could see how incomparably better than
all the love  love forsooth!  of a little, capricious,
shallow-hearted . Nay ! No, no, but

the child was right. How was it possible
to love a blind man \ What woman could 1
Heaven was just, and had interposed for her,
when his selfish mad passion would have carried

him astray. It had been unjustifiable, a
crime in him to conceal his affliction from her ;
and now he was well punished. Love a blind
man ! "Oh Sabina, my darling, heart's dear 
only little one. And it was this love of mine
for thee did thee this cruel wrong. Forgive me

thou  my own first, last, lost love "

Some one gently touched his arm. It was
Kaspar Habrecht, who said that Otto von Stein-bach
had returned to the studio, and indignantly
denied all knowledge of the letter ; and though
they had searched high and low for it, it was
not to be found.

"the times are out of joint."

"VTEVER since the Burgomaster's daughter returned
from Freiburg, had the old house in
the Munster Grasse seemed so dull and sombre
as in these last days. A shadow had somehow
settled upon it, and even the dining-hall, always
the very sanctum of snugness, had come to be
oppressively gloomy.

It was odd too, for the fire on the wide hearth
burned and crackled as briskly as heretofore, the
board was laden heavily as ever with good fare,
and sparkled with ruby and golden tinted wines ;
and if folks have dainty food and warmth, what
more can they possibly want to make life happy ?
Then Sabina's cat Mitte purred and dozed away
her precious life beside the fire, just as ever she
had done since sisterhood had become to her asa
foolish dream, and the old clock's eyes goggled,
and it ticked away at its eternal song, and the

young house-mistress still plied her needle in the
window corner. Truly she had given up singing
the sweet old songs she used to sing, and her
virginal stood, polished indeed, but idle and
mute as the voice of the little mistress, and, 
well, there is no doubt that very trifling matters
greatly influence the atmosphere of daily life,
and possibly it was the absence of Sabina's happy
voice which occasioned this palpable dreariness.
Ever since Cousin Eadegund had slipped in to
pay Sabina that nocturnal visit, the child had
grown so preternaturally grave and silent, walking
about the house with slow noiseless footfall, and
an air as serious as the demurest Anabaptist
maiden in all Strassburg. Indeed, Niklaus almost
began to fear she might have become infected
with some one or other of the heretic notions
flying about ; but he soon dispossessed himself of
that fancy, because his daughter was, if anything,
more regular than ever in her visits to the Saint
Laurence chapel. And at last, the utterly nonplussed
Burgomaster asked Sabina point blank
what ailed her, and Sabina said, "Nothing,
Vaterlele ; what put such fancies into your head ? "
in such admirably simulated tones of gaiety that
Niklaus could say no more.

He was, however, not one whit better satisfied.
Something, he felt persuaded, was out of joint,
and he would have given his best diamond to set
it right, even had it been only for his own selfish
sake. It was so appallingly dull of an evening
now for one thing. The Professor Dasipodius
had, for instance, not looked in  oh, for quite
these ten days past, and the Burgomaster missed
his chats horribly. One thing, however, Niklaus
aimed from these dull facts, and that was that
any foolish notions Sabina and Conrad Dasipodius
might have had about each other had come to
nothing, because when he had hinted they might
do as they liked, the two perverse creatures had
just turned off at a tangent, and chosen to stand
aloof ever since. Oh, he had noticed it all. He
did not wear his head in a bag, whatever people
might think, and however certain wise heads had
blamed him for not playing the stern parent and
forbidding any communication between them, if
he was against the match  if he was, which
indeed he had come to be not so sure about. In
any case, he was no friend to curbing reins  let
young creatures have their heads a bit, and then
they would soon find their senses, as no doubt
these two had done, and found out  before it

was too late  Heaven be thanked, that they
were not made to run in a couple. Had he been
obdurate, then of course they would have made
martyrs of themselves, and his life would have
been rendered a burden to him by red eyes and
ceaseless sighing, and the knowledge of being
privately regarded as a monster  but now
nothing of this sort could be laid to his charge.
That was one comfort. But it was not all
sufficing. The fact of the change in Sabina
remained, and sorely it fretted him. Could it bethe
weather perhaps ? Ay, ay. The weather it
must be, of course. Such grey leaden sky, such
snarling biting east winds, making handsome
women look plain, and ordinary ones atrociously
ugly, were not within living memory ; and
Sabina had so shivered that day when they had
been out together and met Conrad Dasipodius.
Detestable, nasty, cold-catching weather ! Why,
his own twinges might have taught him how it
all was. As if any lady was ever cheerful yet
with a wretched east wind howling ! Would it
amuse the poor little thing now if he were to
invite her Cousin Eadegund to come and stay a
few days with her ? That was a happy thought,
and he opened it up to Sabina ; but she said, and

just the least bit snappishly too, that it wouldn't
amuse her at all ; and that she didn't want to be
amused, and she would amuse herself very well
indeed  and then she turned deadly pale, and
some penitent tears welled up into her eyes as
she stole a glance at the Burgomaster's perplexed
and troubled face, and she went on to tell him
that he was a dear, and better than a million
Eadegunds. And still the old man was not
satisfied ; for those paling looks reminded him
of that strange swooning fit of hers, and he
threatened to call in Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg, and
then Sabina grew downright fierce, and vowed
that Dr. Wolkenberg might come and he might
go, but that she would not see him, if there was
the faintest idea of his setting foot professionally
on her account inside the door.

Niklaus was, however, equal to the occasion,
and after cunningly allowing a clay or two to
pass over, he invited the doctor to supper. To
this Sabina dared offer no opposition, for Bruno
being almost as great a favourite with the Burgomaster
as the Professor Dasipodius himself, was
frequently their guest, and on this occasion deferred
other engagements to accept the invitation,
and watched Sabina more closely than she ever

guessed. And when he went away, he tried to
comfort the distressed old man, saying that
indeed Mistress Sabina did look a little pale, but
it was best, in his opinion, not to worry her ; and
that with the warm spring days perhaps  no
doubt indeed, the Lily would revive and be all
herself again. Such weather as they were having
would try a horse's constitution. And then
Niklaus said something not at all polite about
the weather, and hoped Bruno was right, which
was precisely what the doctor himself hoped, but
he felt the hope to be rather a forlorn one, and
his heart bled for the girl.

In the few moments tete-astute he was able to
snatch with Sabina, he had striven to say something
comforting to her, but he felt awkward
and diffident, and blundered wretchedly over
his words. Sabina had, however, smiled in her
own gentle way, and murmured with quivering
lips something about Bruno's goodness, and that
she should never forget all that he had done,
and all he had tried to do for her ; and then
Bruno had stammered and bungled worse than
ever, and said "that of all the perverse worlds he
had ever known, this one seemed the worst, and
in short there never was such an aoOTavatino;

world as it was, and the more you tried to make
things go straight and comfortable, the more they

went crooked, and  and " ; and then he took

to rumpling up his hair, and staring into the fire
in his old dazed perplexed sort of way, and a few
minutes after Niklaus came in, and no more
could be said, which was after all quite as well
perhaps, seeing it was impossible to say the
right thing ; and he might have foundered upon
some remark so entirely wrong, that he would
never have ceased repenting he had given it
tongue.

Never had Bruno found himself on the horns
of such a dilemma as this. Here on the one side
the small breach between himself and his best
friend had widened, because that friend believed
he had betrayed his confidence  and this too,
perhaps, for the second time  whereas Bruno
was altogether guiltless.

From the bottom of his heart the surgeon
loved truth ; and when Sabina had gone to
him, and demanded of him confirmation of that
which she had not chosen to accept from Eadem
alone, Bruno felt there was no alternative
for him but to admit the truth. There had been
no need to tell it. Sabina had simply required of

him a yes or do. When she had come to him
that night, and he had carried the half-fainting
girl into his laboratory, and was tending her back
to consciousness, he, guessing with a sort of
shrinking dread at what the nature of her errand
to him was, had sternly told himself that no
power on earth, and certainly not this weak hysterical
girl, should wring from him any admissions.
The paroxysm, however, of distress and surprise
at her unexpected encounter with Dasipodius
past, Bruno found it was no weak hysterical girl
he had to gain an easy victory over, but a grave
calm woman ; very pale and sad looking truly,
but full of resolute earnestness ; and simply,
with no taint of heroics, she told the surgeon
how all Conrad's happiness and future welfare
hung on the question she had come to ask him
being honestly answered, and then she said :
"Is Conrad Dasipodius blind? Yes or no?"
At first Bruno had striven to evade it, by
saying that such a question should be put only
to Dasipodius himself; but Sabina met this
objection in her own way. " Do you think
then, Dr. Wolkenberg," she said, "that out of
a piece of mean curiosity I should risk what I
have risked in coming here to-night ? Must I

tell you that it is for his sake, that I will not
ask him this question ? "

Bruno was silent. Only the outworks of his
barricade were as yet damaged.

Answer me, Dr. Bruno," she went on.
Have not I a right to know the truth ? "

Still Bruno made no answer.

"Conrad Dasipodius is your friend, is he not 1 ?"

Yes," bluntly replied Bruno.

"You love him?"

"Ay," murmured the surgeon ; "from my soul
I do."

"So do I," said Sabina, the red blood mantling
over her white face. " Now will you believe me?
Now will you tell me ? "

And Bruno did believe, and no longer withheld
from her the deplorable truth. He was not a
little puzzled to think how she had come by her
suspicion, and made several attempts in his turn
to win from her some enlightenment on that score ;
but Sabina shrank from betraying Badegund to
the man who made his idol of her, and she
parried the questioning manfully.

I thought so, Dr. Bruno," she said, "because
I thought so." And the surgeon admiringly
credited her perceptive powers.

To his educated, professional insight, it had
seemed marvellous that people had not long
ago detected the truth. The mathematician's
eyes were clear and well opened it is true, but
they wore the indescribable dull luminosity
which marks the terrible disease. He could
only attribute the undeniable fact that it had
not been generally discovered to the abnormal
beauty and magnificent conformation of the
brow and temples, and the length of the
shading lashes, which lent seeming expression
and vitality to what was in actual truth dead.
But what less interested folks had failed to mark,
Sabina's loving solicitude had taught her, and it
raised her incredibly in the doctor's estimation.
Hitherto he had held her to be a charming,
simple-minded little maiden, who would doubtless
prove herself a very agreeable distraction
and plaything for his friend when he should
cast aside his professional cares ; and he did
not think, take things for all in all, that
Dasipodius had chosen unwisely, but now as he
looked at her and listened to the quiet earnest
voice, it seemed to him that whoever placed his
fate in this girl's keeping, would never have to
repent of what he had done. " She is to be his

wife," argued Bruno to himself; and already in
her heart she is wife to him now ; and to love
and be loved again in such fashion as that, seemed
to him a blessed thing indeed, and would make
one proof against every other adversity under
the sun.

To such devotion as he believed to be Sabina's,
he found that he dared not so much as whisper
of conditions of secrecy ; it would have been
insult to tell her to keep her discovery to herself,
and he only said to her as she drew her hood
about her face again, and fastened her cloak :
You know how much for Conrad's good or
evil future rests upon this matter, Mistress
Sabina. But you are to be trusted."

And giving him her hand in farewell, she
said, "I am to be trusted, Bruno Wolkenberg".

Then declining all escort, she had found her
way home alone. Yet here not a week gone,
and Sabina had betrayed her trust I She must
have done so. What a truism that a secret
between three is no secret. Wolkenberg felt
himself a traitorous fool now. What should he
say to her for this she had done ? He pondered
on that question till his brain grew sick ; and
then when he came to the Munster-grasse, and

saw the girl's sad patient face, he said nothing
at all to her ; but he said to himself when he
was outside in the street again, as he had said to
Dasipodius, "I could swear she loves him still.
And there is some devilry at the bottom of this."

"what's she worried about?"

A ND now," was Wolkenberg's one tormenting
*methought as he plodded on towards Eadem
house, "what is to be the outcome of it
all?"

He had some half-defined purpose in going
to her. He thought the brother and sister
might have heard some tidings of that lost
letter ; and besides, Bruno was thoroughly
unhappy, and he shivered at the prospect of
going to sit down all alone with his thoughts
in his gloomy laboratory. He would seek the
dreary consolation he sometimes permitted himself,
of feasting his eyes upon the woman he loved,
and of breathing the same air with her.

On aught beyond this, Bruno could never
reckon, for the moody Eadegund's receptions
were as variable for him as they were for
others, perhaps more so ; but the surgeon was

no fair-weather swain. Not the brave steed of
that brave old legend Bruno loved perhaps above
all other romance lore, waited more patiently
at the wayside chapel door for the praying knight
his master, than Bruno Wolkenberg waited upon
and bore with Eadegund's every caprice. And
he would sooner have thought of turning pagan,
than of swerving by one hairsbreadth from his
allegiance, because she chanced to frown when
he would have given a decade of his natural
life to see her smile.

To-night, however, Eadegund's welcome was
unwontedly gracious. Never, her lover thought,
had he seen her look so brilliantly handsome. It
may be that very force of contrast heightened
this effect, and some dim remembrance of that
pale saddened face in the Munster-grasse haunted
him still;* but he was not conscious of any secondary
impression whatsoever, as he sat in the
dazzling glory of her presence, and gazed at the
beautiful face lit up with a soft crimson glow,
and the clamorous light in the dark eyes. She
had smiled on Bruno as he entered, and stretching
her white hand towards him, motioned him
to a seat beside her ; and, chatting over anything
and everything with her and Otto, who lay his

length, enjoying his accustomed evening dolce
far niente in the firelight, the surgeon lost sight
of other people's cares in the delirious joy of
being with her, and listening to the rich, somewhat
deep tones of her beautiful voice, whose
accents, for all she spoke in her homely German
tongue, fell with some strange passionate echo of
that fair Tuscan city where she had dwelt so long,
and whose very stones she loved.

To-night she was solicitous even about Bruno.

You look so tired, Dr. Bruno," she said,
filling a goblet with strong Rhenish, and herself
handing it to him.

I  have had a trying day," answered
Wolkenberg, his heart leaping at the sound
of her softened, almost caressing, tones.

Is there much sickness about then 1 " she
asked.

"Now what a question," grunted Otto, " in
weather like this. Such cursed east winds.
Eh, Wolkenberg ? "

There ! " smiled Bruno. "That is what everybody
is saying. Only half-an-hour ago, Burgomaster
von Steinbach "

"You have been to the Munster-grasse ? " interrupted
Eadegund.

Yes, I supped there."

"Ah ! " said Radegund, a faint gasp escaping
her. "And they  are all well 1 ?"

Middling."

There  yes  well, middling of course you
know' hurriedly interjected Otto. " This
weather "

' And little Sabina ? " enquired Radegund.
"As usual, I suppose. Blithe as a bird."

"No," said Bruno, almost curtly. "And I
suppose even birds are not always blithe. She
seemed very middling ; and Burgomaster von
Steinbach wished me to see what I could do
for her, but she won't have any of my doctoring,
and insists she is very w T ell, and very happy
and "

"And all that sort of thing," interrupted Otto,
getting to his feet with a yawn. ' ' Only these
confounded east winds. You prescribed a linctus,
I suppose, Dr. Bruno ? "

"No, I didn't," snapped Bruno. "I did nothing
of the kind. A linctus won't cure worry,
will it ?"

But what " began Otto.

What's she worried about ? " said Radegund.
Now that's a man all over ! As if that great

house and servants were not enough to plague a
little creature just home from school, out of her
senses ! I do think my uncle ought to be told it
is too much for her."

"I don't think it is," said Bruno. " She seems
a capital little housewife, and makes no bother
about it."

"No," said Otto. "That's why I do like 
what's the joke, Eadegund ? If I choose to say
I  I like Sabina," he went on, flushing furiously,
I  I've got a right to say it, haven't I. Have
a game, Wolkenberg ? " and drawing a pack of
cards from his pocket, Otto flung them noisily
down on the table.

The surgeon consented, but he played like a
man whose thoughts were gone a wool-gathering ;
and his eyes wandered hopelessly from the spades
and diamonds to the Queen of his heart, where
she, in the half shadows, sat silent and relapsed

into thought. Notwithstanding he won the

 

game. " Yet I played so badly," he said.

You got all the trumps, you know," grumbled
Otto. " It's just my luck. There's a sort of
favour and prejudice in cards, just as there is in
everything else that ever I have to do with," and
he rose sulkily from his seat.

Don't be cross, Otto dear," smiled Eadegund,
rousing up. " Unlucky at cards, a handsome
wife, you know. Come, cheer up."

But he seemed by no means disposed to fall in
with her raillery, and took up his night lamp.

"By the way," said Bruno, as if the thought
had suddenly struck him, "has anything been
heard of that letter, do you know ? "

What letter ? " said Radegund carelessly.

"Ah, Conrad Dasipodius' letter that was
dropped in the studio a day or two ago.
Some one said it was last seen in your hands,
Otto, and I thought "

Some one was a fool," said Otto, dragging a
blazing bit of stick from the fire to light his lamp
with.

"But "

What the devil should I know about the
thing ? " he interrupted savagely, and with
cheeks aflame, from the blaze no doubt.
How could I help it all ? I suppose they'll
be saying next that I  I "

You'll set your sleeve on fire if you don't
mind, Otto," said Radegund, looking sternly at
him. " Hold the lamp steady."

But I heard," persistently continued Bruno,

turning to address Otto, and finding only empty
space. ' ' I heard  " he reiterated to Eadegund
in default of Otto's presence.

You should not have alluded to that before
him," she said calmly. "You must have known
it wouldn't be a pleasant subject."

"Yes," answered he. "I suppose I do know
that ; but it's unpleasant to  others too, and
must be sifted."

"Nothing of the kind," answered Eadegund.
The less said about it the better."

But that is not like you, Eadegund ; to
speak so, when we know that by now the
whole city is talking about it."

The thing is done, and cant be undone,"
she said.

Who did it, Eadegund ? " asked Bruno
gravely.

Now it is you, Bruno Wolkenberg, who are
talking nonsense ! Did not that child, Sabina,
do it ! "

"But I can't understand. I would have staked
my life she was true to the core."

"Of course you would. Men are all alike. Always
to be hoodwinked and cheated by the first
woman whose purpose it may be to make tools

of them. But really," she went on with a
careless laugh, " what this girl has about
her that she can turn people round her little
finger like this, I cannot understand. A timid,
moon-faced, yellow-haired little thing, with
hardly two grains of sense in her composition."


But no. There you mistake, Eadegund,"
stoutly contested Bruno. " You do indeed."

Of course I do," she laughed mockingly.
Why, Dr. Wolkenberg, is she dragging you
at her triumphal car, as she is trying to do
Conrad Dasipodius ? "

"Trying !" echoed Bruno. "There is no need
for that in his case," groaned Bruno.

Do you mean to tell me," cried Eadegund,
turning fiercely on him, "that you actually believe
Dasipodius loves this child ? "

"Assuredly I do."

A bitter laugh was the artist's comment.

Since you are so infatuated, you should have
finished your evening in this paragon of a girl's
society," she said scornfully.

Oh Eadegund, you are hard, unjust. You
who are always so noble and generous. I came
here to ask  to implore you to do something for

this poor child. She is so lonely  things are
going so cross with her "

Can I help that ? "

She has no mother  no woman friend "

She has her male friends in any case," said
Eadegund with curling lip.

"And you," persevered Bruno, "who are so
much older."

Ah, Bruno Wolkenberg, wretchedly bungling
advocate, how came you to damage your pleading
so ? Badegund's face grew white with anger.

Yes, yes," she cried. " I see it now. I
see it ! It is these fragile little buds, with their
poor pale beauty, who are the mode now-a-days !
And the world may be turned upside down for

them, while " and her voice dropped into

soft wistful cadence, " while the rich flowers are
left to wither unsought neglected."

Who ever loved legend and symbol as did
Bruno ? and Eadegund, when it suited her,
would indulge him in such conceits; and tenderly
lifting the thread of her little metaphor, he said,
The pale Lily flower has no charms for me,
Eadegund. It is the glorious red Rose I would
take to my breast, and wear till I die."

And coming near, he bent over her, and pressed

his lips on her dark hair, and there came no flash
of anger into her eyes at his bold daring. On
the contrary, they softened, and she took his
hand in hers. " Bruno," she said, " what a
faithful, good old friend you are to me ! I
wonder," she went on dreamily, " will it be so
to the end ? "

"Do you doubt it?" said Bruno. "I swear "

"No," she said, "there's no need. I believe in
you, Bruno Wolkenberg, as I never believed inman,
or woman either," and she stroked his hand
with a gentle caressing thoughtfulness. "Poor
Bruno ! "

Oh Kadegund !" cried he, feeling himself less
to be compassionate than ever he had been in
his whole existence, "Kadegund! my "

"And you think," she interrupted, still stroking
his hand, " that after all, he, Conrad Dasipodius,
does not so much care for Sabina ? "

I think," said Bruno, starting with a sigh
from his Euthanasia, " that he loves her as I
love you, Kadegund, my "

"What nonsense you always do talk, Bruno
Wolkenberg ! " she cried, fiercely flinging away
his hand. " There never is any common sense
in you for five minutes together ! "

But "

I will have no buts. At this hour too ! As
if this gossip-mongering place did not play too
free with my name already ! Hark ! Striking
nine. Go, I say. You call yourself my true
friend ! Go then  for pity's sake  go."

And he went, and when he found himself in
the laboratory again, he cast himself upon his
hard little bed and dreamed sublime dreams
which now and then lapsed into almost the
ridiculous ; for it seemed to him that all the
chairs of those silent rooms above stairs, started
clean out of their cere-cloths and danced for joy,
because they were going to be sat in at last. And
the tables shouted, "Ho, bring venison, and wine,
and good things all, and heap us high with them !
for the wedding guests are coming, coming. Don't
you hear the bells ? " And all the hearthplaces
shone with merry dancing flames, and then 
then seated there, spinning in their light, sits
a gracious woman, with a grave sweet smile
making her face radiant in its beauty ; and overall
floats a low glad harmony as of children's
voices, and Dream on, Bruno Wolkenberg !

But where the real woman of Bruno's dreaming
sits, there is no fire. Only a heap of grey dull

26

ashes, and the woman is crouching over them,
staring with dry hollow eyes at a piece of
crumpled paper, bearing the signature of a faint,
tremulous little cross ; and far on, while Bruno
dreams, she sits in the same unchanging attitude
through the dark night hours, brooding 
brooding.

  !

NINE DAYS WONDER

"monstrous!"

-*- " Go and tell such tales to your grandmother
! "

Preposterous ! Rubbish ! Lies ! Papperlap-
papa ! "

Such were a few of that variety of comment
uttered by the Strassburgers when the news
spread abroad, as soon it did like wildfire,
that Professor Dasipodius, the maker of their
new Horologe, was blind.

Everybody made it the subject of conversation.
Tradesmen and apprentices canvassed it open-mouthed
at their booths ; fine ladies paying calls
discussed it, and said in the same breath: "Ah 
dear, the pity of it," and they did not believe it
one bit. Such heavenly eyes oh ! absurd ! No!
House-mothers shook their heads, and sighed
Poor dear young man ! " and for the first time

in their lives, were thankful to think he was no
son of theirs. Others maintained that the tale
was not to be credited for an instant, and had
only been got up to suit some party purposes or
other. Heaven knew there were enough of them
flying about the city ; but many conceded the
possibility ; for it was well known that the devil
never stood at anything when he had the faintest
notion of being able to entrap a soul; and no one
could gainsay that the mathematician, with his
deep knowledge of the curious sciences, must be
singularly available. Truly, said the Catholics,
Dasipodius was a child of Holy Church, and went
regularly to mass, and to allow each his due, was
more liberal in alms-giving and divers secret
good work beside, than many who fasted on
barley bread and water twice a week without
fail, and were otherwise more strictly orthodox.
Still, when was Dasipodius ever heard disputing
to edification with the Anabaptists, or insisting
on the spotless purity and integrity of the
Vatican proceedings, as it behoved every one
in these perilous times, who owned a clever
brain and an eloquent tongue ? It was whispered,
moreover, that the Professor Dasipodius
was hermetically tainted. He had been known

to quote Erasmus more than once, and openly
from his professorial chair, to have expressed
admiration for some of that reasonable person's
writings.

On the other hand, flames of eloquence had
been employed to bring Dasipodius over to
Calvin's conception of a beneficent Providence,
and to impress him with a sense of the power of
that irresistible grace which doomed Servetus to
the flames ; but he was not to be charmed. Then
Zwinglius had made a snatch at this brand from
popery's burning Gehenna ; and the orthodox
Lutherans had plied his order-loving nature
with much fair argument, but each had failed
to influence Dasipodius ; and if they agreed on no
other point, all shared in the opinion that it
was easier for a camel to go through the eye of
a needle, than for mathematicians to be made
into children of grace ; and were full of dudgeon
against this man, who having lent their arguments
silent courteous attention, asked them
when they had done, why they made confusion
worse confounded by their speculations, instead
of enlisting themselves into the ranks of those
who still walked in the old paths, but were
striving as they went to clear from them the

garbage and dust which indolence and neglect
had allowed to accumulate there. Surely that
was better than striking out into countless intricate
and dreary by-ways, which ended, some of
them, strangely far away from the Beautiful Gate.
And so, with the exception of certain kindred
spirits at the university, who did not possess,
and were at little pains to lay claim to much
voice in the existing ruling of matters social and
political in the city, the Professor Dasipodius
owned no party friends against his hour of
difficulty. It was not possible, in days when
the multitude thought of little else than of theological
disputation, and had small opinion of a
man who did not mix himself up with all their
speculations as to whether one must pay down
alarming sums in hard cash for one poor hope
of eternal happiness, or whether he might not
gratuitously commit every abominable crime
it suited him in this world, and then be made
much of in the next.

It is true that Dasipodius possessed the general
good-will and respect of Strassburg, as a clever
useful man against whom no gross moral accusation
could be brought; but such negative virtues
would stand for little in face of this startling

charge which had risen up against him. The
stakes were as yet smouldering from the fires
which had burned men and women for witchcraft
and magic ; and the protestant religionist
made no more scruple of doing away with human
life, than his catholic brother had done, so that
judged by the one or the other, or both, as was
most likely would be the case, Dasipodius stood
in no small peril.

Within the last year or two, the violence of
the contending sects had brought about their
own downfall from the higher places. Peace-loving
folks, unable longer to endure the strife
of tongues, had sought refuge in the old ruling ;
and while Anabaptists ran naked and howling
about the woods to propitiate the High God, the
Host stood once again upon the Cathedral altar ;
and once more the Bishop ruled from his palace.
To possess the esteem and friendship of Bishop
John of Manderscheid, as Dasipodius did, could
not but be regarded as a high privilege. One
and all were constrained to acknowledge that he
was just and gentle-hearted ; and of his mental
qualifications, it sufficed to remember when
and where he ruled, to set them at something
of their true value ; but the most bigoted of

both sides had their grudges against this man
who set his face against extreme measures, and
refused to anathematise any party. To this
large majority a via media was hateful ; the
moderationist of the new University was looked
askance upon for want of zeal in matters
spiritual, while it was known that the Bishop
had the place's interests deeply at heart ; and of
all who taught or learned within its walls, he
cared for none so well as he did for Conrad
Dasipodius.

This very regard, however, was likely more
to damage than to shield Dasipodius in the
impending crisis. The zealots and the municipality
contained not a few loving to say that
the learned prelate would take the foul fiend,
horns and hoofs and all to his bosom, if only
he came in scholar's cap and gown ; but it
chanced that just at that identical time, Bishop
John was fifty miles away from Strassburg, engaged
in a pastoral visitation among the villages
of his diocese ; and there being in those days no
other posts than special messengers, he was likely
to remain till his return, in ignorance of what had
occurred.

The really great question was, what would

the Town Council say about it ? Individually
the Town Council was stricken dumb with
astonishment ; but thinking that collectively
breath and eloquence might be remarkable,
they called a meeting, at which chief Burgomaster
Xiklaus von Steinbach was required
officially to preside. For once he took his
place reluctantly and in silence ; allowing the
stormy Babel to say all it desired, which was
not a little. On one point nearly all were
agreed  that if indeed, as there seemed now
hardly any doubt, this man were blind, he deserved
to be broken on the wheel, for having so
long led them all by the nose. There was hardly
one of that conclave who did not esteem himself
worth a dozen mathematicians, and held it monstrous
to have been hoodwinked. There was a
feeling about it which set those worthy drapers
and fishmongers and tanners in a fume of fuss
and indignation, but Niklaus von Steinbach took
no part in the discussion. He only sat silent
at the head of the long council table, with
his hand half-shading his face, which bore a
strangely troubled and perplexed expression.
But at last, in the very height of the turmoil,
he brought his clenched fist down on the table

with a heavy thud, and roaring as loud as
Demosthenes, when he out voiced the sea
waves, said : " Gentlemen, what we want is
fact, not hearsay. Let Master Dasipodius speak
for himself."

This resolution was put to the vote by a show
of hands ; and though there were some dissentients,
the ayes carried the day; and the recorder
having spread out a broad sheet of parchment, a
citation was drawn upon it summoning " the
Professor Conrad Dasipodius to appear four days
hence at the Chancellery, to answer in person
anent certain rumours "

Charges," amended Master Tobias Hacker-navel
the syndic. " Charges, Burgomaster."

"No," said the Burgomaster; "no such thing."

"Libels, perhaps?" suggested Counsellor Frisch-lean.


"'No, Master Frischlein, I think not. It isn't
exactly a libel you see, to say a man's blind 
hey, Master Eecorder ? "

Not without being attended by aggravating
circumstances, Burgomaster," replied the man of
law, patiently holding his pen poised an inch or
two above his parchment.

"Ah, proceed then, Master Eecorder  Certain

rumours which have reached the ears of the Town

Council "

Will they be long, Burgomaster ? " meekly
asked Counsellor Klausewitz, who had a punctual
wife, and heard dinner-time strike.

Not if I can help it," said Niklaus. " Go on,
Master Eecorder  to the effect that he has lost the

use of his sight "

"Otherwise blind," suggested the lawyer.
Hang it, yes  if you choose," testily said
Niklaus. "A spade's a spade, and Dasipodius
isn't the man to say it isn't."

"And of a consequence," loftily continued
Syndic Hackernagel. " Write ' of a consequence,'
Master Eecorder."

Consequences make an after consideration,"
said Niklaus, taking the quill from the Eecorder's
hand and setting his signature to the document.
"Be pleased to sign your names, gentlemen, and
then we can go home. This place is as stifling
as an oven."

"But I tell you, Burgomaster " objected

Hackernagel.

"By your leave, Master Hackernagel, the clock
has struck," interrupted the impatient Job.

"And the moral welfare of the city is to be

sacrificed to your carnal appetites ! " muttered
the Anabaptist, as he scowlingly watched the
Burgomaster place away the citation duly
signed and sealed with the old free city's
insignia, under lock and key, and then with
a curt good-morrow, stride out after his colleagues.
" Dumb dogs that ye are ! How
long shall the unrighteous prevail  and the
saints be made a mock unto themselves ? "

Until recently Tobias Hackernagel had followed
the vocation of fishmonger in Strassburg ;
but his natural gift for driving exceedingly lucrative,
not to say hard bargains, had enabled him to
retire from trade when not very far advanced beyond
middle life. Having made good provision
for himself, the quondam fishmonger turned his attention
to his country, and contrived so entirely
to impress people generally with his own firm
conviction that he was no ordinary man, that
one fine day he found himself elevated to nearly
the highest point of his ambition,  syndic, that
is to say, of his native city. This desired consummation
he had brought about mainly by a
judicious use of his ready tongue. Whenever
he found his chance, Tobias Hackernagel would
talk. What he said signified comparatively little.

His custom of using the long word when there
was a long and a short one to choose from, had
won him hosts of admirers ; and they would say
it was a beautiful thing indeed to hear Syndic
Hackernagel talk. If his education had been a
very third-rate one, his sharp mother-wit atoned
to him for much ; and the superficial knowledge
he had picked up, he tried to economise in such
a manner, that it went twice as far with the
multitude as the solid acquirements of many a
better man.

Physically, even by his most enthusiastic
disciples, Syndic Hackernagel was not esteemed
prepossessing. Insignificant in stature,
and with little to speak of as far as eye and
brow and chin were concerned, his nose was
of massive aquiline proportions, and vastly proud
of this important feature the syndic was. Not
without reason, for it was most useful to him on
state occasions, when his magnificent manner of
applying his handkerchief to it called attention to
himself, as the trumpet call of a herald rivets
the senses of all within earshot. The little
fishmonger was in his idiosyncracies the very
antipodes of Conrad Dasipodius, and Tobias
Hackernagel did not love the mathematician.

That Dasipodius did not reciprocate the negative
sentiment, was owing possibly to the fact
that he had never dreamed of spending two
thoughts on him. Tobias had so rarely been
thrown in his way. He did not so much as
remember, what the syndic never tired of recalling,
a certain time some years since, when
the chiefs of the antinomian sect of which
Tobias was an ardent if circumspect member,
had made a fierce effort to win Dasipodius to
their ranks ; and the mathematician had frankly
told them it was a form of belief with which
not merely he had no sympathy, but which
appeared to him to threaten the bringing
Christianity itself into utmost disrepute.

When the election for the Horologe had
taken place, Tobias Hackernagel had voted for
Otto von Steinbach. Otto, as he knew, had
good expectations, and could boast a fine
ancestry ; while the syndic, who was not so
much as quite sure of his maternal grandfather's
name, had four daughters  none of them passing
fair ;  although certainly in the third of the
quartette, Gretchen, some womanly graces, possibly
inherited of her long dead mother, did
exist.

As far as the world knew, and had there been
anything to tell, it would probably have been
apprised in all decent haste, these ladies had
hitherto received no matrimonial overtures. A
fathers leanings therefore towards an eligible
young bachelor like Otto von Steinbach, against
the proud bigoted misogynist of a Dasipodius,
is at all events conceivable. The syndic however,
patriot, disinterested protector of justice, guardian
of civic rights, Syndic Tobias the incorruptible,
acknowledged no secondary motives, in
upholding, whenever opportunity presented, the
cause of the hare-brained Otto.

Nothing could have better pleased him, take
it for all in all, than this charge which had now
got abroad against the mathematician. It delighted
him immeasurably to see how people of
all parties, Catholic and Protestant, differ as they
would wherever they could possibly do so, were
unanimous in their denunciations of the suspicion
of magical arts in which they now conceived Dasi-
potius to be an adept. When you came, as they
said, to consider how mathematics and its kindred
subjects were a pagan invention, things, there was
no denying it, did look suspicious ; and many
came forward and publicly disburdened their

bosoms of the suspicions they had long nursed,
that Dasipodius was a secret member, and a very
powerful one too, of that mysterious brotherhood
of the Caballing. Why, can't you see, that if
making a clock, and such a clock  without eyes,
seeing in the dark  Du Liber Simnel! think of
it !  was not magic, what was ? What a mercy to
think his infirmity had been laid bare at last,
before destruction had come upon the city, for
having harboured such iniquity ! A Horologe
was a nice useful clever thing undoubtedly, buta
thing which at best had about it a strange
weirdness and witchery. It was so marvellous
when you came to think, that a mere combination,
you know, of brass and wood should be able
to move, ay, and to speak  in its way, at the
bidding of a man, and of a blind man ! Then
one great shudder convulsed the city, and the
question flew from mouth to mouth : " What
would the Bishop say to this ? My lord, who
had always shown Dasipodius such favour ! "

MERE HEARSAY.'

rPHE wound from which Dasipodius was suffering
proved more troublesome than he
had at first anticipated ; and for the next day
or two he found himself unable to return to his
work. Isaac Habrecht had called more than
once to enquire after him ; but during the
few minutes he had stayed, was not communicative,
beyond the assurance that things were
going on straight. Otherwise Dasipodius had
had no communication with the outside world.

Poor Christian, sorely distressed by the pain
and unrest from which his son was suffering, was
anxious to summon Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg ; but
Conrad peremptorily forbade any such thing.
Bruno," he said, " had something better to do,
than to go about doctoring scratches."

Christian, however, continued to gaze ruefully
at the pale face, and the once busy hands,

27

now folded in sheer nerveless apathy, with
something like despair in their convulsive
twitching.

"You may call it a scratch," said Christian,
"but I call it a wound, and an uncommonly bad
one too ; and I wonder Dr Bruno has not looked
in of himself "

Does not that prove my case ? " said
Dasipodius with a faint smile of reassurance.
Bruno would have been here no doubt, had
he thought it necessary. Come now, leave
Bruno alone ; I shall do well enough  and sit
down here beside me and be content. Your cool
hand here in mine does me more good than an
army of surgeons. See," he went on, "in the
lattice there, lies that Book of the Gospels
Father Chretei gave me. Bring it here, and
read to me a bit. Yes ? "

Christian brought the book and began to turn
its thick, richly illuminated vellum pages with a
pre-occupied air.

Nay," said Conrad. " Just read where it
opens first, Vaterlele. It cannot but be good
hearing. What have you before you now ? "

And they bring a blind man unto Him"
read Christian.

Ay, that vill do  well enough. Read on,
Vaterlele."

And Christian obeyed, until he came to the
words : " I see men as trees walking ".

"Yes," dreamily interrupted Conrad. "men
as trees walking.' That is well described. Excellently
well. All blurred and indistinct, I know 
I understand."

Christian gazed up a little wonderingly into
his son's face.

"But," continued Conrad, "it would be
horrible now, to live on and on, in a haze like
that. "Wouldn't it, Vaterlele ? It would drive a
man mad."

"Yes," answered Christian; " I do think I'd
rather be quite right down blind at once."

"Ay ; and that would I, a thousand times."

"But we won't talk about such dreadful things.
Let's go on and see what our Lord Christ did for
the poor fellow," and Christian read on to the
wondrous story's end.

If the Lord Christ walked the earth nowadays,
would He still do such gracious deeds,
think you ? " said Conrad wistfully.

"Well," replied Christian, "that is what nobody
can tell, can they ? But Holy Church

teaches, you know, that miraculous power has
been handed down. Oh, you shake your head ;
but it is quite certain that a pilgrimage to St.
Ottilie's holy well, near Schhlettstadt, is said to
work wonderful cures on blind eyes, and even
weak ones "

"Ay, ay," said Conrad. " Cold water does do
great things. It's a pity people don't make more
use of it."

Yes, and then special devotion to Our Lady
of Alt Nottingen is even "

Nay," interrupted Conrad with an actual
laugh. "That hideous black doll work divine
deeds ? No, no, Bruno Wolkenberg against Our
Lady of Alt Nottingen any day."

What odd notions you have, Conrad ! " said
the old man with a half-scandalised air. " But
thank heaven, all that concerns us little enough,
does it ? "

Eead on, father," said Conrad wearily.

And for a short while longer Christian read
on, until they were interrupted by the announcement
that three gentlemen from the Chancellery
desired an audience of the Professor Dasipodius.

"I expected this," he said, rising from his half-reclining
position. " Bid them come in."

But," interposed Christian, " you are not
fit "

Hush, father. It must be. Lend me your
arm," and he rose to receive his visitors.

If those delegates had enjoyed their little
dream of brief authority by anticipation, the
pleasure ended rather abruptly for all, not excepting
Master Hackernagel himself, who had
volunteered to be spokesman, so that as he
said, he might mercifully break the intelligence.
They shuffled and hummed, and exchanged perturbed
glances in that calm stately presence,
until Dasipodius, wondering at the silence,
said, " Well, gentlemen ? "

Then the syndic recovered himself, and clearing
his throat, and sounding to the attack after
his own approved fashion, unrolled the parchment
he carried. " Whereas" he began in his
best official voice, never too musical, " whereas 
I  I crave pardon," he interrupted himself. " I
have in the first place and preliminarily to observe
"

Certainly," said Dasipodius, " say all you
want to say, Master Hackernagel, when you
have discharged your duty ; but you have
something to read there first ? "

Whereas" resumed Tobias, after having
stolen a glance at the mathematician's face,
whereas certain rumours  ahem ! Mere hearsay
you observe, Professor," he said, lifting his
lynx-like eyes to Dasipodius.

"Just so. Mere hearsay," cheerfully echoed
the supernumeraries.

"Go on, Master Hackernagel," said the mathematician
in tones which effectually did away
with further parenthetical observation on the
syndic's part.

Although thanks to Niklaus von Steinbach
the document had the virtue of brevity, it was
with the utmost difficulty that Conrad succeeded
in imposing silence on Christian till its reading
was ended. The old man's arm on which he
leaned, quivered and vibrated with suppressed
agitation, and barely had the final syllable passed
Hackernagel's lips, than Christian burst angrily
into speech. " What fooling is this ? " he demanded.
" Speak to these idiots, Conrad, and
send them packing ! "

Master Christian ! " wrathfully screeched the
insulted dignitary, turning on Christian ; but
the old man had neither eyes nor ears for him,
he was staring with bewildered entreaty in his

son's face. " Speak to them. Do you hear ? "
he gasped.

You had something to observe, Master
Hackernagel," calmly said Dasipodius, lifting
his hand to command silence.

"I  Professor ? Ha  yes  precisely  hem,
hem  I was simply about to remark that  hem 
rumour  many-tongued rumour "

Just so  yes' endorsed his coadjutors.
Many-tongued rumour  exactly "

Is false  proverbially false. Hem ! " and
again for an instant Hackernagel's small sharp
orbits were fixed on the grand sightless ones,
but once more fell shifty. It seemed to
him that they returned his glance with such
calm, deep-seeing self-possession. " Proverbially
false."

Proverbially false," assented his satellites
like a Greek chorus ; but Dasipodius was silent.

Conrad ! " entreated Christian, " why will
you not speak  why ? "

Hush, father  hush ! hush ! " he said soothingly.
" Gentlemen," he continued, addressing
his visitors, " I will attend at the appointed
time. Have you anything further to communicate
? "

Hem ! hem ! " coughed Tobias. " We I
should have been glad to hear  for certain "

That I am blind  assuredly. I should have
known you would. This then for your contentment.
Gentlemen," and Dasipodius fixed his
eyes on all three, till they writhed with discomposure
; and even Tobias' pink lids fell.
I am blind  stone-blind."

Oh ! ha ! hem ! Eeally I assure you, Herr
Professor," began one of the party, but Dasi-
potius paid him no heed. His whole being
seemed absorbed in the endeavours he was
making to comfort Christian.

So  so, Vaterlele ! Be brave now  brave ;
strong for my sake," he said, gathering the
trembling old man into his arms.

A vague sympathetic murmur thrilled the
syndic's companions, and they began to stammer
out some well-meaning word or two.

Nay, gentlemen," interrupted Dasipodius,
making a gesture of dismissal. " You have
kind hearts. They will tell you w r e would
be alone just now," and with not so much asa
word of farewell, the delegates departed, never
exchanging a syllable until they had turned
the corner of the street, where the syndic began

roundly reproaching them for not having backed
him up in a manner befitting the dignity of the
occasion.

"If I had not been equal to my duty," he said,
where would you all three have been, I should
like to know T ? "

Well," said one, " but he's got such a way
with him always, has Dasipoclius. Oh, hang it !
No ; I'd sooner stand to witness the headsman
finish off half-a-dozen, than go through such a
scene as that again. Poor old Christian ! Did
you mark the tears in his eyes, Master Tobias?"
asked the speaker, dashing one or two suspicious
drops away from his own.

"I marked nothing," said Hackernagel sulkily,
but that all three of you let it be seen plainly
enough, that you sympathised with the accused ;
and I should like to know what that is, if it isn't
being accessary  winking at crime. Holding a
candle to Never mind, it is of no consequence.
I feel at least I have performed my
duty," and the Incorruptible strode away, to
spend the next three days in drawing up with
infinitesimal care and patience, notes of all he
intended to say, when Dasipodius should appear
to give an account of himself.

And still in the chamber they had left,
Christian lay upon his son's breast, with his
arms clasped convulsively round the blind
man's neck. " Tell them to go, Conrad.
They are liars I say," he wailed again and
again. " Can't they see for themselves that
it's all a lie ? Blind ! ha ! ha ! ha ! " and
Christian burst into a wild laugh. " Why !
with such eyes as these ? Your mother's eyes
shining down on me  now ; do I not see
them ? Clear and beautiful, like the moon
through a night-cloud ! Blind forsooth ! 
blind ! " and again he broke into hysterical
laughter.

Hush, father," said Dasipodius  " be a man.
Bear it for me now, as I have borne it alone for
long long weeks past. Those men did but speak
the truth. I am blind."

Christian groaned heavily.

You see my eyes. They are wide open, you
say : but your eyes I cannot see. No : nor
the tears that I know they are wet with," went
on Dasipodius brokenly : "nor all the grief that
is in them ; nor the pardon for having hidden
my affliction from you. That is there too,
father ? The forgiveness ? "

Oh my son ! my son ! " sobbed Christian,
tightening his clasp round Conrad's neck.

So  that is well. I did it for the best. I
was mad enough to think I could have kept
it to myself. Well, I have been outwitted," he
continued with a sudden access of bitterness ;
and there is no more to be said. Understand,
father : no more to be said."

But " began the bewildered Christian.

"Not now, Vaterlele ; for my sake. We will talk
of other things."

But tell me only this," entreated Christian,
"does Sabina  your little Sabina "

"Hush! Not my Sabina  now. Sabina von
Steinbach knows all ; yes. God forgive her ! "
said Dasipodius in a hollow changed voice.
Speak no more about her, father. Come !
come ! " he added, making an effort at gaiety,
cheer thee  cheer thee now ! Why surely,
when the blind man himself breaks down, 'twill
be time enough to spend tears on him ! Lookup
 smile. Nay, but you are not smiling ! Oh
trust me, I can tell whether you are sad or
merry, every whit as well as if I were made of
eyes. So then  cheerily  cheerily  for my
sake."

And so it was the blind man strove to comfort
his father, and gradually succeeded in bringing
him to dwell calmly on their trouble. Notwithstanding,
the mathematician's own heart
was heavy with forebodings. " Yet, it is
wicked to meet troubles half way ! It was
she who said that once. Oh Sabina ! Sabina !
is it any wonder that I took you for true
gold ! "

A MOONLIGHT MEETING.

"Text morning found Dasipoclius back in his

accustomed place. Every hand was hard
at work over its appointed task, and there was
no evidence in that silent well-ordered hive, of
the recent little revolution.

When the mathematician, having made his
way to his own work-bench, had passed his
unerring hand over it, he found all as he had
left it  not a thing disturbed ; every tool, every
scrap of metal, every morsel of wire lying intact.
Even the little steel coil which had come to such
sudden grief, had been carefully resound into
proper compass, and placed ready to hand by
Isaac Habrecht. "It is correctly adjusted, I
think ? " he said, as Dasipodius took it up.

Never fear for that," answered his chief.
There is no surer hand for these things in all
Elsass than yours."

Saving your own."

"You and I will not bandy compliments. Isaac,"
laughed Dasipodius.

I meant no compliment," grunted Isaac.

Nor split hairs then," returned the mathematician.
" I was but thinking what a useful
right hand you have been to me all these
months, Isaac Habrecht."

His subordinate's stolid face kindled. Nothing
ever brightened it like an approving word from
the master.

"Eight hands," went on Dasipodius, "sometimes
become heads."

There was a pause ; while Habrecht's face grew
impenetrable again.

I have no talent for riddles," he said bluntly.

"I mean," said the mathematician, "that if the
good people of Strassburg should take any fancy
into their heads that this blindness of mine incapacitates
me for the Horologe work "

Tut !  nonsense ! " interrupted Isaac with an
impatient wag of his bushy head. "D'ye think
they're likely to quarrel with their own noses
like that ? "

"I don't think it is probable," shrugged Dasi-
potius, " but it's possible. The town council  "

"Would be greater asses even than I have ever

taken them for. Can't they see for themselves
what you have already done ? Can't they
judge ? "

Who can tell," said Dasipodius, with a smile
of some bitterness. "But in any case they will
have you to fall back upon, Habrecht ; and that
would be an indescribable consolation to me."

Then I am sorry " blurted Isaac ; then

he stopped abruptly, leaving unfinished, perhaps
for the only time in his life, what he had begun
to say, and silently concentrated his attention on
his work.

There is something amiss with this," he
went on presently, examining with a magnifier
the piece of infinitesimal chain-work he was
occupied upon. " Yet it measures the right
length."

No such thing," said the blind man, taking
it from him and rapidly passing it through his
fingers ; "it has a link too many," and he took
up his tool and pinched off the superfluous scrap.
"Try now," he went on, returning it to Habrecht,
and bending his neck with that attentive lateral
movement peculiar to the blind, while Isaac adjusted
the chain round a small cylinder. " Yes,"
he nodded, " it's right enough now " ; and then

the two geologists subsided into silence, and for
the rest of that day all went on as usual.

Whatever the other clock makers there might
have to say, was not spoken out in their chiefs
presence : natural generosity constrained them to
silence. They were of course cognizant of the
citation which had been served on Dasipodius,
and were agreed to await the verdict of those
assembled to judge the question ; and so the
hours passed until the sickly January sunbeams
faded, and the short afternoon grew sombre and
grey, and the students putting up their tools,
wrapped themselves in their cloaks, and bade
the master good-night.

"And since, as you all know, friends," said
Dasipodius, returning the valediction, " I have
a summons to attend at the Chancellery tomorrow,
it must be a  a holiday."

"A waste day, the master means," growled
Isaac.

And silent as if they were at a funeral, the
young men went out.

But the next day, master ? " wistfully asked
a fresh young voice at his elbow.

That will be seen tomorrow, my Kaspar,"
said Dasipodius, laying his hand kindly on the

lad's head. " By the way, tell me, have you
been able to learn anything about that letter ? "

It was interesting to observe with what precipitation
Otto von Steinbach, who was still
hanging about the studio, caught up his cap
and cloak, and effected his exit at that precise
moment.

I can learn nothing. I begin to think it
must have fallen on the hearth and got burnt,"
said Kaspar.

i% Perhaps," said Dasipodius. "Never mind,"
he added wearily. " It is of little consequence.
Good-night." Then the brothers went away,
leaving Dasipodius alone.

The moon rose, and cast a chill clear chequered
light through the broad lattice down on the oaken
floor which Dasipodius long unceasingly paced.
In wild tumult thoughts were crowding the calm
judging, clear brain of this man, who could tell
to a millionth part when anything was amiss
with his wheels and cogs, and springs and
chains  whose geometrical and algebraical
knowledge made him a proverb in Strassburg ;
and whose precision in the minutest particular
made him a very terror to his pupils. This
gifted man it is who is now struggling to

28

thread the maze of trouble closing him so
suddenly in. Here all parallel, and logic, and
syllogism fail him. He knows indeed, that of
one bitter heart-trial, others have been born; but'
which of these is parent to the others, he can in
no wise tell.

Now it seems his loss of sight, now his passionate
love for Sabina. Certainly it is clear
that had it not been for her, he would have
been able to have kept his secret, until it had
come to be no longer worth the keeping. It
was natural for people to say, as they were
saying, that they had known he was blind all
along. " Why, there  you had but to use your
own eyes to see that ! " and so on, and soon.
People, prompted no doubt by revenge
for having been so long hoodwinked, always
do love to talk in that way, when once a cat
is irretrievably out of its bag ; and it does
not lessen his sense of Sabina's blame, that he
has come to be a nine days' wonder in the
place.

"And yet," he groaned, out of his soul's heaviness,
" I could have borne it all, if you had not
been false to me, child ! "

Feeling his way to the casement, and throwing

it wide open, he loosened the collar of his doublet,
and leaned his throbbing brow against the cold
stone mullion, letting the keen frosty air breathe
upon his face. This window high up and deep-sunken
in the massive wall, commanded a good
side view of the Cathedral Platz, whose heavily-gabled
house roofs all muffled in their hoods of
thick white snow, seemed to be clustering like
cowled Dominicans about their mighty superior,
with its one fair tower reaching far above towards
the myriad stars glistening in the steel-blue
sky.

Conrad Dasipodius was a man for w T hom the
simplest objects of daily life had borne a significance.
It had been his nature to see " sermons
in stones, and good in everything" ; and could he
have looked on this scene before him, with all
its wedded glory of nature and of art, he must
have found in it some anodyne for the gnawing
pain of hope disappointed. But he could have
no part now T in such joys, and to him the world
was a dull leaden-hued wilderness. Winter and
summer, day and night, in all the years to come,
the same. A dismal chaos, a dark and thorny
way indeed, where love and friendship had left
him in his utmost need, to blunder on alone.

Love ! friendship. Well, well ! It was a sharp
necessary lesson ; one that came no clout sooner
or later to be learned by every son of Adam.
Love ! friendship  why, in this world there was
none of it  none  none !

So in the moonlight stood Dasipodius, seeming
to see with fixed steadfast gaze, the ghosts of his
dead joys. A strange visionary light gleamed
in his eyes, and you would rather have guessed
that they penetrated strangely far into life's
mysteries, than that all earthly objects at least
were utterly hidden from them.

Almost incredible it seems, that indeed he can
see nothing of that tall majestic figure standing
in the glow of crimson drapery curtaining the
window on the first floor of old Erwin's house
opposite. Instantly after, however, all is dark,
and the figure, enveloped in a long mantle,
stands in the ancient doorway ; then softly
closing it, turns to ascertain, seemingly, if any
stragglers chance to be about ; but the coast is
quite clear, and gliding stealthily under the
shadow of the cathedral's broad western end,
and reaching the opposite side of the Platz, it
hurries on up the narrow street, halting at last
beneath the open turret lattice of the Dial.

The illusory moonlight throws this figure into
strong relief, lending it a height it does not really
possess ; but its peculiar undulating grace of movement
and of general outline, would tell it is a
woman, even though the long robe sweeping the
frosty ground entirely concealed the night wanderer's
form.

Laying her hand, glittering with costly
jewels, upon the latch of the turret door, she
lifts her eyes to the window above, and in a
voice low and singularly sweet, calls the mathematician
by his name.

"Ay ! " he said, starting from his prolonged
reverie. " Who is there ? That is your voice,
Mistress von Steinbach 1 "

"Yes," replied the artist. "I have a word
to say to you  about the Horologe."

I will come down," he said, beginning to
close the lattice.

It will be better that I should come up,"
she said, pushing the door further ajar, and
setting one foot inside the threshold.

No. By your leave I think not," answered
he, and before she could say more, he was descending
the stair. " We can pace the Platz
together," he said, as he reached the foot ; "there

is little fear of our being disturbed. Our good
neighbours seem to love their firesides better
than to be out in this biting cold."

Yes, because they are all such dull fools,"
she answered contemptuously.

That is a sweeping assertion," smiled he.

You will find it is a true one  tomorrow,"
she retorted.

You had something to say about the Horologe
? " he said, waiving away her last remark.

"Why, yes," she replied. "You will of course
carry on the work in spite of these men ? "

That is jumping at conclusions, as I could
not have conceived  pardon me, Mistress von
Steinbach  conceived of you, who have something
beyond an ordinary woman's mind."

But less than an ordinary woman's heart, as
you always seem to think," she interrupted in
bitterly impetuous tones.

"Indeed no," he said. "I know the contrary
too well to say any such thing. I wonder who
could count the sick and poor of our great city,
who bless the charity of Radegund von Stein-bach."


Psha ! what is that ? " answered she. " I
should be a skin flint indeed not to share a few

of my gold pieces so. Does a woman's love end
where her charity does, think you ? "

Nay," replied he, thus challenged. " You
must not ask me. I cannot guess what woman's

love may be like. Once I thought But

let that be, I was mistaken."

"x4nd did you indeed believe that was love ? "
she asked. " The foolish dallying of that pretty
child ? To think," and she laughed mockingly,
how easily you clever men are deceived ! And
now  positively you are annoyed, as miserable
almost as a child whose fragile toy is broken ! "

You know, then, that Sabina has been
false ? "

I heard that  the bond between you had
snapped," she said. " I did not dream that
you could regret it as you seem to do."

And to give her her fair meed of justice, she
spoke no more than the truth, as she saw it. "I
say I did not dream you could regret her," she
reiterated, for he made no reply.

Regrets are useless," he said ; " but it is a
cruel thing for a woman to play a man false.
Take warning from it, Mistress Kadegund."

Nay, I would stake my soul for him I
loved," she murmured.

That would he good hearing for " Dasi-

potius paused.

"For whom ?" she demanded hurriedly. "Say
then."

For Bruno Wolkenberg," said Dasipodius
with a faint smile.

An angry spasm contracted her face. " Bruno
Wolkenberg ! " she echoed scornfully. " When
will Strassburg learn to unlink our names ? "

"Never, I trust." he answered, "for Bruno
loves you, Mistress Kadegund, as I "

"As you? "

"As men seldom love."

Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg and I are good
friends. How many a time have I not said so ?
But nearer  and dearer ? No, that we can never
be. He does not expect  he does not wish it,"
she added, with an effort at unconcern.

"Ay, but he does, and you know it," said
Dasipodius.

"As soon might these snow crystals beneath
our feet strive to rival the glory of yonder stars,
as Bruno Wolkenberg seek to link his lot with
mine," she answered haughtily.

Can it be true then, as some declare, that
your heart does not know what affection means?"

demanded Dasipodius, driven on his friend's behalf,
out of his usual reticence. "Nay, but you
are not the woman I took you for," and he turned
on his heel.

"No indeed, there you speak truly, Conrad
Dasipodius. You do not know  you cannot
guess at the thoughts that are in my heart.
Love Bruno Wolkenberg ! Who dares say it ?
Poor Bruno, with his pretty golden curls, and
his face, that I have heard languishing girls
call ' divine ' ! Oh, they are very welcome. To
my soul, his beauty speaks not, conjures no bright
dreams, kindles in it no fire. When has my heart
ever throbbed one pulse the quicker because he
came near "

Eadegund ! " interposed the mathematician.

"When has it ever seemed to me," she hurried
on passionately, " that to look once more  just
once more upon him, I would have freely bartered
all eternity's promised joys ? Has it been his
face I have striven to picture to myself through
the long dark night hours, until sleeping at last,
I have dreamed that he has clasped me in his
arms and said : ' I love thee, Eadegund ' ? No,
no, and yet for one  for one I have done this,
Conrad Dasipodius  I take no shame to myself

that I have done it. But it was all a dream  a
dream ! " she murmured, drawing closer to the
blind man's side, until he felt her warm breath
mingling with his.

My heart bleeds for Bruno Wolkenberg," he
said, receding a step.

"Was it so," she went on, affecting not to hear,
that Sabina loved you, Master Dasipodius ? "

Sabina is not free of speech," he coldly
answered.

"Ay  no," she returned scornfully. "Always
discretion itself is my little cousin. Charmingly
discreet ; but is it these models of maidenhood,
think you, who will stand by a man when things
go wrong with him, or your bold, unscrupulous
women  such for instance as I "

Nay, but I would think you neither bold
nor unscrupulous," he contended.

She has clone well for herself. Very well,"
continued Eadegund. " She foresaw, this clever
little girl, that the world might be about to
deal hardly with you, Conrad Dasipodius."

To think," said the mathematician sadly,
that Bruno should have so utterly betrayed
me. Bruno ! "

"Is it then so strange," she asked, " that this

fair lily  this syren, should have dragged Bruno
Wolkenberg into her toils, when they have lured
wiser men than he before now ? "

AFFINITIES."

npHIS was a random shaft of Radegund's, but it
- 1 - bore a curious significance in the mathematician's
ear. He believed, too, that it accounted
for her wild words. Clearly she had grown
jealous, and anything, as he told himself, uttered
in the frenzies of jealousy, should have no more
import attached to it than other mad utterances
find. Could it be possible that this foolish
woman had brought herself to fancy that Bruno
Wolkenberg could swerve from his allegiance to
herself? Preposterous! Such indeed was the
mathematician's first inward comment. But then
why then so preposterous? No such unreasonable
supposition after all, that Bruno Wolkenberg
had tired at last of this haughty, irritable woman,
who must make life a burden for any man so
unfortunate as to be in love with her. Surely it
was no such great marvel that the surgeon should
turn from her, to seek rest and consolation from

the gentle Lily ; and if Sabina had fled to Bruno
for shelter from the storm of vexation, and the
revulsion of feeling her recent discovery had
roused within her, it was not after all so great a
wonder. Rather his wonder was now at himself,
that he should have accredited these two with
being made of holier, finer stuff than ordinary
men and women were ; but that was his fault,
not theirs. If they had been false to him, when
he felt that had he been in the place of either, he
should have been true, what then ? These two
disappointed hearts had sought each other at
the rebound, and it was well, very well, for
Bruno and for Sabina. The girl's good angel
had wrestled with him for her, and conquered.
And for himself was left  what ? That peaceful
monk's cell, the once much yearned for refuge,
where he might enshrine his life's great hope, all
faded now, and give himself to the work which
of late had seemed to him but part and parcel of
his love, but which had grown jealous from
fancied neglect, and was now taking summary
and cruel vengeance.

Lightning swift these reflections coursed
through the mathematician's brain. He forgot
the very presence of Eadegund, until having

waited vainly for his response, she said, " We
know that this fair cousin of mine has but to
lift her little finger, for men to fall down and
worship."

Ay," acquiesced he, " indeed she has a most
strange power."

And yet," went on Eadegund, " what is she
after all more than a pretty doll ? "

You mis-estimate your cousin. She might, I
think, prove herself to be a true noble-hearted
woman one of these days."

As she has proved herself to you," mocked
the artist.

I was about to say," he answered, " true for
one she truly loved."

And if she could not be true to you, where is
the god among men to win the approbation of
this most dainty lady ? Pearls before swine !
God in heaven ! To think what she has so
lightly cast away ! And yet it is well. The
clouds are gathering so fast about you, Conrad
Dasipodius. To-morrow even they may burst,
and what shelter would this pretty Sabina have
been to you at such a time ? "

The mathematician suppressed a bitter sigh.
She would have been more than shelter, she

would have been consolation, but that was no
theme for discussion ; and he told Badegund as
much, adding, "And now to business ".

"We are coming to that," nodded she with a
curious smile. " That which she could not 
cannot be to you, I can."

Then she paused, and watched his face, hitherto
pale to ghastliness under the moon's light, but
now suddenly flushed and agitated with some
emotion not even her second sight could divine.

"I do not understand you, Mistress von Stein-bach,"
he stammered.

No, you never do," she answered fretfully.
I meant to say that tomorrow when they take
the Horologe work from you, I will have it given
back to you. You smile ? "

Pardon me, I cannot help it. This is such
a very strange notion of yours. They would
hardly be so "

So mad," interrupted she. " So you think."

Truly. So I believe," he replied, still smiling.

"Then wait till you are undeceived. And
tomorrow, when these delegates declare you
unfit for your task, you will remember what I
have said to-night. You will perhaps also
repent having spurned my offer. Why, at your

bidding, I would have defied them all  every
mother's son of them ! I would have snapped
my fingers in their faces. Would she do that,
think you ? "

"But what need," laughed Dasipodius, "do
you imagine there will be "

"What need! what need!" she cried, angrily
stamping her foot. "Wait then, only wait.
Oh ! how twofold is your blindness ! "

"No," contested he prosaically. "That is
precisely the whole question. Never have my
mind's eyes been so true to me, as since my
bodily eyes have refused to do their office."

"And you flatter yourself these earth clods
will understand that ! Oh, believe me, they will
draw no such fine distinction."

"And they need trouble themselves to draw
none," he returned. "If to the last letter I
fulfil the contract, in what way can it concern
them how I fulfil it ? "

It is being done by magic, the people say."

The mathematician laughed more merrily than
he had for many a day. " Say they so ? " he
cried. " Then by my faith am I glad my case is
not at their tender mercies."

"The town council is ruled by the mob."

Nay then, nay, what is to become of me ? "
he asked still in hugely amused tones.

Laugh if you will," said Eadegund with stern
sullenness. " I sought to stand by you in your
trial-hour, Conrad Dasipodius, and you disdain
my aid, and mock at me."

Why will you make me seem so churlish ? "
he said, regaining seriousness. " How would it
be possible for me to disdain such generosity ?
But it is to myself I must stand or fall, Mistress
von Steinbach. If  if I really cannot help
myself, how are you to help me ? "

"Many a time a woman's word has been
known to turn the balance, where a man's best
eloquence has fallen dead."

How often indeed ! " he said, gallantly lifting
his cap, and turning as if to leave her.

"Farewell then," she said, setting her face
towards the old house, where her lamp still
gleamed through her studio's curtained window.
"And yet," she murmured passionately, "I
would have died to do you a service."

Oh Eadegund ! " he cried, turning back, and
holding out both hands towards her, " do I not
know you would. And may Heaven one day
reward you for your noble heart ! "

29

A light so radiant, so ecstatic, that it was
hard to recall the vanished gloom, broke over
the artist's face, as she stretched her white arms
towards him, and with a low joyous cry, laid her
hands in his.

"It is but right," she murmured tremulously,
that we artists should stand by  love each
other to the death."

If need be," assented he. " But go home
now, Mistress von Steinbach ; this will be serving
you an ill turn else. Why, do you know that
since I have held these two hands of yours,
they have changed from ice to fire ? "

Then he released them, and feeling for her
mantle, wrapped it close and warm about her
shoulders, and turned to accompany her to the
door of her house.

Chit, chat ! across the silent Platz comes the
unmistakable sound of Burgomaster von Stein-bach's
stick. Tempted by the beauty of the
night, and because, too, he was restless with
certain vexing thoughts, Niklaus has been across
to spend an hour with his old chum Christian ;
but surely it is an evil genius which has prompted
him to make his way back by the Dom Platz,
instead of by the narrow cross-lane he generally

affects, since for the second time in the space of
a few weeks it pictures to him his niece and
Dasipodius in all-absorbing tete-astute.

The Burgomaster came to a halt as he caught
sight of them, and watched their two tall figures
cross the Platz, until they reached the door of
Badegund's house. She entered it alone, while
Dasipodius returning, made for the way Niklaus
had just traversed; and the Burgomaster, bringing
his stick down with stern emphasis, passed on
his own opposite road, and when he got home, he
declined to eat a scrap of any of the tempting
little delicacies Sabina had ready for him.
Moodily seating himself by the hearth he began,
as he invariably did when his w r old wagged contrary,
to grind the ashes to powder under his heel.

"Well, after all," he blurted out at last, "ita
right good riddance ! "

What is, father ? " enquired Sabina, looking
up from her work.

"A fine thing to have seen thee tied for life
to a blind man."

Sabina did not speak; she tried to lay in
order some bright silken threads, which just
persisted in twisting themselves more distractingly
about for her pains.

Upon my honour, thought a clever child.
"Worlds cleverer than thy poor old father. How
didst thou find it out then, hey ? "

But it seemed to Sabina that if she ventured
to speak her heart must burst, and she went on
tangling up her threads in silence.

Christian says," continued the Burgomaster,
'twas all your fault. He blames you, Sabina.
Why do you shiver so ? "

"I think the night is bitter cold," said the
girl, coming to her father's side ; and cowering
down over the flame she contrived to say : " Did
you see Con  Master Dasipodius to-night,
father ? "

Hem  hem  ay," coughed he uneasily. " Yes
I saw him."

"And he," she burst forth. " Oh, father ! in
pity tell me what did he say ? "

Nay," said Niklaus evasively. " I did not
speak with him."

She gazed up in some perplexity. " You're
not angry with him ? " she said with wistful
earnestness. " No, you must not be angered
with  Master Dasipodius."

That's as it may be," growled Niklaus, annihilating
another piece of charred wood.

You should have spoken with him in a
neighbourly way," she went on demurely. " Promise
me that you will next time, for my sake,
father. Promise."

What a queer child }ou are to be sure ! "
said Niklaus, gazing with puzzled eyes into her
upturned face. "Well yes, then, I promise.
Who said I dreamed of doing otherwise ? But
I had no chance of any word with him to-night.
He was high busy talking with your cousin
Eadegund, out in the moonlight. I saw them
as I came home."

Then the Burgomaster made an effort to get
a glimpse of his daughter's face, but her head
lay on his knee, and her eyes were fixed on the
fire. Some pictures it made must have sorely
distressed her, for presently a tear trickled all
down the Burgomaster's red hose, glistening
in the dancing glow like a pearl ; and then there
came a sympathetic moisture into his own eyes,
and he perforce too stared sorrowfully into the
blaze, and thought his thoughts ; more confusing
ones than hers, which were not complex. She had
merely sacrificed her love for the sake of him she
loved. Nothing more than that. She still
breathed, and walked, and talked, and ate, and

slept ; that is, the eating and sleeping would
come by and bye ; it was simply that the sunlight
had all faded out from her young life,
and dim and meaningless the years to come
rose up before her  the years which but so
lately had seemed laden with the golden grain
of love and of sweet companionship. But it
had been all a mistake ; the love would have
brought Conrad no happiness, because as Bade-gun
had told her, there could be no true companionship
between them  no affinities  (how
Sabina hated that word to her life's end)  between
a soul so nobly gifted and hers, which had but
its affection, and its few little feminine graces
to bestow in return. Ah ! and what plain common
sense was that which her cousin had spoken !
One day this man would meet with  not of
course a kindred spirit, but still  no ; Sabina
would not trust herself to think of that now.
She, dared not so cruelly rack her heart. Yet
despite her struggling to see nothing, there
brooded over her blank a dim shadow which
made all yet darker and more sad, until at last
the fell shadow took shape, and as she knew it
to be the form of Eadegund, she shivered and
moaned wearily : " It is so cold !  so cold ! "

echoing all-unconsciously her lover's very words,
when at last he had come to believe his little
mistress false.

But the Burgomaster found himself in a most
distracting dilemma. Here, in the first place,
long association had accustomed him to love
and esteem the mathematician, and when the
first rumour of his blindness had reached his
ears, he had been first incredulous, then indignant,
and finally he had striven to relieve his
bewilderment by demanding from Christian Dasi-
potius the real facts of the case. These he had
just now heard from the old man's lips. For
once the great cession question had been forgotten,
and the flagon of Rhenish left to sparkle
unheeded on the table, while Christian had
related to his old friend the story of Conrad's
blindness, how it had stolen upon him very
slowly, but so surely, that he knew it was not
to be averted ; and how he had set himself to
grapple with the enemy, and render it impotent
to spoil his life ; and as Niklaus had listened, all
his anger had vanished, and in spite of himself,
he could only admire and think how he had
triumphed over what other men would have
regarded as an insuperable obstacle, and in proportion

as lie pondered over these things, so
much his first flush of indignation at the blind
man's seeking of his child in marriage toned
down.

I don't doubt," argued Niklaus with himself,
he thought that if he could manage a clock
without his eyes, he might manage a woman.
Well ! and he is clever, and has a stout heart,
but I don't know. Still that is a question I can
have no concern with now," he added with a
sigh. " The little one has settled it for herself
in her own way ; but I'd give the best stone in
my jewel drawer to be a hundred leagues away
from Strassburg tomorrow. Ay, ay, ay ! it w r asa
bad day's work when this girl of mine stole
his heart," and Niklaus pensively patted his
child's head. " But there, never fret about it,"
he went on aloud. "You know best, little
one, what pleases you. Besides, there are more
fish for you in the water, than ever came out of
it. And as to Master Dasipodius, well as far as
I can see, fair ladies won't be lacking to console
him for your cruelty."

And thus it was the Burgomaster did his best
to comfort his daughter.

"worse than silence."

Titans is over in the Cathedral, and the few
-"-* worshippers who have braved the early
morning's biting frost are gone shivering
home to their firesides. The vast edifice seems
utterly deserted ; as indeed, says Prudentius, it
always ought to be at daybreak ; for what creature
with an ounce of brains, would loiter about
in it of his own free will just when Erwin's
daughter and the rest of the ghostly crew are
flitting back to their niches and pedestals and
dim corners out of the way of good honest broad
daylight ?

The sacristan, according to the long-established
law which he has made unto himself, is in the
buttery hatch, fortifying his inner man against
the cold, and all those other little disagreeable
incidentals, which he declares each day brings,
as surely as fast follows feast.

Meanwhile in the Cathedral, laggard full daylight

glides stealthily, yet with weird and awful
grace, and through her filmy veil, like ghostly
guardians of that silent temple's chaste loveliness,
loom the marble monuments and clustered shafts
casting faint shadows along the aisles. Especially
about the Saint Laurence chapel, where
the wintry sunlight's first pale ray steals in
through the painted window, spreading a haze
of mystic loveliness, these shadows fall very
strangely, on picture and carving, and sheeny-broidered
hangings.

Is it indeed true, as Prudentius avouches,
that those statues walk the Cathedral at nights ?
or is it with Strassburg this cold winter morning
as old legends tell it once was ages ago, with the
fair old Norman city, when angels brought the
statue of Our Lady across the waves, and set it
there in a shrine to be the place's patron saint
for evermore ? At least the figure standing
under the fretted gateway, as sculptured saint
might stand in canopied niche, is a crowning
grace to the chapel's beauty. Pale and clear as
purest alabaster is that sad young face, slightly
upturned, but the hair rippling back from the
brow is golden-hued, gleaming where it catches
the chance sun-rays like purest metal. There

too, all cunningly rose-tinted, are the transparent
finger-tips of the white hands, one of which
gathers close the ample blue velvet miniver-bordered
mantle, while the other clasps a richly-bound
missal, wound about with a chaplet of
pearls and rubies strung on a golden chain.
Judged by that uncertain light, the close-fitting
under-dress might be taken for some soft, thick,
white camlet stuff, and certain it is that the
sculptor of this gracious figure must have been
a true master of his craft, yet whether the
beautiful yet suffering face might be a Saint
Margaret's, or whether she were a Naphtha's
daughter, or some other virgin-martyr or confessor
of holy memory, no inscription was thereto
tell ; or it might have been that the creator
of this figure desired to personify Ruth the
steadfast-minded, her of the loving clinging
heart, who said : " Where thou dies, I will die".
Such a place that Cathedral was for idealizing
every-day things. For after all, the figure
was but Sabina von Steinbach's, the Burgomaster's
daughter, who had chanced to pause
for an instant on the threshold of the chapel,
where after mass she had stolen away to tell
her beads. For once however she had treated

them with somewhat scanty ceremony, hurrying
on to make in the most persuasive terms her
troubled heart could improvise, extemporary
supplications suited to her own particular needs.

Sabina, always a most orthodox member of
the orthodox church, had ordinarily small fancy
for this sort of invocation. Hitherto she had
always found the prayers in her missal and her
Book of Hours amply sufficing ; but on this special
morning, not all the beatific doctors who had ever
lived could have expressed her heart's desire for
her before high Heaven's throne. Yet it was a
simple matter enough ; she had only entreated
that things should go well that day and always
for Conrad Dasipodius, and that no breath of
the blight threatening him should fall.

For the old footing between him and herself to
be renewed, she did not dream of asking. What
to him was her love but a valueless burden which
had already wrought, oh me ! such boundless
mischief? No ! because this love of hers for
Dasipodius was unquenchable, it must burn on,
but henceforth it must be always hidden, self-consuming,
and she was content  at least she
told herself she was  quite content to live apart,
finding her pride in his success, her joy in hearing

his fellow-men speak well of him, and her peace
in the conviction that her own death in life had
made good some of that ill she had so unwittingly
worked him.

For her henceforward, things must at best be
cruelly dull and commonplace ; yet what was that
but j must to find herself like anybody else, instead
of the happy creature singled out by the one
man in all the universe worth a thought.

And now Sabina is practising the new order of
things. She is going home to see that all is
bright and comfortable for her father. And when
he comes in from his counting-house, it is to be
no love-lorn Phyllis he is to kiss and bid good-morrow
to, but a busy little housewife with never
a thought in the world  ah dear no  not the
shadow of one, beyond that solemn question
touching the fitness of the great Westphalia
boar's head for immediate larding, and what
quantity of sugar must be had in for the new
confections aunt Ottilie has sent her the recipe
for. And as Sabina, casting one parting look at
the blessed Saint Laurence, stepped into the aisle,
and made towards the western portal round in
front of the Horologe scaffolding, all the mystery
seemed to float away from her, and she was just

once more a pretty, rather demure little lady,
hastening home from early Mass. Demure it was
absolutely incumbent on her to appear, because
just across yonder a man was kneeling by one
of the pillars of the Horologe, and although his
face was now entirely hidden in his long black
cloak as if absorbed in prayer, there never is any
telling when a man's head may pop up if
a woman's dress happens to rustle by ; and that
is precisely what did occur; and before Sabina well
knew how it had all come about, he had risen to
his feet, and she found herself face to face with
Conrad Dasipodius, and heard his voice bidding
her a formal good-morrow. With a painful
effort she returned the greeting, and strove
to pass on ; but her feet refused to obey her
will, and pale and trembling she stood, murmuring
some incoherent words about the
Horologe.

"No, Mistress von Steinbach," replied Dasi-
potius, " it was not the Horologe work which
brought me here this morning. I came to pray.
We all have need of that sometimes."

Of course," stammered Sabina  " always."
Very like," he said ; " but one prays with a
difference."

I  I  do not  understand you, Master Dasi-
potius," she faltered.

No ? " he said, with a slight shrug, and lifting
of his brows. "Ah, I meant only to say, that the
prayer which yesterday was an irksome task,
becomes to-day a necessity. At least, I find
it so ; but these matters do seem to be quite
another thing with you, Mistress von Steinbach,
and such as you, whose sympathies are as evenly
regulated as four sides of a square ; never outrunning
the angle of prudence, and whose pulses
keep time as correctly as the beats of this clock
here. Nay, often I despair of bringing this cold
hard thing of wood and brass to such obedience.
Maybe," he continued with a harsh laugh, when
no response reached him, " I should do well to
entrust it to your discipline for a bit ? You
who so skilfully regulate that  which you call
your heart."

Could he have seen the bloodless, agonized
face before him ! But he could not ; and he
merely stood, with his head slightly bent forward
in the old listening attitude she knew so well,
while his eyes seemed striving to penetrate some
dark veil hanging between him and all joyful
things. It might have been that one word then

from the girl beside him, could have rent it all
away, but though her dry pale lips were parted,
and quivered convulsively, no syllable came from
them. Her very breathing was suspended ; and
a dead sad silence reigned in the vast Cathedral,
while daylight, now striding on apace, cast a
sickly glare upon those two white and stony faces.

Your letter," he continued, " reached me ;
but that of course you know. Everyone knows
it,"

And  and you % " she gasped.

Ay, yes, yes. I am to blame for not having
answered it yet  much to blame ; but there is
some indulgence to be accorded to blind men,
even when they dare  as I have dared. Speak,
will you not say one word to me ? At least
you forgive me  Sabina ? "

She stretched her trembling arms towards
him.

It is you who should forgive me," she said.
Oh  Master Dasipodius, what mischief I have
done ! If the Horologe "

Nay, never fret about the Horologe," he
said wearily. " I was thinking of  of that
mistake of ours, when we thought w r e loved
each other. I blame myself very much for

this, Sabina. Not for all the horologes in the
world," he went on, while she stood shrinking
back, with her eyes fixed in tense earnestness on
his face, " ought I to have deceived you. And
yet  do not think too hardly of me. I sought
to act for the best  I felt so sure that you 
your love "

"Yes  I know," she said, a crimson flush
overspreading her ashen face. " You thought I
had given it to you  before you had asked for
it "

Indeed," he interrupted in surprised tones,
1 had no such "

"And so," she said, waving away his words
with a slight involuntary gesture of contempt,
you thought you would take pity on me."

"Pity!"

"Ay  yes ; but it shall not be. I will have
no such sacrifices ; because  because "

No," he answered coldly, " there must be
no sacrifices, and we understand each other now
quite well. Is it not so, Mistress Sabina ? We
need be at no more cross purposes. I am glad
we have met. It is much better to be clear."

Oh, much better," she said brokenly.

"And," he went on, feeling* with his hand for
210

hers, and taking the death-cold fingers in his icy
ones, "we are friends  henceforth  is it not so?"

And as hand-in-hand the two stood there, cold
and impassive as a pair of marble statues, who
could have guessed at the torn hearts quivering
beneath ?

Oh, Master Dasipodius ! " she sobbed forth
at last, " if I could indeed be your real true
friend : if I could give "

"You would give me  anything in reason,"
he said, with a smile of chilly sarcasm, " would
you not ? "

I would give you my life if it "

Nay," he said, " I need no such extravagant
protestations. I am sure you are a good child ;
and friendship is an excellent thing no doubt,"
he added with a groaning sigh, as he dropped
her hand and turned away.

Conrad ! " she wailed, and in the agony of
her despair, she clutched his mantle with her
half-numbed fingers. " Conrad ! "

Mistress von Steinbach ? " he said, pausing
patiently, but not another syllable reached his
ear, and again he turned impatiently from her,
all unconscious of her grasp. His action was so
abrupt, that it wrenched the cloak from her

feeble hold, and staggering back, she would
have tripped and fallen, had it not been for
the clock's friendly wooden framework ; while
the blind man who would have stepped aside
from trampling on the merest weed, strode with
stern, set face from the woman he so passionately
loved.

A CAUSE CELEBRE.

"Fever was such a curious trial  for if it was
 not to be called a trial, what was it to be
called ?  as this of the Professor Conrad Dasi-
potius ; and not one of the pundits of the city
felt that he cared to pronounce any foregone
conclusions upon the case, because the head
and front of the mathematician's offending had
not the shadow of a parallel in Strassburg's
archives ; nor as far as curious enquirers could
ascertain, in any other records ancient or
modern ; and even the Decalogue itself had
provided no code against such an emergency.

Certainly the question was a most delicate
one ; and preliminary formalities must, so the
wisest heads counselled, be conducted with the
utmost discretion, and all appearance of coercion
carefully avoided. Hitherto, it could only be
generally conceded the Professor Dasipodius had
borne a high, not to say most exalted reputation

for probity and integrity ; and his word of
honour that he would appear to speak for himself
must be accepted. In other words, he was
not as yet manacled and ironed and dieted in a
dungeon. This was held by Strassburg generally
to be a mistake ; and when standing agape at
their shop doors, and hanging about the streets
between old Christian's house and the Chancellery,
the people saw Dasipodius pass serene
and composed through their midst, without so
much as a halberdier at his back, they were
sorely disappointed and put about.

But just wait," they said more cheerfully,
till he comes out again. He'll sing; another
sort of tune then."

Maybe," said Prudentius the sacristan, who
leaving the Cathedral to take care of itself, had
come out to see the fun ; " but for my part, I'd
liefer it had been the painting woman."

What ? " said a bystander. " Mistress von
Steinbach do you mean ? "

Prudentius nodded.

"And what has she to do with it 1 "

What hasn't she 1 I'll swear," grumbled the
sacristan, " they've got the wrong pig by the ear
somehow."

"And I'll swear you're turned idiot," contended
the other. "Aren't they going to try
this fellow because he's the devil's own cousin V

"Oh, ho ! " laughed Prudentius, " and what
then may be your opinion of her ? "

Have a care how your tongue wags, you
popish bald pate ! or you shall have a taste
of what this can do," retorted Eaclegund's
champion, baring a brawny arm.

Having first wedged his stout person between
the wall and the broad back of a spectator double
his own height, the sacristan found himself in a
position to reply that he never wasted breath on
heretics ; but finding his point of view worse
than disadvantageous, he clambered on to the
edge of the stone fountain, and there maintained
his equilibrium by clinging with both
arms round the neck of a marble Hebe, whose
contrasted slender figure with his portly outlines,
excited the crowd beneath him to a hailstorm
of delicate badinage. Prudentius was not,
however, easily discomfited, he was used to heretics
and triflers, and could at animate afford to
laugh at them ; for none could see the show as
well as he could, and he so dearly loved a show.
The merest flash of a scarlet surcoat, or the faintest

tweak of a horn, would charm the lay brother to
the street corner, hon before men and women of
the world had even a notion that anything unusual
was going on, and this morning promised
a treat indeed. Professor Dasipodius' case had
become such a nine days' wonder, as had not
been heard of for miles round, time out of mind ;
and from a comparatively private piece of business,
was grown into a question concerning which
every citizen and citizeness from highest to lowest,
recognised as a manifest duty to say all that
chanced to enter their heads ; and further,
seeing that the Horologe was public property,
they claimed a right to assist at the enquiry,
hinting that if there should be closed doors on
the occasion, the Town Council should hear
about it afterwards. It had been therefore
finally arranged that the great Justice Hall
of the Chancellery should be the scene of the
proceedings ; and as mere work-a-day gowns
and doublets would have been gratuitous insult
to that awesome chamber, all the syndics and
civic dignitaries wore their ceremonial garb, and
presented an imposing picture as they filed in
order due to their places.

Love of pomp and circumstance is inherent in

the human heart, and let levellers strive to crush
it as they may, will crop through ; and although a
large majority of the Strassburgers had discarded
from their religious observances every iota of
ornament and ceremonial, until their conventicles
had become very valleys of bareness and dry
bones, they were as eager as ever to feast
their senses with a piece of colour, or a strain
of music, even though such things were but
heralding a rebel to the block, or some wretched
thief to be broken on the wheel.

And such with its difference was the question
now at issue. On that particular morning, justly
or unjustly, there was a man to be worried, and
Strassburg meant to make holiday ; but whether
it was to be a real red-letter clay seemed questionable,
because many were of opinion that not
by any stretch of logic or sophistry, could the
mathematician's affliction be construed into a
crime. Others, however, maintained that never
was deeper-dyed criminal than he, and compared
with him murderers or high reasoners were pure
as the driven snow ; for what doubt could there
be but that the man, thwarted by this visitation
of Heaven's wrath upon him in his ambition to
be the maker of their Horologe, had, rather

than relinquish the work, invoked the devil and
all his angels to finish it for him ; and for those
who defended him, what were they but aiders
and abettors of his fearful crime ? And so as the
mathematician passed, the crowd pressed heavily
after him, until to save him from being crushed,
a guard was sent from the Chancellery for his
safe conduct.

That was as it should be, and the mob beside
itself with excitement and anticipation, pushed
on, its vanguard squeezing into the vast council
chamber, till the place was too densely packed
for a pin to fall to the floor ; while those whom
ill luck had left in the rear, were forced to
swarm outside in the raw morning mist, where
they strove their best to keep from utterly
congealing, by saluting the respective popular
or unpopular representatives of their civic
rights, with cheers and howls as the case might
be. And as political opinion was just then
very far from unanimous, the demonstrations
became once or twice so uproarious, that some
of the chief agitators found themselves spending
the rest of theday in the guard-house cells, with
ample leisure for reflecting whether they had not
been better doing a good day's work at home,

and leaving the Horologe and its maker to settle
their own affairs.

By the time the last official attendant at the
proceedings had passed in, a heavy snowstorm
fell on the vast gathering, beneath which it subsided
in stolid silence, to indulge in the unsatisfactory
pastime of speculating how those enviable
persons who had got themselves a footing inside
might be finding their reward for all the shoving
and toe crushing they had endured.

This for some half hour or so was undoubtedly
meagre ; for save and excepting the dignitaries
on the raised platform in their scarlet and gold
bravery, which, though immensely imposing, was
a sight as old as the hills, and the place's architectural
adornments, which for a couple of
batten they could, if they wanted, see comfortably
any day of the week, there was nothing
particularly amusing in the proceedings. There,
indeed, was the Professor Dasipodius  but not,
as everybody had anticipated, and Syndic
Hackernagel had been distinctly heard to say
would be the case, behind the bar~where felons
were always tried, but positively accommodated
with a seat, and looking neither bowed with
shame nor haughtily defiant, but much the same

as he looked always,  perfectly calm and self-collected.
To aggravate the prevailing disappointment
and annoyance, his eyelids were not
even closed ; and a tremor chilled to the very
marrow of the spectators, lest after all the whole
affair should be a hoax.

It was simply impossible to suppose those eyes
could not see. Humour, it is true, had declared
them to be wide open like a cat's in the dark,
but they had conceived that to be such a mere
three black crow story, that it had not been
credited for an instant by the thinking part of
the community. Such sort of tales everyone
had heard before  from their grandmothers, but
hitherto no such instance of blind eyes, wide
open, clear and lustrous, unusually lustrous,
had come under their notice, and why should it
occur now ? And in short, with your commonsense,
practical people, only seeing can be
believing  and all they could say was, that if
the case were actually as asserted, there must be
something quite wrong at the bottom of it all ;
and with a thankful feeling that everything had
come to light, they set about lending their earnest
attention to the proceedings, which after a few
preliminary formalities, virtually opened with

the summoning; of the informer against Conrad
Dasipodius.

This person was not mentioned by name, and
for the two or three intervening seconds the
mathematician's face was seen to grow deadly-pale.
A terrible suspicion had been forcing itself
upon him. Was it  could it be possible that 
no. Thank Heaven  no. Such bitterness at
least was spared him, and the voice which
answered to the summons was a man's  the
voice of Otto von Steinbach.

Otto looked discomposed and flushed, and his
eyes kept glancing uneasily from the solemn circle
before him, towards a woman in the crowded
court, for whom everybody had made way ; but
of whose face, so closely concealed by a black
hood, only an occasional flash of dark eyes could
be seen.

Now, tell us how you came by your information
?" said the Burgomaster, sternly addressing
his nephew. " Through some letter, I believe
you said."

Y  yes," answered Otto, shifting his eyes
for an instant from Niklaus' face, to seek those of
the woman. " The letter I was charged to
deliver to Master Dasipodius."

Charged by whom ? "

By my sister," he muttering replied.

Speak out," shouted the town clerk, who
was a little hard of hearing, or said he was.

By my sister," reiterated Otto, with a start,

Did she write that letter ? "

That letter  yes  I mean no  it was from
Mistress Sabina "

Gentlemen ! gentlemen ! " interposed the
Burgomaster, whose face looked terribly harassed
and aged. " This is not a formal trial. We
know without any bush-beating that Master
Dasipodius is blind. More's the pity. Surely
there's no need to "

Produce that letter," said Syndic Hacker-navel,
turning to Dasipodius.

I cannot," he replied.

Cannot ! " mockingly echoed the Syndic.

These hands never touched it," continued
Dasipodius, " and these eyes, as you know, never
saw it,"

"Then where is the letter?" demanded the
Burgomaster, looking round, and finally letting
his eyes rest on Otto. " Who has it ? "

How  how. should 1 know ? " stammered the
young man, with changing colour, and his eyes

again straying helplessly to the dark ones under
the hood, as if his senses belonged to the woman
who stood there, rather than to himself. " How
should I know, I  I "

"Be careful, sir, how you speak."

I am being  I  what could I have to do
with it  af  after I gave it up ? "

Into whose hands ? "

Into Kaspar Habrecht's," he added in pathetically
innocent tones, " as I was bidden. "

"By whom ? "

By Master Dasipodius himself to be sure.
He never does lose a chance of favouring that
boy, I can tell you, and "

Go down. Let Kaspar Habrecht be called."

And then Kaspar told his simple story of
how Dasipodius bade him read the letter aloud,
and how he obeyed, "until"  and then the
boy paused and coloured. "Go on," prompted
Tobias. " Until," went on Kaspar, " I began to
see that it was meant for my master's ears alone,
and "

Why ? " interrupted the Syndic.

Let the boy finish his story, Master Hacker-navel,"
said the Burgomaster.

"And I suppose I stopped short; and then

Otto von Steinbach snatched it from me, and
went on with it himself."

So that it was Otto von Steinbach who
finished the reading of the letter ? " said the
Burgomaster.

''By all the saints, that I did not," said Otto,
glaring at Kaspar, "and if you say I did "

I do not say so, Otto von Steinbach,"
answered the boy. " No one finished it, you
know quite well."

14 Was it, then, never read to the end V enquired
Niklaus.

Not to my knowledge," replied Kaspar. " I
left the studio with my master after his accident,
and when, at his bidding, I returned for the
letter, it was nowhere to be found."

"But where the deuce  ahem where could
it have got to ? " said Niklaus.

Where the deuce indeed?" sympathetically
murmured the crowd.

Some one must have that letter ? " queried
Syndic Tobias looking round.

Ask the witches ! " said a mocking voice.

"Yes  that's just it," said Otto, "there is no
dealing, is there, with a fellow who has doings
with  with "

Doctor Bruno Wolkenberg ! "

And Bruno came forward, his blue eyes sad,
and his broad frank brow furrowed with anxious
lines. He replied mechanically, almost absently,
to the first few general questions put to him,
but on being asked if he were a friend of the
mathematician's, his face brightened, and he
animatedly answered " Yes ".

And Master Dasipodius has sought your
surgical aid for his blindness 1 "

Yes."

It has been beyond your skill, Doctor Wittenberg
? " questioned Niklaus slowly.

Yes," sighed the surgeon.

You believe him then to be stone blind ? "
asked Tobias Hackernagel, staring hard at Dasi-
potius.

Assuredly, yes. I know him to be so," said
Bruno, flushing petulantly. " Has he not himself
said it ? "

And what is your opinion, Surgeon Wittenberg,"
enquired Syndic Hackernagel in his best
manner, " of a man who does such work as that
of the Horologe, without the assistance of his
natural vision ? "

"That he is very clever," answered Bruno,

backing to make way for the next witness, Isaac
Habrecht.

Do you consider," went on Tobias, " do you
consider, Isaac Habrecht, that Master Dasipodius
is competent for the work he has undertaken ? "

Yes," nodded Isaac, with an emphasis betokening
that a more superfluous question could
not well be propounded.

Do you consider that it might be placed in
better hands ? "

Isaac gazed round him as if he did not
thoroughly understand.

"Your own, for instance," blandly insinuated
Tobias.

Mine ? " gruffly ejaculated Isaac.

I am told, my friend, that you are an excellent
workman."

"Yes  I am a good workman."

il None better ? " sweetly smiled Tobias.

That may be so," nodded Isaac.

And if  it should be decided to transfer the
completion of the Horologe to your hands "

You may decide till doomsday, the whole
pack of you, but I take no decisions excepting
from my master, Conrad Dasipodius," said 
; then he leisurely turned his broad
211

shoulders on the august convention, and mixed
with the crowd again.

Otto von Steinbach being now again called to
the fore, the query already put to Bruno Wittenberg
was propounded to him : " What do you
think of a man who can work without being able
to see ? "

Oh, you know," said Otto, "it's such nonsense."


What is ? " gravely asked Niklaus.

Why  whoever supposes he does ? "

Suppose ! jackanapes," thundered the Burgomaster,
" are not the proofs all before us that he
does ? "

"Oh! but it is so absurd though," insisted
Otto ; " why, I couldn't do it myself. Such a
thing was never heard of since the world began
by lawful means, you know."

You believe," began Syndic Hackernagel in
impressive tones, " that supernatural aid "

I'm sure of it," nodded Otto.

And the form assumed by such aids ? "

Well, I only know that Mother Barepenny's
black cat "

What the foul fiend " interrupted the

Burgomaster.

Yes, exactly," said Otto, plucking courage in
the light of Syndic Hackernagel's smiling countenance
turned full upon him ; "Dasipodius gives
Mother Barepenny money  gold. I've seen
him do it myself, many a time," and Otto glanced
round triumphantly.

Is this true ? " asked Hackernagel in
sepulchral tones of Dasipodius, who assented
with the suspicion of a smile curving the grave
lips.

This is indeed a fearful accusation," continued
the Syndic. " And your ostensible purpose in
going to Mother Barepenny's has been  ? "

Because those who should look after the poor
seem invariably to forget to go to her," answered
Dasipodius. " Mother Barepenny has been very
near dying of cold and starvation."

Mother Barepenny," said a fat voice from
the scarlet and gold and fur, " is a god-forsaken
old woman."

At least a friend-forsaken one, gentlemen,"
said the mathematician.

Friend-forsaken ! " croaked Hackernagel ;
friend, forsooth ! Why, she may thank Heaven
she has not been burned for a witch ages ago !
And you imperil your name for such a hag as

this ! Oh ! no, do. That is too much ! a head
like yours, which perfectly well knows how to
put two and two. together ! No. Have a care,
Professor Dasipodius ! have a care. We are
getting on dangerous ground  very dangerous
ground indeed," and the countenance of Tobias
Hackernagel waxed radiant. " And danger,"
he went on addressing his compeers, " which I
think, gentlemen, you will all agree with me, is
not lessened by the additional facts I find here,"
and Hackernagel opened his tablets. " Master
Dasipodius, I have reason to believe, has in his
possession several printed volumes, very curious
books. I assume you will not deny this fact ? "
he enquired of the blind man.

Indeed, no," answered Dasipodius, a ray of
proud content overspreading his face, " they are
very rare and precious."

You see ! " cried Tobias, pitching his voice
to a high triumph key. " He is proud of it,
absolutely proud. And these," he added,
dropping his voice to a groan, as he referred
again to his tablets, " these are the books he
glories in : Copernicus  Terrestrial Rotation.
I think you will agree with me that the less we
say about that the better."

"Well, I don't know," speculatively began
Counsellor Klausewitz. " I don't know "

"You do not, Master Klausewitz," snapped
Tobias; "none of us do. I trust we never shall 
meddle with such things."

"A History of the Gnostic Sect," continued
Hackernagel, referring again to his list.

Now, that's the first I've heard of it ! " remarked
a meditative voice. " Does it believe, I
wonder, in Justification by "

Donnerwetter ! " ejaculated the Syndic, surprised
into an expletive, " these interruptions
are unseemly."

Order ! " cried the town clerk.

Master Coverdale Bible," read on Tobias,
and the only book on my list to the soul's
edification, excepting a manuscript book of the
Gospels, whose popish pictures and gaudy
colouring, however, completely nullify the grains
of truth it may contain  hem, hem. And here :
Sebastian Brandt Ship of Fools."

A deep pleasurable murmur greeted this
mention of the popular favourite.

Quite so, good people  yes, yes," assented
Tobias, a little haltingly. " Quite right and
proper of you all. Master Brandt's work is

clever, undoubtedly so ; but shall we make idols
unto ourselves ? I cannot conceal from myself
that for a scholar and an intellectual person to
devote his powers to mere ethical teaching is a
soul-ensnaring thing. When shall we grasp the
precious truth that not our mode of self-conduct
in this world is of any moment ? It is the saving
of our souls which is the one concern. What does
it matter what we happen to do here below. Is
tins wicked world our resting-place ? No, I
must confess, I myself regard Master Brandt's
work as a monument of misdirected intellectual
power. And," continued the logical Tobias,
what is intellectual power ? A dry stick  a
puff of wind  a bubble  a  nothing. And this
wit and humour you prize so curiously highly in
him  what is it ? nothing. I can't even see it
myself," went on the Syndic, shipping his podgy
fingers among the leaves, "though I assume
Master Dasipodius apprehends something in this
passage, for these lines I find doubly underscored
: Another fool is he ivho judges of hidden
and mysterious things, such as God the Lord is
alone able to judge. Hidden and mysterious
things, and underscored ! That looks suspicious >
friends. You cannot deny that looks as if it

signified something more than meets the eye 
a blind man's eye ! " and the Syndic's shoulders
touched his ear tips. "And here again :

With measure just shall every one
Be measured as he may have done ;
As thou judges me and I judge thee,
So will our God judge thee and me.

The old exploded, popery-sated doctrine of
works ! Can a heart be regenerate and applaud
such sentiments. Oh ! lamentable ! lamentable !
Estimate for yourselves, my good friends, the
frame of mind a man must be in who singles out
such a passage as this ! But it speaks for itself
let me pass on. 'The History of Reynard the
Fox. Oh yes," assented Tobias, as another loud
cheer rang through the hall, " a well-aimed shaft,
an excellently well-aimed shaft at the craft and
cunning of popish rule, but "

But a knife that might cut two ways, if pure
protestantism slipped into the throne ; we'll take
it as said, Syndic," interrupted Burgomaster von
Steinbach.

I said no such thing, Burgomaster ; I protest
against words being put into my mouth. I hope
it is unnecessary. I was simply about to observe

that this grotesque, fable acquires an unpleasant
significance when we consider "

It'll be growing dark soon, Master Hacker-navel,"
urged the voice of Councillor Klausewitz.
Will it please you to return to the point ? "

When I see how I have departed from it,
Master Job, I'll thank you for your interruption,"
snarled the Syndic, casting a withering glance at
his yawning civic brother. " The last volume on
our list is, I find, intituled Prometheus Viiictus,
set down in Greek characters by a certain heathen
person, of whom I make more than doubt you
have never heard." Syndic Tobias had himself
first made its acquaintance on the previous day,
when, having laid violent hands on it, he surreptitiously
conveyed it to a pedagogue neighbour,
for coaching up concerning its drift. " We live,
my friends, in an enlightened age," continued
Tobias, " and I fail to perceive what we, with our
Christian privileges, our sermons, our exhortations,
our discourses, our  and the rest of it, to
be brief, what, I repeat  what motive  I would
say, should move our having recourse to pagan
productions, is beyond my conception. Although
metaphorically, and in fact physically, I shrink
from touching this book, which is a stage play,

with a pair of tongs," he . went on, suiting
the action of his fingers to marvellous imitations
of those implements, " I have in the
public interest made it my business to look

into it ; and I am told " a slight momentary

huskiness impeded his utterance, i: I perceive, of
course, that underlying its rounded and incontestable
elegant  hem  hexameter, is a signification
which  ahem  which  which "

For the dear Heaven's sake ! " cried Niklaus,
we'll believe you. We take it for said, man."

Very good  it shall be so," briskly assented
Tobias, "since you desire it, Burgomaster; and
I pass on to the last of my list : Johannes calvin's
on Predestination. Here we have a work,"
went on the Syndic, whose accents came pipingly
and weak out of the deafening thunder of applause
and yells which the name evoked, " a work to be
used, or abused, as its student may have put on
the new man, or be still of the earth, earthy.
Predestination is  now, Professor Dasipodius,
let us hear," continued Tobias, turning on the
mathematician with folded arms, and closing
his eyes, " do you believe in Predestination ?
Come, a plain simple answer to a plain simple
question."

If Heaven be pleased to handle our fate for
us as some of our fellow-men do, Master Tobias,"
replied Dasipodius, " a man, it seems to me, can
have no free will. I fancied until to-day that a
person's house, and what it might contain, were
his own."

Oh, certainly," acquiesced Tobias. " That is
a rule which works fairly well for normal and
properly regulated minds ; but when a man, ora
woman,  yes, I do not hesitate to assert as my
conviction, that it equally applies to women, in
those cases, happily so rare, where the female
nature  hem  hem  forgets itself, and develops
the faintest spark of what the world calls genius,
there is a prevailing sense in those who look on,
that it is as well "  and Tobias significantly laid
the extreme tip of his forefinger on his smooth
little forehead  " as well to keep an eye on them.
I ask any ordinary person if this is not the case ? "
he asked appealing to his hearers, but the chorus
of assent fell feebly. " The case before us amply
substantiates my theory," he continued. " The
knowledge of good and evil, as the merest babe
is aware, wisdom or knowledge, knowledge or
wisdom  convertible or synonymous terms  of
good and evil, I say, was the ruin of our first

parents. Friends and fellow-citizens, may we
all be preserved from too much wisdom ! "

Amen ! " murmured the Town Council.

Together, and side by side with these printed
volumes, I have now to add, have been found in
the Professor Dasipodius' study, sheet upon sheet
of paper and of parchment, closely covered with
every conceivable and inconceivable geometrical
shape. I suppose it is not possible to utter
that word in disentanglement of its connection
with astrological and other unlawful and occult
sciences. The attached network of signs and
figures is also bewildering to a degree ; and
ABC intrudes at every available corner. Now,
Burgomaster and gentlemen, I presume we all
know what ABC means."

Tut ! " said Niklaus, " let's hope so. I suppose
knowledge "

Precisely," nodded Tobias. " Knowledge 
there is my argument. Inasmuch as I have
proved, satisfactorily I trust, that knowledge in
the best hands, our own for example, gentlemen,
even a little of it, is a dangerous thing, what
can  what can be predicated of that sort of
knowledge which a blind man possesses ? What,
I ask, in such hands, can ABC signify, but abracadabra
? "

QUO FATA Vacant."

A SHUDDER convulsed the Syndic's frame
-*- as he uttered the terrible word ; while
Niklaus, pressing his hand to his forehead, turned
towards Dasipodius. " Tell us yourself, Professor,"
he said, " something about these same
calculations. Maybe then we shall come to know
what we are talking about."

They are chiefly the Horologe measurements,"
replied Dasipodius.

Chiefly," echoed Hackernagel, with his head
as much on one side as an inquisitive magpie,
and blinking his pink eyelids. " Chiefly, and
the rest ? "

I have in hand other works," answered the
mathematician, " which the present question in
no way concerns."

Oh, excuse me, that is quite a mistake. If
you have no right to be making the Horologe,

the question at once suggests itself, have you a
right to do anything at all ? To be anything at
all ? Oh, I assure you, I have grave doubts. It
appears to me that it very seriously disputes
your claim to every privilege. I am led at once
to ask, what is your right to free citizenship ?
Your right to come, your right to go 1 Are you,
in short, a responsible individual, have you a
right to  to breathe, as it were, to exist, to 
to to "

And all this," asked Dasipodius with something
of a smile, " because I am blind, Master
Hackernagel ? "

Have a care, sir," yapped the Syndic ; "do
not permit contumacy to aggravate the peril of
your position here. Keep to the point, and
explain what may be the nature of these documents."


I am writing a book, for instance."

"Oh ho ! " laughed Tobias. " So you write
books as well as make clocks. Eeally one must
be permitted to say you are vastly clever for a
blind man, Professor ; but admitting, for the sake
of argument, that you can do these things, ought
you, I ask once more, to be permitted to do
them ? For the dignity's sake of our city,

gentlemen and good friends, I think not. At
least so far as this important work of the Horologe
is concerned. I believe on this head there
will not be two opinions."

But to the orator's amazement, there appeared
to be countless ones, and their holders asserted
them so vigorously, that more than ten minutes
passed before order could be restored. Still the
multitude entertained an exalted opinion of
Syndic Hackernagel. He had a knack of
stroking them the right way, and they always
regarded his sense of justice as unassailable.
Perceiving, therefore, that he had more to say,
they at last subsided into silence, and the Syndic
proceeded to remind them that the Horologe was
their own property, to be paid for out of their
own contributed public monies ; and for a blind
man to be receiving these, was simply to be
allowing themselves to be hoodwinked and defrauded
in the most barefaced manner.

Master Dasipodius," interposed the Burgomaster,
" hasn't seen a batten of his money yet."

No, nor ever will see it," said the Syndic,
convulsively chuckling at his own exquisite wit.
"Eh, Master Dasipodius? And yet I'll dare
swear you count on being paid."

Most assuredly," assented Dasipodius.

You hear ! " cried Hackernagel, turning on
his auditors, "and all this in the very teeth of such
men as  well, let us say Master Otto von Stein-bach,
grandson, ever so many times removed, of
the great Erwin himself ! Oh ! it is too much !
Shade of our mighty fellow-citizen ! " ejaculated
Tobias, clasping his fat fingers aloft, " how
wouldst thou have blushed to behold this day !
To think we should be brought to see kinsman of
thine set aside for  whom  what ? Gentlemen !
gentlemen ! I could weep," and his voice grew
thick with emotion, as he stretched his arms
towards the blushing Otto, " when I remember
how you elected that man instead of Otto von
Steinbach here."

Then as half a hundred voices shouted, " Long
live Otto von Steinbach ! " Otto felt that truly
life was worth living.

But," concluded Tobias, "who shall dare say
it is too late ? Who shall pronounce the error
irretrievable ? Master Dasipodius cannot stand
there, and deny that the question has been discussed
before you  I defy you to do so, Professor,"
challenged Tobias.

' You give yourself unnecessary trouble, Syndic."


' No. How can he indeed ? Discussed, I
repeat, before you, in a free, fair and becoming
spirit, and without prejudice ; and we may stay
here all night "

Ay, ay, that may we," said Councillor
Klausewitz, rising with alacrity ; " and the conference
then is ended 1 "

Nay  by your good leave the premisses
have as yet only been laid down ; the conclusion
"

That's what I say," hopefully said Clauses


And you are right, Councillor Klausewitz,
the conclusion must be arrived at before we
separate."

The unfortunate Job sat down again, while
Tobias lifted his voice and proceeded, in a
lengthy oration, to remind his hearers that a
solemn duty lay before them. That much as it
grieved him to say it, he felt he had no choice
but to urge them to cancel their suffrages in
favour of Conrad Dasipodius. Originally, the
question had not been simply and solely one of
technical capability, but one also of the measure

of personal consideration the candidate might
enjoy ; and while it was true (and Tobias conceded
the awkward truth with a grace all his
own) that the Guild of Clockmakers had voted
unanimously in favour of Dasipodius, it ought to
be borne in mind that he was a member of their
company ; and it was but poor frail human
nature to rejoice in reflected honours, but individuals
taking a more extended view of the matter,
had been (as he, Tobias Hackernagel, was in a
position, from his own personal knowledge, to
say) much at variance in their opinion of the
Professor Dasipodius. There was a something
about him some people did not like ; a reserve,
stand-off deportment, which had given considerable
offence in some quarters he  Tobias  knew
intimately. A resenting of enquiry into his
mode of conducting the work  and  but why
harp on that string, was not the mystery explained
now ? Small wonder he had refused to
enter into details with the troops of visitors who
had honoured his studio. Small wonder that
with courtesy which barely concealed his restiveness,
he had dismissed them with the assurance
that his labour would best be known by its fruits.

A mere gloss to the vulgar axiom that the
212

proof of the pudding was in the eating ; while
all the city could bear witness to the frank, confiding
charm of his young friend, Otto von
Steinbach's bearing. There you found no pride,
no reserve, no concealment  why ? because he
had nothing to conceal. On that head, however,
he. Tobias, would say no more. What need ?
the two men stood before them, every line of
their features, every gesture significant of their
contrasted individuality. It was not for him,
Tobias Hackernagel, to influence their decision
by a feather's weight. He had simply to recommend
a collecting of voters' suffrages a second
time, the true wishes of Strassburg in regard to
the Horologe being thereby ascertainable. In
the meantime the work itself must be suspended ;
and should the result of the voting go against
Dasipodius, there appeared but the one course
for him to adopt, of gracefully retiring from
the field. " I believe you will see the force
of my conclusion, Professor ? Exactly, I was
convinced you would do so," continued the
Syndic, as Dasipodius opened his lips to
reply. " Here we have then the case ina
nutshell ; and as before, my friends, the
three former candidates seek your suffrages ;

ostensibly three : Otto von Steinbach, Isaac
Habrecht "

What ! " thundered a stentorian voice from
the crowd, somewhere in the rear of the mathematician,
who turned his head and said, "Hold
your peace, Isaac, for pity's sake ! " and Habrecht
subsided stormily.

Isaac Habrecht, and Conrad Dasipodius.
Virtually, however, as I flatter myself I have
made clear, only two ; the two first mentioned,
since by all nature's laws, the third has been
proved physically incompetent for the task. Yet
incontestable and satisfactory as these evidences
are, let the formalities be duly observed. I am
the last to wish to see appearances shorn of their
rights. Vote as your consciences prompt you,
always bearing in mind the moral question at
issue, and the doubtful and mysterious elements
enshrouding the very existence of the man who
has this day been summoned to speak for himself,
and the astonishingly, astoundingly little he has
had to say."

Syndic Hackernagel then passed on to observe
that he had fully expected other witnesses to
have come forward and substantiated the charges
of sorcery and of magic-mongering against the

accused; but the world had fallen upon evil
days, and zeal appeared to be at her last gasp.
In default of those who should have presented
themselves, he had, however, done his poor best,
he said, to make his own convictions clear, and
that his reward would be in finding that his few
observations had not fallen upon deaf ears.

No, no," shouted some of his auditors.

I rejoice," smiled Tobias, " that there are
still to be found in Strassburg ten, peradventure,
righteously inclined. Yet I repeat, my friends,
that is a grievous falling off. Fifty years ago
the voices against the sin of witchcraft would
have gone up from this vast hall, like the voice
of one man. What do I say ? Forty, nay even
thirty since, by the evidence obtained from my
own personal exertions, aided by the valuable cooperation
of my young friend here, Master Otto
von Steinbach, we should have been able to have
brought this person to the stake, or at least into
mortal fear of it. Now, I cannot hide from myself
that a certain amount of sympathy has been
evinced on his behalf throughout this day's proceedings,
and that markedly in quarters," and
Tobias glanced towards the dais, " where one
would have hoped for something very different.

Some present had possibly been inclined to
leniency, by the fact of the presence of the books
of the reformed faith which had been found in
the Professor Dasipodius' possession, but that
was a perilous misleading, since, as a set-off
against these, were the popish and heathen works
enumerated. "Now what shall we say," continued
the Syndic, " of a man who looks  Heaven save
the mark !  of a blind man who looks at all sides
of a question ? "

"I do think you have treated the subject quite
exhaustively," said Job, " good Master Tobias ;
you have said everything that can be said."

I think so," smiled Tobias; " I flatter myself
so. I have now, therefore, simply to remind
you, my friends and fellow-citizens, that the
matter lies in your hands ; and three days
hence the result of your collected opinions
will be duly proclaimed from the Cathedral
steps. For all this world's filthy lucre I would
not prejudice your decision, but it appears tome
that one man alone claims universal consideration
; for bear in mind, in regard to the
second candidate, that the familiar spirit is but
one degree less evil than its master."

And with a sidelong france in Isaac Habrecht's

direction, Syndic Hackernagel gathered up his
notes, and folding his robes toga wise about him,
waited for the Burgomaster to intimate that the
proceedings were ended.

And now we can go, Burgomaster ? " whispered
Councillor Klausewitz, rising briskly to his
feet. " Yes ? "

But Niklaus did not stir. Job's countenance
fell, and he sank back with a groan, seeking
sympathy in the faces of his colleagues, but they
were all turned patiently, expectant of what the
Burgomaster might have to say ; and Job,
with an inward prayer that this threatened new
harangue might not last above a quarter of an
hour, assumed the virtue he had not, and looked
the picture of interested attention.

Syndic Hackernagel spoke the truth," said
the Burgomaster, rising and addressing the assemblage,
" when he said that a solemn duty lies
before you. See that you fulfil it like reasonable
men, and may Heaven help you."

Amen ! " assented Councillor Job, with
brightening eyes, as Niklaus sat down again.
Can we go now, Burgomaster ? "

Ay, let us go," replied Niklaus ; " I long to
breathe fresh air. And so too, I'll warrant, does

Master Dasipodius there' he added, looking
sadly at the pale wearied face of the mathematician.
"One may play the fool too long." And
having received a brief formal dismissal, the
conclave broke up, while the crowd began to
hustle and struggle to gain the doors in time for
witnessing the departure of the chief actors in
the scene.

We had best leave by the little side door,
Master," said Habrecht, coming close up beside
Dasipodius, where he stood alone.

Nay, Isaac," said Dasipodius, starting from
the reverie into which he seemed fallen, " what
have I to do with little side doors ? Lend me an
arm, and let me go out as I came in."

And so, leaning on Isaac's strong arm, the
blind man descended the Chancellery steps, where
a deafening uproar greeted his appearance.
Some in the crowd rushed forward to seize his
hands, uttering fervent expressions of loyalty,
and sympathy and respectful admiration. Others
set up a hideous caterwauling, intermingled with
elegant reference to Mother Barepenny, and flung
showers of half-frozen slush and rotten eggs, and
other missiles, whistling about his head ; but
these, thanks to Habrecht's quick eye and stout

stick, fell everywhere but on the object of attack.
Moreover, the mob being so utterly divided
against itself, soon found distraction, in favour
of mutual fisticuffing and belabouring, so that it
is problematical of how many broken heads that
day's work might have been productive, had nota
sudden beating of drums and flourish of
trumpets half drowned the uproar, and stricken
the combatants temporarily motionless with expectation.
It is true the drums had a cracked,
rattling sound, as if their skins had seen some
service, and even known the pain of a pike-thrust,
and the trumpet-call was a tuneless
screech; but being something fresh, it won its
meed of attention. Nearer and nearer came on
the hideous discord, and Isaac, hastening on
Dasipodius, perceived that it heralded a procession
of some two-score men, and about as
many women, stepping out in solemn triumph,
bearing aloft banners improvised of paper and
coloured rag, and shouting in more or less harmony
with the musical accompaniment, the name
of Otto von Steinbach. Perched high in their
midst sat the object of this ovation, clinging for
dear life to the arms of a faded velvet and tarnished
gilt chair, which was hoisted on to the

shoulders of several men, among whom the faces
of one or two of the mathematician's disaffected
pupils were distinguishable. Proud and pale
Otto looked ; proud, because who in such a
position could feel otherwise ? and pale, because
frightened was a mild term to express his sensations.
The enthusiasm of those who carried
him rendered his seat appallingly unsteady, and
sent him jolting and shifting from side to side,
like a handful of corn in a horse's nosebag ; and
the mingled pain and ecstasy his countenance
expressed, coupled with his efforts to bow and
smile acknowledgment of the honours thrust upon
him, presented a curious and instructive study.

So the procession, increasing as it went, passed
the foot of the Chancellery steps, shouting :
Long live Otto von Steinbach ! Down with
the Blind Sorcerer ! Long live Otto von Stein-bach,
our Horologe maker ! "

Every dog has his day," grunted Isaac.

What is it all about, Isaac ? " asked Dasipo-
dies.

"Nothing," answered Habrecht. "Come aw T ay,
Master."

Have they chaired Otto von Steinbach ? "

Ay, Heaven help them."

And then Dasipodius and Habrecht made their
way unmolested through the deserted streets,
for all the world had run after Otto von Stein-bach.


otto's little difficulties.

rpO the astonishment of Syndic Hackernagel, it
was found on the reckoning day that notwithstanding
his eloquence in Otto von Stein-bach's
favour, and that individual's subsequent
public triumph, the majority of votes were
given, not to him, but to Isaac Habrecht.
Isaac, however, who had small relish for rising
on others' ill fortunes, least of all on those of
Dasipodius, when informed by those who waited
on him for the purpose, that he was the successful
candidate, replied that he was no candidate
at all, and consequently could be neither
successful nor unsuccessful ; and that Syndic
Hackernagel in connecting his name as he had
done with the affair, had been guilty of the most
unwarrantable conclusions.

But," said the disconcerted delegates, " you
should have signified this earlier, Master ."


I did, plain enough," returned he.

Oh ! but that was informally ; and really,
this contempt of informality on your part will
place you in a most unfavourable light."

Maybe," answered Isaac, " but where all has
been informal, formality would have become meas
little as it would have been understood ; and
if Syndic Hackernagel found pleasure in hearing
himself gabble on as he did the other day, he was
welcome, I suppose, to make a fool of himself ;
but that is no reason I should turn knave, and
try and set foot in my master's shoe."

But  your conscience is too tender, it is
indeed, Master Habrecht ; and you must be
aware that your refusal will not reinstate the
Professor Dasipodius into a post for which he has
been found unfitted by  by "

"A set of arrant shepherds," thundered
Isaac, " who can't tell a silk purse from a sow's
ear."

And is this," ejaculated the spokesman in
injured tones, " is this all the gratitude our
council has to expect for its delicacy in having
refrained from bringing the question before a
formal tribunal ? "

Would to Heaven ! " exclaimed Isaac, " it

had been brought before a formal tribunal.
Master Dasipodius might have had justice then.
But if you don't want the clock, why, you can
go without it."

Oh ! as to the clock," was the lofty rejoinder,
I imagine we can have a clock without Master
Dasipodius' assistance ; or yours either for the
matter of that, Isaac Habrecht."

No doubt," assented Isaac, " you can have a
clock."

I did not say a clock," shouted the other in
irate tones, and rapping his knuckles sharply on
the bench ; "I said the clock  the clock which
Master Dasipodius has begun."

Ay  ay, can you so ? " said Isaac.

Yes, we can. Hasn't he got his plans, and
can't the Town Council compel him to deliver
them up."

I'm not so sure of it," said Habrecht ; " but
granted, what then ? "

What then ? why then, if you will not "

1 won't," said Isaac, " and I can't."

Oh ! can't, indeed ! A good joke that !
Then we'll see if Otto von Steinbach can, that's
all."

A general chuckle among the deputies greeted

THE SIL VET DIAL.

this sally ; but happens to observe that Habrecht

seemed to be eqtf% shaken with inward

laughter, they fell ito a sudden composure, and

after bestowing on slim a few moments' silent

stare, wished hint preternaturally solemn good

day, and depart 1 ; to return at once to the

Chancellery, wr/ e the y announced Habrecht's

f psal and st ,s were a t once taken to secure

the reversion >f the appointment to Otto von

Steinbach the 01  unite possessor of the next

greatest number votes.

Since DasipodiJ had not lifted a finger in his
own behalf, and-abject had declined the
honour some wouh have thrust upon him, Otto's
triumph was easily on. That, however, only
made him appreciate the more, because, ashe
explained in the elcent address with which
he graced his accepts of the appointment,
and* with whose he. Syndic Hackernagel
generously supplied him was so gratifying to
reflect that favour and prdjce had been compelled
to yield to calm enqu/md dispassionate
consideration, and that, to us comprehensive
figure of speech, the right man at last in the

right place.

Concerning the Horologe, altlio.it was in a

very advanced stage towards completion, Otto
had nursed the hope of being able to set it aside
in favour of the one projected on the lines of his
own originally rejected plan. He found himself,
however, forced to abandon such wild hopes as
soon as thought of, on account of the insuperable
objections which at once arose. In the first place
he was conscious that his quondam fellow-students,
who thought themselves as good as he,
and were not far wrong, were by no means well
pleased at finding themselves under his direction ;
and although at present kept in check by public
opinion, the least spark of over-assumption of
authority on his part would have fired their
lurking spirit of insubordination, and hurled
him from his high estate before he was fairly
well fixed in it ; and he came to the conclusion
that when the Horologe was quite finished,
would be the more meet opportunity for visiting
his wrath upon certain impertinent innuendoes
and quips and cranks which he knew they indulged
in at his expense.

He had, moreover, other cogent incentives to
circumspection ; standing, as he did, in terrible
awe of what his sister Radegund might be having
to say on the matter. Hitherto she had said

ominously little ; and he lived long in hourly dread
of some outbreak from her of a storm of angry
sarcasm, but he had escaped with comparative
ease ; and when he had told her his appointment
had been confirmed, she had simply counselled
him to try and fit himself in some degree for the
onerous task before him ; but that, taking him at
his best, he was a poor creature to succeed such
a man as Conrad Dasipodius.

Oh ! ah ! of course," grumbled Otto, "I
knew that. Beside this paragon of yours, even
your own flesh and blood is just dirt, and you
have not one word of congratulation for your
poor brother."

Alas ! no."

"It's a blessing that there are those who
understand my value better than you do, Eadem
said Otto, tugging vexedly at the end of
his trim little beard.

A man is not a prophet in his own country,
Otto dear. Put it down to that if you like."

I shan't ! " whisperingly snapped he, " it's
all because you're so prejudiced in favour of that
fellow. I do believe you're in love with him,
yes I do, there ! "

What is that ? " she cried, turning on him

with flashing eyes. " Say that again if you
dare."

But he did not exactly dare. " Well, well,
where's the need of firing up like that at a little
bit of fun, my dear ? " he said. " But at least
you must confess you are a kinder sister than you
care to seem ; for it is you, with that letter business
of yours, who have brought about my advancement,
and I owe all my honours to you."

Then marking that Badegund's handsome
brows knitted till they met, and she bit her lip
till the blood came, he was satisfied, and went
out for a walk through the city's chief thoroughfares,
to seek from an admiring public the eclat
and sympathy lacking in his own house.

Frivolous and shallow-pated, however, as Otto

von Steinbach was, he was not heartless, nor even

destitute of generosity when he gave himself

time to reflect, and Badegund's indifference to

his triumph wounded something better in him

than his vanity. It was a really bitter drop in

his cup of sweetness, since after his own fashion

his affection for her was great, and his pride in her

almost exceeded his love ; but there was one yet

more bitter drop still, and that was the necessity

for carrying out Dasipodius' plans to the utmost
213

minutiae. Necessity, however, knows no law ;
and without wasting his precious time on superfluous
niceties, he went to Dasipodius and asked
him for all his drawings, elevations, sectional
plans, calculations, notes, and any other document
he might have in his possession bearing
reference to the new Cathedral Horologe, and
when the mathematician refused to deliver them
up to him, his amazement was boundless. " But
I cant get on without them," he said.

Use your own," replied Dasipodius.

But I tell you we want yours."

You do ? " said the mathematician.

Yes, you know, and you must give them up."
Dasipodius shook his head.

Oh now  but really  it's too absurd to stand
out about such trifles ! I never dreamt you'd go
making any difficulty. I told them I was sure
you wouldn't. Don't you see yourself  I mean,
don't you understand, that such a thing as a
blind person making a clock has never been
heard of ; and you're blind you know, you owned
you were, and so how can you "

Your syllogism has a false conclusion, my
friend ; I can make a clock."

Oh, bother ! " said Otto ; " well, the town

council says you can't, so it's all the same. I
say look here, if you don't give up these things
they'll be putting you in prison, they will indeed."

Perhaps," said the mathematician with a
shrug.

Well, I shouldn't like it to come to that.
To be sure, you've always stood in my light,
Conrad Dasipodius ; if it hadn't been for you,
you know, I should have had a chance with
cousin Sabina "

Take it now T ," answered Dasipodius ; " Mistress
Sabina von Steinbach is free."

"I  I wasn't thinking so much of Sabina just
then," replied Otto ; "I was only going to say
you took away my first chance with the Horologe
and  and "

But you have it all your own way now."

Oh yes, but I shouldn't like you to be sent
to prison, it's such an uncomfortable idea, and
all for such a trifle. Why, if you'd only just
give up these papers and things, it would all go
so nice and smooth, it w T ould really."

Yes ? " said Dasipodius ; " well, I cannot doit,
Otto."

It's a great shame of you to make such a
fuss about nothing," grumbled Otto ; but he

attempted no further persuasion of his own, for
he knew Dasipodius, and went away sorely discomfited,
brooding, as he walked, upon the
mathematician's want of feeling in throwing
obstacles in his path up Parnassus.

GIVE UP THE PLANS ! "

lyTEANTIME the Horologe was at a standstill,
and its makers as sheep without a shepherd.
Confusion reigned supreme among them. Some,
vowing they would work under no other master
than Dasipodius, among whom were the brothers
Habrecht, sent in their resignations. Others,
who because their daily bread depended on the
work dared not give it up, grumblingly consented
to remain ; while a few, who had found their old
chiefs conscientious supervision irksome, were
delighted at the prospect of the new regime, and
were eager to resume their places in the studio,
which for a week past had remained closed.

Dasipodius himself had refrained from going
near the place, and had spent nearly all his time
beside Christian, who, weighed down by grief
and mental distress, had been stricken by illness,
which was only aggravated when he found it put

a stop to his being present at the Chancellery on
the important day. This, however, which Christian
took so much to heart, was the source of nota
little consolation to his son, who felt how much
unnecessary pain it had saved Christian ; and
when he had returned home, and undergone a
close cross-examination from the invalid as to
what had passed, he did not scruple to put as
brilliant a gloss upon the matter as it would well
bear.

And so you really think," said Christian,
with a suspicion of regret in his tones, " you
really think it is best to give it all up ? Well,
well,  but will the resignation be accepted ? "

Oh, it must. A man can't be made to work
against his will."

That's true," mused Christian ; " but I
wouldn't give you up, I know, if I were the
town council."

The mathematician smiled sadly, and gently
stroked the old man's hand.

I am glad you can smile," went on Christiana
little petulantly, " I can't somehow."

Yes, yes, but cheer up, Vaterlele. That is
because you have been ill, and are still weak ;
but listen now, in a day or two we are going

away  you and I, from the city, to have a little
holiday. The spring-time is so near now,
and we will go  you and I, and Rapped here,"
and Dasipodius patted the head of the dog, who
responsively wagged his tail, and barked a
volley of short, quick, joyous barks, as if he
understood, as no doubt he did understand,
all they were saying. " Out into the fields, and
among the fresh green and the flowers, and forget
for awhile all about the Horologe and  and
everything. Yes, Vaterlele, shall we % "

But Christian only said with a weary sigh : "I
am glad your }30or mother did not live to see
this day. I never thought a time would come
when I should thank God she was not beside
me."

And to this Conrad had no ready reply.

It would have broken her heart," went on
the old man.

Nay  nay, father, not that. If I had committed
some crime, then indeed  " he paused.
How nearly had he been told off for a criminal !
But," he went on, " all is as God wills."

Ay," said Christian fretfully, " I daresay it
may be." Then he turned his face to the wall,
one by one silent tears rolled clown his furrowed

cheeks, and for a long time he refused to
be comforted ; but at last he fell asleep, and
dreamed such sweet dreams of waving boughs,
and green fields, and sparkling waters, that after
all, Conrad's efforts to cheer him were assuredly
not entirely thrown away ; and when morning
came, Christian could smile, and chatted with
Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg quite eagerly over that
proposed trip.

Bruno being perfectly instructed in the little
fiction, said it was indeed a most admirable
notion, and sat on, discussing the matter with
Christian, until the Burgomaster looked in to
see his old friend ; and Bruno, having watched
the two safely launched into the great Cession
question, felt that Christian was in a fair way to
speedy recovery, and that his presence could be
easily spared.

Leaving them to their talk, therefore, the
surgeon made his way to the turret studio. He
had barely gone half up the staircase before he
heard the voices of Dasipodius and Habrecht
engaged in such unwontedly animated discussion
that even after he had opened the door, he
hesitated to enter, for fear of disturbing them.
The quick ear, however, of the blind man caught

Bruno's footfall. " Is that you, Bruno ? " he said
in strangely rapid and excited tones, and the
surgeon saw there was brilliant fire in his eyes,
and a red hectic spot burning into the cheeks
grown so pale and haggard of late. " Come
here then, and judge between us. Look at
Isaac Habrecht there."

And Bruno obeying, saw that after his own
stolid fashion, Isaac was equally agitated, for the
lines about his resolute mouth were deep and set,
and every feature was silently eloquent of a firm
adherence to some opinion of which he had apparently
just delivered himself.

Do you know," said Dasipoclius, gasping for
breath as he convulsively clutched Bruno by the
arm, " do you know what he would have me
do?"

Wolkenberg looked again from Habreckt's face
to the uncontrollable agitation in his friend's ;
wondering as he gently drew his hand in his,
what could have turned its cool steady touch to
the burning, trembling thing it was ?

I cannot guess," he answered.

No ! " cried Dasipoclius, laughing hysterically,
by the Eood that I'll swear you cannot ! Look
at him, Bruno ! look at him well. That is the

man I thought my friend ; oh, but it was a
grievous error ! every whit as bad as when I
believed you"  and he broke into a hollow
laugh  " you incorruptible  do you remember
that, Bruno ? "

Nay, nay," soothed Bruno, "but we are
your friends, Conrad ; I'll stake my life on it,
never man had more loyal ones," he added,
turning his eyes on Isaac, who seconded this
assurance with an emphatic nod.

Oh ! I ask your pardon ! " bitterly rejoined
Dasipodius ; " yes, you wish me well, to be sure.
To be sure, and that is just what  what she said
in that  letter of hers, and what the town
council people said, and Hackernagel  Master
Hackernagel  he said it too, ' We are your best
friends, Professor Dasipodius  your best friends
I assure you '. Friends ! and now Isaac  and
you, Bruno Wolkenberg  oh ! Heaven save me
from you all ! I had best have taken serpents
to my heart, than any one of you ! Friends,
ho ! ho ! " and his mocking laughter echoed
through the vaulted chamber. " No ! no ! keep
off, I say. Let go my hands. Keep off," he
went on ; " all your stuffs and anodynes can
never cure these deadly stings ! They have

gone to my heart  to my soul, I tell you,
through  and through ! " and with a moan of
mortal pain, Dasipodius clenched his hand upon
his breast, and shrank away from Bruno. " And
now it is all dead here, quite dead  dead. Tell
me, Bruno "Wolkenberg," he said, after a momentary
pause which neither of the other men
dared to break, and coming once more beside
the surgeon, he gripped him confidentially by
the arm, " tell me  how long may a man live
when all his life's blood has been sucked away ?
How long, I mean, can he seem like living ? how
long ? " and his breath, as he awaited Bruno's
answer, laboured cruelly, like one indeed mortally
crushed.

Hush now, be calm, Conrad, all is not
lost "

Oh ! not yet. No, not yet. He tried
though, he tried his best to steal it from me, the
traitor there," whirled on Dasipodius, pointing
at Habrecht, who, save by the occasional twitching
of his brows, betrayed no more emotion thana
wooden block. " ' Give them up,' that is what
he has been saying to me. Could you have
believed it of him, Bruno J ' Let him have them
all' "

Ay, every shred," said Habrecht, speaking
for the first time.

Have what ? " asked the mystified Bruno.

The plans, man  the plans ! " wildly sobbed
Dasipodius, sinking down on the chair beside his
writing-table.

Ay," nodded Isaac, " the Horologe plans,
Doctor Wolkenberg. They want them you see.
Otto von Steinbach wants them."

I daresay he does," said Bruno with a faint
smile.

And I say let him have them," concluded
Habrecht.

You hear ! " said Dasipodius, turning on
Bruno.

"Oh! hem  yes," answered the surgeon.
Well  really  no, upon my honour, I think
not. No, no."

God bless you, Bruno ! " gasped the mathematician
; " God bless you for that."

It would be feeding such a cruel injustice,
you see," said Bruno.

It would be doing no such thing," roundly
contradicted Isaac.

It would be too much "

Ay, ay, there you are right," laughed he,

it would be too much indeed. That's a good
saying, Doctor Wolkenberg, ! Give a dog rope
enough, and he'll hang himself."

How ? " queried Bruno interestedly. " Nay,
Conrad, but he has his reasons ; right or
wrong, let him speak. How would he, Master
Habrecht J "

1 ' How ? " echoed Habrecht, grimly measuring
Bruno's length and breadth. " Well, well, you
are only a doctor. See here then," he went
on in slightly mollified tones, taking a formidably
official-looking document from the table,
the town council in this commands my master
to deliver up all the plans and drawings of our
Horologe into the hands of this  this  Otto
von Steinbach, in order that"  and a sardonic
smile flitted over the grave rugged features 
that he may complete the Horologe from them.
Very well, but first of all, Dr. Wolkenberg, comes
the fellow himself, and makes the same demand.
My master refuses both the one and the other."

Naturally," assented Bruno.

Wait ; well and good, that's how it seems ;
but that's not how it is. Supposing they had
these plans. What will they do with them ? "

Ah ! " sighed Bruno, " they would contrive

to finish off the Horologe from them somehow, I
imagine."

Do you ? " said Isaac ; "I thought you did.
But they couldn't do it, they couldn't do it
though they died for it ; and every batten of the
money these honest townspeople have contributed,
might as well have been thrown into the
Rhine for any good they'll get."

That must occur in either case I suppose,
whether their work is done from von Steinbach's
plans, or they "

Make a cuddle-muddle of ours ? No ; for
they might go on and finish von Steinbach's
piece of gimcracks for a stalking-horse of their
stupidity ; but a week at our models will make
them drop it like monkeys with hot chestnuts.
And so I say let them try, let them have every
dot, every line, and be hanged to them all."

That is your advice," said Bruno meditatively.

Yes," said Isaac, "it is ; and it would be any
honest man's. I'm not saying it's nice, mind
you, to have a pack of thick-skulled, thumb-fingered
idiots poking and mauling "

Hold thy peace, Isaac ! " moaned Dasipodius,
shiveringly burying his face in his folded arms.

But," went on Isaac, " what they do can't

hurt it in the long run. A good thing is a good
thing ; and gold's gold, and if it chances to be
dragged through the mire, it comes out  well,
when you've rubbed the dirt off it, it just comes
out the brighter ; and that's like the work of my
master's hands, and like my master too ; and
he'd be the first to acknowledge what's due to
the people, and protect them from a handful of
fools, when he's himself. But he's not himself
now. They've worried him into a fever between
them, God forgive them all. I suppose if they
had his death on their hands they wouldn't mind,
and you'd best be seeing to him, Dr. "Wittenberg,"
concluded Isaac, casting, as he slowly made
his way to the door, a look of saddened indignation
at the bowed form of Dasipodius ; but when
he had the latch in his hand, he turned and wistfully
eyed a bundle of parchments on the table.
There they are," he said ; "I'd give my right
hand for the master to be saying : ' Take them,
Isaac, and carry them to the Chancellery,' " and
then he slowly opened wider the door to go out.
Isaac ! " said the mathematician, lifting his
head, and his voice sounded so faint and low
that it was hardly audible ; but Isaac heard, and
turning back once more, said : " Master ? "

Take the plans and carry them to the Chancellery."


Then the mathematician's head fell heavily
again upon his folded arms, and he lay motionless
as death ; while Habrecht silently approached
the table, and taking up the bundle of
parchments, carried them to the Chancellery.

"INTER alia."

fYN hearing that the Horologe designs had been
 safely deposited at the Chancellery, Syndic
Hackernagel took to himself no small credit for
the satisfactory issue to which he had conducted
the whole affair ; and as he reflected how entirely
Otto von Steinbach was beholden to him, his
green eyes gleamed with triumph.

All the same, he was puzzled by his easy conquest.


"It is of course entirely gratifying," as he
passingly observed to Councillor Job Klausewitz.
I myself had an impression that the man would
have made more difficulty about it. However,"
he loftily added, " I must own that it shows his
sense."

And Job, who had caught a bad cold in his
head on the trial day, and done nothing but
sneeze ever since, said he thought it did ; and
214

that the Professor Dasipodius must be uncommonly
glad at finding himself quit of the whole
business.

The Syndic's exultations fell considerably,
however, when he found that both the Habrechts
had resigned their posts. While he shrank from
owning it even to himself, he had uncomfortable
misgivings as to Otto's scientific capabilities ;
and in the event of any deficiencies becoming
inconveniently conspicuous, he had counted on
Habrecht for glossing them over.

His vexation applied almost equally to Kaspar,
who, stripling though he was, no older craftsman
in all the city could replace. Any forlorn hope,
however, Hackernagel had entertained, that the
two brothers might be compelled to work on at
the studio by the terms of their indentures, was
annihilated when he consulted these ; and the
desperate final attempt he made to induce the
two to remain, met with stout refusal.

To Niklaus von Steinbach the result of that
day's work at the Chancellery had been very
grievous. He felt that under a guise of friendly
delicacy a crying injustice had been done Dasi-
potius ; and yet he did not feel that he had had
the power to avert it. He had hoped and believed

that calm discussion of facts would have
put an end to the absurd rumours and ignorant
scandal concerning the mathematician's infirmity,
and have done him the service of raising him still
higher in public esteem ; but there had been no
discussion, only the empty pipings of a bigoted
enthusiast, and Niklaus sorely repented of the
manner in which he had permitted the whole
affair to be conducted ; and yet he feared still
more to retrace the false steps, lest Dasipodius
should be exposed to even worse than he was
already enduring. Niklaus, after his lights, was
a clever, even shrewd man, but he was not equal
to grappling with, and trampling down the
hydra-headed superstition and ignorance surging
around him. It was no empty bugbear which
Hackernagel held aloft, when he hinted at fire
and stake as the reward of men who dealt in
matters of which the ruck of that generation had
no conception, and consequently no toleration.
Had his relations towards the mathematician
been less intimate and kindly disposed than they
were, it seemed to him he might have been able
to have spoken out on his behalf more freely,
and found better eloquence for refuting Hacker-navel's
absurd sophisms. That the Syndic's

mode of attack had been thoroughly unworthy
of the position he occupied, it did not need half
of the Burgomaster's perception to see ; but the
people's ignorant infatuation for this man had
shown itself more than once before now, and if
the demagogue chose to say black was white,
they infinitely preferred saying so too, rather
than use their prescriptive right of thinking out
a question for themselves. There was nothing
they appeared more to enjoy than letting Syndic
Hackernagel lead them by the nose.

Had this all happened a year earlier, Niklaus
felt that he might have said out all that came
uppermost in his mind concerning Dasipodius,
and done him real service thereby ; but with that
knowledge of his character which a closer intercourse
with him had brought, the Burgomaster
knew himself to be under the influence which the
mathematician seemed to exercise upon all who
had to do with him. If ever for prudential motives
he had striven to withstand this influence, he
had capitulated long since, and been constrained
besides, not even to refuse him his treasure of
treasures, his one ewe lamb, his Lily ; and yet
more than this, since when he learned the affliction
which had befallen Dasipodius, although he

certainly strove to persuade himself that Heaven
had been very merciful in averting such a
marriage, he failed miserably, and soon gave up
vexing himself with the fiction that he was glad.

Had he been told in the past years that he
would have been content to see his child the
wife of a blind man, and one even by comparison
with his own worldly state, a poor blind man, he
would have indignantly spurned the monstrous
notion ; but the Burgomaster bowed to facts,
and now his warm generous heart only yearned
to bring back the roses to Sabina's cheeks, and
to shield Dasipodius from the storm which was
buffeting him.

And he knew not how to do it. However
injuriously party spirit might have influenced
the public voice to pronounce against Dasipo-
dies, he had still been set aside by a process
which in itself was at least fair ; and as for
Sabina, she maintained such a complete, almost
stern silence touching the sudden disruption
between herself and her lover, that Niklaus felt
like one with his hands tied, and could only bea
sad and anxious spectator. It was true he had
his suspicions that his niece Eadegund knew
something of the real state of affairs, and he

once went the length of speaking a word with
her about these troubles vexing and perplexing
to him ; but Eadegund so fiercely demanded
of him if he thought her the mathematician's
keeper, that Niklaus shrank into his shell, and
only said : " Well, well, niece, the poor child is
troubled ; and I fancied that a woman, and such
a clever woman too as you are, might have been
able to do what a stupid old father only blunders
over ; and I thought as you and the Professor

Dasipodius are such good friends "

We are not  friends," interrupted she.
Oh ! " returned Niklaus, scrutinizing her
gloomy face from under his bushy brows. " It
looked like it anyhow."

Do you mean to insinuate "

"No," returned he acridly. "That's not my
way  insinuating." Then he added rather more
hesitatingly : "It is merely that I have twice
come upon you, niece, and the Professor Dasi-
potius in close confabulation together after dark ;
and that sort of thing always seems  friendly."
Things are not always what they seem."
"Ah, well," said Niklaus in rather hurried
tones, for he stood in dread of Kadegund's
oracular moods, "if you could have righted

things for my poor little woman, I know you
would, niece. So we'll say no more about it."
And Niklaus was right. If his child's troubles
had been of any other nature under the sun,
there was not woman living who would have
gone to her, and soothed, and striven to comfort,
and lain aside her own pleasures for her
sake. For pain and poverty, and every sort
of wretchedness, mental or physical, humanity
knows, Eadegund had boundless sympathy, and
of that sterling sort which spends itself in
endeavouring to alleviate the misery it looks
upon ; but the waves of that swift and troublous
current to which she had abandoned herself,
hissed and howled their evil music in her
ears too deafening for her to catch aught
beyond the faintest echo of those angel voices
beseeching her to return ; and the sternest Calvinist
in all Alsace could not more calmly have
yielded to Destiny's decree, than did she to the
sway of her passionate worship of Dasipodius.
It numbed down like an opiate all her generosity
and her high sense of honour. Yet dead these
were not ; and many and many a time wakening
from their uneasy sleep, they stirred her to a
different course ; but fiercely hushing them to

216 THE SILVER DIAL.

quiescence, she abided with sphinx-like impenetrability
on her beautiful face and awful outward
calmness, the solving of the riddle she had propounded
for herself and for those she loved.

Even when rumour said the Professor Dasipo-
dies was about to leave Strassburg, she betrayed
no shadow of interest in his goings or comings ;
but silently and unflagging continued to pursue
her own share at the Horologe work, and this to
her brother Otto's unspeakable relief. He had
dreaded as an almost inevitable outcome of the
new order of affairs, that Eaclegund would throw
up her contract, and make things generally unpleasant
; but his terrors proved groundless, and
it was a comfort to him beyond power of words,
to mark how she seemed to be throwing all her
energies into superintending the fixing of two of
the completed panels into the cornice of the
clock. To be sure, the outside of the Horologe
was going on promisingly indeed !

And truly time was not to be lost now. The
last winter snows had melted, and among the
little ones of the old city a whisper had gone
forth that if you looked very carefully indeed
along by the river banks, out there beyond the
walls, you would find a few tiny violets ; and

bolder spirits, though, they of course were
Sunday children," who always know pleasant
things before others, declared that Cuckoo had
begun to hint his agreeable intelligence. This
must certainly have been true, because on the
very next sunny morning, before a creature was
up, the primroses peeped out, and rather in a
fluster at having been so long caught napping
by the quiet violets and the fresh young grass
blades, hastily shook out their golden stars,
for the saucy little yellow things do so love to
have the best freshness of the dark purple foil
of their modest sisters, declaring that without
it their beauty is not seen to anything like the
same advantage ; though at this indirect compliment
of course the violets can afford to smile in
their gentle way, and say: "Foil, forsooth;
well, well, they are dear merry little things,
the primroses, let them chatter as they like ! "
But ere long spring must ripen into summer,
and later summer was to give Strassburg its new
Horologe. Under Dasipodius' untiring supervision,
there had been little fear that its nearly
completed mechanism would have been ready
even some weeks before Saint Laurence's day.
But the master's hand was stayed now, and his

successor stumbled beneath the weight of his
own responsibility. Yet for very shame he dared
not share his burden with those about him. If
he could have taken his sister Eadegund into his
confidence, he knew how useful she could have
been to him ; but he instinctively comprehended
that he might as well have sought counsel from
one of the Cathedral marble effigies as from her.
She never so much as entered the studio where
he now reigned with fussy consequence, and
since neither by word nor look she ever troubled
herself to enquire how he prospered, he found
himself driven to maintain a dignified reticence,
which was none the less vexatious, on account
of his having to keep his annoyance to himself.
Oh you know," he one day airily remarked
to Syndic Hackernagel, " one has quite enough
of the thing all day long ; and I make it a rule
never to talk shop at home. Besides, one has
such an immense objection to women meddling
in things so far above their heads, to say nothing
of their being so confoundedly self-opinionated."

Tobias assented with an emphatic nod.

Yes, you know," continued Otto, " Dasipo-
dies got into a way of consulting her about one
thing or another, till he made her positively

unendurable. And that's just the whole difference
between his method and mine. We work
you see on curiously contrasting principles ; it
may have suited Dasipodius to get an opinion
from a petticoat, but "

I've a notion," said Hackernagel with a
knowing wink, " that Dasipodius vastly admired
Mistress Eadegund."

Ah, oh  well, everybody does you know,"
returned Otto proudly ; " don't you ? "

Hem," conceded the other, " she's a magnificent
creature, but "

Well \ " challenged Otto, who tolerated no
bats save his own where Eadegund was concerned.

Ah ! I was merely about to observe  hem 
I had an impression that fairer beauty was more
to your individual taste."

"Well, perhaps," sighing admitted Otto, "I
believe you are not wrong, Syndic Hackernagel."

And then Syndic Hackernagel, smiling an indulgent
smile, reminded him of his promise to
look in for half an hour that evening on their
family circle ; a custom which of late had not
been infrequent with Otto, who enjoying as he
did in an eminent degree, the sensation of having
caps pulled for him, found it satisfied in that

quarter to almost the top of his bent. The
consciousness that behind his back internal strife
waged high among the four Mistresses Hacker-navel
on his account, was balm to Otto's unhealed
love wounds. It was so soothing to find himself
appreciated, to feel sure that he had but to hold
out his little Auger for it to be instantly caught
at and caressed by eight fair freckled hands.

Yet it was precisely this overflow of appreciation
which confused him, and rendered him fora
long time irresolute as to which of the sandy-haired
goddesses he should give the golden
apple, that is supposing things really went so
hard with him that he should be driven into
bestowing it in that quarter at all. Clearly he
could only marry one of them, and the reflection
made him shrink with terror and commiseration
from the picture he conjured to his imagination
of the three rejected ones. Those smiles he now
basked in, and the honeyed flattery which now
soothed and tranquilized his whole being, would
be all changed to bitterness, and the good times,
in short, would be fled for him for ever. And
all for what ?  for the sake of having chosen
where he had no choice, or next to none.

Choice indeed was hardly to be conceived of,

since the four ladies, formed on the lines of their
sire, so nearly resembled each other, with their
light eyes, sandy hair, and sallow complexions.
Only the third, Mistress Gretchen's, eyes were a
shade darker, her nose within more feminine proportions,
her figure less angular, and above all,
her voice less shrill than her sisters' ; but Otto
clung to liberty a little longer, and moreover
he had not jeopardized so much for the mere
chance of zoological honours when he first set
about executing the little manoeuvre which had
led to the overthrow of Conrad Dasipodius.
The chance of being able to win Sabina from
him had been at least an equal incentive to his
efforts ; and that the tide of favour and prejudice
had now set in his way so strongly was, he
considered, no more than due reward for all his
efforts to help himself; and he looked now to
be having his way a little with the world and its
womankind, for all the coast was clear and his
rival trod the steps of the city no more.

DOLCE FAR NIENTE ? "

A ND now, my Kaspar, tell me what you see ?"

- "I see but first, master, come a step

further. Now stoop low  lower, for here at its
mouth the cave is not five feet high. So carefully.
Master, I see a stone chamber  so dark
in some corners one can hardly tell its size,
vaulting high above our heads, and all encrusted
with forms as dainty as though some cunning
sculptor had carved them. On every side of us
the walls sparkle with such soft light as stars
and diamonds give ; while here and there, where
the noonday sunlight smiles down on them from
above, they gleam and glisten again."

"A beautiful place, Kaspar."

"Ay, master, beautiful indeed. But that is
not half I see, for there are other crevices all
shaded and fringed about with crimson leaves
and green ferns ; and through them too the

sunlight shadows itself down upon the fretted
walls, and turns the costal stones to ruby and
emerald ; and so it glints and glances down to
the very sand and moss beneath our feet, until
we seem to be standing on a carpet of richest
green all flecked with threads of gold."

"A palace for a fairy queen ! "

Yes," and Kaspar lowered his voice to an
awesome whisper. " The Kelpie queen has always
held her court here."

You have seen her  yes ? " Dasipodius asked
gravely.

"Nay," smiled Kaspar, " but "

You know the place well ? "

By heart, master ; and since I could handle
a tool, I have many and many a time brought
my wood blocks here, and striven to copy its
rare fretted work."

"And that sound of rushing water ? "

It is the torrent hard by, foaming down
among the dark pine trees from the tall precipices
which shut in our little lake here,
making it so gloomy with their shadows that
our people call it the Lake of the Black Waters.
They declare that no sunlight ever shines upon
it ; and indeed I have often stood to watch

him steal a cloud veil from yonder crag as he
goes on his way."

"And the lake you say is very deep?"

Deep as it is dark. Listen," and picking up
a fragment of sparry rock, Kaspar flung it into
the still waters, which rippling out into great
circles, closed over the stone with that awesome
gurgle which seems to tell of unfathomable depths.

"And out upon the lake, is there really no gleam
of sunlight at this midday hour ? "

No ; 'tis all blackness and shadow."

"A dreary spot, Kaspar ? "

Nay, master, but it is grand and beautiful.
Sometimes I have thought to myself that it is
like so like "

 L e 2 W ell ? You hesitate."

So like your life, master. The sun seems all
gone out of that  now."

Not at all," returned the blind man quickly.
Say rather that my life is like this 'quiet cave
of yours, which has in it indeed many a sombre
corner, where no sundays ever pierce ; but what
of the stalactites and crystals shining upon its
walls ? They are like the blessed consolation of
those talents which the good God has given into
my keeping, and which none  man nor woman,

nor pain have been able to take from me. And
then those warm gentle colours, Kaspar, which
you say are as beautiful as precious gems, they
are like my friends, my true brave friends, Isaac
and you, and "

"And Dr. Bruno," said the lad with a brightening
face.

"And Dr. Bruno, ay " ; for the mist which
had passingly dimmed the friendship of these
two men was all dispelled now. "And with such
as these, should I not be a traitor to say no
sunshine is in my life ? Its light is dim, Kaspar,
but it is there, it is there ; and where it fails to
illumine, it warms and brings my heart such
comfort, that sometimes I think it is better as it
is.

But Kaspar sighed and shook his head.

Now what are you sighing about, foolish
boy."

I am thinking of our Horologe, master."

And for that the mathematician had no answer.
If Kaspar thought of it twenty times a day, with
Dasipodius it was an ever present memory ; and
he yearned towards the work torn from his
hands, as towards a living love which had become
to him so much the dearer, since he had
215

told himself that the love of woman was not for
him. In those two affections, both now equally
lost to him, there was so much analogous, that
he felt neither the one nor the other could be
truly replaced. Possibly indeed, as he had just
now hinted to his young companion, there would
be found some spot less dunderheaded than his
native city, where his talent would be welcomed
and estimated at something of its true worth ;
but to him no labour could ever again be so dear
as the task bequeathed to him by Ohretei Herlin.
In that first great bitterness of its being wrested
from him, his fevered dreams had pictured the
old monk, now looking down on him in stern
reproach, now sorely weeping to see the Horologe
all marred and desecrated by ignorant
unloving hands, until he would waken with a
cry of agony. Still, after a wretched inferior
fashion, there might, and doubtless would be
to him a substitute for the Horologe ; for
there were beginning to be folks in the world
who, so long as they met with genius or
superior talent, cared not whether it had the
reputation of being born of heaven or of darkness,
provided it bore the unmistakable stamp
of excellence, and met their particular needs ;

but though an endless life-span should be given
him, Dasipodius knew that for Sabina there
could never be any substitute. The mathematician
was not one of those men who, however
passionately they may have loved, however
grievously lost, do, although it may be after long
years, find consolation in the love of other women.
Dasipodius had yielded to the overmastering influence
so unwillingly, with a certain ungraciousness
even. Thirty years had tided past of his
life, and not the most fleeting desire to change
his bachelorhood for matrimonial chains had
ever troubled him ; and even when at last his
fate overtook him, then jealous for the dominion
of his intellect, he had struggled and striven to
quell it ; all in vain however, and his heart's
sternest bulwarks, which had yielded to no
brilliant strategy of far lovelier women, capitulated
to this gentle girl, whom Strassburg
called its Lily, because of her fresh young
beauty and gentle grace.

Yet now, what had his wooing proved to be
but a beautiful dream, an episode too fair and
good to last ? and he had wakened from it. Her
own word had severed the bond between them.
At first he strove hard to cheat himself into the

belief that he was thankful, that it was better
that all hope of domestic happiness should be
blasted for the greater health and strength's
sake of his intellectual being; but he soon gave
up all such pretence of self-consolation. He
knew that his affection for the Burgomaster's
daughter had been so real, so deep, had seemed
so worthy of them both, that it had given him
fresh ardour and nobler motive for labouring on ;
and so in the end, he had just brought himself
to bend before the fate which had made the
world sombre indeed for him and chill with
its dreary shadows, but which had preserved
her for some brighter lot.

"Poor little Lily!" he would murmur again
and again to himself, as he wandered on these
spring evenings by the Lake of the Black
Waters in the silent Swiss valley. "What a
mad fool I was to think your bright bloom could
have flourished among the blighting shadows of
my blind life ! How was it I could be so selfishly
cruel as to have one thought of plucking you
for myself? " And then with a strange remorse,
his thoughts would fly back to that last meeting
of theirs in the Cathedral, and he would torture
his memory to recall every word which had

passed between them ; but the whole of the black
day lived in his mind, only as some ugly but
indistinct dream. " Yet I must have been mad
if indeed I said harsh things to you ! Oh, my
little love ! My little love ! "

And indeed for days after that one, he had
been frequently on the confines of unreason.
The calm, calculating mathematical brain had
well-nigh lost its balance then ; and so much
the more as, after the nature of him, he had
struggled to maintain an outward composure,
so much the greater had been the inward conflict.

And he bore about him now traces only too
evident of the ordeal. His spare but well-knit
frame had grown fragile-looking, and the stately
shoulders and grand head bent lower than of
old, while more than one grey thread gleamed
amid the dark-brown hair. Then too the healthful
olive of his cheek had faded into a pallor,
w T hile lines of care and of physical suffering
had gathered about his mouth and brow, and
the sightless eyes were a thought sunken, and
encircled with dark rings, yet their mysterious
beauty had not lessened ; it had rather grown
the greater from their expression of patient endurance,
while the old dreamy thoughtfulness

had deepened into an almost unearthly glory
from the increased dilation of the pupils, which,
although to Bruno Wolkenberg it spoke a more
utterly hopeless tale, added to their lustrous
beauty. They had none of the lack lustre, nor the
terrible glare disfiguring nearly all blind eyes ;
only if Sabina could have seen them now, she
would indeed have said they looked weary 
very weary.

It had been well for Dasipodius that the fret
of daily life had called him to action. Had he
been able to choose, he would have shut himself
up in his little turret sanctum, and finding his
best solace in yet more unremitting application
to study, would have stayed there until he had
made of himself an easy prey to fever, or some
other cruel stroke of sickness ; but his essentially
unselfish nature prompted him to turn from his
own cares, and to think of the sadness darkening
his father's days, and he decided that it
would be good for him that they should leave
the city for a while, and seek that change of
scene and associations which is said to be the
best sort of healing for such things ; and then it
was that Isaac Habrecht had proffered the hospitality
of his own home in the little hamlet

close by Schaffhausen in the Black Forest. At
first the mathematician, in whose mind was
passing the struggle between his inclination and
what he regarded as his duty, shook his head.
I cannot leave the city yet for awhile, Isaac.
It might be thought "

But Isaac made no scruple of telling his master
that such considerations were unworthy of him.
Is it of any consequence what is thought ? If
ever these blockheads think at all, that is. It is
right for you to come away, master. There'll be
mischief else," he added, with an anxious look at
the mathematician's haggard face.

11 Is my father so much changed then % " asked
Dasipodius.

Folks can't be vexed out of their lives without
showing it," growled Isaac. "So say you'll come,
master. Our Schaffhausen is not a grand city
like Strassburg, but it's honest, I take it, than
hereabouts, and the Emperor himself couldn't bid
you more welcome than my mother will ; and if
Master Christian fancies to come and stay awhile
with us, we shall feel proud. Shan't we, Kaspar?"

Yes," cried Kaspar gleefully.

"And Eappel  he must come too. Oh ! he'll
be having rare poaching bouts with Tolpatsch."

That's our sheep-dog," parenthetically explained
Kaspar.

"Ay. They'll be fine cadgers together, I'll
warrant, and we're plain folks down there to be
sure, Master Dasipodius ; but there's fresh air with
us anyhow, and that's the stuff that's wanting
to bring back the life-blood to  Master Christian's
old cheeks. Why, the very scent of the
young grass, and the fresh breeze, and  Kaspar,
do you tell the master," said Isaac, floundering a
little, " about the birds, and waterfalls, and
things."

But Kaspar only went softly to Dasipodius,
and taking his hand, said, "You'll come, master?"

And Dasipodius smiled and said, "Yes". And
so it was that Christian and he and Eappel left
Strassburg behind them, and came to be living
at the Habrechts' cottage, within a mile of
Schaffhausen.

UNDER THE SHADE OF MELANCHOLY BOUGHS."

TN all the cantons of the League it would have
been hard to find a kinder-hearted, more
hospitable house-mother than Gride Habrecht,
the mother of Isaac and Kaspar. Eldest and
youngest of their generation, there was between
them a tribe of married brothers and sisters
settled in Schaffhausen and its neighbourhood ;
and an industrious and thriving lot they were,
all more or less expert in the clock and watchmaking
craft, which has for centuries distinguished
the villages of the Black Forest. Kas-par
Habrecht, however, from earliest childhood
had shown a talent for the wood-carving, which
is another branch of its industry, and no less
marked a feature of the prosperous locality where
it is said beggars are unknown. The sterling and
scientific zoological skill of Isaac Habrecht had
earned for him a high reputation, which had

reached Strassburg ; and when, under the auspices
of Chretei Herlin, the great mechanical clock
had been begun, more now than two years ago,
Isaac, at the special desire of the old mathematician,
accepted the post in his studio, and at
the same time established himself as a clockmaker
and brass work instrument maker at the sign of
the Wheel in one of the city's chief thoroughfares.
Withholding however the lad's identity, he had
submitted some specimens of his young brother's
handicraft to Herlin and Eadegund von Stein-bach,
and other competent judges ; and one and
all of them had pronounced the work surpassing
in beauty of design, and delicacy of touch,
anything of the sort they had ever seen ; and
Chretei at once desired to know whether the
artist's services could be had for the new Horologe
case ? It was a proud moment for Isaac,
as then for the first time he explained that this
artist was his brother Kaspar.

And he is but a youth, but he'll do his best
to give you and the city satisfaction, Father ; I'll
answer for that."

And so Kaspar too had taken his place in the
Dial studio. His mother had found it a hard
task to part with this child of her old age ; but

she was made of stoical stuff, and when she saw
the flush of joy which lit Kaspar's face at the
unexpected distinction offered him, she did not
refuse to let him go, but bidding him to be true
to himself and his employers, sent him to the
great city, and saved her tears till he was gone ;
and when they had had their way, she dried her
still handsome eyes, and made herself content
with the reflection that Isaac was with him, and
where Isaac was no harm could come to anybody,
and whatever Isaac did was right. That, however,
made it none the less a joy to her, when
she found that he and Kaspar were coming
home for a while ; and when she was further
desired to prepare for the guests they should
bring with them, she set to work and brought
out her finest linen, and all the best her house
afforded, and excellent the best was ; and herman
Yorgli, whose normal round of duties was
confined to stable and pasture work, was bidden
to come indoors and help Mariannle to move
about the cumbrous handsome old chairs and
tables and presses in the best bed-chamber ; and
Yorgli, who had an avowed admiration for
Mariannle, was nothing loth ; neither perhaps
had Mariannle any objection, since for all she

laughed and danced and flirted whenever it
suited her humour, she liked Yorgli, she said,
well enough ; quite enough, she would own if
driven very close, to marry him when a sufficient
number of florins had been saved up to
buy a certain charming little cottage not far off,
which Yorgli had his eye upon.

In those days when pens and newspapers had
not as yet come to be things of course, Frau
Habrecht could have but a very scanty conception
of the events which had so recently created
such a stir in Strassburg, until she had her son's
viva voce relation of it. Isaac had indeed warned
her that Dasipodius was blind ; rumour moreover
had already brought so much within her ken, and
when she found that he was actually to be her
guest, she was a little put about at the threatened
responsibility which she imagined the charge of
a blind person would entail upon her, and her
practical mind was much exercised to conceive
what Conrad Dasipodius would be finding to do
with himself all day in that little village, whose
busy silence was only broken by the tapping of
tiny hammers and the grating of files.

The briefest acquaintance however with the
blind man dispelled all her perplexities. At

first, indeed, she found it difficult to persuade
herself that he was blind. It was not merely
that his eyes were so clear and well open, but he
was so entirely able to do things for himself 
and for other people, as she was not slow to
remark ; and when, for example, at supper-time
on the evening of their arrival, Dasipodius
reached a chair and placed it for her at the
table, her heart was won for ever.

He did," she said afterwards, " what you
two forgot to do with both your fine eyes, and
for all you saw to the poor little old mother,
she might have set her own chair. He didn't
find it too much trouble to pay an old woman
attentions, such as you two, I suppose, keep all
for the young ones. And," went on she, not a
little delighted at beings able to reassume the old
tyranny over her two favourite sons, " I've not
grown into an imbecile since you have been
away, I can tell you, and I've more than an
idea that you've been playing me some trick,
and that he's not blind at all ; and if you
have "

God forbid, mother ! " said Isaac gravely.
I wish we had been ; but the master's stone
blind."

And the good woman allowed herself to be
convinced ; but she was greatly tempted to begin
to question the use of eyes at all, if one could
make one's self so pleasant and so courtly
without them. And so it was that Dasipodius
won himself the first place in his hostess's esteem,
and henceforth her solicitude and anxiety
for his personal comfort was as unceasing as it
was unobtrusive, and never a suspicion of fuss
in it ; for with all his gentle ways, she stood ina
certain sort of awe of him.

Poor gentleman ! " she said one day to Isaac.
At all events it doesn't need you or anybody
to tell me that he and trouble are close acquaintance
; but it's a noble face, Isaac, a noble face,"
and then it seemed to her that in Dasipodius
she had found another son.

Neither did Christian lack her kind hospitable
care ; and that time he spent in the Black Forest
was very pleasant to him. Many a long year
had passed since last he had basked in the
sunshine of a country spring-tide ; and he
would wander away on those bright mornings,
finding a chastened pleasure in giving rein to
memory, till it reached that spring-time of his
early manhood when he made the journey into

the Vosges Mountains and found his first
last love. If now and then time hung a little
heavy for him, he kept that religiously to himself,
for he knew the sacrifice which had been made
to afford him the benefit of this change, which
of course, taking all in all, he was enjoying well
enough ; but Christian sorely missed Burgomaster
von Steinbach looking in, and would have given
all the grey hairs off his head for a little squabble
about the Cession. A dozen times a day the old
man would be silently considering to himself
what was going on in Strassburg ; and when
after they had been there about a fortnight, Dr.
Bruno Wolkenberg guilefully contrived to give
his patients the slip, and handing them over to
the tender mercies of a deputy, made his appearance
along with Balder at the cottage, Christian
plied him with questions about things in general,
among which Otto von Steinbach was by no
means forgotten.

"And how does he get on with his work?"
rather drily asked Christian.

But Bruno, who had fully and satisfactorily
answered all his other enquiries, frowning impatiently,
ruffling up his hair with his fingers,
and muttering something not too complimentary

about Otto, strode silently out into the
air.

Yes, I know," nodded Christian, looking
after him, " they made a mistake when they let
my boy go ; there's no doubt of that."

When, however, the friends found themselves
alone, Dasipodius asked Bruno how Kadegund's
pictures round the Horologe cornice were getting
on.

They are perfection," said Bruno ; "at least
things outside will all be as they ought."

That will rejoice the Bishop's heart," replied
the mathematician. " Has he returned ? "

No, but Kacleguncl is' anxiously looking for
his coming."

But her pictures are not finished yet ? " said

Dasipodius.

It is not the pictures she's thinking of, I

take it," answered AVolkenberg.

What then ? "

Ah ! who can ever guess what she has in her
head ? ' I have much to speak with him about,'
that is all she condescends to inform me. She
might tell you more, Conrad," jerked out the
jealous Bruno, clutching up a handful of grass,
and then scattering it to the four winds.

What is vexing her ? "

Nay, she seems to live in a world of vexation.
She never smiles now, Conrad, and it
used to be like a golden sunset when Eadegund
smiled."

Poor girl ! what a burden she makes life to
herself ; and to you  you patient old bear."

I am not patient," groaned Bruno, his blue
eyes growing at once moist and fiery. " Oh,
Conrad, it is too hard ; I think it will kill me if
it goes on much longer."

I would to heaven I could make you both
happy," said Dasipodius musingly.

Honestly, do you wish that ? " demanded
Wolkenberg, in whom the old suspicion was so
hard to die.

Honestly ? " echoed Dasipodius, lifting his
brows surprised ; " why, from my heart yes.
And  if  nay, if I speak all I think, I will say I
wish your love might find another  that is a
gratefully, kinder "

What is that ? " cried the surgeon, starting
from his place beside Dasipodius, and his handsome
face kindling and bristling like any lion's.
Do you take me for a weathercock or a windmill
? "

216

Not a bit of it. Sit down again now, Bruno.
I was only going to say that if indeed Eadegund
does not return your affection, then certainly
she can have no heart, and you are worlds too
good for a heartless "

My God ! Conrad," said Bruno, and his voice
trembled with suppressed agitation and anger,
though it is you who say that, I could fell you
to the ground for it."

:< Then I had best say no more," answered
Dasipodius. " We will not quarrel over this 
over a woman. Is she  is there one worth it ?
Tell me, Bruno, have you seen  Sabina, Mistress
Sabina von Steinbach ? "

And Dasipodius' cheek crimsoned and paled
again before the surgeon answered curtly, "Yes".

And she was well ? "

Oh, as far as I know ; but she hardly spoke
a word to me ; and, I'll warrant you, I did not
to her."

"Why not ? "

Why not ? I can't, Conrad, there. It's of
no use. When I look at her pretty dove-like
face, and think what she can be, how false and
shallow-hearted  and to you, Conrad  to you."

Have done, Bruno Wolkenberg ! " cried

Dasipodius, clutching fiercely at a tree branch
within reach, and bringing himself to his feet.
One word more about Sabina von Steinbach
and we are enemies for ever."

'Mistress von Steinbach," said Bruno, in
chilly even tones, and with a contemptuous
shrug of his broad shoulders, " Mistress von
Steinbach shall make no quarrel between us."

Good. There is no need to discuss her at
all. She has passed out of my life. If I could
hear," went on Dasipodius after a short pause,
that another could atone to her for all the
vexation my love has caused her  that some
man worthy of her "

Oh," bitterly interrupted Bruno. " I am
glad to think you have come to regard it in that
light. Mistress Sabina never did run short of
admirers ; and now you are out of the winning,
she may choose where she pleases, and "

"Well?" said Dasipodius, with quick short
breath. "Why do you waste words? Speak.
Who is it ? "

I did not say," stammered the inconsequential
Bruno, "that it was anybody nobody-otto
von Steinbach that is "

Otto von Steinbach ! " gasped Dasipodius.

He'll do as well as another I suppose,"
muttered Bruno.

No ! no ! no ! It cannot be ! You are
wrong  you "

May be so ; but he  you know he used to
be very sweet at Hackernagel's house ; now he
hardly ever goes there, and spends all his evenings
at the Burgomaster's."

"And  she ?" hoarsely demanded Dasipodius.

Ah ! She  sits and spins."

Yes, yes, of course  the old old story all
through again ! Just as she had sat and spun
could not the blind man see it all in his
memory so plainly ? Those days that were
gone ! Every ripple in her golden hair gleaming
wherever the sunlight touched it like purest
gold, every shy soft glance of her eyes, the
eloquent ebb and flow of rosy colour to her soft
rounded cheek. All this, and much more, passed
in mocking array before him ; and so, still then
in that old dining-hall, that drama  what? Nay,
that farce of woman's love was playing, only
with just a change of lovers ; for the dainty
heroine, the same woman mined it to as
great a perfection as ever no doubt. Had her
new coadjutor been worthier, perhaps Dasi-

potius could have borne to think of it differently,
but  well, the last straw had been
added to the burden now !  Otto von Stein-bach
! Ah, great heaven ! could it be, the
mathematician asked himself, that he had
committed some unremembered crime, for
which it was doomed that this scatterbrain,
unstable boy, should be the avenger, and his
supplanter in all that made life worth living ?

Oh, woman ! woman ! to the end it will belike
this. For your sake Troy may burn, for
you noble hearts may crack ; at your feet men
will chain and enslave their best ambitions, and
still, calm and silent, you sit and spin, and seem
to take no heed !

But Sabina's old love only said : " If a storm
came by, Otto would be no shelter for the Lily,
Bruno."

They are well enough matched," said Bruno,
hating himself that he spoke so harshly.

It may be so," said Dasipodius slowly and
wistfully ; and in unbroken silence the two sat
on, listening to the low soughing of the spring
breeze among the oak boughs, and the gentle
creaking of the pine branches, and the waterfall's
distant roar, and the buzzing of the insects

about them, thinking the while what a fallacy it
was, that notion about nature being the counterpart
of man's life. Why, here in the one case,
was not all peace and brightness and content ?
and as the days should lengthen out, this early
promise would all ripen into golden summer,
and still richer autumn's harvesting, and the
happiness of all living creatures would be perfected.
Only for those two, the buds of hope
had been nipped by cruel frosts, and ere their
manhood's summer was reached, the wintry
clouds of disappointment were heavy upon them.

So noonday waned, and never a syllable more
the two interchanged, until Kaspar came in search
of them. "That is you, Kaspar?" said Dasipodius,
his ear first detecting the boy's light step over
the fallen stones of the mountain side. " Come
here ; I was thinking of you this moment, and
then  I hear your footstep. That is what they
say of the angels."

I am but a poor sort of angel," laughingly
said the boy, as he flung himself full length upon
the grass at the mathematician's feet.

Prove yourself at least a good spirit then.
For we are sorely wanting one to take us out of
ourselves for a bit. Come now, have I not over

and over again heard you say there is a legend
attached to this lake of yours ? "

Oh, yes," cried Bruno, " there is, I know "

Hold your peace," smiled Dasipodius, lifting
his finger. " Of course you know, but you have
been in a brown study this hour and more past,
and your version might not be so cheerful as
Kaspar's. So come now, lad, begin. Once upon
a time  "

Yes," said Kaspar. " Once upon a time there
was a brave handsome knight dwelt in yonder
castle, and he was beloved by two fair ladies

"He loved two fair ladies, you mean," corrected
the mathematician.

He loved one of them, yes," gravely assented
Kaspar, " and "

But they were not both fair," criticised
Bruno. " One was dark ; that is the way at
least that I've heard the story, with hair and
eyes like the raven's wing."

I should have said, of course," said the patient
Kaspar, "two beautiful ladies; one a Count
Palatine's daughter, the Lady Aldegonda, and
the other a poor esquire's child, Veronica, fair-haired
and blue-eyed, and it was her the knight

loved. But when Aldegonda found that out, she
went to the poor maiden, and laughing her love
to scorn, bade her find lowlier wooers, that
falcons mated with merlin, not with tercel-
hawks ; and that it was at her feet the knight
Hugo would fain worship. And when the poor
child heard this, her heart felt near to breaking
and "

Now, Kaspar," interrupted the mathematician,
" surely your story is simple nonsense as
it stands with your telling. I suppose the knight
had told her that he loved her ; that would have
sufficed."

Yes, he had told her," answered Kaspar,
"but she was a woman, very young it is true,
not very wise perhaps, but old enough to know
men's hearts can be fickle ; wise enough to see
how gloriously beautiful the Lady Aldegonda
was, and she misdoubt the power of her own
pale beauty in such rivalry. Don't you understand,
master ? "

Go on," shrugged the mathematician.

puy  so ' as I was telling you, the Lady

Aldegonda' s words almost broke Veronica's heart,

and there seemed nothing left for her but to die.

And day after day, for the knight was absent

just then from his castle, she would come and
sit just hereabouts where we are now, on the
lake's brink, and gaze into the deep deep, cold
cold water, and then there would steal terrible
thoughts into her weary desolate soul.

One day while she was sitting so, there seemed
to come a low murmur from the Kelpie's cave
here. Nearer and nearer it came ; but she sighed
to herself, ' It is but the wind whispering among
the ferns,' and still nearer and nearer came these
sounds. ' It is only the wavelets,' she sadly said,
stirring the long rushes.' And truly they were;
and still the murmuring came closer, closer, until
she knew it to be too sweet for the whispering
of the wind or the rippling of the water, too
sweet for aught save Hugo's voice. ' My life, I
love you,' it said. ' Nay,' sobbed she, but yielding
all the while to the strong arms folding her
so fond and close, ' but the Lady Aldegonda

says ' ' What can the Lady Aldegonda

know,' he rejoined, with a strange stern look,
which fled again as his face bent over hers, ' of
the love I bear for you, sweetheart ? Come,
Father Sigurd waits at the holy altar to make
us one. Wilt come, dear love ? ' And so from
the dark weeds the maiden rose up, her white

dress heavy with the waters that had near been
her grave, and the little forget-me-not flowers
she had gathered, for all her bride's bravery, in
her bosom, and ere the Ave Maria chimed again,
she stood in the castle halls yonder, Hugo's
dear true wife, and many a long and happy
year they lived. That's all, master; it isn't so
much of a tale as some are."

And what there is of it you've half left
out," grumbled Bruno. " The Lady Alde-gouda
"

"Ah," smiled Dasipodius. "She found a
suitor more sensible to her charms, depend on it."

No such thing," answered Bruno. " She
killed herself for love of Hugo. Eh, Kaspar, is
it not so ? "

They found her dead next dawn at the foot
of the crag yonder," said Kaspar.

A cruel end," said the mathematician.

She deserved no better," grumbled Bruno.

You are unkind, Kaspar," smiled Dasipodius.
Did I not say I expected something cheerful
of you ? "

But," pleaded the boy earnestly, " how could
I twist the ending false, and make it happy when
it wasn't ? "

Why, it is but a legend ! "

"The more reason to make it seem like life."

Well, well  if I had tears for bygones, I
think I could spare a few for the Lady Alde-gouda's
love. It is  come, Bruno, leave sighing,
and cudgel your invention to help my square inch
brain find a simile. What is misplaced love
like ? "

I cannot say," said Bruno, " unless it be like
the precious pearls that proud Queen of Egypt
wasted in a cup of vinegar."

It will do, though it has seen some service ;
but sometimes it has seemed to me that there
may be some bright hidden meridian towards
which such seemingly aimless lines all converge.
There, confess now, if my science is not a match
for your romance."

THE OLD LOVE OR THE NEW ? "

"Ives, it was all true, as Bruno Wolkenberg had
told Dasipodius, that Sabina von Steinbach
sat and span, and attended to household affairs,
and entertained her father's guests, and so
charmingly did all the thousand and one little
duties and courtesies, and odds and ends of
things expected of the daughter of a respected
and well-to-do Burgomaster, that mothers of
feather-headed, frivolous girls would say admiringly,
" There's an old head on young shoulders
for you ! That now is something like a
daughter ! You never see her haunting* all over
the place pranked in furbelows and finery. Take
example from her if you mean to land your
sweethearts for husbands. Men like these housewifely
ways a thousand times better than all
your butterfly antics. Oh ! flirt and talk nonsense
to your fill, but it is such girls mind as

Sabina von Steinbach they make their wives
of  if they've an ounce of sense. "

And certainly it seemed as if the bachelors of
Strassburg had gone out of their way to lay in a
stock of that commodity ; and they young foolish
virgins might toss their heads and call this wise
one a sly proud thing as much as they pleased,
it did not alter the fact that masculine hearts
did greatly incline towards Sabina von Steinbach,
and no sooner was the coast clear of the old love,
than a host of would-be new ones besieged the
house in the Munster-grasse. Those among them,
however, who went as far as to proffer hand
and heart retired nonsuited, and apparently the
Lily was not to be won ; but backed by the fortunate
accident of his cousinship and his inexhaustible
stock of self-complacency, Otto von
Steinbach contrived to renew his old footing in
the goldsmith's house.

Now, as always, Otto's company bored the
Burgomaster cruelly. Niklaus by no means
delighted in his frequent visits, at the same
time he never could find it in his heart to bid
him make them fewer ; and so, after the way of
men, he contrived to shuffle the disagreeable
task on to his womankind.

You don't like that jackanapes cousin of yours
to be eternally skipping in and out like a tame
magpie, do you ? " he asked Sabina, after one of
these inflictions.

Not much," answered she.

Not much ! " impatiently echoed the Burgomaster.
" That is worse than no answer. If you
are so nice about words, I must speak plainer ;
do you wish it ? "

Why should I, father ? " she listlessly asked.

Oh," said Niklaus testily, " how should I
know ? Do I understand these things ? "

What things ? "

Well," said the Burgomaster, growing red,
and fidgeting his hands in his pockets, " it isn't
me nor Mitte he comes to see, I suppose, in his
silver tags and sky-blue doublets ; and if it isn't
well, don't I say I don't understand these
things ? So do as you will, only  there, there,
kiss your old father, little one, and try to be
my dear bright Lily once again."

Niklaus von Steinbach was a broad-natured
man, and while he found a modicum of his
nephew's society go a very long way with himself,
he did not overlook the fact that Otto was a
well-looking young man ; and reflecting on this

fact, as he sat one day sorting a tray of precious
stones, he went on to argue from it, that women
did undoubtedly care for that sort of thing ;
though somehow I had a notion that Sabina 
yes," he went on, critically examining a diamond
he had in his hand, "these are all passable stones ;
but this  this is a beauty. I wouldn't barter it
for all the rest put together. I wonder," and
then Niklaus sighed, "I wonder how Dasipodius
gets on; well, well."

It was weary work for the old goldsmith to
stand by and look on his child's endurance of
some mental suffering marked so unmistakably
in her face, and to find himself powerless to make
life brighter for her. It would, he thought, have
been so much better if he could have found
some carelessness or peccadillo in her to grumble
at, and so to relieve his feelings ; but day by
day she went through her round of duties, and
when he came near, would look up and welcome
him with a smile that was but a poor faint
shadow of its old sunny self; and he was not
so blind but that he often saw how tears had
been hastily brushed from the gentle eyes, and
it was things such as these which led him to
build up some sort of forlorn hope on Otto, and

think that if he were able after all to stamp
down the canker-worm of her jealously-hidden
griefs, he would hardly dare to hinder him. Asa
practical step towards superinducing this crisis,
which he at once shrank from and desired, he
adopted the custom of betaking himself to his
counting-house whenever Otto looked in, which
on an average was at least twice a clay, and leaving
the cousins together ; but Otto had seemed to
lack his advancement so entirely, that at last out
of all patience, Niklaus had hinted to Sabina that
there must be no more shilly-shally, and things
must be settled at once.

It had, however, but very recently dawned
upon Sabina that there could be anything to
settle. Otto had had his answer ever so long
ago to a certain question he had put. It was
because she had felt herself so safe in his cousinly
society that she had allowed him within these
few last weeks to indulge the fancy he appeared
to have for making a sort of tame cat of himself
about the place.

She knew very well that for some time past
he had been dancing attendance at Syndic
Hackernagel's, and had rejoiced to think that in
the society of the four ladies there, he might

have come upon the heart which she once prophesied
to him he would find. As time went on
however, she discovered that these visits at
Hackernagel's house had grown few and far between,
in favour of spending his valuable leisure
at the Munster-grasse.

Now it's hard," said Sabina, with a faint smile
of self-complacency born of Otto's return to his old
allegiance, and an indignant frown for such fast
and loose tricks  " it's abominably hard if she's
fond of him ; and there is, of course, no accounting
for taste, poor thing ! " The object of her
compassion being Gretchen Hackernagel, whom,
by some occult instinct, she was persuaded had
been the chosen fair, though nobody had ever
said so, least of all the young gentleman himself ;
and Sabina determined to do battle with him on
Gretchen's behalf, if it should come to any tug
of war. Moreover, the wily little woman, in this
determination to help her neighbour, found her
own small difficulties lightened. " I will not
have you making believe," she said coquettishly,
when all the time you are dying to be round
at Master Hackernagel's. Oh yes, I know
all about it," she went on with a gleam of
merriment in her eyes ; " pray what would
217

Obtrude say, or Adelheid, or  which is it,
Otto ? "

Gretchen, I suppose you mean," blushed the
unwary Otto.

Ah yes, Gretchen to be sure," she said
delightedly ; " and what, pray, would she say to
hear you talking this nonsense to me ? "

It isn't my fault," groaned Otto, " if they're
after me."

For shame ! " flushed up she, " to say such
a thing when you have gone spending half
your time there, and they've been so kind to

you!"

Yes, but where there's a pack of girls, one
always is civilly treated."

And you  have been civil back ? "

Oh well, but it doesn't follow because a
fellow's been civil to a girl, he must marry her."

x4nd what may be her view? What, I mean,
may be her opinion of you ? "

Opinion ! ho ! " airily smirked Otto  " opinion
! I like that. My dear child, what has a
woman to do with opinions, when she's overhead
and ears in love with you."

With you ? "

Father."

Ah ! she has told you so ? "

Now, Sabina, don't be absurd ; of course she
hasn't."

Then how can you know ? "

Ah, there  one does pretty well know these
things."

But I'd be quite sure, I would indeed, Otto.
It would be so bad for you to have made any
mistake after all," she said gravity.

Oh ! I'm not in the least afraid of that."

Then you are fortunate, sir, and must never
cease thanking Heaven for this true love which
you have found. Do you remember I told you
you would find it ; and am I not a true Sibyl ?
say now ? "

But Otto only growled, and vowed he did not
care one straw'for Gretchen Hackernagel. "And
she has become positively hideous to me since 
come now, look here, Sabina, you'd better not be
trifling with me in this cat and mouse way. I
never mean to ask you a third time, I swear I
don't."

Otto, I cannot be your wife."

Well, it's great nonsense, let me tell you ;
but people never do know their best chances
when they've got them. It'll just serve you

right if you find yourself sticking here with your
father all your life, that it will."

It is my desire," she answered.

"But look here now, if the Burgomaster should
if you should be left alone ? "

I don't care to think of that," she replied,
paling a little.

Neither do I," said he rather chokingly.
I couldn't bear to think of you  left all alone
in the world. It makes me wretched."

Don't let it, Otto clear," interrupted the girl,
touched by his tones. " The Sisters at Freiburg
would give me shelter if  if I wanted it. Aunt
Ottilie "

But what Otto said of the reverend mother and
her little community at this juncture, need not
be recorded here. "You'd never become a
nun ! " he burst out. " Oh ! it's a shame ! a
confounded horrid shame ! and all because that
Conrad Dash "

Hush ! " the girl's thin cheek, which had
flushed slightly, paled to ashen white ; and her
mobile lips closed so sternly, that the last syllables
died on Otto's lips. " There must be no
word on that subject," she said in cold steady
tones. " Do you understand ? "

certainly. Of course not, if you don't
like it. Not a word ; but I wish Dash  I
mean, I wish the thing had never been born
or thought of, that I do," and the Horologe's
new master's brow wrinkled over with care.
"It'll kill me soon."

Kill you ? "

Yes, that'll be the end of it. I'm very
ill already. Don't I look awfully pale,
Sabina ? "

"Well, rather," she said, lifting her eyes to
his face with some interest ; and indeed his
almost feminine delicacy and transparency of
complexion was dulled, and a harassed weary
look was in his eyes.

It's that confounded clock," continued he.
Women bother a fellow quite enough, but ten
of 'em are nothing to that clock ; and I tell you
it will be the death of me.

"Then give it up," she said in mildly apprehensive
tones.

Oh yes, likely, isn't it ? and make myself
the laughing stock of the place," said Otto
dismally. " I tell you what it is, Sabina,
Dasipodius knew what he was about, when
he wanted me to take it."

Wanted you to take it ! " echoed she in
amazement.

Oh, depend upon it he did. He just wanted
to wash his hands of the thing, I know. If he
hadn't, he wouldn't have let me have his plans
of it quite so easy a bargain. And small blame
to him."

I think you're raving," she answered,
still with her eyes transfixing her cousin's
face.

There wouldn't be much wonder if I was,"
hysterically returned he, rubbing his forehead.
"And if you could see the inside of that thing,
it would just drive you mad too. Yes, only to
look at it."

But I have seen it  many a time," murmured
she, thinking of the dear old days, "and
it always looked very nice."

Did it ! " returned he, in the irony of his
despair. " It's in an awful mess now, all the
same. I don't mind telling you so, Sabina,"
and he heaved a tremendous sigh of relief.
"You can keep a secret I know."

Oh, Otto ! " she cried in dismayed reproach,
and it was all so beautiful and tidy when 
when " she hesitated, " everything, I mean,

was in such perfect order ; each part only waiting
to be put in its place."

Yes, but that was because  don't you understand
 because Dasipodius knew what he was
going to do, and that helps a man on ; but I
the very idea, you know, of its being imagined
that I can make head or tail of what
might come into Dasipodius' brain ! Oh it's
absurd ! " said Otto, thrusting his hands into
his pockets and pacing the floor to and fro.
It all comes," he went on, " of everybody
being so prejudiced in favour of him. Oh you
may laugh," he said, detecting the bitter smile
on her lips, "but they're just all of them infatuated
with him. And Eadegund now, she's
every bit as bad as the rest. Why she won't
help me a bit, though she knows as well as he
does, how it's all meant to go."

"And yet," said Sabina in dreamy tones, "they
have treated him so shamefully."

Oh, ha, hem, well, but of course it wouldn't
have done to go on employing a man who 
hem, laboured under general suspicion as he
did. Magic, don't you see "

It couldn't be proved," she contested ;

his worst enemies could hardly find a
shadow of proof."

No, they couldn't exactly find it  but  hem
there's no doubt he must. No fellow  and
above all a blind fellow  ha ! ha ! why it's
ridiculous to think of !  could have invented
such an infernal, confoundedly complicated bit
of machinery, if the devil or somebody hadn't
backed him up."

Then," cried she indignantly, " how is it
they make you go on with his plans ? Why
didn't they order you to begin with your own
all over again ? There was nothing  particular
about them ? "

Oh no, nothing at all ; but the whole thing
has been a mass of favour and prejudice."

But if," insisted Sabina, " if they were afraid
of the Professor Dasipodius' supervision, how is
it they are not afraid to make use of his plans ?
I can't understand."

My dear girl, of course you can't. Women
never can. These distinctions are too nice for
them. Logical deduction and mathematical
precision are too much for their brain power,
and "

And if you're not careful, they'll be more

than enough for yours, Cousin Otto. It never
was over strong."

"Ah!" dangerously returned Otto, transported
to have made of himself at any cost
an object of her solicitude, " if it is your
wish that I' "

That you should take care of yourself \ "
she said smilingly. " Yes it is."

Then for your sake "

Nay  for Gretchen Hackernagel's, I do hope
you will."

And without staying to say good-bye, Otto
departed.

TIMES CHANGES.

rpHE old city rests after its clay's work in the*"
soft late Spring gloaming. Tower and spire
and gabled roof catch the last lingering reflections
of the golden and crimson clouds where the sun
went down. Already this long time the storks
have been gravely reposing in their loftily pitched
nests, but the swallows and martins are still
discussing their respective claims to the most
desirable sleeping accommodation afforded by the
fretted eaves of the Cathedral. A few stars are
beginning to glimmer in the deep blue sky,
which, however, is only to be caught in glimpses
from the footway of the narrow streets, between
whose overhanging stories and great wooden
galleries, and facades heavy with carving, even
the moon's glare is hardly able to penetrate.
The gaudy brilliancy of the countless street

signs has not yet been obscured by the gathering
shadows, and here a snow-white swift-footed
stag, there a grizzly bear, next door a wild
man, appalling in his hirsute but insufficient
covering, brandishes his terrible knotted club.
Across the road, and far more frightful still, only
yielding indeed in fearsomeness to the strong-minded
of later days, is the " Strong Woman,"
who appears to be literally striding from her
cast-iron frame, with bristling Hyaena-like locks.
Scarcely a shop which has not its sign ; hardly
a burgher s dwelling lacking; its cognizance or
coat of arms ; while for the most part the spaces
between the mullions casements are gorgeous
with fresco painting, picturing forth the labours
of the mighty Hercules, the departure of the
good ship Argonaut, the loves of Venus and
Adonis, and many another mythic tale.

High up on their deep sloping roofs the
grand old houses proclaim their ages in gigantic
figures, some of which date two and
three centuries back. Very silent and half deserted
the streets are now, for it is close upon
seven and supper-time ; and through half-open
doors and lattice panes, peal forth now and
again shouts of merry laughter mingled with

the hum of voices ; while under the little foot-bridges,
and the arching foundations of the old
houses themselves, the river gurgles onward
towards open country. Even the great fountain
in the Dom-plats is so utterly deserted
that the big dolphins seem almost to be finding
leisure to take holiday, and spout lazily ; and
their blunt jaws look agape with delight at the
sweet organ sounds floating through the Cathedral
doors, for Master Wolfgang Dachstein is
just a second Orpheus, and has been known
many a time to have charmed dead souls back
to new life, and to have softened hearts stony
as one infers these monsters have.

This morning early, early enough to celebrate
the first mass, Bishop John returned. All day
since, however, he has not stirred from the palace.
Work has accumulated for him after his long
absence ; and he has been very busy looking
through his correspondence, and attending to
the most pressing claims upon him. A bishop's
life when he does his duty is no sinecure ; and
John of Manderscheid has always striven to be
worthy of his calling. During these past two
months, he has been making a progress throughout
his diocese, righting, as far as he might be able,

the wrongs he had found ; and they were many.
Three-fourths of them born of the neglect and
carelessness of the under clergy ; and wherever
he came upon these sins which cried aloud to
Heaven, there, as surely as corruption follows
death, he found heresy rampant. Truly indeed
there were priests sticking through evil report
and good to their posts, but comparatively these
were rare in that desert of polemics which the
fair vineyard of the Church had become. And
the saddest part of it all, at least to such minds
as Bishop John's, was the reflection that untrustworthiness
had brought the Nemesis upon
them. He could look through the years of his
life, and for half a dozen generations earlier,
and trace back the first faint risings of the
storm now raging so fiercely on every side.
"When the people had asked bread of their
priestly guides, how often had they been given
stones  or worse still ! Was it then such wonder
that at last they had turned elsewhere inquest
of spiritual food ?

That they had found, it the bishop was too
faithful a Catholic to concede ; but some baneful,
and generally attractive poison, they were certainly
endeavouring to sustain their spiritual

existence upon, though to him it appeared dry
tasteless stuff enough, and his heart yearned
tenderly towards those starved misguided sheep.
Far and near, hydra-headed heresy was tainting
every little town and hill hamlet of his diocese, and
his bitter experiences had thinned the grey hairs
about his temples, and hollowed his worn cheeks.

Only towards sunset, wearied out with his toil,
he at last indulged himself in a question lying
very near his heart. "And how goes on the
Horologe, Master Gottlieb ?"

Fairly I hope, my lord," replied the chaplain
with some hesitation.

Now that was an answer just calculated to
ruffle the gentle serenity of the Bishop's temper.
He was a tolerant patient man, but the one
thing he could not endure was want of zeal in
matters temporal or spiritual. " Whatsoever
thou doest, do it with all thine heart," was his
motto. Still, reminding himself that fidelity
and plodding industry were always stronger
points with his secretary than enthusiasm, he
only said a little testily : " One doesn't talk of
hope, friend ; one says a thing is, or it isn't, when
one has to do with the Professor Dasipodius ".

But then," replied Gottlieb, staring in some

perplexity at his superior, " then one has not 
you are aware of course, my lord, that one has
not to do with the Professor Dasipodius. He
is

Is what ? Speak, man," cried the startled
Bishop.

Away. Absent from Strassburg."

Oh," said the Bishop with a relieved sigh,
turning to his papers again. "Taking a little
holiday, eh ? Well, he needs it no doubt ; and
yet how long has he been gone ? "

More than a month."

What is the meaning of this ? " demanded
the Bishop, letting his gathered up passers fall
again in a disordered heap.

I really can't quite say, my lord, unless 
some, so I am told, consider the Professor Dasi-
potius to be  ahem  pardon me, my lord  the
devil ; though some," continued the chaplain,
while the Bishop gazed at him in speechless
amazement, " only go so far as to pronounce
him blind."

Blind ! What is this nonsense you are
talking 1 "

You knew about it, my lord ? "

I heard some ridiculous rumour as I was

passing through Schlettstadt, but I paid it no
more heed than I did the wind blowing in my
face. Tell me "

I am doing so, my lord. Some, I was about
to observe, among whom is Master Tobias
Hackernagel, the Anabaptist "

Ay, ay. That apostate fellow ; and what
has he to do with it ? " demanded the Bishop,
an angry spot rising to his cheek.

"Ah. A wonderful deal, I assure you. I
am told he has been the life and soul of the
whole affair. But I do not concern myself in
other people's business, and I assure you, my
lord, I know next to nothing beyond the fact
that Otto von Steinbach "

Holy Mother of God ! Go on. And what
of Otto von Steinbach ? " breathlessly challenged
the Bishop.

I was about to inform you, my lord. Otto
von Steinbach is appointed in the Professor
Dasipodius' place ; at least so I am given to
understand, but "

Am I in my senses ? "

I am sure I hope " began the chaplain,

eyeing his chief in dubious apprehension.

"And Eadegund  Radegund von Steinbach?"

Is about, my lord, and busy as ever. And
really the Horologe looks remarkably nice.
Remarkably nice," said Master Gottlieb, waxing
enthusiastic, then he relapsed into his normal
quiescence, and proceeded with his docketing.

Send her here," said the Bishop, after a
silence of some minutes, during which he seemed
lost in thought.

Whom, my lord ? " asked Gottlieb, jerking
his head up with a little start.

Mistress von Steinbach."

The chaplain departed on his mission, and in
half-an-hour Eadegund stood in the Bishop's
presence.

With a gesture which would have passed as
easily for a malediction as a blessing, he motioned
her nearer to him.

Tell me all about this ? " he said.

She lifted her dark eyes questioningly to his
face.

I am not to be trifled with," he returned,
for it seemed that a conspiracy to torment him
had been set on foot.

Heaven forbid," she said gravely.

Do you dare to stand there," he demanded,
raising his voice, " and feign ignorance of what I
218

mean ? When it is your  your own brother
who is appointed in Dasipodius' place ? If my
hearing is to be believed, that is."

It is, my lord, precisely as you say," calmly
replied the artist.

And you pretend "

I am not given to pretence. And whether
the Horologe has come to be a marvel of finish,"
and her lips curled mockingly, " or whether it
may be chaos confounded, I know no more than
you do, my Lord Bishop ; for since the Professor
Dasipodius was called upon to relinquish his appointment
"

At your instigation, treacherous woman !
To make way for your flesh and blood ! "

Kadegund's eyes glittered. " Have a care,
my lord," she said through her set teeth.

"Oh! I know your power," said the Bishop
hoarsely ; " and how it can almost make wrong
itself seem right. I know it well, but I believed
you to be true ; and I thought that
your admiration for Dasipodius  ah, you have
need to blush ; I thought, I say, your sense of
appreciation of the Professor Dasipodius' great
gifts, would have shielded you from such base
corruption as this. And yet, no sooner is my

back turned, than I find you moving heaven and
earth to set this fellow, this jack-a-dandy, in his
place. And why, heaven save us all ! because
he is your brother ! Oh shame ! shame ! "
"My lord, you do me foul injustice."
Oh ! I cry your pardon, mistress. Yes, one
needs to be nice with one's words in these days.
I should have said that you permitted this,
stretched out no preventing hand."
I had no power."

When she is pleased to exercise it, Mistress
von Steinbach's power is boundless."

"Conrad Dasipodius at least does not acknowledge
it," she said coldly, " and he spurned the
poor offers of aid I made him."

How ? " asked the Bishop in gentler accents.
And then Eadegund related how, on Dasi-
potius' blindness being discovered, the enquiry
had been instituted at the Chancellery.

"But how  how did they discover it?" insisted
the Bishop.

"Ah, by mere accident," carelessly answered
she.

Yes, yes, but tell me all ; for I will have
this business sifted to the bottom. How did
it begin ? "

Some love affair not worth repeating," she
said carelessly, a sudden flush dyeing her pale
face.

Love affair ?  Professor Dasipodius ? " said
the Bishop, knitting his brows perplexedly.
Never, the ideas are not reconcilable."

I believe you are right, my lord," said
Eadegund in ironical tones ; " but my cousin
Sabina is apt, poor child, to fancy things."

What ! your little cousin ! the Lily of
Strassburg ! Ah ! well, that is a different matter.
Yes, and these two then are lovers ? "

No, my lord, it is all at an end."

Nay, but that would be a pity. The
marriage tie is a holy thing, not lightly to
be thought of, and then cast aside. It was
not Dasipodius who did this ? "

It was her doing, my lord."

"And her reasons ? On account of his blindness
? No."

That," said Eadegund, slowly bending her
head, " was what she intimated in her letter
to him. '

Oh woman ! woman ! " groaned the Bishop.
Well, but she could not have truly loved him
then, this pretty child ? "

She is nineteen, my lord."

Tut ! tut ! " smiled the old man, waving his
hand ; " young enough to play a dozen Cry dons
false before she settles her fancy ; eh, Mistress V

You may be right."

If Dasipodius must bend to such  such
trifles, he is worthier of some loftier love than
that. Eh ? don't you think so ? "

Tes," murmured Eadegund, and then she
hurriedly went on to explain that it was this
same letter of Sabina's which had been read
aloud at the Dial.

It was a dunderheaded affair from beginning
to end," said the Bishop when she had done ;
and upon my honour, it always has been my
unalloyed conviction that this world would get
on just as well again without women. It is they
who are  heaven and darkness ! is it any business
of other people's, if a man chooses to be blind ?
And Dasipodius ? What did he say in  Holy
Saints !  in his defence ? "

Barely a dozen words, my lord."

No ; I would stake my revenue on it he
didn't," smiled the Bishop. " He knows these
town councilmen. Deaf adders are nothing to
them  nothing." Then he dismissed Eadegund.

A VISIT TO THE DIAL.

A N early hour next day found the Bishop at
-*"* the studio. " I have come to see how the

Horologe progresses," he said ; and then spent
such an unconscionable time about the place,
that he fidgeted Otto. " What did he want
coming prying here for ? what do bishops know
about clocks, I should like to know ? " he grub

led afterwards to Hackernagel.

Some folks," said Tobias, " imagine they

p possess an aptitude for everything under the sun."

Well, but I don't like it you know. I can

always stand anything but interference. And

then the number of questions he kept asking !

It 's disgusting ! "

Undeniably the Bishop had done that. In his
own mind he had determined to judge Otto

fa idly and impartially ; and, for the moment,
setting aside all remembrance of Dasipodius'

unjust treatment, he gave himself to ascertaining
as far as his own powers permitted, how far Otto
von Steinbach was competent for the task he had
undertaken. The result of his investigations
simply confirmed his forgone conclusion that the
Horologe was in the worst possible plight. Ifc
was not only Otto's inexperience and superficial
acquaintance which rendered him unfit to rule,
but also his unstable temperament. Had all
the old hands remained on, Otto might have
blundered through ; but the best among them
had left, and in their place were untried workers,
who were only paid by the piece, and cared no
more for the Horologe than they did for Archimedes.


I miss Isaac Habrecht," was almost the
Bishop's first observation, when his glance had
traversed the unfamiliar group ; but Otto's attention
was absorbed in something going on
down in the street.

I miss Isaac Habrecht," reiterated his visitor.

Oh, yes  you know, I mean  that is, my
lord, Isaac Habrecht doesn't work here now."

Why not ? "

Well, Isaac was a difficult fellow to deal
with ; and I don't see why one is to put up with

another fellow's airs because he happens to be
able to turn a piece of brass into a wheel rather
better than another ; do you, my lord ? "

I'm not so sure," replied the Bishop,
bending over the shoulder of Isaac's successor.
Have you got that even, friend ? " he asked,
looking at the wheel the man was filing.

Near enough, my lord," was the half surly,
half patronizing, and wholly confident rejoinder.

And Kaspar ? " said the Bishop, turning
again to Otto, " wouldn't he work with you
either ? "

I'd rather have his room than his company.
One could have done nothing with a head
crammed so full of favour and pre "

But the carvings ? "

Ah ! here they are. Ready as you see," said
Otto, who did not hold it necessary to explain
that Kaspar's work had been on the stroke of
completion before he left Strassburg ; and that
nothing was lacking of it but an insignificant
strip or two of beading. This however had
now been added to the rest.

Kaspar's fingers were thumbs when he did
this," said the Bishop, examining the strips.

Very likely," said Otto with a shrug. " He

was always full of fits and fancies as an egg's
full of meat. I do so hate your geniuses. I
don't pretend to be one myself ; and such sort
of people about me are simply a worry."

And Bishop John, as he scanned the Master
Zoologist's countenance, wondered whether
unknowingly he had, after all, surrounded
himself with geniuses ; for it was, he thought,
many a day since he had seen a man ]took
more miserable and worried than did Otto
von Steinbach.

And that set of fine steel springs Dasipoclius
had in hand himself," said the Bishop. "I remember
how exquisite their finish was. You
are over them I suppose ? "

Oh dear no, I have quite enough to do
looking after other people : I never find time fora
stroke of work myself."

Dasipodius did," said the Bishop.

Oh  yes ; but it wouldn't be right you
know, my lord, to  to compare  my modus
operandi "

With his. No, I suppose not. And now,
tell me by how long shall you anticipate the
Horologe's completion ? "

Otto stared vacuously.

When will the Horologe be finished ? " explained
Bishop John.

"Oh, well, perhaps towards the end of Autumn."


What ! " exclaimed the Bishop, " don't you
know it is to be ready by Saint Laurence's day ?
and that is August, the beginning of August,
man, isn't it \ or have you turned Anabaptist,
and forgotten your saint's days."

Oh, that's only what was said."

It is promised down in the contract, in
black and white."

"Ah, very likely ; but they'll have to whistle
for it."

They'll be more likely to cudgel your brains
out if you don't hold to the agreement," said
the Bishop with kindling eyes ; " you know
Strassburg's not to be played with."

I can't do impossibilities," said Otto sulkily.

Then we must see who can. Good day,"
and the Bishop went away.

"Ex nihil, nihil sit" soliloquized he, as he
slowly returned to the palace ; " and that will
be the Horologe's fate, or worse, if it remains at
this scatterbrain's mercies. I must see Bruno
Wolkenberg at once ; he is a man to be depended

on. And I may be able to sift to the truth of
this strange business from him."

For to Bishop John the truth seemed at the
bottom of a well indeed. Astounding stories,
as remarkable for their diversity as for their
wildness, had already reached his ears on the
subject. Some said Dasipodius had turned out
to be a were wolf, and wandered abroad o' nights
in bloodthirsty search of little stray children ;
because Mother Barepenny had said that stray
children, a whole stray baby especially, eaten atone
meal, was an infallible remedy for blindness.
Inasmuch, however, as stray babies were not to
be come upon every day, he had had to content
himself for the nonce with turning, by
the same wise woman's assistance, into a spicier ;
for your spider is able to creep in where your
were wolf might meet with obstruction. Under
this faint disguise, Dasipodius had, it appeared,
succeeded in sucking enough infant blood to keep
his eyes open, and so making believe he could
see. But others said that was all nonsense ;
what, forsooth, did he want of such second-rate
sort of backing up as were-wolves and vampires
could give, when there were in the city hundreds
ready to affirm that many and many a night

they, with their own eyes, had distinctly seen the
shadow of a huge pair of horns on the casement
blind of the mathematician's turret chamber ?

While the Bishop might have sought more
lucid details of Dasipodius' resignation, or setting
aside, or whatever it might be, from Eadegund
von Steinbach, he had not failed to mark her
reserve, amounting almost to taciturnity, when
he had spoken with her about it ; and he came
to the wise conclusion that after all, Bruno Wittenberg,
from his intimate friendship with Dasi-
potius, and by virtue of his professional knowledge
of his affliction, was the really proper
person from whom to obtain the information he
desired. Accordingly he turned and made his
way without further delay to the surgeon's house,
where Trudel, in answer to his enquiry whether
her master was within and alone, nearly let slip
her assurance that he was lone as the church
weathercock ; but remembering just in time that
she was holding parley with a Bishop, and a
prince of the empire, contrived by a superhuman
effort to set a seal upon her lips, and. with the
plain unvarnished intimation that her Master
was within, ushered his august visitor into the
laboratory.

The surgeon was standing in the embrasure of
the window, busily engaged in separating and
arranging the petals and leaves of some medicinal
herbs he had brought from Schaffhausen,
whence he had but the previous day returned.
The full sunlight fell upon his golden hair, and
there was a glow of colour and a healthful tan
browning his handsome face.

The country air seems to have done you
good service, Dr. AVolkenberg," said the Bishop,
seating himself in the chair Bruno placed for him.

Well  yes, my lord," answered Bruno ;
such elixir as the air of the Schwarzwald, I fear
all the alchemists in Christendom will never be
able to distil. It would almost bring new life
to the dead."

And sight to the blind ?  Can it do that 2 "

Even that perhaps, sometimes."

The Bishop looked with eager, earnest eyes at
the surgeon.

You believe it may do something for Dasi-
potius ? "

No, my lord," answered Wolkenberg, " I did
not mean that. Dasipodius' case is hopeless.
Nothing would bring his eyesight back, short of
a miracle."

But one that you can work, Dr. Wolkenberg ?
Yes ? " said the Bishop in pleading tones ; " so
much depends on it."

I spoke literally, my lord," answered the
surgeon with grave calmness. "It is beyond
the skill of the greatest of us. Certain of the
eye nerves are totally destroyed."

And what then," asked the Bishop, " is the
nature of this blindness ? "

"It is of the sort called Amaurosis."

"But they tell me his eyes are not merely
open, but as brilliant as when I went away a
couple of months since."

Bruno nodded assent. "Just the same, my
lord. He was blind then."

Is it of that kind," demanded the Bishop,
which one reads of the Arabs calling ' Gutta
Serena?"

"Yes."

It is rare, is it not ? "

Comparatively, my lord, yes. This special
form of it."

To me it is incredible."

Bruno sighed.

Incomprehensible. His eyes seemed to me

full of expression and brilliancy. I could not
have guessed at such a calamity."

You did not see with professional eyes, my
lord. I have foreboded it these two years, and
warned him of it."

How did it come about ? "

Over-study."

Oh," said the Bishop. " Many a man
studies as hard as he does, and yet preserves
his sight."

Pardon me, my lord, not many. For these
years past he has but laid down his book to take
up his pen, and then only laid that aside to
fashion piece by piece what he has thought out
and planned ; and not one pair of eyes in ten
thousand could withstand such ceaseless wear
and tear. A real master of Zoology, my lord,
must have a mind and an intellect as many-sided
as a prism ; and he needs above all, perhaps, to
be a practical genius."

"A vara avis indeed," smiled the Bishop.

"It is much the same, I take it, as if one
should speak of two men rolled into one."

The Bishop was silent, and sat with his eyes
meditatively fixed on the ground; presently,
however, he looked up. " But he is to blame in

this surely," he said in ex-cathedra tones. " He
has abused one of Heaven's best gifts."

It was in a good cause at least," answered
the surgeon. " Prometheus stole fire from Heaven,
and did his fellow-men a noble turn."

All the same," said the Bishop regretfully,
your man has left his work incomplete."

"That is no fault of his, my lord," bluntly
replied Bruno.

Ah ! I cannot believe that story," said the
Bishop, closely shaking his head. " For a blind
man is a man bereft of his noblest sense."

Bereft ? No, my lord, no, in such men as
Dasipodius, it has but gone to lend its help to
the other senses, and bring them closer to perfection."


"I wish I could believe that, Dr. Wolkenberg. "

You would do well to believe it. It is only
such men as Tobias Hackernagel, and others of
his complexion, who having no souls to compass
the greatness of Conrad's, take refuge in attributing
its power to supernatural influences."

And they may be right," smiled the Bishop.
You admit that, Dr. Bruno ? "

"I do," said the surgeon, with a responsive
light in his eyes, " with this difference, that the

base motives of these wretches have led them to
attribute his power to Hell, when it is Heaven's
own. It is not the first time, my lord, in the
world's history that this has been so."

The bishop bent his head reverently. " You
are right, Dr. Wolkenberg ; and your assurance
of Dasipodius' fitness to have carried on his
work is only too welcome to me. I believed it
might be possible. But tell me, did they really
and absolutely try to fix on him the charge of
sorcery."

Syndic Hackernagel did his best ; but it fell
through."

"But why?" insisted the Bishop. "What
good could it do Syndic Hackernagel ? "

"Nay, little enough, as far as I know; but
Hackernagel would burn Strassburg if it could
win him half-an-hour's notoriety."

"For shame, Dr. Bruno. You want charity."

I think not, my lord. Charity for such

creatures is worse waste than pearls thrown to

swine. Ought I  ought you, my lord  ought

anything that breathes, have  oh Heaven ! have

it ! Seem to have it, I mean," and Bruno's face

kindled, " for a creature who, if he could, would

have brought Conrad Dasipodius to the stake,
219

and felt his joy complete indeed if he had got
the chance of firing the first faggot himself!
I see," added Bruno, "you do not, cannot credit
this."

"Nay," said the Bishop. " Sin lies deep, and
Tobias Haekernagel is  is  Anabaptism is Master
Hackernagel's own particular form of heterodoxy
I believe, Dr. Bruno ? "

"An Anabaptist he is, I think, my lord."

And so the plot fell through ? "

Thank Heaven, yes, so far it did. There
was little fear as it seemed for Conrad's life, his
breathing animal life ; but that other  the only
life which is life to him, is all blighted. Not
killed mark you, my lord, but cruelly, cruelly
marred. Dasipodius is much changed since you
saw him."

"And he did not defend himself, Mistress
Eadegund von Steinbach tells me?"

"another

he was wrong."

Forgive me, my lord, I think had you been
there you would have reversed that judgment.
It would have been worse than useless. The
clack and clatter of Hackernagel's sophistries
drowned Dasipodius' simple assurance. The

people's ears itched too much for some new thing
to rest content with the good the) r had."

Alas ! " sighed the Bishop, " that is true, but
still "

"And so Dasipodius left them to themselves.
I think no man's pride would let him stoop to
stay where he was not welcome ; and these
flowers," said Bruno, touching tenderly a posy
of harebells in a little jar beside him, " are not
more sensitive to foul air than Dasipodius is to
falseness and treachery."

Over much surely," said the Bishop.

Maybe so, my lord, maybe not. It is his
nature," said Bruno conclusively ; " and so now
they  may whistle for their clock," and he
turned and absently flicked away a speck or
two of dust from his specimens.

"And Eadegund von Steinbach, did she suffer
all this quietly ? I gave her credit for more love
of "

Of whom ? " burst forth the surgeon, turning
sharply on the Bishop. " Of whom ? "

Of whom ? Of the Horologe, man, of the
Horologe. I say I fancied she cared for it too
well to let these tricks be played with it."

I know nothing about that " returned Wittenberg

coldly. " She rarely mentions Dasi-
potius' name. No doubt she would have aided
him, if it had been in her power, but she is after
all only a woman."

li And such a one whose will might turn an
empire's fate as she listed. Why, men are threads
to be wound about her little finger. Ah, Dr.
Wolkenberg, do you sigh so deep as that ? Your
lofty wisdom bows then to her power. Nay, but
don't frown and bite your lip like some guilty
thief taken in flagrante delicto  believe me, I
have guessed this tender secret long ago. Come
now tell me, is the marriage day to be  when ?
Give me due notice, for it is I myself who must
tie that knot. No answer ? Well, had you
chosen to plead guilty, Master Balder here," and
the Bishop gently stroked the ears of the dog,
who had for sometime been patiently awaiting
that small attention from the visitor, "who, I
will answer for it, knows all about it, could not
keep the secret more faithfully than I would do.
I am no gossip  but, I ask your pardon, I have
no right to intrude myself upon your confidence."

My lord, you mistake. I fear such honour
and such happiness can never be for me," and
Bruno turned abruptly away.

Tut, tut, man," said the Bishop, whose heart
had always been set on the union of these two.
He had watched their acquaintance with interest;
and to this kind father of his spiritual children
it seemed that for the dark-eyed magnificent
woman and the golden-haired man, beautiful
as a Norse god, to become husband and wife,
would be a Heaven-planned marriage. He knew
all the grandeur and nobility of Eadegund's
nature, her scorn of things mean and base, her
generosity and power of self-sacrifice ; but he
also knew how diamonds, valuable above all
other precious stones, are more than all others
subject to flaws. He knew that extremes meet,
and judged Eaclegund to be capable of all that
is best and worst ; while in Bruno Wolkenberg's
warm heart and single mindedness combined
with his no ordinary talent and pure enthusiasm,
which some, but not Bishop John, might even
have called quixotic, he saw one precisely fitted
to nurture and cherish the luxuriance of the
artist's nature, while it would restrain it from
squandering its generous strength.

"Patience, Dr. Wolkenberg," he said, rising
and laying his worn blue veined hand on Bruno's
shoulder. " Patience, it is all but just as it

should be. A woman is the more worth seeking
who is not easily won."

It is three years." groaningly began Bruno.

Three years ! Nay," began the Bishop.
By Our Lady, that is a little long indeed ! "

An eternity."

"And there is no other ? "

I do not understand you, my lord."

She has no other admirer ? "

She has a score," returned Bruno, casting
his despairing eyes upward.

Ah ! How absolute you are," said the
Bishop with a testy smile. " No other favoured
one ? "

I have but my eyes to tell me."

And if my old ones can help me to see she
has a great respect for you, Dr. Wolkenberg,
what should your own not do ? Besides she has
told me many a time how much she esteems you."

Esteem is not love, my lord."

Come, come. You are in an oracular mood,
and that is so seldom a happy one. Yet I must
not quarrel with my oracle, since I have gathered
from it brighter auguries for our poor Horologe
than I had dared to hope. And so fare you well,
Dr. Wolkenberg, and keep a good heart."

And with a lighter step Bishop John returned
to the palace, soliloquising, after his wont, on
what he had heard, and strange, as he confessed
to himself, though the story of the blind mathematician
might be, one thing was stranger still
the mind of a woman. What could be its
component qualities, that it always found such
pleasure in worrying what it so loved ? " For of
course she does love him," said the Bishop half
aloud to himself, as he entered his vast silent
hall. " Why should she not ? "

And the cold stone w T alls faintly echoed, " Why
not ? "

GRETCHEN.

"IT ANY a heart, the old saw says, is caught
-*- at the rebound ; and Otto von Steinbach,
discharging himself as he did like a catapult
from the Burgomaster's house, never stopped
till he fell flushed and almost breathless into
a chair beside fair Mistress Gretchen Hacker-navel.
She, as kind fate would have it, sat at
home alone in the absence of her father and
sisters, who had all gone to a great treat which
had been some time promising in the shape of a
peripatetic preacher of the Anabaptist persuasion,
who was to shed his eloquence on Strassburg for
one day only ; but Gretchen had, with the grain
of sturdiness which no domestic tyranny could
entirely eradicate, refused to join in the pious
dissipation. There was something of the black
sheep in Gretchen Hackernagel. Her compeers
called her " odd," her eccentricity developing

itself mainly in a dislike to the tenets the
rest of her family professed. This might, in
the first place, have arisen from the surfeit of
surface sanctity oppressing the domestic atmosphere,
tainted as it was beneath with endless
bickering and petty jealousies ; and the Christian
faith, which she had heard called beautiful
and love itself, wore for her a hateful ugliness.

One dreadful day, Gretchen had so far forgotten
herself as to say in her father's hearing
that the few sweet organ tones which reached
her as she came home from market round by the
Cathedral, always told her more about Heaven
in five minutes, than the longest discourse she
ever remembered Master Boanerges Bakkerzeel
to have poured forth. Henceforth, Gretchen
Hackernagel's path of life was not peace to
her ; she lived suspected of every sort of
wickedness, and responsible for every mishap
occurring in the household, not regulated better
than one boasting four mistresses usually is.
"It's all Gretchen's fault," was synonymous therewith
" the cat did it," in other establishments.

With many secret tears Gretchen endured her
misery, and with the sort of apathetic patience
which sees no gleam of happier things. The

Syndic's house was none so cheerful, nor his
womenkind so fair, that young men or women
either, ever felt drawn to cultivate close acquaintance
there ; and life had grown to be a burden
to poor Gretchen. It was little wonder, therefore,
that when the handsome Otto took to
looking in at Syndic Hackernagel's, Gretchen's
heart was lost to her, before she was well aware
she was burdened with one ; and with all his
faults, there was something to like in the young
man. He was gentle and chivalrous with women,
and spoke up frankly and openly, without the
snuffle and whine which characterised the few
young men it had been her dreary fortune
to converse with. Then Otto wore such beautiful
clothes, gay enough in all conscience they
were, but still innocent of vulgarity. The
vain creature had an instinctive taste for self-decoration,
and well understood the difference
between gewgaw smartness, and real arrangement
and blending of colour, and his clothes
fitted him to perfection. No wonder Otto
became an object of interest in Syndic Hacker-navel's
house. The worst of it was, as three
of the ladies said, he was a Catholic, and in
making much of him, they told each other they

had in view the charitable aim of effecting
his conversion to their own persuasion, then 
then  Acres ?  but since they did not confide
even to each other any word of what ultimate
course they intended to adopt, in regard to this
brand which was going to be snatched from the
burning, it would be presumption to surmise,
and perhaps superfluous, seeing that Otto stuck
to his creed with a pertinacity and selfishness
creating as much disgust in the three elders
as it charmed Gretchen, who plucked heart at
the reflection that this ray of an outer world
could breathe in their gloomy atmosphere and
live.

The greatest marvel was how Syndic Hacker-navel
permitted such an intimacy to exist ; but
that was not to know Syndic Hackernagel
aright, or else to forget that Otto von Stein-bach
belonged to an influential family, and had
excellent private expectations. In short he was
a gilded pill, which Tobias, faithful to his creed,
was prepared, and with cheerful resignation, to
swallow, should the young man's final election
to the state of being his son-in-law prove preordained
by a wise providence.

Wedded as Tobias Hackernagel was to his

own form of belief, and holding every other,
Catholic and Protestant alike for inodorous
pitch, his confidence in his own immaculacy
was so great, that he believed he might yet
touch it, and not be defiled ; and by no means
shrank from having worldly dealings with the
hereafter-doomed of any persuasion whatsoever,
provided they chanced to represent the dominant
party.

Amid the never-ending alternations of power
at that time, the Catholics were, and for some
prolonged period had been, iu the ascendant ;
and with the Catholics Hackernagel was careful
to maintain peaceful, almost amicable relations,
until the hour of their downfall should bring him
his opportunity for turning upon them. The
man, with all his veneer of holiness, was timeserving
to the backbone, and felt no grain of
compunction in bowing down in the house of
Eimmon, nor even in taking to the domestic
hearth such a rag of the Scarlet Lady as Otto
von Steinbach ; who, on his part, steeped from
his earliest years in Catholic associations, and
hating the reformers, from Luther to the last
mushroom hair-splitter of yesterday, and the
very name of Reformation for its general tendency

towards levelling away all that made
existence amusing and consequently endurable,
still felt himself under no small obligation to the
Syndic for his present lofty state, and thought
his debt cheaply paid by making himself agreeable
to the Syndic's daughters. It cost him
nothing ; and if they liked it, why, you know,
there was no harm done. There, however, the
argument somehow failed. Harm was done, a
very great deal, to poor Gretchen's heart ; and
being one of that tenacious sort whose hearts,
once given, will break if they are cast aside, there
is no guessing what misery would have been in
store for her, had not Otto, affronted and aggrieved
by Sabina's insensate treatment of him,
fled where consolation was infallibly to be found ;
and then and there offered his delicate white
hand and his fortune in esse and in posse to the
happy Mistress Gretchen Hackernagel. With
tears, and blushes, and rapture but transparently
veiled, she accepted ; and Otto found his consolation
for his snubbing elsewhere. Here were
favour and prejudice of the right sort if you
like. If only cousin Sabina could have been
there to see  and repent, now it was too late,
he thought his content would have been complete.

I shall never ask you again," tie had said to
her, and he meant it too ; and now here, an hour
later, he was an engaged man.

The new sensation was as agreeable as complex.
He was, of course, experiencing all the
delights attendant upon a public career ; but
then the sweets of notoriety have their bitters,
while these new joys were perfect  in
their way. Honestly he found them so. He
really liked Gretchen Hackernagel ; there was
something lacking to his volatile nature, which
he found in hers. Pique, for once in a way,
had done its victim a kind turn ; and he confessed
to himself that to be loved for one's own
sake was a good thing. And to love again ?
well  and that was a good thing too ; and
might come to grow by what it fed on. Then
Otto did so thoroughly enjoy his inamorata's
malicious little confidences which their closer
intimacy brought him, touching certain sharp
contests between her sisters for the distinction
she had won ; and he never tired of hearing how,
with all their simulated scorn and indifference,
they were so madly jealous.

Only once he found it incumbent on him to
check such innocent small-talk ; and that was

when she said that the last new taunt they had
conjured up was, that people were beginning to
say he could no more make a clock than could
the painted Cupid, who was to strut out and in
of the little door above the second cornice-work
of the new Horologe. With a ghastly smile,
Gretchen's fiance said it was very amusing, excessively
amusing, but he was afraid her words
lacked charity in repeating what the poor disappointed
things said, and that there was no need
to talk about the Horologe at all.

The very word sent a cold shudder through
Otto now ; it had come to be to him such a
hateful thing, this great unmanageable Horologe
with its wheels  above all, possibly from certain
older associations, he hated the wheels worst 
and its chains and little spiky bits ; and its
whirring wires and springs which, if you were
not tremendously careful, shot out, and gave
you ever such a stinging rap on your cheek or
your nose before you knew where you were.

To Otto, as to Dasipodius, the Horologe had
become a nightmare  with a difference. To each
it seemed a thing endowed with almost human
attributes ; only to Otto it was no fair lost mistress,
but a fearful monster, whose every shadow

haunting his dreams, resolved itself by day into
a horrid tangible reality. The creation of the
unhappy Frankenstein was nothing by comparison
with the Horologe, because the sooner
that soulless breathing terror was annihilated,
the greater was everybody's satisfaction ; whereas
all Strassburg was clamouring in Otto's ears, and
dogging his footsteps, and waylaying him at
street corners for the latest intelligence touching
this thing's progress, and plaguing his life out
for the precise date of its completion. " Time,"
as they said cheerfully, "was getting on now."
If things continued like that much longer, he
felt the Horologe would be his murderer, or
responsible at least for manslaughter. It was
killing him fast. The scraping of the studio
files, the tap, tap, tap of its tiny hammers, confused
his head till it ached again ; the bright
brass discs dazzled his eyes, until he began to
feel something of sympathy for his predecessor's
affliction ; the smell of the varnish and of the
paint made him feel sick, and he would gladly
have given Gretchen Hackernagel and all his
other possessions to have been once more only
the careless student, subject indeed to Isaac
Habrecht's fault-finding, or Dasipodius's grave

rebuke, but once outside the Dial's walls, free
as a butterfly to enjoy all the sweets life might
afford, a well-looking, pleasant enough young
fellow not far along the shady side of twenty-five.
And yet he dared utter no thought of what
he felt. Vanity, dread of his sister Eadegund's
taunts, Tobias Hackernagel's righteous wrath,
what Sabina would say, and still more what the
world would say, still bound him to the task
which was so utterly beyond his powers. If only
Dasipodius had persisted in his refusal to deliver
up his plans, all might have been well for Otto.
His own design was to be sure an extraordinary
conglomerate of intricacy, and curiously characteristic
of its originator's genius for complicating
matters ; still he had made it himself,
and understood perhaps if nobody else did,
how he meant to make it go ; but he had been
tempted by Dasipodius' plans, because they had
looked so delightfully simple, and he had believed
he might master them better even than his own,
about whose practicability, supposing them even
safely launched into working order, he had his
misgivings. When, however, he had come into
the much-coveted possession of the drawings, he

found how sorely he had misapprehended their
220

real nature, and learning too late that his predecessor
was a master of the Ars clare Arte?n,
wished he had bitten his tongue out before he
had set about moving Heaven and earth to
obtain them.

And so, groping in the dark, conscious of
being secretly sneered at by those over whom he
was set, sick at heart with vexation and wounded
vanity, and bored to death by enforced application,
the miserable man breathed on, finding
his sole consolation in Gretchen. And well
indeed it was for him that in those days of
wretchedness he was able to turn to this girl,
whose unassailable faith in his superiority overall
men since the world began, tied him to a life
which was fast growing for him into an intolerable
burden. Although his ordinary stock of
moral courage might not be large, he was by no
means deficient in that pinchbeck sort of it which
would face self-destruction ; but endowed with
little beauty, no great wit, nor much wealth, of
a temper not faultless, but warm-hearted, Gretchen
Hackernagel, in the power of her true
honest woman's love, came to be his saving
grace, shielding him from himself; and for the
sparks of self-complacency she kept alive in him

he repaid her with a certain sort of affection,
scanty at first, but gaining in strength as his
perplexities gathered closer and thicker about
him.

Sympathy in his own home Otto had long
ceased to look for. Throughout the whole time,
some five or six weeks now, that Dasipodius had
been at Schaffhausen, Eadegund had maintained
a cold indifference towards her brother ; and not
the faintest allusion to the Horologe or to his
new duties in connection with it ever passed her
lips. If she had flown into one of her furies
with him he thought he could have borne it far
better ; if she had even mocked him for his incapacity
he would have preferred it, because then
he might in the end have brought himself to
a confession of the wretched truth, and besought
her help to ward him from shameful exposure,
for he knew quite well that Eadegund could, if
she would, make clear to him certain of Dasi-
potius' intentions regarding the Clock's mechanism,
which would have materially aided in
dispersing some of the greater difficulties ; or, at
all events, brought the problems within a little
closer range of his own powers of solution ; for
though totally unfitted either by temperament

or training for his onerous duties, Otto was no
tyro in Zoology ; and could, under direction
and when he chose, do good work.

Eadegund was, however, impenetrable and
imperturbable as a fate, and Otto dared not,
ever so delicately, hint that she might be useful
to him. He had not spent all the days of his
life with her without knowing that these calm
moods of hers presaged storm ; and he did not care
to bring it on his own devoted head by any provocation
on his part, as he might by chance do,
however ill warranted, for as he said to himself
again and again, " She's cross about Dasipodius.
Just as if I could have helped it all ! It's awfully
unkind of her to be put out about it with me.
It just shows what contrary creatures women
are. Crammed up with favour and prejudice.
If any other woman now except Eadegund had
been my sister, she'd have been proud as a peacock
of me. And to say nothing too of her
reflected honours."

It was no concern of hers that the honours,
were trying ones ; and then the new chief
zoologist would groan, and call to mind some
sort of a story he had heard once of that king
of somewhere or other in the East, who always

honoured any courtier he might be having a
grudge against, with a present of a white
elephant.

Now the courtier is proud of the distinction,
but the white elephant on pain of death to the
happy recipient must have a household to himself,
and servants, and no end of attention and
time spent on him ; and very frequently that
story of the white elephant occurred to Otto's
imagination ; and the world, he thought, was
much the same, go where you might in it.

A CLEAN CONFESSION.

ANE morning, about ten days after Bishop
John's return into residence, there was
great rejoicing in the house of Hackernagel,
for the Syndic had received a command to
wait upon my lord. It was an honour hitherto
unrecorded him ; and in a flutter, concealed
beneath an air of nonchalance which deceived
nobody, he informed his daughters that he was
going to the palace, as the Bishop desired to
confer with him on important business ; then
dressing himself with extreme care, but excruciating
simplicity, he sallied forth.

Syndic Hackernagel's smug air of satisfaction,
as he walked along, expressed but a tithe of
the elation he really felt. What he was wanted
for, he had not the faintest conception, and cared
not at all. If my lord had been in a merry
humour, and been pleased to make a may-goose

of him, and only said, " Bo ! Syndic Hac-kernel
; now you can go home again," still
that would have been useful ; and it was with
infinite sweetness that the Anabaptist returned
the covert, not too amiable, glances of the
Bishop's servants and hangers on scattered
about the vestibule, and returned with insinuating
graciousness the courteous but cold
obeisance of Master Gottlieb, who silently
ushered him into the audience-chamber. It
was then not to be a tete-h-tete with my
lord 1 By no means, for there, gathered in
an irregular semi-circle towards the upper end
of the room, stood some dozen or more of the
city's representatives, among whom Hacker-navel's
needle-sharp eyes distinguished the
countenances of Burgomaster von Steinbach,
Councillor Job, and every one without exception
of those who had been officially present
at the Chancellery to enquire into the case
of Dasipodius.

Facing them stood the Bishop, who acknowledging
Hackernagel's presence by a faint inclination
of his head, relegated him by a gesture
to a position midway between himself and the
group before him. With an uneasy glance at

the faces on his left, the Syndic obeyed. If
only some voice had spoken one syllable ; but
not a conclave of corpses could have been more
still and silent, where they stood, some with
their eyes fixed in cold scrutiny upon himself,
some upon the stately, but fragile form of
Bishop John, whose benevolent face was set
into resolute patient lines, while he waited
for the last comer to settle himself. Fully impressed
as he might be with the distinction of
which he was the object, never had the Syndic
felt himself more ready to exchange conditions
with the obscurest citizen of Strassburg, than at
that moment, and he cast an involuntary glance
of longing at the lofty double-oaken doors by
which he had entered, and which were guarded
by two tall halberdiers still as statues, and with
eyes inscrutable as glass ones, whose weapons
gleamed dazzlingly in the bright May morning
sunlight.

I have desired your presence here, gentlemen,
and Master Tobias Hackernagel," began
the Bishop, putting an abrupt termination to
that person's survey of his surroundings, and
engendering in his mind a flutter of half-flattering,
half-uneasy wonder at the speaker's

classification of his audience. " Gentlemen and
Master Tobias Hackernagel  to ask your consideration
of a matter touching the new Horologe.
There is, I find," continued the Bishop, lifting his
hand to enforce the silence which Tobias' opening
lips seemed about to break, "an impression prevailing
among the better informed persons of
this city, that the Professor Dasipodius has been
unjustly set aside, and an incompetent man put
in his place. Gentlemen and Master Tobias
Hackernagel, have you anything to say to
this ? "

Apparently not, in so far as the former
division of the Bishop's hearers was concerned.
It contented itself with an interchange
of glances, while Syndic Hackernagel
.answered in a low sullen tone : " The Town
Council is not a pack of children. We knew
what we were doing, my lord," and he glanced
round at the worshipful body in search of its
approving nod, but not an eye met his.

Even grey hairs," replied the Bishop,
occasionally mistake, Syndic Hackernagel ; and
you were all gravely in error when you offered
this appointment to a man who is totally incapable
of carrying it through. I am leaving, for

the moment, entirely out of the question the
injury done the Professor Dasipodius."

Injury ! " cried Tobias, his brush-like yellow-red
hair bristling. " He ran a very near chance,
my lord, of burning for a sorcerer."

Fortunate for you, Master Hackernagel,"
calmly returned the Bishop, " that that did
not happen. The torture for false accusers is,
if I do not err, hardly less painful than the
stake itself."

The man is blind," Tobias muttered, after a
somewhat prolonged silence.

"That is a circumstance which concerns neither
you nor me, nor "  and the Bishop's glance
swept the faces of his auditors  " anyone but
himself."

"Not concern   " echoed Tobias, staring
round him in open-mouthed amazement. " Not

concern Do you assert, my lord, that you

believe "

"Alas no, Master Hackernagel," sighed the
Bishop. " By nature it may be, I am incredulous.
I feel that I must see to believe ; I hope
to be able to test for myself the truth of what
Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg here asserts."

He'd swear black was white for Dasipodius,"

grumbled Hackernagel, covertly glaring at the
surgeon, whom he now perceived among the
group.

"And Mistress Eadegund von Steinbach," said
the Bishop with a slight smile, " is she also so
staunch a partizan ? "

"Oh ho ! " sneeringly answered Tobias.
Hardly likely ; Otto's own sister."

You would accept her word then against
her brother's incapacity ? "

"Ah well," returned Tobias with an insolent
chuckle, " let her offer it first."

The Bishop, turning silently, advanced towards
the extreme upper end of the chamber,
the rich crimsons and purples of the emblazoned
window lights tinging his pale face and silver
hairs, as his silken cassock swept along the
parqueted floor. The vast audience-room of
the Episcopal Palace was rich in oaken and
ebony and ivory carvings. Its loftily-coped
fireplace reaching half-way to the fretted and
gilded ceiling, was crowded with historic alabaster
statues of nearly life size ; and where
its wings terminated, a high-panelled wainscoting
met them, heavy with allegorical figures and
carvings of flowers and foliage.

The wall towards which the Bishop now
slowly made his way, bore in its lower
centre a large panel some three feet wide by
five or six in height, carved in high relief with
a gigantic sword thrust between the chains of
a pair of scales. Extending on either side of
this, ran two smaller series of panels, the one
bearing, amid engraving wreaths and other
graceful devices, sweet women's and children's
faces, emblematical of the heavenly virtues ; the
other, the seven deadly sins, hideous mask-like
countenances, with snaky hair and gnashing
teeth writhing forth from their encircling
flames, and fetters strung with instruments
of torture.

Before this central panel, which was in facta
door communicating with several narrow
corridors leading to the dwelling part of the
palace, the Bishop paused, and pressing with
his finger one of the bosses of the carved woodwork,
it fell open, revealing a shadowy recess,
where like some picture on a dim background
stood Eadegund von Steinbach, richly attired,
as it was generally her pleasure to be, in a close-fitting
dress of blood-red velvet, finished about
the neck with a ruff of white Venice lace ; while

a black veil of the same costly fabric, wrapped
about her head and shoulders, threw into startling
contrast the faultless beauty of her face,
pale now to ivory whiteness, after .its wont
when under the influence of strong concentrated
excitement.

If to the startled assemblage the artist seemed
more like a picture than a reality, she quickly
dispelled the illusion, stepping at once to the
floor, and following in the Bishop's wake as he
returned silently to his place. Then taking up
the position to which he motioned her on his
right hand, she swept a swift searching glance
round, and turning to the Bishop, said : " But
he is not here, my lord ".

Bishop John touched a little hand bell, in
answer to whose summons the chaplain appeared.


Bid Master Otto von Steinbach come in,"
said his chief.

Gottlieb retired, but the next instant reentered,
ushering in the trembling Otto von
Steinbach. With downcast eyes, changing
colour, and scared face, Otto stood, just within
the threshold, shifting from one trembling leg
to the other.

Come close," commanded Badegund, before
the Bishop could speak. And the unhappy-creature
started, and with a wild stare round,
shambled forward.

I am here, gentlemen, and Syndic Hacker-navel,"
said his sister, addressing the group
before her, " by my lord's desire, to bear to you
my witness that Otto von Steinbach "

"Your own flesh and blood," interrupted
Hackernagel.

My brother, Otto von Steinbach," she went
on, with the faintest possible flush crossing her
pale forehead, but looking straight before her
high above the Syndic's head, " is incapable of
doing the work which you have caused to be
entrusted to his care. Further, I desire to state
my conviction that the late zoologist, Conrad
Dasipodius," and a faint tremor agitated the
clear ringing tones, as his name left her lips,
"has been unjustly and illegally set aside."

Not by me!" cried Hackernagel, starting
forward with savage defiance scintillating in his
pale eyes. " Not by me!"

I dare to say, Tobias Hackernagel," said the
artist, letting her glance fall to the level of his
face, "that saving yourself, I exonerate every

person here from any desire to do the Professor
Dasipodius an injustice."

Infamous ! " fumed the Syndic.

Lastly, I have to declare my conviction,
founded on my own knowledge of the matter  "

"Presumption!" hissed the seething lips of
Hackernagel.

M And confirmed by authority not lightly to
be ignored," here Eadegund's eyes turned on
Otto, " that if the work of the Horologe remain
under Otto von Steinbach's direction, the oath
of the Town Council to Strassburg is likely to
become a mock. There stands my brother ; let
him refute what I have said if it so pleases him."

But Otto stood speechless and immovable.

"All this," said Hackernagel with a sneer, "is
absurd  informal. "

Ah ! " said the Bishop. " It can be made a
formal question if you so prefer, Syndic Hacker-navel
; but I am given to understand you are
partial to informalities."

This is merely a friendly little enquiry," said
the Burgomaster, with an irrepressible smile.
Just such another as you proposed for the
Professor Dasipodius at the Chancellery, if you
remember. But, niece," he continued, addressing

Eadegund  " your pardon, my lord  niece,
I say, you should have told us all this long ago.
It would have saved us needless vexations and
heartburning and "

"And colds," dolefully muttered Councillor
Job. " I haven't half got over mine yet. They
do hang about one so "

"And scandal," continued Niklaus ; "and if,
let me tell you, you had had a spark of real
consideration for Dasipodius "

"He refused my poor aid," said Eadegund,
with burning cheeks.

"Well," sturdily observed Job, "we shouldn't
have done that. And you might as well have
given it us first as last, Mistress von Stein-bach."


"You don't understand women," began Tobias.
"Don't you know they only find fault when it
suits their purpose."

"I leave expediency to you, Tobias Hacker-navel,"
retorted Eadegund, a spot of angry scarlet
burning on each cheek. "I speak only now
in obedience to my Lord Bishop."

These churchmen ! " muttered Hackernagel.
"what a genius they have for meddling."

Have a care, Master Hackernagel," sternly

said the Bishop, who had caught the significance
more than the actual words of the
Syndic.

Hackernagel started, but hiding his confusion
under a smile of cringing insolence, " I meant
to observe, my lord," he said, "that I marvel
that spiritual guides  that is, I  I should say,
I wished to remark, my lord, that the Horologe
being so purely and entirely a secular matter,
and as such so utterly beneath your consideration
"

To see that men act justly towards each
other, doing as they would be done by, cannot
be beneath my consideration, Syndic Hacker-navel.
It is a charge specially committed to my
keeping. And I should be an unworthy servant
of a righteous Heaven were I to neglect it ; either
in the matter of our Horologe or of the meanest
trifle I am cognizant of. And though all the
forces of this heretical age were against me, I
will see justice done ! Those were good words
of the blessed Apostle," and now the Bishop's
voice rang clear through the chamber. " It
seems to me you may search the Holy Scriptures
through for better, ' Show me thy faith,

and I will show thee my works '."
221

"An epistle of straw," muttered the reformed
Hackernagel, shrugging his narrow shoulders.

"Straw is a sterling commodity," answered the
Bishop, " as Master Luther himself found, when
he tried to build without it. And at least our
people  the bulk of our people," sighing
amended he, " know better than to starve on
a poor empty windbag of righteousness, or bow
down to puppets of hypocrisy. I tell you, Master
Hackernagel, they will have this business
sifted to the bottom."

They did as they pleased," said the Syndic
sulkily.

As they were cheated into fancying they
pleased. Oh, I understand it all, Master Hacker-navel.
I know your petty grudges against
Conrad Dasipodius. I know how Isaac Habrecht
refused to play into your hands. I know how
against his better judgment, you flattered this
poor weak boy here into a task beyond his
powers, and cozened him into believing himself
to be what he never can be, that you might win a
passing popularity  that as you went by, people
might point after you and cry, ' There goes our
great Syndic ! the upholder of our privileges !
the champion of our liberties ! who will see weare

not trampled upon ! ' and for such empty
triumphs as these, you toyed with their ignorance,
by the false witness you bore, and sacrificed
to it the noblest heart among us. Has it
ever broken one hour of your rest, I wonder, to
think you have driven this man into banishment ?
Thank Heaven that there were those about you
frustrated your yet fouler designs against him.
Does it ever tell you that to feed your paltry 
vanity  ambition is no fit word  a bond of
honour should have been broken ? The hard-earned
money of our people frittered, and a
work of Art reduced to a useless gimcrack, so
your turn might be served ? Did you ever
spare a thought to the humiliation which sooner
or later must have befallen this young man ?
Look at him now, and see what you have done."

The Bishop paused, his eyes softening a little
as he cast a brief glance at Otto, but they
kindled again at the sound of Hackernagel's
voice demanding, tremulous with suppressed
rage, " Who says he cannot do it ? "

Himself," said Badeguncl. " He has confessed
so much to me."

Tobias laughed a low sneering laugh.

Couldn't he say it again " suggested Job,

in his tone of happiest inspiration. " That
would settle the question, wouldn't it, my lord?"

Well, you know," jerked out Otto, with
painful twitching about the mouth corners,

1  you see

Come, speak out, nephew," said Niklaus, but
not harshly ; " we won't be shuffled with."

Well, I I " His voice failed him, and

he stood mute and fumbling with damp fingers,
burning and ice-cold by turns, at the long broken
white feather in his hat.

Yes or no ? " demanded the Bishop in inexorable
tones. And still only some faint inarticulate
sounds gurgled through the miserable man's
pale and quivering lips.

Speak," commanded Eadegund.

No  I can't  " he gasped, starting at the
sound of her voice like some galvanized corpse,
and then, heavy as death, his two arms fell
beside him.

On your oath do you declare that, nephew,"
asked the Burgomaster.

Oh yes, if  if you like," he stammered ;
and staggering to a chair and sinking into it, he
burst into tears.

Coward ! Fool ! " hissed Hackernagel ; but

Eadegund swept past to Otto's side. " Eat your
own words for lies, Tobias Hackernagel ! " she
cried, laying her arm protecting about the
young man's drooping neck ; " never less coward
or fool than now, when he has dared to tell the
truth and shame  you ! "

And bending her proud head to the Bishop,
she led Otto gently from the audience chamber.


' The lad has done right, my lord," said
Niklaus, breaking at last the prolonged silence
which ensued. " If a man can't do a thing, it's
best he should own to it."

It's a pity he didn't do it long ago though,"
grumbled Klausewitz, " if it's only to think

My impression," said the Bishop thoughtfully,
" is that he did believe himself able ; but 
well, we make our mistakes sometimes," he continued,
with a glance of somewhat mitigated
severity at Hackernagel. " And now it remains
to us to take steps for getting Dasipodius back
again."

Back again ! " shrieked Hackernagel.

And you, Master Syndic, are the man to ask
him."

Never ! " he gasped out, " never ! "

Ah, well," said the Bishop, " there is of
course the alternative."

And that ? "

Is to arrest you."

Me ! on what charge ? "

Ah ! on one or two. You would, for
example, in the first place be tried for false
accusing, then for misappropriation and waste of
the public monies, then for "

And I have been brought here  inveigled,
deceived into believing that T I was wanted "

As you certainly were, my dear sir," gleefully
assured the Burgomaster.

To assist," went on Tobias, wrathfully
glaring at Niklaus, " to assist "

Precisely," nodded his tormentor, " at a
friendly little enquiry."

And am I to stand here," continued Tobias,
with livid foaming lips, "to be mocked and
insulted, and have my private opinions ferreted
out of me like this ? Am I, in the midst of this
free city, to be made the victim of party spirit
and cabal ? exposed to the ridicule of a pack of  
Look here, my lord," said the Syndic, abruptly
changing his key, 'these men  it was all their

faults, I was but one of them, they consented to
be present."

Ay, that's true," groaned Klausewitz ; " but
if I'd have known "

"They sat and heard all," hurried on Hacker-navel.
" You know you did," he said, turning
on them in hysterical appealing tones.

"We did," feelingly assented Niklaus.

"You hear, my lord; they cannot deny it.
And am I  I alone to be answerable ? "

It appears so," said the Bishop, who, in
addition to his own careful review of the bearings
of the case, had not omitted to encase
himself in the panoply of the best available
legal opinion. " It was you, Syndic, who set
the matter on foot. These gentlemen were
summoned first at your instance, to attend "

"A friendly little enquiry, my lord," prompted
Niklaus.

Exactly," said the Bishop, referring to some
papers on the table beside him. "And a mere
preliminary, as you intimated, in the event of
further measures being found necessary."

But, my lord," urged Councillor Job, " as far
as that goes, one sitting was more than enough."

Quite so, Councillor ; as results prove.

Syndic Hackernagel appears to have taken the
law entirely into his own hands, and guided the
question, begged it rather, into such a channel
that the people were drifted into a fresh voting
before they knew where they were. You did
wrong, Tobias Hackernagel, wrong enough, heaven
knows, to Dasipodius ; but a wrong yet
deeper against the public right, in presuming on
your authority, and overstepping your vested
power."

'The people voted as they pleased," protested
Hackernagel.

Not as they pleased, Tobias Hackernagel,"
said Niklaus earnestly. " Their sense of right
and wrong was utterly deadened by your
sophistries. I thought, thick-headed fool that
I was, that it might have been safely left to
them. I could not credit, none of us here
could have done so, that your special pleadings
and your absurd representations would have influenced
beings who boast the possession of
reason. I thought  we all thought," said
Niklaus, turning on his colleagues, " that
justice might be left to the people ; but we'll
never think so again," concluded the Burgomaster
 " be sure of that, my lord."

And as from one man broke forth the echoed
assurance, " Never ! "

I am willing; to believe," continued the
Bishop, still addressing himself to Hacker-navel,
" that in this you erred somewhat
through ignorance."

What ! " shrieked the Syndic, bounding
from the floor and gasping with fury. Accusations
of malice, lying, covetousness, and any
other sin of the Decalogue he might in time have
brought himself to pocket; but ignorance lying
to his charge ! Shade of Solomon ! " This,"
he said, his eyes shaking and rolling in frenzied
and nervous indignation, to maintain an unruffled
air of wounded dignity, " is the first time m 
my ability has ever been called in question. I
I  I am no f  fool."

Then," said the Bishop, " you must be the
greatest knave in all Strassburg ; and if know 7 -
ingle, as it appears by your avowal it was, that
you did this foul wrong, and refuse to atone for
it by the simple means I have, with the general
consent of these gentlemen here, offered you,
there remains to me no choice but to detain you
under a formal warrant of arrest."

Like a tiger at bay, the Syndic backed, and

glaring round at the stolid faces hemming him
in, fixed his eyes on the doors ; then, as through
the dead silence fell the clash of the changing
guard outside in the stone corridor, some half-fledged
exclamation of defiance died clown upon
his livid lips into a whining meekness.

I am a man of peace, my lord," he said
shudderingly.

"A blessed thing, Master Tobias," said the
Bishop, bowing his head.

I would  do  a great deal  for the sake of
peace," and he looked round, possibly out of mere
force of habit, for applause, but there was nota
sound. " I think," he went on, " sooner than
bring on the earth a sword or captivity, a man
should even lick the dust, especially when he
has a family  four daughters. Think of it, my
lord."

Well, Syndic," said the Bishop, with a shade
of impatience, " we are waiting your decision."

"And," went on Hackernagel, "I am convinced
morally convinced  that, provided there be
two ways of doing a thing, the lesser should
yield to the greater, the individual to the
general. Yes, I am persuaded that a man
is bound to make any sacrifice of his own

private feelings, however painful it may be
to "

Choose the easier. Come, Master Hacker-navel,
don't apologise," interrupted Niklaus,
but take your chance while you can get it ;
and thank your lucky star my lord has given
it you. I don't say it isn't more than you
deserve, but there take it, man, take it."

And on the understanding that he had taken
it, Syndic Hackernagel went forth from the palace
walls, not altogether the man he entered them,
but still a free agent.

OTTO FINDS CONSOLATION.

TjlXCEPTING that the hold of his sister's hand
- on his own never relaxed until he found
himself safe at home, Otto knew little how he
came out of that terrible ordeal, and found himself
sobbing bitter tears on Radegund's shoulder,
just as he had done many a time when he was a
little boy, and contemporary juvenile favour and
prejudice had chanced to deal crossly with him.
Now, as then, she hushed him closely to her,
and parting the tear-draggled hair from his
heated face, kissed it more than once, saying :
"That is my own Otto, my brave Otto," just
as she would have coaxed him long ago.

In the world's eyes, this victory he had gained
might be a sorry one enough, barely if at all
distinguishable from cruellest defeat ; but Rade-gun
understood its worth, and envied him 
envied the courage which had led him to

confess the truth. It was altogether beside
the question that she had urged and argued
with, and threatened him into such a course ;
now she only remembered results, and that
he had been true to his word ; and as she sat
there in the shadows, feeling the beats of Otto's
sore disappointed heart against her own, she
yearned for that to have been as guileless.
Though the world nrio;ht taunt and sneer at
the dethroned zoologist, it was none the less
true, as she had declared, that his hour of humiliation
had been the noblest his life had known.
If her heart-strings had nearly cracked with
wounded pride, that brother of hers should
have been brought to a confession of the sort 
and she could have sobbed aloud for shame and
regret far deeper seated than Otto's own,  still
he had his clear conscience. A clear conscience.
Ah heaven ! what a thing of joy that must be I
Too blessed to dare even to think of ; and she
turned and busied herself in soothing down his
grief, until the convulsive sobbing grew fewer
and farther between, and he began to be able
to collect himself. The first thoroughly lucid
thought dawning on him was, that it was
gone ! That awful thing ; gone for evermore I

Then came the reaction ; and he sat up and
petulantly thrust Radegund from him. " Get
away ! " he said ; " you've ruined me. I can
never never show my face out of doors again
after this. You've ruined me," and the tears
broke forth afresh.

Poor child, no," she said ; "I have saved
you  from yourself."

Then she flung her arms about his neck, and
this time he did not repel her, but sat staring
through his blurred eyes, and letting memory
creep back as it listed.

I shan't have to turn out to that hateful
hole tomorrow morning, shall I ? " he said
presently. " Isn't it a den, Radegund ? The
idea of any fellow ever being expected to  a
fellow with eyes, that is, of course. When you're
blind, why it's all the same wherever you are ;
and if it's only for that, they'd better get
Dasipodius back  if they can. I say, Rade-gun,
did he call me a fool ? "

Conrad Dasipodius ? "

Dasipodius, no," disgustfully returned Otto.
He never did ; he knew better. He wasn't a
bad sort. I wish he'd come back. Do you,
Radegund ? I wonder whether he will  eh ?

It's my belief he'd just go an)' where after that
wretched Horologe. Queer, isn't it ? Why, they
might beg me back till they choked, and I
wouldn't. I say, Eadegund, do you know if
I'd have had the faintest notion of all that was
to have come of that letter  you know what 1
mean  I'd have cut m} fingers off before I'd
have touched it with a pair of tongs. I believe
the devil himself was in that letter. Eadeoimd,
I say, what have you done with it ? "

What letter ? " she said with a slight start.

Why  you know T ; that letter I brought you
back again, that day when  look here, Eadem
I want it  to give it him, I mean. I
fancy it would set things straighter if he had
it. You've kept it, haven't you ? "

No reply.

Oh I say, but you have," he went on a little
anxiously. " and you might give it up ; it can't
be of any earthly use to you. Eadegund "

Do you suppose I hoard up little bits of
paper ? " she asked contemptuously.

No, but it was something more than a little
bit of paper," he urged.

I never could imagine what was your fancy
in bringing it back," she said.

Oh well, I thought  you and Dasipodius  I
didn't choose for those fellows to go picking it
up and  there  I forget all about it now," said
Otto, who in view of that transfer of his affections
which he had made, did not care to recall
the old vague intents of making mischief between
Dasipodius and Sabina, which had been the chief
motor power of that morning's work. He had
indeed long since been heartily ashamed of it all.
I wish the thing had never been written. It
was all Sabina's fault. And if she'd have married
me when I asked her. I shouldn't have been exposed
to all this  annoyance. It is annoying,
isn't it? But I don't care a bit ; I'm very glad,"
and the last lingering sob quivered through Otto's
frame, "very glad indeed. I've got as good as
she is any day, and better, haven't I, Radegund ?
Sabina's a stupid little eighty-eight sort of a
thing after all, isn't she ? Now Gretchen's a
lump of sense, every inch of her. She worships
the ground I tread on ; and she's got such perceptive
powers as I never  Radegund ! " and he
gazed up at her face, his eyes rounding with
some sudden apprehensive thought.

Well, child."

Don't call me child."

Well, Otto dear," she amended with a faint
smile, as she stroked his glossy black curls,
"what is it?"

You don't think she'll throw me over because
 because " and he coloured painfully.

Not if she's worth a straw."

Oh, she is ; I know she thinks no end of
me."

Then she'll be true to you," comforted
Eadegund. " When we love, we don't put it
on and off like a glove."

No," nodded Otto, cheering up entirely ;
perhaps not. And you didn't keep that letter
then, Eadegund % "

What nonsense to suppose I should."

Well, it's a pity, though perhaps it w T ould
have been too late now to  I say, Eadegund,
when on earth will supper be ready ? "

Directly, dear."

I'm fainting with hunger. I haven't eaten a

morsel since dinner. They kept me in that den

of an ante-room for two mortal hours ; and 1

couldn't get out, say what I could. That fellow

with the drawn sword at the door shook his head

like a bell-clapper when I asked him, and said his

orders were strict. Eadegund, just you go into
222

the kitchen, there's a dear girl, and see they put
calves' brains enough in that salad ; they didn't
last time, and it's always half the battle  the
brains."

********

Meanwhile, the Burgomaster, hardly knowing
whether to be more glad or sorry at the settlement
to which things had been brought, walked
slowly home. Personally he would have relished
Hackernagel's judicial tortures as thoroughly asa
Madrileno enjoys a bull fight ; but on the other
hand he knew well enough the law's delays, and
in the event of the Syndic being required publicly
to answer for his distortions of justice, it
would have delayed the recall of Dasipodius, and
this taken into account, he was content to accept
the decision just arrived at, and went home in
such a cheerful frame of mind, that for the life
of him he could not refrain from telling Sabina,
"whether she liked it or not," as he said to
himself, that there was a chance of their seeing
Master Dasipodius back again.

If he'll come, that is. But it's not every
man kicked out of office who'll consent to be put
in again."

He'll come, father," said the girl. " He loved

the Horologe so dearly. Oh, I know he will'
and her pale cheek glowed.

Yes," returned the Burgomaster. " I think
he will, my girl. He's a man, once he puts his
heart into a thing, doesn't take it out again in a
hurry."

"No, no. Not when he really cares for it."

Niklaus glanced furtively at his daughter.
Well, well, it was good to see her cheeks had
not lost their power of getting rosy, as sometimes
it seemed ; and he hazarded a further
remark : " And old friends are best anyhow ? "

Oh yes."

"And still you're Conrad Dasipodius' friend,
yes?"

Oh yes indeed."

And the Burgomaster was satisfied.

MAKING NIGHT HIDEOUS.

Syndic HACKERNAGEL's household was
 not a little put about at finding that on his
return from the palace, he was in anything buta
genial humour. Endowed, ordinarily speaking,
with the healthiest of appetites, he declined to
touch a morsel of supper ; and with not a goodnight
to throw at a creature about the place, he
betook himself sulkily to bed.

Over and above these portents, there were to
be seen certain sparks scintillating in Tobias'
small green eyes, which were understood by
melancholy experience, to bode ill for domestic
tranquillity ; and so, in the fervent hope that he
might be better in the morning, he was let go
his ways unquestioned.

"And tomorrow," muttered the discomfited
magistrate, as he put on his night-cap, and drew
it well over his-rank jaws, " tomorrow this proud

churchman shall know who Syndic Hackernagel
is."

"It is an accursed thing," continued Tobias,
anathematising the Horologe as cordially as his
predestined lips dared. " An evil thing invented
to bring tribulation on the righteous. An accursed
 verily a most accursed " Then

he sank to sleep, but not into oblivion ; far off
into the land of dreams that supreme subject
of his waking moments followed him. Now it
made itself into a hideous nightmare, and from
its grinning face sprouted dead-cold claw-like
fingers, which pinched and scratched him, and
preternaturally long legs radiated from it, dancing
and stamping upon him, till he awoke
gasping with horror. Anon the spirit of his
dreams waxed kinder, and the Syndic beheld
himself hand on heart, haranguing all Strassburg
from the forensic platform, and the dreamer
smiled sweetly, for he thought then he heard
the sound of his own voice.

Good people," he fancied he was saying, "go
your ways. I wash my hands of you and your
Horologe."

Alas ! that it was only a dream ! One from
which he was rudely awakened by a confused

uproar of feminine shrieks within doors, and a
deafening hubbub of masculine voices without.

And that red flare ! illumining his room to
daylight clearness ? Merciful powers ! was the
house on fire ? With one bound the Syndic
sprang from his bed to the window, and wrenching
it open, thrust out his head.

As well have put it in the pillory at once, for
before he had time to draw it in again, a shower
of such loathly missiles as only the ingenuity of
a riotous mob can devise, fell around the benight-capped
object showing out so conspicuously white
through the darkness. Physically, however,
Syndic Hackernagel sustained no further abiding
damage from that dark night's encounter than the
marring of his nose's bold outline by a broken
eggshell, the mark of which, by the enigmatical
law of scarification, which sometimes refuses ever
to obliterate traces of a pin's scratch, Tobias did
carry with him to the grave.

Not so many weeks back, this justice of the
peace, posted at a safe distance, had watched
the exit of Conrad Dasipodius under a course of
similar attentions from the crowd ; and he had
speculated a little curiously as to what sort of a
sensation rotten egg and brickbat pelting might

superinduce in the patient. Now enabled to
realise it to the full, he slammed to his window
even faster than he had opened it. His nocturnal
visitors were not to be balked however, and
with a crash and a prickly shower, the glass of
the latticed panes lay shattered around him ;
while borne in upon the incoming chilly and
damp night breeze, yells of laughter, mingled
with ominous low growls, assailed the shivering
Syndic's ears through their cotton coverings.

The Horologe ! " shouted a hundred throats,
till the very roof gables echoed again, causing
every upper window in the street to fly open,
bristling with heads.

The Horologe ! Where's our Horologe ? "

Tobias shrank back into the shadows.

Come out ! Show yourself ! "

But he shrank to utter extinction, and was
no more to be seen than a snail prodded with a
bit of stick.

If you don't show yourself," shouted an
awful voice, "we'll be up in a twinkling, and
bring you out."

Foremost among his besiegers, Hackernagel's
one glance had shown him more than one of the
Dial doxologies, and for their lithe limbs to

clamber over the projecting cornices of the lower
casements, and jump in through the smashed one
above, would be, as he knew, the work of half-a-dozen
seconds ; convinced therefore that nothing
but surrender remained to him, he again advanced,
in an agony of terror.

The Horologe ! the Horologe ! " shouted the
mob. as soon as his face, white now as his
head-gear, peered forth into the red flare of the
torches they carried.

Where's Dasipodius ? We want Dasipodius."

And with that shout, Hackernagel's last lingering
hope of being able to defy my lord Bishop
faded from his calculations. Whatever doubt
had hitherto remained, it was clear to him now
that by hook or by crook these Strassburgers
meant to have their man back again. He whom
not two months since they had hounded from
their streets, he on whose head one-half of the
city had heaped insult and opprobrium, and the
other half had not stretched out a finger to
defend.

They wanted him back again. Well, what
wonder? Was not his absence threatening
dolorous danger to their pockets ? Slowly but
certainly it had dawned upon these good people

that the Horologe had fallen into incompetent
hands, and the hideous fact had become patent
to them, that if they did not bestir themselves,
every batten of their subscribed florins would
be as much lost as if thrown into the Rhine.
 Against this frightful possibility Calvinist and
Catholic rose as one man, beginning hurriedly to
catechise each other as to the legality of those
summary proceedings at the Chancellery, and into
a jeopardy it had never known before, Tobias Hac-kern
gel's name was falling now. Such ominous
rumblings of discontent had for the last two or
three weeks been growing so audible, that any
man less in love with himself and all his actions
than Syndic Hackernagel would have long since
begun to tremble. To this most self-complacent
of Sir Oracles, however, the notion of any dog
whatsoever daring to bark after once he had
opened his mouth had not occurred. Notwithstanding,
the growls had daily grown louder ;
and if only a few days more had flowed on in
their usual course, even Tobias must have been
driven to mark whither the tide of opinion was
tending.

Already before nightfall, there were few who
were not cognizant of the light in which the

Bishop, whose opinion Catholics venerated, and
Protestants could not choose but respect,
regarded Tobias Hackernagel's dealings towards
Dasipodius. The details of that interview between
himself and my lord the previous afternoon
had been circulated with no small gusto
by more than one of the municipality who had
been witnesses to it, and had spread before
sundown like wildfire through the city's breadth
and length. Many of these men, while acknowledging
that his very meddling proclivities had
done their state some service by preventing
stagnation, bore him personal grudges for his
contemptuous bearing and pompous opposition
to measures proposed by any but himself,
and above all, his inter-meddling with matters
he understood nothing about. And with an
unction they were at no pains to conceal, they
spread the story of Tobias' explanation with Bishop
John, and the upshot of it. By all which, it will
be clear that the Syndic's popularity was at zero.
Even his very co-religionists had begun to lose
confidence in him, when the appalling conviction
loomed upon them that he had perhaps blundered
away their money.

Compared with the horror of this, the very

accusation of sorcery against Dasipodius paled
to insignificance ; and the firmest fanatics of every
persuasion piteously added their suffrages to the
general opinion, that at all hazards the blind
mathematician must be fetched back to finish
their clock for them, even though they should
arrange to burn him afterwards.

Thus of self-interest was born what the Stress
pleased themselves by calling a sense of
justice. It had however, in truth, long been
honestly burning in many hearts. In none
perhaps more purely and ardently than in Burgomaster
von Steinbach's. Not an hour had
passed since that day when he had watched
the blind man leave the presence of his inquisitors,
that Niklaus had not pondered and
planned for his reinstating ; but there were many
motives forbidding Niklaus from openly declaring
himself the mathematician's champion,
dearly as he yearned to do it ; though they
were such as he did not care too nearly to
analyse even to himself. Simply when they
arose, he would look thoughtfully at Sabina,
and the old speculations anent the mysterious
ways of womankind would begin to worry his
brain.

The ends and aims, however, of creatures of
his own sex were things of altogether a different
calibre, and quite, he believed, and justly too,
within his powers of disentangling ; and very
attentively, but sharing his observations with
no mortal creature, he had watched the current
of public opinion, quietly making it his business
to feed the growing discontent against Hacker-navel,
and the desire for the recall of Dasipodius.
That the people as a body should desire it was,
Niklaus believed, the one condition on which
the mathematician would be induced to resume
his old duties.

"But I wouldn't answer for it," he sighed.
They threw away their loaf, and if they can't
fish it up again, there's nobody to blame but
themselves. Hey, Master Klausewitz, what do
you think of it ? "

Klausewitz said that only so long as they
didn't make another endless day of it at the
Chancellery, he " didn't care how it was settled.
The place in summer was like a furnace."

Meantime Syndic Hackernagel is striving to
address his midnight visitors as well as his
chattering teeth permit.

Good people," he said, as the clamour for

the banished doxologies rose up on all sides of
him, " Master Dasipodius "

"Ay, ay!"

The  the Horologe, I mean," he continued

piteously. " The Horologe " But his

weak attempts are drowned in fresh uproar,
and while the unhappy Syndic, daring neither
to retreat, still less to advance by half an
inch, stands quaking with terror, amid yells
and shouts, and catcalls, and every imaginable
sort of rat's music, high above all rise
the chorused shouts for Dasipodius and the
Horologe.

Himmelsdonnemvetter ! What is the meaning
of all this ? " broke forth a deep bass voice
through the din ; and never had it sounded so
welcome in the Syndic's ears. " Does the man
keep the Horologe under his pillow, that you
come disturbing the whole neighbourhood like
this ? See here, comrades, if you don't instantly
disperse, and take yourselves home to bed
like decent fellows, I've got the watch behind
me," and Burgomaster Niklaus jerked his finger
over his shoulder to a compact dark mass in
his rear, " and they shall conduct you all to less
comfortable lodgings."

Ah ! ah ! Dear Master von Steinbach,"
screeched Tobias.

Have done, Hans," cried Niklaus, bringing
down his strong hand on an arm just lifted to
hurl some fresh missile at the white pyramidal
object now oscillating over the parapet.

Dear Master von Steinbach ! is that really
you ? For the Lord's sake "

How can the man speak, if you go breaking
his head first?" demanded Niklaus of the surging
mob.

No, to be sure not, dear Master Niklaus.
That's what I say  what you say, I mean.
You always do put it so sensibly ; and if
they'll only listen, I'll say anything they like-any
thing."

"Time enough for that tomorrow morning,
Tobias Hackernagel," answered Niklaus. " You
see you've come an hour or so too soon, comrades
 hey ? " continued he, turning to the
ringleaders with a face stern as Rhadamanthus,
but his eyes dancing gleefully in the gleam
of their torches. " Just an hour or so too soon.
In the morning I'm sure Syndic Hackernagel
will talk to you, if you'll meet him outside the
Chancellery  eh, Master Tobias ? "

To be sure, Burgomaster, to be sure ; and
I'll "

"Ay, ay, of course lie will ; and tell you what
will be sure to please you all."

"Yes, yes," protested the grateful Tobias.
"It shall be just what they like. Tell them,
will you, dear Master von Steinbach, anything."


It's deeds we want, not words," growled an
angry voice. " We've had enough of them and
to spare. And if he don't fetch Dasipodius
back, and look pretty sharp about it too "

Oh, but I will ! I will. I will indeed."

Good," said Niklaus.

"Good," chorused Tobias' visitors. "Tell us
that again tomorrow morning. Good-night.
Sweet dreams to you, Master Hackernagel."

Good-night," piped the Syndic, of whom nota
vestige was now visible. " Good-night, good
people."

Oh ! but that won't do at all," shouted up
his tormentors. " We must see you again once
more before we go. We shouldn't sleep a bit if
we didn't. Here ! Hi ! Look out ! "

And Tobias looked out. " Now tell us if you've
been glad to see us," exhorted their fugleman.

Too much for words to express ? Is that it ?
Smile then. We shall understand."

And Tobias smiled, a smile so ghastly, so
abjectly wretched, than even his tormentors
were satisfied ; and with a parting yell which
brought the last sleepiest heads in the street to
their windows, they went quietly home.

VOX POPULI.

rFEUE as the needle to the pole, Tobias
Hackernagel kept his appointment next
morning. He clearly saw that there remained
to him no choice but to deliver himself up with the
best grace he could to the tide of circumstances.
But alas, bad was the best. Never had his ingenuity
been more heavily taxed, and his self-esteem
more sharply pricked, than while he sat
pondering over the terms which were to make
it seem as though Dasipodius' recall were the
effect of his own spontaneous heart-promptings.
In the end, however, the Syndic succeeded very
fairly indeed to his own satisfaction, and that of
his own devoted adherents ; and for the general,
they were content, so only he did as they demanded,
to leave him his own way of doing it.
Even the most obstinately inimical allowed

themselves, out of the generosity which conquest
223

brings, to be kept in check ; and with the exception
of one or two solicitous enquiries pitched
in a shrill key, as to what had befallen the most
important feature of his face, they quietly settled
themselves to listen to what some present afterwards
pronounced to be the most astounding
piece of oratory which had ever left the lips
of Syndic Hackernagel.

That this, in the very nature of it, occupied
some time, may be conceived ; and for one whole
hour and a quarter, the Syndic, with a few trifling
interruptions, held forth from the Chancellery
steps, to those who during the previous night's
small hours had convened that rendezvous, and
to as many more who made it their business or
their pleasure to hear what Master Hackernagel
might be having to say for himself.

Himself ! Gracious Powers ! Self, in any case,
was not to be his text on this occasion. Every
nerve and sinew of him were, on the contrary,
strained to turn the mental vision of his hearers
in upon themselves, and to demonstrate to them
what an egregious blunder they had committed
in deposing the king of doxologies, the Professor
Conrad Dasipodius. For who but they, as he
boldly and indignantly demanded, had been

guilty of this, by their own suffrages ? The
whole matter, as with a wave of the hand
towards Burgomaster von Steinbach, who stood
silently watching the scene, the whole matter,
Tobias said, had been publicly and thoroughly
sifted, and if it was not their subsequent voting
which had thrust out Dasipodius, what had ?

"Good people, there are things," hurried on
Hackernagel, incited to mend the pace of his
oratory at this point, by certain ominous rumblings
 " there are things a man may sorely
repent of having done," and here his saddened
tones producing the soothing effect he aimed at,
he perforated on, ringing the changes upon his
syllogism with curious skill, and sticking to it
with leech like tenacity. Then too in that
scarlet and fur panoply, he was almost invulnerable.
Tobias Hackernas-el shivering in his
thin night-gear, under a cross-fire of practical
hard-hitting, and Syndic Hackernagel clothed
about in all the magnificence of his civic raiment,
were as two utterly different men.

Personal courage was, as he always said, a mere
animal attribute. In words, solely and entirely,
his strength lay ; and valiantly he squared up now
to his difficulty, attacking at every point, never

leaving one threatening salient angle looking in
the slightest degree threateningly for himself,
until he had smoothed it round to look like the
work of the people. With meteoric bursts, his
periods rushed across their intellectual vision,
dazing it so utterly, that only afterwards some of
his hearers found breath to question the flawless-ness
of his arguments.

And ever again, when he felt the smallest
danger of getting out of his depth, he returned
to that one incontrovertible assertion. " Did
you not, each and all of you, enjoy your free
right of voting for whom you pleased at the
close of the enquiry ? And was not Dasipodius'
name included among the candidates ? Answer
me that."

"Ay, ay, that's true, Master Hackernagel ; we
don't deny that of course, but then "

"And what is the result ? That Dasipodius is
rejected." With mutual reproachful glares and
contrite groans, they made the required admission.

"And Otto von Steinbach appointed."

Longer and deeper utterances of contrition
testified to this fact.

"Ay. Groan away," muttered Burgomaster
von Steinbach. " I'll be hanged if I could

have believed Strassburg was made up of
such arrant "

Pray ! I beg, Burgomaster," said Tobias,
do not blame these good people. If only
for your own sake, do not do that. What is
it but the old story of popular ingratitude ?
You nurse a viper in your bosom, and it turns
and stings you. Give these people here two
seconds to speak in, and believe me it is on us
they would cast the blame  on Us ! "

Speak for yourself, Tobias Hackernagel ! "
furiously cried Niklaus.

"Nay, for myself possibly  for you  for the
whole bench I speak. Good friends," he continued,
turning again to his auditors, " Burgomaster
von Steinbach here places the whole
matter in  in "

"A nutshell," prompted Niklaus.

"In a nutshell," smiled Tobias effusively.
It was, he observes, a grievous mistake you
made when you "

Has some invisible thunderbolt stricken Hac-kernel,
that the word dies on his wide-opening
lips, while a paste-white hue overspreads his
face, and his eyes fix themselves in a rigid
stare on the figure of a woman who has mingled

with the crowd, which is no sooner aware of her
presence, than it divides respectfully for her to
pass to the foot of the steps, where she takes
her stand and watchfully eyes the speaker.

"When  when " stammers Hackernagel.

"Well, Master Hackernagel? Don't let me
interrupt," she says in a low tone,  "a grievous
mistake that was made when "

"When," a sickly smile consorts Hackernagel's
lips, " when we  sent away the Professor Dasi-
potius," he gasps out.

Good ! " cried Niklaus. " Courage, man.
You'll do now."

But never in all his public career had Tobias
felt himself so near his undoing It was all that
woman's eyes which had driven him to the disastrous
admission. Had she kept in her own house
at her sewing, as became women with an ounce
of modesty in their composition, he could have
pulled himself through with barely a hair's
damage ; but here, forced in spite of himself, to
cry peccavi ! What in the name of Hecuba had
she come here for, setting herself,  literally doing
it, between him and the people at this crucial
moment ? Bearding him on his own particular
hunting-ground ? To be brow-beaten and trampled

upon like this by a woman ? Yet no, a
million times no ! and girting in his crimson
and fur, until every crease of it was eloquent of
the creature it wrapped about, he returned to
the contest.

"Having arrived then," he continues, "good
friends, at the conclusion that you  that it was
an error, 5 ' for still the artist's eyes are transfixing
his face, "to  to part with the Professor Dasi-
potius, we have come to the determination of 
of fetching him back again."

A thunder of applause greets the proposition.


That's by a long way the finest thing he
ever said in his life. Isn't it, Klausewitz ? " said
the Burgomaster, appealing to his much-enduring
colleague, whom he had dragged to the scene of
action.

The sun's burning hot," grumbled Job. " If
he doesn't make haste, we shall all get sunstroke."


My Lord Bishop inclines to the opinion,"
continued the Syndic, with a side glare of
defiance at Kadegund, " though here I must
confess I am not at one with him, that Dasi-
potius will  not come. But I think you  we

ought not to despair. My own opinion is that
he will jump "

To the hangman with your opinions. Push
on, man, and tell them what my lord said, can't
you ? "

"But," proceeded Tobias, thus assisted, "am
I here to advocate my own poor sentiments ? Is
it not by the desire of the people that I stand
here to-day ? "

"Ay, ay!" cheered certain voices, which turned
Tobias' skin to horseflesh under the sweltering
crimson and fur.

"And I am prepared to sacrifice  I emancipate
myself, so to speak, from my own impressions."


Good again," nodded Niklaus, cheerily contemplating
the signs of approval in the faces
before him.

This moment, as I have ever been," and
Tobias' voice waxed shrill as chanticleer's at
dawn, " I am the people's, always the people's,
body and soul of me. If it be your desire, good
friends, as my Lord Bishop believes, that Dasi-
potius should be invited back again, I your
friend, Tobias Hackernagel, will do it."

Is it that everybody is stricken speechless

with admiration for their Syndic's disinterested
proposition, or that because they are mentally
debating the perfect wisdom of constituting him
their envoy, that not a sound is heard ?

Ah, hem," coughed Hackernagel, " have I
been speaking, as it were, over the heads of
some of you, friends ? Well, let me consider,
how shall I convey to you, that some in certain
high quarters feel that this mission demands for
its ambassador, a person  hem, hem  of talent, a
diplomatist, a tactician, a man of eloquence, of
judgment, of  in short it is myself whom my

Lord Bishop has requested " and here

Hackernagel's eyes, sweeping with modest pride
the faces before him, encountered the gaze of my
lord himself fixed on him in stern curiosity.

Choose your words better, Syndic Hacker-navel,"
he said in clear loud tones, "unless you
will have me for a prompter."

Good morning, my lord," said Tobias with a
sickly smile. " I was just explaining to these
good folks that you have  commanded me to
fetch the Professor Dasipodius back again." So
Syndic Hackernagel concluded his peroration,
somewhat abruptly ; and he crept away from
the sea of gaping grinning faces, feeling that

somehow the whole city knew how he had been
brought to bite the dust ; or as Niklaus in his
subsequent chats over the subject phrased it,
had been made to eat humble pie; "the very
sourest, toughest, humblest pie, friend Tobias
ever swallowed in all his life ! "

OLD FRIENDS.

"Tush ! I hear music. Do not you, Kaspar ? "
" " No, master."
It is coming this way," and the mathematician
bends his head patiently.

The boy lies stretched at Dasipodius' feet, in
their favourite haunt by the stalactite cavern's
mouth. It is early June now ; and for miles
round there is no such blessed refuge from the
burden and heat of midday as this green turf,
sloping downwards to the lake's silent shores.
Not a ripple stirs the water, for there is hardly a
breath of air, and the heat is at its sultriest. Seemingly
the very birds in the leafy branches overhead
are indulging in a siesta, for they are silent,
and not so much as the fluttering of a wing breaks
the stillness. There has been hardly a sound fora
good hour past, save the sweet tones of Kaspar
Habrecht, who has been dipping hap-hazard into

a new edition of Euclid, just issued from the
famous new Amsterdam printing press, and is
reading aloud fragments of it for the blind man's
contentment. Not much for his own, excepting
in so far as Dasipodius' pleasure is always his ;
but from a selfish point of view, Kaspar would
undoubtedly rather have been delighting his soul
with the gay, daintily-illustrated volume of
Gudrun with all its sea kings, and its vikings,
and storm waves, which had come to hand in the
self-same package, cheek by jowl with the sober,
leathern-bound Euclid.

Rectilineal figures which are similar to the
same rectilineal figure are also similar to each
other," reads Kaspar, with a suspicion of weariness,
not to say of contempt in his tones ; did
one, thought he, need Euclid to tell one that ?

Turn over," nodded Dasipodius.

If" reads Kaspar again, this time suppressing
a veritable yawn, "from the greater of two
unequal magnitudes there he taken more than its
half, and "

Never mind about that," says the mathematician.


"Next let E coincide with D," continued the
boy, making another chance dip, " then of the

two angles ADC and BDC one must be obtuse
and one acute. Suppose the angle ADC
obtuse "

Shut the book, Kaspar," smiled the mathematician,
laying his hand on the boy's, and
helping him to the act ; " it is you who are ADC
this morning. You are yawning ; ay, but I
heard you ; shut the book, I say."

Nay," faintly protested Kaspar.

Hush ! and there, I hear that music again.
Listen ! " And now as Kaspar sat up, and also
caught its faint strains, a joyful animation flashed
into his dulled eyes ; and heedlessly flinging
aside " the elements of all true worldly wisdom,"
he sprang to his feet, and listened breathlessly.

It's some water party landing down at Schaffhausen
yonder ; that's what it is. Holy Mary !
if they would but come up our way ! what luck
it would be, wouldn't it, master ? We never so
much as hear the squeak of a fife, excepting at
mass on Sundays, and when we were at Strasbourg
 " he stopped abruptly with a sigh.

Sighing for the fleshpots, Kaspar ? " said
Dasipodius. " Is life growing so wearisome to
you here already ? "

Nay," said the boy blushingly ; " but somehow

a little music does so help one over the
stones."

"Ay," and it was the master's turn to sigh ;
"it is rough riding when all the music has died
out of one's life. And so  tell me, Kaspar, you
want to be back in Strassburg again ? "

Yes," sturdily answered Kaspar ; "do not
you, master ? "

And next instant, seeing the shadow of pain
which passed over the mathematician's face, he
would have given his deft right hand to have
those words unspoken. " I never shall return to
Strassburg, Kaspar," he said with assumed calmness
; " you know that."

"Never?" cried the boy, opening wide his
blue eyes.

I think not ; my place there is gone. If I
cannot be as I have been there," said the mathematician
proudly, " I will not be there at all. I
must seek out some new field for work ; some
place, if such there be, where a man's word is
taken for his bond, and his infirmity is not his
crime. And by Saint Laurence," he added more
briskly, " I must be finding it quickly too. It
will never do to stay rusticating away the days
in this delightful way much longer. Yes, you

and I will have to bid each other a ' God be with
you ' soon, Kaspar, and go our separate ways ;
we must part, lad."

Part ? " echoed the boy, wrinkling his
smooth white brow in saddened perplexity.

Yes, listen. In Strassburg I have but to
speak for you to find you work. The hands that
carved the Horologe, interest or no interest
indeed, would not hold themselves out idle long
for want of something to do, and find a rich
reward for it too. Are you listening, Kaspar ?
do you understand ? "

"lam listening, master."

"And when will you like to be going ? "

Going ! " mechanically ejaculated the boy ;
where \ "

Did not I say now you were gone woolgathering
this morning ? Back to Strassburg."

"I will never again set foot in Strassburg,"
said Kaspar, a crimson flush kindling in his
cheeks, and a fiery light to his eyes, " excepting
it is by your side, master."

Then never again, I take it, will your foot
be set there ; for I am going  nay, as yet I do
not know where."

But where you go, there I shall go too. Do

not shake your head, do not  master, if you send
me away from you, I  no  you shall not 
master dear  " a burst of tears choked his
pleading, and he flung himself on the blind man's
neck, and sobbed bitterly.

Truer Camera ! " murmured Dasipodius ;
and the firm, beautiful lips quivered, and the
blind eyes grew unwontedly lustrous as he stroked
the boy's sunny hair. ' ' My faithful Kaspar ! I
think among those same stars we talked of once,
which rose for me when my sun set, and I thought
all my life was to be midnight blackness, that
you are the brightest. And shall I repay you
so ? Let your unselfish heart profit mine, and
teach me to think what is best  and right for
you. Listen here now, Kaspar hush, hush,"
for still the boy clung fast to him, crying bitterly
: " Come, be reasonable."

"And so he is  reasonable," growled the voice
of Isaac Habrecht. "It is you who are unreasonable,
Master Dasipodius."

Isaac ? "

"Ay. Yes it's Isaac ; and Isaac  and Kaspar
too, seemingly, it's to be the end of the chapter
for you. Come, Kaspar, don't go weeping your
soul out like that, dear boy," continued Isaac,

gently disengaging Kaspar's arms from Dasi-
potius. "The master was but jestingly"'

Nothing of the kind," began Dasipodius.

He never really meant to be sending you
away."

But I did," protested Dasipodius. " I have
been thinking."

Then for shame ! " indignantly cried Isaac.
Do you hear, Master Dasipodius, for shame ! "

"It is best ; it must be," gravely urged Dasi-
potius. " Reflect for an instant how utterly my
lot is changed from what it was. Once I might
have lifted him as I rose, and you too, Isaac ; I
might have served you both ; but now "

Now our turn has come to serve you ; or at
least it's fair of you, master, to let us try ; but
with such a proud, independent, obstinate "

Have done ! " smiled Dasipodius. "Am I to

sit here and be called names ? Et tu Brute !

You, Isaac, of all others ; in whose hands I am

just a piece of clay, to be moulded as you will.

Who was it, I wonder, bade me say like any

parrot, ' Take the drawings, Isaac Habrecht, and

carry them to the Chancellery ! ' and I said it,

by heaven, I said it  I ! "

"And I," returned Isaac, a grim smile of 


faction relaxing his massive features, which bore
a marvellous family likeness to some of Kaspar's
wooden saints and heroes, " I obeyed, and took
them, and  there they are now."

How ? " asked Dasipodius, turning his head
quickly. "You say "

There they are now."

But Otto von Steinbach "

Ah ! von Steinbach. Yes, he fetched them
away," said Isaac, in tones of careless contempt,
of course ; and he kept them  till they burnt
his fingers. Then he took them back again, and
there they are, safe and sound. So Syndic
Klausewitz has just been telling me."

"Syndic Klausewitz!" echoed Kaspar, passing
his hand over his still wet eyes, and staring in
amazement at his brother, and then in utter
bewilderment at the apparition of Dr. Bruno
"\Yolkenberg, who availing himself of his intimate
acquaintance with the by-paths to their
haunt, has suddenly appeared upon the scene,
and is silently stretching his length upon the
grass, within a few feet of Dasipodius. "And
what brings him here ? "

What brings them all," said the sententious
Switzer. " Duty. There's some two score," he

continued, jerking his head in the direction of a
confused sound of tramping feet and man) 7 voices
growing louder each moment, " of the Town
Council, and ever so many old friends of
yours besides, master, coming here to have a
word with you ; if they're not grilled to death
before they get as far. My last batten to a
florin, they're ruling the day now, if they haven't
done it before, that they meddled with our
Horologe, Ho ! ho ! ho ! ha ! ha ! ha ! " and the
cavernous recesses behind them resounded again
and again with the deep bass of Isaac's laughter,
grave stolid Isaac Habrecht, "I thought maybe,"
he continued, "that you'd like me to step on and
tell you they were coming ; but they won't be
here yet awhile. It is no joke," and Isaac lifted
his hat and wiped the heat drops from his massive
forehead, "tramping up yonder road ; every inch
of it in a white heat as it is ; and a pig's nothing
to the way Syndic Hackernagel pulls back ward.' '
And once more Isaac's sonorous ha ! ha ! echoed
through the cave as if all the gnomes of the
Yenusberg were gathered there, and sharing his
enjoyment. " Well, well, patience ! They'll
get him here in time. And there's Burgomaster
von Steinbach, and Dr. Bruno Work "

Dr. Bruno is welcome," said Dasipodius,
stretching out his hand to his friend. " Welcome
as unexpected. But how about your large
retinue, Dr. Wolkenberg ? Have you been appointed
Imperial Physician since last you came
to Schaffhausen ? or how else may your planet
be in the ascendant ? "

"Nay," returned the surgeon; "if only you
will have it so, it is yours which is in the
fortunate house, Conrad."

Come ! come ! if we must have metaphor,
minstrel mine, that same planet is far too cloud-covered
ever to show again. Only a miracle
could unveil it."

"And lo ! a miracle is here ! " flourished Bruno.
A horse, a horse, Conrad ! brought to the
water, and made to drink. That's what is
going to happen."

The Sphinx's riddle was child's play
to yours," said Dasipodius, with a half-provoked
smile. " What on earth do you
mean % "

Hush ! hark ! " said Bruno ; they're here."

"They? and must your horse then be drinking
to such a clarion blast as that ? " demanded the
mystified mathematician.

"The Strassburgers would have it so," shrugged
Bruno.

"And the horse ? "

"Stands before you," answered Bruno, stepping
back, and leaving Dasipodius to face his deputation
alone.

HOW EXTREMES MEET.

"VTEVER did figure of speech so deplorably
 insult noble brute as this of Bruno Wittenberg's.
A more wretchedly abject specimen
of the creature man than Tobias Hackernagel
looked at this moment, is not conceivable. For
once his civic bravery seemed to fail in its power
of lending him even meretricious magnificence,
and Syndic Hackernagel's coat did not make
Syndic Hackernagel, but hung about his sloping
shoulders in flabby dust whitened folds, a thing
to be joyfully wriggled out of, had time and
place permitted. But to-day as ever, Tobias
Hackernagel is the martyr, not to say the sport of
circumstance and of public attention. An effective
situation ! one such as is generally the very
apex of his ambition, to be standing the focus of
every eye in that semicircle of municipal magnates
and citizens all pranked in their best, and

Ranked with buff-jerkin halberdiers and a good
round dozen of drummers and of trumpeters in
gold and scarlet, set in a rapidly widening framework
of native population, which, la) T ing aside
file and hammer, has turned out all eyes and
ears to learn what yonder little ferret-eyed
fellow, with the nose angular and wooden of
aspect as any carven nutcracker monstrosity
that ever left tyro's chisel, may be having to
say. For clearly he is to be spokesman, this
pigmy personage, looking specially pigmy by
comparison with the stately figure of Dasipo-
dies, in whose presence he now stands, and with
the burly form of Burgomaster von Steinbach
beside him. Yet, is it from diffidence, or why
does he evince such earnest desire to escape the
distinction thrust upon him, and hangs back
almost as persistently as his companions insist
on his stepping forward, going the length even
of combining to prod him well to the front with
their pikes and other available weapons, among
which Burgomaster von Steinbach's stick does
conspicuous service. Clearly to a man these
excellently marshalled, resolute-looking representatives
of Strassburg's all sorts and conditions
are not to be contravened in their most obvious

intention, that Syndic Tobias Hackernagel shall
do what he is there to do with all convenient
speed.

Patiently expectant meanwhile, Dasipodius
stands leaning against the oak, whose spreading
boughs mellow the mid-day glare into a gracious
light, transfiguring his pale calm features with
almost unearthly effulgence, and streaking w T with
golden his waves of dusky hair.

Patience, whatsoever other qualities they may
possess or lack, is the special grace of men physically
afflicted, and it well becomes him now,
minded as it is with the shade of saddened
perplexity, that neither of that trio of trusty
friends, within whispering distance of him, are
at any pains to unriddle for him anything that
is passing around.

A deafening and prolonged trumpet blare,
echoing to the valley's heights and depths,
startles him from his speculations. Then, as
at last that spends itself, there falls a silence,
broken only by the buz-chirp-twee of the myriad
insect creatures footing it about the sward, till
Niklaus von Steinbach bursts forth w T with a stentorian
" Well ! Master Hackernagel ? "

Syndic Hackernagel's jaw starts open, much

as if string were its motive power. The movement
is, however, productive of nothing beyond
a fearsome elongation of his hatchet face, and a
silence intense than the first prevails.

Well, I say, Master Hackernagel," reiterates
von Steinback, " we are waiting your very good
pleasure," and he glances peremptorily from the
Syndic's face to the parchment his lean fingers
clutch with such convulsive restlessness, that
presently it slips to the ground.

"I  I," stammers Hackernagel, stooping to
recover it, " am  must I  am I to  speak first?"

First and last, my friend. You have it all
your own way this time. I and these gentlemen
here are but witnesses."

Yes, precisely  quite so  perfectly so. But
but," and with an idiotic contortion of his lips,
only by the grossest flattery to be construed
into a smile, the Syndic blinks over his shoulder.

Ay ! ay ! to be sure, Syndic, quite right,"
nods Niklaus, following the direction of his
glance, "So it should be."

And the stick signals a second trumpet blast ;
which bursting with terrific force in the rear of
the unprepared Syndic, sends him forward with
a distracted bound.

But I tell you," gasps he, turning carefully
on Niklaus, and mopping the great heat drops
beading profusely out all over his peaked forehead,
" I tell you  this is informal ! Out of
all ruling. There should be some  something
to lead up to  there sh  should be at least
three preliminary "

"And so there should. Thunder and lightning
! so there should. You're the man to
understand these little things. Ho there !
drums and trumpets, ho ! "

And the Burgomaster's stick evokes a third
rousing blast, which rolls thunderous through
the hills, and sends the birds flying frantically
shrieking over the dark waters.

That's what you mean, isn't it ? "

No, no ! " protests Hackernagel, glowering
through tears of mingled spite and discomfort
at von Steinbach, and then with shuddering
apprehension at the hateful array of musical
instruments. " I didn't ; and  and let me tell
you, Bur  Burgomaster "

yes ! yes! yes !" shouts the Eecorder.

Now, Master Hackernagel ! ' prompts
Niklaus, lifting his stick with an admonitory
flourish.

-But but "

Now, Master Hackernagel ! "

Soft, clear, resonant as a bell, falls that voice
upon the Syndic's ear, chasing from his face
every particle of colour as entirely as it conjures
the deepest of crimson flushes to Surgeon Wittenberg's.


Not all the trumpets in Christendom could
galvanism Tobias Hackernao-el to action as that
woman's voice does. And hardly staying fairly
to unfold his voluminous document, he reads
forth from it its heading and superscription in
hurriedly confused tones. " To the most  hem
illustrious and  hem, hem."

He's picked up a cold," parenthesis Clauses
in sympathetic sotto voce. " And no wonder
neither. That confounded river mist last

nio'ht was enough to "

Silence ! " shouts Niklaus, " for Syndic Hac-kernel.
To the most illustrious and erudite 
Go on, Syndic, we are all attention."

Hem  Professor Dasipodius, Citizen of
Sti'assburg, Doctor of Sciences, and Head
Mathematical Doctor of the University of the
aforesaid city, on the part of me, individually ,
Tobias Hackernagel, Syndic of Strassburcj, and

farther, on the part of the Municipality and
Citizens of the same city  greeting  hem "

"Just so," nods Burgomaster Niklaus, in such
tones as a pedagogue will use towards a refractory
scholar, in whom he fancies he sees a faint gleam
of better things. Then he glances tentatively
at Dasipodius, who, lifting his cap in acknowledgment
of the salutation, remains bareheaded.
"Proceed* Master Hackernagel."

Whereas" continues Hackernagel, fumbling
at his document.

"Speak up ! " shouts a chorus of voices. "Pitch
it higher ! "

Whereas in the month of January last"
valiantly pipes up the Syndic. " you, the most 
hem  illustrious and  hem, hem  erudite Professor
Conrad Dasipodius, being at such time,
and for the space of two previous years, engaged
upon the work of superintending the making of
a Horologe for the Saint Laurence Chapel on
the south side of the interior of the Cathedral
Church of  of our  hem  Blessed Lady, in
aforesaid City of Strassburg, such high and
honourable charge being entrusted to you by
general consent and suffrage of the Burgesses y
and of the Most Worshipful Gxdld of Clock-makers

of the city, guided in their choice of you,
most erudite Professor Dasipodius, by their
estimation of  hem  your fitness for such devoir,
wherein, as the sages of old days did aptly
observe, for the ignorant and unlearned to intermeddle,
is a thing exceeding dangerous, and
that they who do so presume are found to par-tale
of the nature of fools.

Wherefore," hurried on Tobias, "seeing that
the Science of Zoology being a thing in itself so
lofty and noble, does in a manner partake of the
Divine Wisdom, and of a consequence of Heaven
itself; and whereas, speaking under one of those
dicers figures or symbols of the great and abstruse
Science of Mathematics, whereto also
the knowledge of Zoology doth of necessity
pertain  extremes do meet  and whereas by the
wilful and ignorant, the extreme of intimate, and
of almost perfect knowledge which as aforesaid
is the gift of Heaven, and attained  hem  unto
by  hem, hem  you, most illustrious and erudite
Professor Dasipodius, has been in divers times
since the world's beginning confounded with that
other and most diabolical extreme of magic arid
of witchcraft, which is known to proceed out of
the filthiness of hell, and is the firstborn of the

archfiend Satan himself; and whereas the rumour
that you, Professor Dasipodius, did attain unto
your high academic estate and lofty repute by
aid of such unlawful arts was sent abroad and
fomented among the vulgar, even unto the detriment
of your good name, and the entanglement
of your precious life, by certain  hem  meddlesome
persons holding office in the municipality of
this city, wherewith I, Tobias Hackernagel, do
stand officially connected; and whereas aforesaid
rumour did magnify and grow when it came to
be known beyond all manner of doubting, that
Providence had deemed fit to deprive you of
sight, afflicting you with that most strange and
rare form of blindness which is called of all
time Gutta Serena, and besides of modern
chirurgeon Amaurosis, and because to the careless
or superficial observer, in your outward
eyes no trace of your so sorely-to-be-deplored
calamity is observable, certain persons  hem 
by reason of their most  hem, hem  pitiable
lack of knowledge and wretched obliquity of
vision (which doth challenge commiseration
infinitely greater than pure physical affliction)
did fondly lend credence to the most malicious
and lying rumours circulated by me, Tobias

Hackernagel  No, no, that's not it ! " shrieked
Tobias agonized, interrupting himself. " I've
turned over two leaves ! I have indeed ! "

Circulated by certain evil-minded persons,"
he went on, referring back, " thereby bringing
about the setting aside of you, illustrious and
erudite Professor Dasipodius, and the exalting
into your office and dignities a certain  hem 
ignorant and hem, hem  incompetent person,
thereby imitating the foolish example of the
Israelites of old, who did set up a golden
calf "

It's most awfully profane. Eh, Eadegund ? "
whispered Otto von Steinbach, whose presence
with the deputation had been officially and
pressingly requested.

11 A golden calf to worship, and seeing that it
never has been, and never will be, in the power
of stocks and stones "

Such long-winded twaddle, isn't it ? " parenthesis
Otto again.

To elaborate high and lofty works, and the
condition to which the Cathedral Horologe has
by such mismanagement been brought being so
deplorable, the Burgesses of our city do plainly
perceive that they have been placed grievously

in error and hoodwinked by their false guides
and advisers, whose  hem  ignorance, not only
in the Science of Zoology, but of much plain
learning and common sense besides, is curiously
great, do herewith acknowledge themselves sorely
repentant of their decision which compassed
your setting aside, most erudite Professor Dasi-
potius ; and whereas it doth behove and become
those who do err, and lead others to err, to make
full and earnest confession of their error, the
Burgesses of Strassburg and all others concerned
do herewith depute and command me, Tobias
Hack  hem  Hacker navel, humbly to acknowledge
our grievous wrong committed against
you, most illustrious and erudite Professor
Conrad Dasipodius, and herewith do entreat
you to pardon the ignorance and wilfulness of
the act, and at once graciously to resume and to
take up your duties laid aside, and all such
dignities and honour's appertaining thereto, and
to hold yourself reinstated of the high consideration
you formerly enjoyed. And by these are
unanimously and for ever cancelled those suffrages
which did unlawfully constitute one Otto
von Steinbach Cathedral Zoologist in your
stead. Whereto witness our hand, this fifth day

of June, anno domini 157 S. And hereby, as
below, we do notify our full and hearty concurrence
and. approval of this measure"

Here followed the signatures of those concerned,
which, his own one safely got through
with, the Syndic managed to read out in composed
and collected tones, and even with something
of his wonted style.

It earns however no attention ; for not an

eye there, not an ear but turns in absorbed

and tense interest to Dasipodius. For the

Syndic himself, as the last word leaves his

lips, and utter silence prevails, it is an awful

moment. If the mathematician should turn a

deaf ear and refuse, think of it, Ah ! and Hac-kernel

with a shudder glances covertly at the

lake, whose calm, deadly smooth level grows

fearsomely suggestive in his practical mind of

one vast duckpool. Not in all Germany is such

an excitable impulsive fellow as your Stress

in whose veins, come how it may, runs

a dangerous current of Gallic blood ; and now if

things do not go as they desire, the Syndic feels

that his chances of returning skin-whole to the

bosom of his family are infinitesimal ; and so

with stranded fish-like gasps and eyes downcast,
225

for somehow he dare not look, as the rest are
looking, into the mathematician's face, Tobias
Hackernagel awaits the fiat.

"homo sum."

A WAY in Strassburg there has been much 
bating and variance of opinion touching
the spirit in which Dasipodius will comport himself
towards this recantation. Quidnuncs have
contested it over their cups, burgher and trader
have discussed it in the market-place, women
have gossipped, apprentices have interchanged
fisticuffs, and young bloods more than one rapier-thrust
over it. University dons have argued the
bearings of the case from all points ; but on the
one postulate only, that Dasipodius is a man cast
in no ordinary mould, is absolute unanimity ;
otherwise it breaks off in curious divergence.

A man," contended but yesterday forenoon,
one of a little group of grizzled dominus, " a man
you won't meet once in a century, is Dasipodius ;
eminently unselfish, loyal-minded to the marrow,
a great-souled man in whom not a grain of guile
or rancour could take root."

"And yet homo sum  still a man," said a
thoughtful, cynical-lipped, yet withal not 
colleague.

The younger bystanders exchange disgustful
smiles at the learned philosophers' truisms.

"Yes, and a man, mind you," hotly contended
a third, " whose nature is so sensitive, that the
faintest breath of all this whirlwind of insult
which has swept over him, would be infinite torture."


Now, what the deuce," grumbled a youth
with restless, fire-bright eyes, tossing back a
wealth of raven-black locks from his white brow,
with the back of a slender hand, which holds a
well-thumbed duodecimo Horace, " what do they
mean with all their cant about his sensitiveness ?
He's just a mathematician. No end of a one, I
grant you ; but as far as I can ever see, he
always takes what the gods provide, rough or
smooth, like a man of marble."

"But still  a man, dear boy," smiled the
philosopher.

"And," placidly ejaculated a portly cathedral
canon, folding his velvety white hands, " what is
man's lot here below but to suffer ? "

Ah ! but furor Fit Ices stephens potentia,

father," cried another ; " and worms will turn at
last. And  well, look for instance at my dog
Schnaps here. There's not an amiable brute in
all Elsass, treat him like a decent christian ; but
just you give him a bone, and then try to take
it away again. Just you try, that's all."

11 But Dasipodius  is a man," smiled the
cynic.

"And they've treated him worse than a dog ! "
indignantly returned the other, whistling to
Schnaps and striding away.

While we," musingly murmured a stout,
gentle-eyed man, " stood by like so many posts,
and permitted the injustice."

"My son," said the churchman, "it is for us
all to submit to the powers that be."

"Heaven send them wits then," lightly
laughed the poet.

But not his nearest friends, not Bruno Wittenberg
himself, not Kaspar's wistful affection,
can divine the shadow of what is passing now in
the blind man's mind, from any signs of it
upon his face. Even unwontedly pale he is,
as he stands, seemingly gazing on the sunlit
crags yonder across the lake ; while, evoked like
some nightmare dream by Tobias Hackernagel's

harsh accents, rushes back all the memory of that
weary time, clothed, perhaps, in colours tenfold
more vivid by the lending of that exteriorly
dead sense to his interior vision. Hidden out
of memory, he has told himself they were, forgiven
heartily the taunts and insults to his bodily
affliction, the aspersions on his honour, the irritating
ignorances, the petty impertinences of
men who cared little for, and comprehended less
of the art which was for him a thing of life,
and so bound up in his own, that severance
from that dear fair human love would have
been easier than giving up intercommunion
with it. Nay, had not he been almost angry
with himself to find how this talent of his had
wooed him to a comfort he had thought it impossible
could ever again be his, when he believed
Sabina's love lost and gone for ever ? His
forgiveness of the injuries wrought against him
had been the more complete, because of its birth
in that lofty nature, which still, in its extremest
distress, had echoed the Master s utterance :
They know not what they do ! " seeing, in his
own, some reflex of that supreme endurance,
whose sublimity had come home to him in these
later days as it never had come before ; and

apprehending something of that infinite pity and
charity, he had schooled himself unreservedly
and entirely to forgive, as one day he hoped to
be forgiven, the men who, out of their ignorance,
or worse still, their woeful smattering of knowledge,
could not gauge the measure of injury
they had heaped on him.

To that crowd, now so curiously watching him,
there is no trace of emotion visible in the mathematician's
face ; only presently, Bruno Wittenberg,
standing nearest to him, Bruno, his
heart's chosen friend, Bruno, the clever physician,
marvellously skilled in such sort of reading,
marks the slight tremor thrilling; his frame, and
the deep flush gradually supplanting the pallor
which had deadened and chilled his face at the
sound of Syndic Hackernagel's discords ; and he
believed that now at last the sluices of the self-contained
nature are taking their course, and that
Dasipodius' moment of giving rein to some expression
of just indignation has come. So it is
our best friends know us ; and, indeed, Bruno
was not so far astray, the agitation stirring him
was the effect of one transient startling doubt,
whether in very truth, as he had so long believed,
he felt himself free of that pride men call ' proper'

that fetish, for ever stifling down human
nature's best and purest impulses ?

Of that doubt, brief as a lightning flash, the
assurance is born. " Is Otto von Steinbach
here ? " he asks.

There is, in Syndic Hackernagel's eyes, in this
meeting of question with question, such a deliberate
defiance of the proprieties that it almost
assumes the hideous proportions of contempt of
court ; and exercises the happy effect of restoring
to him some degree of his normal confidence.
And with a succession of preliminary gasps, he is
preparing to remonstrate, but the mathematician
waves him to silence. " Is Otto von Steinbach
here ? " he reiterates.

Here, Master Dasipodius," falteringly answers
a voice somewhere within the sheltering shadow
of Eadegund von Steinbach ; and then, with
flurried steps, the ex-chief zoologist stumbles
into the presence of the other.

Speak up, friend," prompts Isaac 
; " the master hasn't got long ears
like "

"Be silent, Isaac," rebukes Dasipodius ; "and
so, Otto, the Horologe does not prosper ? "

A groan is Otto's sole reply.

Nay," continues Dasipodius, " I want to hear
about the progress "

Progress ! " ejaculates Otto with contritely
upturned eyes, " but  I tell you  but  there
hasn't been any."

None at all ? "

Otto twaddle the rim of his smart velvet cap,
and mutely shakes his head.

What's the use of doing that ? " says 
under his breath, and nudging his arm he
glances significantly up at the blind man's eyes.
Find your tongue, can't you, and speak up."

It is just as it was then, yes ? " enquires
Dasipodius.

N  no, Master Dasipodius, it is not," blurts
out the truthful Otto ; " it  has gone backward.
If only  only you could see "

"Mind your words," frowns Habrecht, "and
whom you're speaking to."

For pity's sake," urges Dasipodius, " do let
him tell his tale in his own way. Am I so thin-skinned
? Well, my friend, and if I could only
see,  or is my affliction to prove my consoler ?
Maybe it is better I cannot see this poor Horo-
logeif I love it. Nay, be your old honest self,
and say."

"It's in the most awful mess you ever  that
anybody ever  I mean  oh, Master Dasipodius,
you were always so good to me ; and I  oh,
Master Dasipodius ! " And with a storm of
sobs he fell at his old master's feet.

"Nay, nay, come, Otto, be a man," said the
mathematician, laying his hand gently on Otto's
shoulder and raising him ; " you're not the first
miscalculated of your own powers the world has
known. If you have proved a bad master, you
were a good servant ; and, under guidance,
could fashion excellent cog-wheels. Come, don't
sigh your heart out like that. See now, shall
we go back to Strassburg, you and I, and Isaac
Habrecht here "

"Ay, ay," assented Isaac.

"And put our heads together to right the
mischief? And Kaspar," added Dasipodius,
stretching out his hand wet with Otto's tears,
will you come too, lad ? "

Master," cried the boy, seizing it joyfully
and kissing it, " to the world's end."

"Ay. Not so far," smiled Dasipodius, making
no effort to suppress the content he felt at the
prospect of standing in the old place, with all
the old workers round him. " Not so far, else

the good mother might be having a crow to pluck
with me. Gentlemen," he added, raising his voice
and addressing the deputation, " we will come."

One simultaneous prolonged cheer rang to the
hill tops.

But this," protested Syndic Hackernagel out
of the midst of the chorus, " is informal. It
should be through the medium of myself; and 
oh this is  this is altogether "

It is all we want," interrupted Burgomaster
von Steinbach. " Hang your formalities, Tobias
Hackernagel, and thank your stars. Some time
at his leisure the Professor Dasipodius will formally
signify his acceptance. In the meantime
"

We can go, can't we, Burgomaster ? " enquired
Councillor Job, finding the formal semicircle
about him breaking up into little scattered
groups. " I wonder," he went on, speculatively
casting his eyes over the lake's broad expanse,
where one can get a drink ? Thousand thunders
! if we stop here two minutes more, we
shall be grilled to the bones ! "

"My mother," said Isaac Habrecht, "will be
proud to offer you the best our poor house
affords, gentlemen all."

"Thanks ! my good friend," said Hackernagel
with an ineffable smile. "A thousand thanks."

"Give them where they're due, Master Syndic,"
bluntly returned Isaac, and eyeing the speaker's
length and breadth with undisguised contempt.
The Habrechts never turned away from their
door the pitifully cur that was in need of bit
or sup."

Quite right," nodded Hackernagel. " Quite
right. One might entertain an angel unawares."

"Or a devil," muttered Isaac, turning away
and lending an arm to Dasipodius, "as the
case may be. Come, master."

END OF VOL. II.

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

RneBs

:f

'1

"m

5- 7;->-j?:.

> 

<i''

rk~>

'&

<\*;

MARY C. Russell.

AUTHOR OF

ST. NICOLAS' EVE," " LOVE LOYAL," "TRAITOR OR
PATRIOT," &C., &C.

'AS MANY LINES CLOSE IN THE DIAL'S CENTRE
SO MANY A THOUSAND ACTIONS, ONCE AFOOT,
END IN ONE Purpose" e?irw V.

VOL III.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LE BAS & LOWEEY,
PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1886.

CONTENTS.

, @ 

CHAPTER PAGE

Xlvii The Horologe : 1

XLIX, "LesNeigesD'Antan" - - - - - " 21

L.  " So near, and yet so far away " - - - 32

eli. "Shoemaker's Holiday" - - - - 45

LIT.  " More Favour and Prejudice " - - - - 63

LIII. " On the Good Faith of Syndic Hackernagel " - 77

LIV.  Love's Alchemy 96

LV. A Visit to Dr. Wolkenberg's - - - - 113

LVL Playing with Fire 131

LYII." Motive Power " 142

LVIII. Vade Satan - 155

LIX. When Greek meets Greek - - - - 172

LX.  " Man proposes " - 191

LXL St. Stephen's Tower - 201

Lxii A Dilemma - 213

Lxii" The Three Eavens ' - 230

Lxii. " In vino Veritas " - - - - - - 243

LXV. A Confession - 260

LXVI.  " Sweet is true Love, tho' given in vain, in vain" 282

LXYIL" Lady's Leap Corner" - - - ' - - 294

Lxviii A Vigil 306

LXIX. Saved! 317

Lxx" Finis Coronet" - - - - - - 331

LXXI.  " There could not be greater Love than this " - 345

Lxxii De Profundity 363

LXXIII.  Syndic Hackernagel retires from Public Life - 374

LXXIV. "IchhabeGelebt, andGeliebet" - - - 385

LXXV. "TotheEnd"- 402

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/silverdial03rows

.0oo O--O*

CHAPTER Xlvii

THE HOROLOGE.

T Looking just one week later in at the Dial,
- it would have been hard to credit that an
interdict of weeks had but so recently been lifted
from it. True enough Otto von Steinbach's
disastrous usurpation had left a fearsome chaos
there ; but out of it the hand of the master had
brought back nearly all the old order ; and not
by any means the least diligent hands put forth
to help him, were those which had compassed
the confusion. Under discipline, as Dasipodius
had said, Otto von Steinbach could do good
work ; and never as now had his heedless
nature so schooled itself to fulfil the wishes of
the reinstated master, and to obey even unmur-

31

musingly the orders of Isaac Habrecht. Doubtless
this was still more cheerfully done out of
that sense of regained freedom. He found it
inexpressibly enjoyable ; and the irksomeness it
lent his fingers, and perception it gave his brain,
made a new creature of him.

That of course had been a terrible moment for
him when he delivered up the studio key to
Dasipodius, and all his bungling lay naked
under the keen eye of the elder Habrecht, and
the still more critical handling of Dasipodius ; but
the chief zoologist silenced Isaac's jeremiads.

Nay, Isaac," he said, laying his hand on
Habrecht's arm, "there is no time to spend in
regrets. Here already we have St. Barnabas "

The Son of Consolation, as the gospels say,"
murmured Kaspar.

St. Barnabas day, and by the feast of St.
Laurence, not quite two months hence remember,
the Horologe has to be ready."

'' But it never can be so now ! " exclaimed
Isaac aghast. " You don't dream of it, master."

That's as it may be," quietly laughed Dasi-
potius. " I know only that, God willing, it is
my intention to have it finished."

But," continued Isaac, " they don't deserve

any such thing of you. Not if we could do it
ten times over."

If you will stand discussing the question, I
tell you it dll be hard enough J:o get through
with it once. Come, are we to work together,
or not ? "

With a grunt Habrecht signified his assent ;
and then the task of the Horologe's deliverance
from durance proceeded in good earnest. Not
so very long passed before it was restored to
the state in which it had been left by Dasi-
potius, and the workers started afresh upon
their fair field.

Content with Dasipodius' promise that they
should still have their Horologe by the date
originally agreed upon, the Strassburgers went
their several ways, as ardent now in their admiration
as they had been eager three months
since to hound him from their midst, and their
faith in Tobias Hackernagel's infallibility not a
little shaken. The Syndic however, with lowered
crest indeed, but not by any means extinguished,
consoled himself in the reflection that his meddling
had not brought on his devoted head loss of
place or of emoluments, as it ran perilously near
doing ; and persuaded by some still small voice,

that temporary self-effacement was the wisest
course, retired into the bosom of his family, occasioning
much disorganization there. The most
eloquent voice of the municipality was now heard
scarcely at all on the forensic platform, but so very
much by the domestic hearth, that the servants
groaned, and were given audibly to asking each
other what a bear with a sore head might be like ;
and the mistresses languished cruelly under the
paternal ill temper, sighing as never they had
sighed before, for the laggard heroes who should
come and carry them off from such wretched
durance.

Naturally the one fortunate Andromeda who
had found her Perseus, met with the worst time
of it all ; and many a sour taunt she endured for
his sake, from the thwarted Syndic, who found
it for certain far-seeing reasons of his own, more
convenient to visit his vexation on the hopeless
Gretchen than on the real delinquent. Hacker-navel
knew a hawk from a hernshaw ; and perfectly
well understood the girl's power of dogged
endurance.

She's the very double of her mother," the
Syndic would say to himself, calling up visions
of the uncomplaining woman whom he had

ragged and fretted ten years earlier into her
grave ; and he knew very well, that worry as he
might, no word of his vented spleen against
Otto would find its way to the young man's
ears. And so at his own sweet will, Otto came
and went as usual, unconscious, or perhaps choosing
to appear so, of Hackernagel's smothered wrath
against him, serenely self-satisfied as ever ; and
if he alluded, as now and again he might, to past
misfortunes, it was only for the sake of illustrating
the lamentable way in which Strassburg
was shackled hand and foot by prejudice, or to
indulge in interesting speculations concerning
the strikingly singular variations of human
organisms in regard to their powers of endurance.
" Some men have nerves of iron, while
I  well you know, it was the worry of the thing
which so preyed upon me," he would explain
with that exquisitely languorous air, which
rendered him ten times more excruciatingly
interesting than ever in his Dulcinea's eyes.
It just played the deuce with my brain. I
assure you, that had I kept on with it as  more
than one urged me to do, I should have been
in a lunatic asylum by now. I'm persuaded I
should. I'm anything but bright still. I want

tone ; Wolkenberg was only saying so yesterday."


Balance " had been Dr. Bruno's precise term,
but, as Otto himself would have said, " wherever
is the good of hair-splitting over convertible
expressions ? "

Amid the general satisfaction at Dasipodius'
return, no one rejoiced more truly than he who.
had been the prime agent in bringing it about,
Bishop John ; and he soon found his way to the
Dial. His delight was boundless when he learned
that the Horologe would still be ready by the
originally promised date.

You are a magician ! " he cried enthusiastically.


So they say, my lord," smiled Dasipodius.

It has been a cruel time for you, my son,"
said the Bishop, sobering down as he scanned,
though somewhat furtively, for it seemed to him
incredible that indeed those eyes were not conscious
of his gaze, the face of the mathematician,
worn with premature lines of care. " But you
do not suffer now ? " he asked.

Physical pain you mean, my lord ? Very
little. The world is simply a blank to me,
that is all."

'* May God make it up to your brave heart,"
replied the Bishop. '' Your burden is indeed a
heavy one."

The truest friends a man ever had lighten it
for me, my lord."

Well, well, and so may He comfort you 
always."

"Amen. Will it please you to come round
and see what we have been doing these last few
days ? The larger works are all up now."

"Already ! " said the Bishop, following his
companion down stairs.

"They were in readiness 'the very day my
regime was stopped, last March."

And that  mind the door cornice ; these
posterns were not made for giants like you 
Otto von Steinbach, he wasn't able to put them
up of course ? "

Pardon me, my lord ; he did put them
up, and we have had to take them all down
again. It has been our week's work, pretty
well."

Just so. In the meantime  won't you take
my arm ? " asked the Bishop, interrupting himself
; for as yet he had not grown accustomed, as
others had, to the blind man's entire self-reliance.

In the meantime the outside of the cup and
platter is all as it should be ? "

And more, they tell me," answered Dasi-
potius. " Mistress Eadegund von Steinbach
appears to have surpassed herself."

Entering by the Cathedral's western porch,
the Bishop and the mathematician passed up
the nave and in behind the canvas covering
stretched across the screen fronting the St.
Thomas' Chapel, and which concealed the
Horologe's embryo glories from vulgar curiosity.


Externally indeed, little now remained to be
done. The dials were, it is true, as yet mere
moon-faced blanks, and the carven niches still
tenantless ; but Kaspar Habrecht had been
occupied the whole of the previous day insetting
up his masterpiece, the marvellous
crowing cock.

I suppose," said the Bishop, pointing up at
the wooden bird, " that that fellow hasn't
anything to say for himself yet ? "

The cock ? no ; his lungs borrow their
breath from the main works."

And the quartette up in the middle there ?
the youngster with his golden apple, and the

youth, and the man-at-arms, and the old fellow
with his crook "

*rare to strike the bells above. They are up,
my lord ? "

No," said the Bishop ; " I see no bells'*

"Ah ! Otto von Steinbach talked of putting
them up yesterday ; that means to-day or tomorrow
of course," said Dasipodius with a slight
smile. " But everything comes, it is said, to
those who know how to wait. And that is
what they will do, these four ages of man."

That ogee moulding on the apex is lightness
and grace itself."

"It is Kaspar Habrecht's work. And the cornice
details, they are good ? "

"A fairy's chisel might have done it all. It is
perfect."

So Mistress von Steinbach tells me'! nodded
Dasipodius. " It was an onerous undertaking
for such a youth ; but he was to be trusted
before men double his age."

Young Habrecht ? "

It is all his work. Every stroke."

"A comely lad, Master Dasipodius ; somewhat
fragile-looking though."

But a stout heart, my lord."

*ray," returned the Bishop, with an assenting
wave of the hand, " like enough. Your delicate
blossoms that look as if Zephyr's gentlest breath
would break them, are sometimes stronger than
your forest monarchs. And now tell me, how
about these dial rims ? "

They are to be gilded ; Master Niklaus von
Steinbach is seeing to that."

Good ; and these notches in the woodwork
of the dial frames ? "

Mark the spaces which are to contain the
agates and chalcedonies."

Real gems. Master Dasipodius ! Costly
work, eh "? "

'* It is for the church, my lord."

And they fancy this man heresy bitten ! "
mentally ejaculated the Bishop. " Quite so," he
assented. "And Burgomaster von Steinbach, if
I remember rightly, also supplies these jewels ? "

Yes ; they are being faceted now ; and will
be ready to-morrow with all the enamels. I
am going tomorrow evening to fetch them from
his house."

Yourself  of course ? " said the Bishop.

"Myself of course," answered Dasipodius, with
the faintest access of colour.

"Ah  hem  naturally. Exactly so."

"The world," continued Dasipodius in slightly
hurried tones, " would have to grow more trustworthy,
before I should dare depute that part of
the contract. And why should I ? "

Precisely," nodded his companion, " why
should you, as you say. In such matters, all
ahem  private feeling ought to give way."

My lord ? "

Ought  hem  as one may say, to go to the
wall."

"I do not understand you," and the flush
deepened on Dasipodius' brow.

"Ah; 1 was given to  to  I had an impression,
that is, that there was some slight hitch in your
friendship with Burgomaster von Steinbach."

I know of no shadow of any such thing, my
lord," returned Dasipodius stiffly. " May I ask
who was your informant ? "

Let me think. Was it Dr. Wolkenberg ? "

Wolkenberg it could not be. He knows
differently."

No, no," hurriedly interrupted the Bishop ;
no, it was Mistress Eadegund von Steinbach of
course. I recollect now. She intimated, merely
intimated, something to that effect."

A deep shade of displeasure darkened the
mathematician's face. *' I do not know what
has come to Mistress von Steinbach," he said ;
she is curiously changed from the woman she
used to be."

"That's not much wonder."

'* No ? "

** Women are changeable."

*ras the wind," acquiesced the mathematician.

*rand then  yes, certainly. She has changed
outwardly too. Do you notice it ? "

'' My lord," answered Dasipodius, moving
round to the rear of the Horologe, " you forget ;
human faces are sealed books to me."

The Bishop bit his lip vexedly at his slip.

But," continued the mathematician, " speaking
of Mistress von Steinbach, will you lend me
your eyes, and tell me what you think of the
cornice paintings, especially the two lower front
ones ? I want an impartial opinion."

* Your friend, Dr. Wolkenberg," modestly objected
the Bishop, "is an apter critic than I."

But in this case," smiled Dasipodius, " not
altogether an unblessed one. I would at all
events prefer to abide by your verdict."

I can but say the artist has been faithful to

her reputation ; the paintings are excellent, as
far as they are complete."

'' Only the left hand outer panel remains to be
done, I think."

And that is all sketched in."

Now, will you come round and see the works ?
Stay, I will light this lamp first."

It is marvellous ! " said the Bishop, when
he had gazed long and silently, with his light
lifted aloft, into the dark mysterious wooden
chamber. ''A clock always seems to me a thing
of life. One involuntarily sets to comparing it
with the organisms of the human body. Each
minutest part so dependent on the whole, that
if one member slips out of gear, all the others
suffer with it."

And the whole as likely as not to stop altogether."


Ay, but some parts if they get injured,
threaten its vitality more than others ? "

Certainly. There are here, for example,
will be, that is, works which, if tampered with,
would  Is that you, Prudentius ? "

Yes, Master Dasipodius," answered the sacristan,
who, hearing the bishop's voice, and
being in search of him, had, not without considerable

personal inconvenience, succeeded in
propelling his rotund person between the Horologe
case and the chapel wall, until he stood
wheezing and puffing by the mathematician's
side. 'eyes, it's me. Mother Barepenny told
me she had seen yon come in here with my
lord, and  and," gasped Prudentius, whose
recent manoeuvres had nearly squeezed the last
breath out of him, " and I had a question to ask
my lord about  about the great  iron cope chest,
one of its hin  hinges "

"Presently, my son, I will come with you,
and see about it. Meantime find your breath,
and hold this lamp here for me.  You were
saying, Professor Dasipodius, that if some
of these chains and springs were tampered
with ? "

"They would merely stop the action of one
set of dial hands, or the progression of one group
of figures."

Much as one nerve or tendon destroyed in
the wrist or foot would mar the body's uniformity
of action ? "

In the same way. Again, on the other
hand, there are motors  see, here is one for
instance. Hold the lamp closer, Prudentius 

and here is another, and here another, will bethe
Horologe's heart and brain."

Lord save us ! " ejaculated Prudentius, under
his breath, and peering in with distended awestricken
eyes under the shelter of Dasipodius'
tall figure.

Can you see, my lord ? These  hold the
light down closer, friend  these dien they
are finished, if so much as touched, would superinduce
total inaction."

' Death."

Death, as one may say."

*' Holy Virgin, forgive us ! " muttered the
appalled sacristan. " If the thing was a Christian
they couldn't "

"Hold that light still, Prudentius," said the
Bishop. " How can one see anything with you
bobbing it up and down like that ? A fortnight's
abstinence on bread and water would be the best
remedy for stilling those hands of yours a bit,
my son. Hold the lamp steady, can't you.
Where then is this quickening power. Master
Dasipodius ? "

'' Not here as yet, my lord ; we have but the
Horologe's embryo. The quickening, following
the universal law, is reserved until all the material

and coarser organism is thoroughly in
readiness to receive it. The fine springs and
hair-like wires are still in my studio drawer.
One chief wire of them will pass from that larger
wheel round this cylinder, and so over to the
lesser wheel here. Do you see, my lord ? "

And that  supposing it destroyed, cut ? "

'too cruel a supposition to entertain," smiled
the mathematician. "All the work would be
ruined."

The Horologe destroyed. Master Dasipo-
dies ? " exclaimed the sacristan, horror stricken.

As surely as your body would be, my friend,
if I were to thrust your heart through with
this," said Dasipodius, taking up a small sharp
file.

The sacristan shrank shiveringly into the
wall's uttermost recesses.

'rand," demanded the Bishop, still absorbed
in the wonders before him, "do you mean to
tell me that these delicate things have all been
at Otto von Steinbach's tender mercies ? "

With the rest of the machinery, yes. Fortunately,
he has not so much as touched them.
You see, my lord, it was just with them his
heart failed him, and he gave in."

There is a hideous tale," said the Bishop
dreamily, " of one who ransacked graves and
charnel-houses, and made from the loathsome
fragments he found there, a creature bearing the
semblance of a man, and then endued it with
a mockery of life. 'Twas all his power could
reach to ; a debased flesh and blood that wretched
student did produce indeed ; but soul and spirit
were not for him to give. And so, Master
Dasipodius, these most dainty primary motors
are to be fixed  when ? "

Within a week only of St. Laurence's
day."

Ah ! and just as well to every way. I
don't mean regarded only from its scientific
point of view."

The mathematician look puzzled.

You never considered it in that light."

'* Apart from its scientific aspect ? No, my
lord. What other ? "

Heaven help these clever heads ! " shrugged
the Bishop to himself " Men who had never
passed the pons asinorum would have caught
my meaning with half a word ! Simply I was
thinking," he added aloud  " Prudentius, you
can go; I will join you in the sacristy in five

32

minutes," and Pruclentius, needing no second
bidding, departed  " thinking that any possibility
of foul play "

The mystification increased tenfold in Dasi-
potius' face.

Of foul play, you know, will be reduced to
a minimum."

I must confess to you, my lord, that what
you are saying is an utter riddle to me."

Thou dear Gracious heaven ! " groaned the
churchmen to himself, " if only thou had'st been
pleased to grant mathematical brains one iota of
imagination ! Now, if I say what I think, he'll
be setting me down as uncharitable, and a suspected
of persons ! You never," he said aloud 
"it has never crossed your mind, that your
enemies might take it into their heads to try
and tamper with your work here "? "

"My lord, I trust I have no enemies," said
Dasipodius, carefully setting to the door of the
case.

Ah ! We won't be nice about terms," answered
the Bishop a little petulantly. " People
then who  do not wish you well."

If there be any such, they can be only personal
enemies. The Horologe runs little risk

of suffering. It is to the general interest to
protect that."

But individual interest ? "

I think," laughed Dasipodius, extinguishing
the lamp Prudentius had set down, " we shall be
splitting hairs next."

"No such thing," persisted his companion.
Say now for the sake of argument that Otto
von Steinbach "

My lord, your choice is an unfortunate, an
ungenerous one."

Well, well, perhaps. Say  Syndic Hacker-navel
then. Do you suppose now that he has any
interest or affection for this Horologe of yours ?
Rank heretic that he is. Why, the very thought
suggested by works is gall to his Anabaptist
soul ! He would imperil his wretched little body,
fond as he is of it, to trample down "

My lord ! my lord ! " remonstrated Dasipo-
dies, "really you are letting fancy run away
with you."

"No such thing I tell you."

Let Syndic Hackernagel go his ways ; are
we  am not I well quit of him? Thank Heaven,
Strassburg is not made up of Syndic ."


"But "

'sand you and I, my lord," laughingly insisted
the mathematician, "will be most assuredly
found guilty, and with justice too, of collusion
with the powers of evil, if we conjure up such
fears as these ; I assure you they can but be
groundless. You must not fret yourself for the
Horologe and me."

And  you have no apprehensions ? "

No shadow of any."

Then," said the Bishop, fixing his eyes filled
with a half anxious, wholly-admiring gaze on
Dasipodius, " Heaven protect you."

And so he left him to go and discuss about the
damaged cope chest with Prudentius. " For it
must be seen to at once," thought he to himself;
"there are opals and pearls of great
price in that cloth of gold cope ; and our professor
there may say what he likes, there are 
protestants about."

'' LES NEIGES d'aNTAN."

npHAT quarter of redeem Master Juno the
ranger was good enough to send us in
would just be in prime condition for supper tonight,
little one, yes ? " asks Burgomaster
Niklaus of his daughter.

Yes, Vaterlele ; but it could be kept still
another day or two if you wish. It is such a fine
piece."

Good."

You may like to wait for it to be dressed,
until we have some guest to supper with us."

Quite right," nods the Burgomaster, kindling
a Gargantuan lantern he has brought in with
him, and stealing a glance over the top of it at
Sabina ; " and a guest is coming to-night."

Very well, Vaterlele."

You don't ask who it is," says Niklaus,
raising his voice, a shade irritated as now and
then he was, in spite of himself, at his daughter s

impassivity and lack of interest in the daily
trifling occurrences which make up the staple of
existence ; and, above all, he sorely missed the
little proverbial feminine failing of which once
Sabina had quite her fair share. *' I say you
don't ask me who it is."

I  did  not  who is it, Vaterlele ? " she asks.

Master Dasipodius," curtly replies Niklaus.

Master Christian Dasipodius ? " she says,
flushing a little as the name passes her lips.

No," answers Niklaus, " not Master Christian
this time ; the Professor  Conrad Dasipo-
dies." And again Niklaus' eyes searchingly fix
themselves on his daughter s face ; but curiously
little of it is to be seen, bending so low over a
troublesome tangle in the flax, which somehow
the trembling little fingers aggravate into one
fearsome Gordian knot.

The Professor Conrad Dasipodius," reiterates
Niklaus ; "and seeing that he has been so long
a stranger, we must kill the fatted calf, hey ?
and give him a hearty welcome. Yes, little one ?"
and again the Burgomaster's accents touch a high
note.

Yes," she answers with a slight start, " of
course. Oh yes."

Good. And now Fm going into the cellar,"
continues her father, " to fetch up a bottle of
Burgundy to drink his health, hey ? "

To be sure, Yaterle."

Ay, to be sure. And let me see, let me see
now ; sturgeon stuffed with parsley's a dish for
an emperor. First we'll have sturgeon stuffed
with parsley, hem ? "

'eyes."

Yes, and you'll stuff it yourself, dear child,
eh ? Somehow no fingers ever do that job like
these little ones," coaxes Niklaus, leaving his
lantern, and coming beside her to lift the two
hands caressingly in his. " I recollect how
Master Dasipodius, the very last time he ever
set foot in this house  thunder and lightning I
what an age ago it is  we had stuffed sturgeon,
and it was you who dressed it ; and he said 
and he's the slowest fellow going to notice what
sort of food's set before him is the Professor
Dasipodius  he said that the gods never tasted
anything half so good. Dost remember his
saying it, Sabina ? "

Yes, father."

Come now, look up then," continued Nik-
laus, putting his forefinger under her chin, and

compelling her eyes to meet his own, " and let
bygones be bygones."

They are ; they are," and the miserable
Sabina strove to writhe herself free. '' Quite."

Good, that is my own brave girl. And
listen, you'll put on the green kirtle, you know ;
why, that kirtle becomes you like no other I ever
saw you in, and you'll put it on ? " asked the
Burgomaster cheerily.

*' Father, it is all one  it is of no consequence
to Master Dasipodius what I wear," cried the
poor child.

'* Oh, hang it ! neither it is. When will one
have the sense to hammer that into one's dunderhead
? " groaned Niklaus, clutching the frontal
bone of that member.

'' Besides," continued she hesitatingly, '* I 
of course I will see that all is ready comfortably
for you, and  the Professor Dasipodius ;
but "

**Welir'

** I shall not be here, father."

*' Thunderweather ! and where, pray, may you
be going a gadding, mistress ? "

To Cousin Kadegund's."

*why! impossible! she was by  monday

morning it was when Dasipodius told me he
intended looking in to-night about the enamels.
When did she invite you, child ? "

'' Monday afternoon."

That woman's be forgetting her own head
next, handsome as it is, one of these fine days I
Never mind ; I'll look in on her presently and
explain, and beg off for you."

But  I want to go," pleaded the unhappy
girl.

'' And I want you to stay here, mistress ! "
sternly cried Niklaus, with a stamp of his foot.
Nay," he went on in gentler tones, and drawing
her into his arms, " I understand all about it.
Am I not your old father ? and don't I know
you're a brave little girl, Sabina ? There, there,
I grant you it won't be pleasant, just for the first
minute or two, you sad, naughty, capricious
little woman ! She would, and she wouldn't.
Oh, fie ! fie ! and why wouldn't she ? Well, she
wouldn't. But Master Dasipodius is a man, and
he's forgotten all about it long ago, I'll warrant
you. He bears you no malice ; he's had other
fish to fry; and hasn't thrown away two thoughts
on you, since you gave him the go-by. And if
he doesn't object to meeting you, you vain, dear,

cruel, little pussy-cat, you, what the deuce
should you be minding him for ? Come, you'll
never be letting these odd whimsies of yours
shut the door on the best gentleman in Strasbourg."


'N no."

And your father's old friend's son, hey ? "

*' No, Vaterlele" ; and the mobile lips fixed into
resolute, almost stern lines, and a strange light,
like the steady glow in the eyes of some martyr
on the scaffold, shone in the soft eyes,  'no, no."

So, that's my brave girl ; that's her father's
own child. And I shall look in then, and tell
Eadegund you're not coming ? "

** Yes, and father "

"Ay?"

Tell Cousin Eadegund that, if she pleases, I
will come tomorrow instead."

Hem  well, if she wants you, you can go of
course ; yes, I'll say so. And now," and the
Burgomaster took up his lantern, " now for the
Burgundy."

Those were good times when love-lorn maids
had little leisure for sitting down to feed upon
melancholy. If iron and steel did their part
then in tuning up shattered nerves, they did

not figure as ruinous items on j'Tterfamilias
reckoning day with the doctor ; but fulfilled
their healing duties more effectually under the
guise of gridiron and stewpan. Women used to
go into their kitchens and still rooms then ; andover
their roasts, and pasties, and electuaries, and
the rest of it, forgot their fancied woes, and
soothed dovn their real ones, as Sabina did now.
Had not that quarter of venison to be taken out
of salt, and dried and floured ready for the spit ?
and there, on the table of sacrifice, lay the sturgeon
her father had just sent in from the fish-market,
awaiting the inimitable parsley stuffing ;
and then the half-dozen dainty sauces and
condiments to be thought out and concocted,
before the contemplated little feast could be such
as her father loved, and  fit for the guest he
found his pleasure in honouring.

That liking Niklaus had conceived for Conrad
Dasipodius was Sabina's one grand consolation
for all she had to endure. Time had been that
her father, although indeed he had always
respected and liked the son of his old friend very
well, cared for him far less than he did now. Yon
Steinbach's own sturdy sense had come to admire
in no small degree the man who could fight under

such fearful odds against fortune ; and whose
powerful intellect had won him, besides, tangible
reward in good round florins, and such things are
not to be sneezed at mind you,  such high distinctions.
The generous-hearted old Strassburger was
able to estimate at something of its real value
the stuff" which made up Dasipodius' nature.

Sabina did not, however, stay hypocritically
to analyse the causes of her father's appreciation
for the man she loved ; it sufficed for her that
he had come to know Dasipodius in some
measure as he deserved to be known ; and
she was content silently to add, and as cheerfully
as her sad heart might, any grievous
misconstruction touching herself, to all that
other burden of griefs which had fallen to
her lot.

Her love for Dasipodius had come to be of
that self-immolating sort which gives all, hoping
for nothing. It was her secret glory that he had
bestowed on her one fleeting thought of love, or
as Radegund had put it, of admiration; and that,
though he should become the husband of a king's
daughter  though he were in his grave  (alas !
that sometimes to her it seemed as though that
would have been best !)  that remembrance

could never be stolen from her, and she would
not have bartered it for another man's life-long
devotion. The little woman, incapable indeed
of entering by so much as half a step into the
region of thought which was the mathematician's
kingdom, had still the gift of appreciation and
sympathy, and though she might not enter, she
could kneel afar off and adore.

It were all one,
That I should love a bright particular star,
And think to wed it."

She would have felt those lines met her case
excellently well.

Appraising that sixteenth century Horologe by
the intensified scientific light of these days, one
might feel tempted perhaps to cavil at Strasbourg's
glorification of Dasipodius, arguing that
the thing by which the chief memory of him
remains, is a mere clumsy, not to say ridiculous,
piece of mechanism ; but this would be as unfair
an estimate as if one  provided only the old world
lasts so long and Nidhogg the dragon has not
gnawed the world's roots through three hundred
years hence  should sneer atone Benjamin Franklin
with his pins and needles and bits of wire ; or
at that awkward fellow Stephenson, whose wits

could devise no better arrangement for carrying
people about the world, than a puffing Juggernaut
monster.

Moreover, a reputation attached to the mathematician's
name, quite independent of the Horologe,
in his wondrous aptitude for imparting to
others the principles of the science of which he
was so perfect a master ; and as mathematical
head professor of Strassburg University, he in
his time helped in linking together that girdle
of civilisation which Archimedes, and Galileo,
and Newton, and men of their mould, have
helped to put round the earth.

Truly he had his persecutions, and the thousand
irritating midge-bites which ignorance and
envy love to inflict ; but that is to say no more
than that he shared the common lot of intellects
above the ruck.

And," solemnly demanded that Quidnunc of
the great railway engineer, after he had enunciated
his propositions, and with infinite care and
patience striven to explain his plans to the
assembled conclave  *' and if now a cow should
happen to get on the line ? "

' It would be bad for the coo," answered the
man of science.

And returning to Dasipodius and his own day,
he had but borne opposition and disappointment
in the spirit of his mighty Florentine contemporary
who endured imprisonment and countless
humiliations, and met the outcry of bigots with
the placid truth which has now become a truism,
** e pur se move ".

"so NEAR, AND YET SO FAE AWAY."

C Once the stirring times when John of Mans
derscheid was Prince Bishop of Strassburg,
the old city has seen curious changes ; and her
cathedral has shared largely in her vicissitudes.
The Reign of Terror turned the holy place into
a *' Temple of Reason," and celebrated its maniacal
rites at the altar, where for centuries the
Host had lain enshrined ; but ever and again
since Luther's time, iconoclastic fury has done
its worst there, wrenching down, and with axe
and hammer despoiling it of every vestige of
ornament which could be bartered for a doit of
lucre, and even the exterior of the Horologe has
suffered, if some tales be true, and only the paint
and lacquer stuff, such as the soul of the reformed
delighteth to set in the temples to Him from
whom all beautiful and perfect things do come,
stands in the place of the fair and costly work

which Master Niklaus von Steinbach and his
apprentices originally turned out for it.

Yes, it looks well. I wish you could see it,
Master Dasipodius," said the goldsmith, as he
conducted his visitor into his workshop. " I
think you'd say 'tis bravely done. Here," continued
Niklaus, opening a massive iron chest,
and taking from it a disk of brass repousse
work, "is the face of the chronometer dial," and
he handed it to Dasipodius, " centred with "

' Enamel cloisonne," said the mathematician,
passing his finger lightly over the surface, " and
of what colour ? "

Crimson and purple translucent, as a stormy
sunset. And here in the outer rim, opaque
azure starred with golden."

And between ? "

Crystal facets and four rubies to mark the
quarters. And here you have the astrological
dial, turquoise blue translucent "

And cloisonne also, with serpentine golden ? "

Yes, on a shiny ground, silver touched. Our

best piece of all, to my thinking ; turned out by

a young fellow, a Frenchman from the studio of

Maitre Leonard Limousin. We shall have to

make a master of him for his piece of handiwork.

33

Not the faintest fly speck of a flaw in it. Somehow
we German double-thumbs can't hold a
candle to these frogs of Frenchmen, where it's a
matter of grace or ingenuity."

But your circle here, you haven't got it
perfect," said the mathematician, passing his
fingers rapidly round the disk.

Exactness itself."

Nay, by your leave," and taking from his
pocket a small ivory rule, Dasipodius laying it
across and across, proved his case by nearly half
the sixteenth of an inch ; " it's out."

Bless my soul ! " said Niklaus, examining
the measurement, " so it is."

That must be seen to," said Dasipodius, " or
it mil fiend the eye."

Naturally," acquiesced Niklaus, with a secret
malediction, '' it's odd enough how it escaped
mine."

Then, possibly to avoid any more hyper-criticism,
the goldsmith hurried the enamels
back into their cotton-wool casings.

The other rims," he said, " you had best
take with you, and turn over at your leisure.
Will you come across now, and eat a morsel of
supper with us ? "

If you will excuse me," began Dasipodius ;
my time just now is hardly my own."

The steal a bit. Nay, Master Dasipodius,
if you refuse, I think my little girl will be taking
it unkindly of you."

I would not have her suppose  " began Dasi-
potius.

No, no, of course you wouldn't, I know,"
hurriedly assured Niklaus. " I comprehend
perfectly. One doesn't want to be hard with
these queer creatures ; and, Donnerwettev !  of
all the dear Heaven's creations, they are the
queerest ; oh, I grant you that, are women. But
my girl's a good girl  in the main. Master Dasi-
potius, and has a warm heart in spite of  that
stone post ! mind it, professor. Phew ! what a
sultry night. We're having a hot time of it
this summer, hey ? I hope you won't be sighing
for the green trees you've left behind you at
Schaffhausen. Well, one can't have everything
in this world, can one % and if one has one thing,
one must give up t'other, and as fast as one
thing goes right, t'other goes wrong, and one
can but make the best of things, eh, professor ?
and the hobby-horse never will gee all four legs
the same way."

This volley of more true than original philosophy,
the Burgomaster fired off as tha two
crossed the quadrangle, under pressure of the
consciousness, which had suddenly forced itself
upon him, that there undoubtedly was just the
least bit of awkwardness in this meeting which
he had insisted on bringing about ; and feeling
that the sweetest nonsense which came into his
head was just then preferable to silence, he
contrived to string it out, until they were bothwell
into the dining hall, where Sabina sat
working, constant as Penelope, in the deep bay
of the painted glass window.

A fair picture this Lily, with her golden
glory of hair, and the dark-green square-cut
bodice, with its soft cambric ruff about her
rounded white neck. Only one spark of animation
in her eyes, one touch of colour in her
cheeks, lacked to render the picture faultless.
Out of all nature it seemed that so youthful a
face should be as bloodless as a ghost's, or to
touch realities, as the face of their guest. Had
each found Medusa in the other, that he and
she stand like stone statues ? and only when at
last she lays her cold hand in the one he holds
stretched towards her, comes a reaction ; and

simultaneously the hot blood rushes over cheek
and brow of both.

But next instant the crimsons fade, and the
flash of life chills down to deadly commonplace,
which Sabina, having rehearsed the whole livelong
day, expresses to perfection.

"We are very glad to see you back in Strasbourg
 Master Dasipodius."

'' Thanks  Mistress Sabina."

' Supper is quite ready, father. Shall it be
served ? "

'xA.y, surely. Come, Master Dasipodius, make
yourself at home again," said the hospitable
Niklaus. " Where will you sit ? In the old
place ? " and he set a chair in Sabina's neighbourhood.


Nay, father," objected she, " the sun glares
right into one's face so there. Master Dasi-
potius will find it pleasant beside you."

"As Master Dasipodius pleases," cheerily said
Niklaus, fast recovering: his ease, and beg-inning
to dissect the sturgeon in his best style, " so
long as we're all comfortable."

As you please. Mistress Sabina," bowed
Dasipodius, and he went and sat afar off.

"Mind the bones  Sabina," cautioned Niklaus,

directing apprehensive glances at the white of his
guest. The difficulties in the way of blind folks
getting comfortably through life, were beginning
to occur to him very forcibly, but the blind man
who could discover the hoop that looked as round
as round to be awry, was hardly like to run in
much peril of fish bones ; not to speak of the
warning being superfluous from the fact that
neither the Burgomaster's daughter nor the
Burgomaster's guest had the appetite of a fly.

*' You're eating nothing. Master Dasipodius,"
said Niklaus, preparing for a second onslaught.

It's delicious," said Dasipodius.

"Ay ; it's her doing," proudly returned his
host, "the stuffing."

Mistress Sabina's housewifery is a proverb,"
bowed the mathematician.

Eh, well, you certainly might have a worse
little woman to manage your domestic arrangements
for you, than my "

"Master Dasipodius has no wine, father," interrupted
the house mistress.

"A thousand pardons ! Well, not a bit more
fish ? Then I hope you're saving yourself for
this redeem. Heh ! how do you find it ? Done
to a turn. Ha ! professor, you're a clever

man, but not all your science can reach to such
work as this. It's the women who rule the roast
after all, ha ! ha ! ha ! But you haven't set lips
yet to my Burgundy, and I want your opinion
on it. Three years' vintage. Just in its perfection
to my thinking. Hold it to the light. Clear
as rubies, eh ? and I'll warrant you'll say you
never saw "

Father ! " murmured Sabina in distressful
reproach.

Bless my soul ! " mumbled Niklaus, administering
castigation to his own head with the
knuckles of his clenched hand. " I say I'll
warrant you wouldn't taste finer Burgundy if
you were to sup with the Emperor himself.
Come, drink, professor, drink ! I don't hold
far with Master Luther and his fid-fads ; but
where he hangs on fast by the good old
doctrines, he has a trick of putting them well.
Dost remember 

' May you have wine and '

How does it go, child ? "

"I forget," fibbed Sabina, blushing rosy red ;
and it is a silly rhyme, and Master Luther was
a heretic."

Ay, but he could bellow well, could that
Wittenberg bull," persisted Niklaus, " and  and
what the plague comes next ? "

'Maiden's kiss'" prompted Dasipodius.

"Ay, ay, to be sure.

'May you have wine and maiden's kiss;
And your good nag, I wish him this
Of corn, an endless litter,
Who loves not women, wine, and song '"

trolled on the Burgomaster, making up the deficiencies
which for the third or fourth time had
occurred in his own glass, and replenishing his

guest's 

' Wine and song ;

That man's a fool his whole life long,
Says Doctor Martin Luther.'

Come, Sabina, little one, mind the advice of
this doctor for once, double-dyed king of the
pestilent heretics though he was ; and if you
won't eat  is it the heat I wonder has stolen
your appetite ? For the life of me, I can't find
it touches mine. I'm as hungry as that good
hunter must have been who brought down this
roe deer. Sometimes I do think. Master Dasi-
potius, that my girl's appetite must have been
made over to me to take care of for her. She

doesn't eat enough to keep up a sparrow's
strength ; and something or other's played the
mischief "

"Father!"

The very mischief with her pink roses.
Doesn't it strike you "

'father !" pleaded the girl in an agonized
whisper''

Since last you saw her "

'' It is my misfortune," coldly interrupted his
guest, "to be unable to judge of these things."

"And," murmured Sabina, "all that can be
of no consequence to Master Dasipodias."

** I ask your pardon, Mistress von Steinbach ;
I am very sorry if anything ails you," said he.

Nothing ails me, Master Dasipodius, and
my father is mistaken  quite. I was never
better in my life. To-night is a little  a little
oppressive, that's all," and rising abruptly from
her seat, she went to the window, and threw the
pane wide open, then half seated, half leaning on
its broad oaken sill, she gazed down with eyes
that saw as little as those of the man near her,
into the courtyard.

"Ay, do you mark now, professor?" said
Niklaus with a half smile. " Weather, weather,

it's always the weather with the women. Never
was such a scapegoat as your clerk of the weather.
Your east winds and west winds never come to
them right, come how they may ; and whether
it's a woman's dress don't sit trim enough to her
waist, or the pasty's turned out heavy, or her
sweetheart's changed his mind "

*' Father!"

Or what not, it's always the same tale. Ha!
ha ! there, never mind, little maid, never mind,
let your old father have his joke out," and seating
himself in his arm-chair beside her, Niklaus took
the girl's little clenched hand and stroked and
patted it. "Ah well, well," he added, turning
with a mock groan on his guest, "the best way's
never to turn paterfamilias, Master Dasipodius,
and then you'll never "

Mistress von Steinbach," interrupted Dasi-
potius, "promised to give us some music."

"Ay, so she did. Do you hear, Sabina ? Sing,
dear child, and let it be that pretty little song
I heard you humming to yourself all alone last
night in the twilight ; only I chanced to be at
the open casement yonder. Shall it be that
one, yes ? "

N not that one, Vaterlele," objected Sabina.

'* Why not ? " demanded Niklaus. '* It was
the daintiest ditty I think I ever heard, though
I don't say I haven't heard many a merrier one ;
but there, sing it, child, I've taken a fancy for it.
Come."

She rose, and with tremulous hands took the
virginal, a gorgeous instrument resplendent with
gilding and garnets and onyx stones ; but alas !
it was shamefully dusty. " Half an inch thick,"
as the Burgomaster said, flecking and polishing
it with his soft silk handkerchief " Tell's a
tale of not having been played upon, the saints
know for how long ! So, that's right. Now," and
settling himself comfortably, Niklaus sat proudly
watching the little fingers as they touched the
low" sad prelude to her song. "How did it begin?"

'' It didn't begin, Vaterlele ; and it didn't end,"
she said, faintly smiling. " It's only a scrap."

'* Begin in the middle then," laughed Niklaus.
Something about a tear, I recall that."

And yet I know "

sang she :

And yet I know one word of thine ;
One simple heart-warm tear of mine,
Might bring lis both the bliss divine."

"Ay, ay, that's it," said Niklaus softly.
'''Bliss divine.' Go on."

That simple word can ne'er be said;
That priceless tear may not be shed.
Must two hearts die down chill and dead ?

Up through this keen fierce trial fire !
Thine abnegation bears thee higher,
Towards the height of thy desire.
Oh love so lost and so profaned,
Oh love through mightier love attained
Pure love, true love, for ever gained ! "

"A bit doleful, eh, professor ? " said the
Burgomaster ; " but a brave ditty too, to my
thinking. And  what now, Hans ? " he demanded
of a servant who just then entered.

Two persons desiring to speak a word with
you. Burgomaster, I was bidden to say," explained
Hans.

shoemaker's holiday."

C[ Some sheep-heads from the Chancellery, I'll
 dare swear, whose business would have
been the better for sleeping on," testily said
Niklaus, as he rose and went out.

Sabina laid aside the virginal and crossed to
her old seat in the window.

It is very sultry to-night," she said.

Very," assented the mathematician.

"Do you think there is a storm brewing. Master
Dasipodius ? "

I think it is possible. Mistress von Stein-bach."


It quite looks like it."

"It feels like it."

Everything is so still."

"Death still."

"Not a leaf stirring."

"No, apparently."

And a good shower would be a great relief."

' An infinite one."

"It would " remarked the hostess after

another prolonged pause, " it would clear the
air so."

"Yes."

I fancied I heard thunder just now."

I am sure of it."

How long waste Burgomaster going to be ?
What a shame of people to come worrying about
stupid business things after sundown  Midsummer
sundown ! That suggested another original
observation.

To-morrow will be the longest day," she said.

"Yes. The twenty-first of June."

Yes. They are delightful, these long evenings."


Well, yes, in the country perhaps."

Ah, of course in the country, that's what I
mean."

In town, I fancy, winter is preferable."

Oh very, very much better," acquiesced
Sabina, letting her eyes travel sadly round the
room, while memory called back one winter's
night dien its polished wainscoted walls had
shone in the ruddy fire glow ; and bitter cold as

it lead been without, how warm were hearts
which now seemed chill as moss that growls on
dead men's graves. "Very much better. Summer
in cities is so  so melancholy somehow."

"You find it so?"

Oh dear no. I thought you-soh no, not in
the least."

'' You are too well occupied for that sort of
thing."

What sort of thing ? " she said vaguely.

''To be dull, or sad."

' Oh yes."

When would these Chancellery people take
themselves off ? She could hear them chattering
across at the open window there, fast as mill-clapper.


You have your wheel and your tapestry,"
continued Dasipodius.

Oh yes. My wheel and my tapestry."

And you find it sufficient. Yes ? "

Oh quite."

And then your music ? "

Ah, of course my music," animatedly assented
the proprietress of the dusty virginal.

By the way, that song you sang just now,
it is very sweet. Who is the composer ? "

Master Dachstein."

*' Our Cathedral Orpheus. I guessed as much.
There is no man living (gan touch these wild sad
harmonies like he. And the words, Mistress
Sabina, who wrote those ? "

They are Doctor Bruno Wolkenberg's. "

'' Ah, Doctor Wolkenberg's. And he gave
them to you ? " enquired Dasipodius in tones as
chilly and as measured as though that little foot
measure he carried in his pocket had ruled them.

No," answered Sabina, with the faintest perceptible
smile. " He gave them to my Cousin
Radegund, just as he often does ; but she, just
as she generally does, crumpled them up in her
way  you Imo her way, Master Dasipodius,
and throwing them aside, said they were rubbish."


And you ? "

I  well I  thought they were nice. And
I picked them up, and asked if I might have
them. What was left, that is ; for they were
dreadfully torn about and crumpled. And
Radegund said why of course I might ; and  I
can't read writing much, but when oue has
taken a liking for anything, one seems to grow
quite clever, as one may say," she added with

a little laugh, " and I spelt it out, and learned it
by heart. It's a great shame though ! " she
went on, some sudden wave of indignation
sweeping away her constraint.

What is, Mistress Sabina  "

"That Eadegund," sturdily began she, "should
should," she added, faltering a little, " behave
so."

"And why ? " as stoutly challenged he.

Well, because  because it is."

"Quite so. You mean that you think Wittenberg
loves your cousin ? "

Of course he does. Why, if it were needed,
he would die for her."

"It is well, is it not, to be loved so ? "

But there was no answer. Only Mitte's loud
contented purring where she lay curled up on the
red cushion of the Burgomaster's chair in the last
lingering sundays, and the old clock's wait-tic
wait-tac broke the stillness.

You are silent, mistress ? " continued Dasi-
potius. " You do not agree that love unto death
is a good thing ? "

"I think there can be no other," she murmured.

"No other kind of love ? "

No, if it will not stretch to that "

34

"To death."

'ray, it is not worth the keeping."

"Perhaps you are right child."

The girl's heart bounded, and her cheek flushed
at the old familiar endearing term, sweet to her
as yonder star just glimmering out among the
fretted gables.

"At least," added Dasipodius, "you are consistent,"
and if now his tones had groTi hard
and metallic, still she found her comfort in his
words. She liked, for example, to be called
consistent, and by him. It would be something
that, to tell Cousin Eadegund, who was
eternally calling her the most ridiculously inconsistent
atomy on the face of the earth, that somebody
 somebody who had sense and logic, and
logarithms, and cubes and squares, and all the
rest of it at his fingers' ends, had judged her
differently. The words which in all bitterness
had emanated from her old lover's heart, carried
to her ears no ring of their sarcasm, bore no
deeper significance than in so far as they regarded
Cousin Eadegund and her mad folly in
trifling away that deep, almost idolatrous love of
Bruno Wolkenberg's.

"And so you think Mistress Eadegund is wrong

in despising Bruno's devotion," challenged Dasi-
potius in tones of one who means to be answered.

If she  loves no one better, surely I do,"
said the girl in a low steady voice, and lifting
her eyes to the blind attend ones near her.
Yes, it is a great gift."

"Dr. Bruno's love r'

"Nay; I mean any real true love," blushed
she.

"Your theories are excellent, Mistress Sabina,"
he said with cold contempt.

I am not sure," contended Sabina, not ill-pleased,
" that I quite know what theories are."

Do you ever read the Scriptures ? "

Of course I do," she answered, bridling a
little under the implied doubt. " Doesn't
everybody ? "

Maybe they do ; as parrots talk. There is
in the Gospels, do .you remember, the story of a
man who bade his son go do a certain thing, and
he said, ' I go, sir and went not ? You remember,
mistress ? "

Of course I do," she answered ; " and the
other, he didn't want to go  at least he said, ' I
go not,' and still he went, and did what he had
been told."

LIBRARY

Universal OF Illinois*

"Ay."

It is a nice story. Our Lord Christ's always
were, but "

Well ? "

"I don't quite see what  it has to do with
Cousin Eadegund."'

Nothing at all. But clearly that man, that
first man had his theories. You see now what
they mean ? "

You explain things so beautifully clearly
always, Master Dasipodius," said she almost
happy.

"It is as \N'ide apart from practice "

Of course. Oh yes," acquiesced she, twiddling
the tips of Mitte's ears. " I know that.
Ever so wide."

"And yet  oh Sabina child "

Again! No bitterness now; no echo of
sarcasm in that cry ; only a. world of longing,
a burst of passionate entreaty, from the heart
yearning to gather to itself that lily flower.

And she 1 Her eyes patiently upturned to the
deep translucent sky, seemed to be reflecting all
its glad starlit glory ; and her mobile lips, half
open, quivering for the sudden joy broken in on
all her weary desolation.

Sabina ! my !"

Nay, come in, niece, come in," and lifting the
arras, and stepping in to one side. Burgomaster
Niklaus entered, ushering in Eadegund von
Steinbach and Otto. "What, all in the dark,
child ? Shoemaker's holiday ? You should have
had lights."

'' We'* stammered the young hostess, " we 
were admiring the stars, and  and forgot "

* Forgot ! " hissed Eadegund in her ear, as
she swept past her to a seat, and under cover of
some voluble observations from Otto. " Forgot
of course how many eyes there might be to see
them ! Always true to your nature, selfish, cruel

girl!"

Oh Eadegund ! " cried Sabina in a voice

wrung with the sharpness of some sudden
agony ; and indeed Eadegund as she spoke,
had gripped with savage force into her arm.
"x4n enjoyable occupation for your companion,
star-gazing ! " she added with a scornful laugh ;
and a whole half-hour too," she continued,
while in the light of the now kindled lamp,
her dark eyes scrutinized the faces of Sabina
and Dasipodius, " a whole half-hour of
it!"

Oh no, indeed," pleaded Sabina, " my father
hasn't been gone ten minutes."

"We came in," returned the relentless Eadem
" as the clocks were striking eight ; and
look now what your own says."

Twenty minutes to nine," said Niklaus,
glancing proudly at his quaint timekeeper
with its ever-goggling eyes and monotonous tic-tac,
"by the honestest clock in Strassburg ; not
forgetting your own that is to be. Master Dasi-
potius."

Can it be possible that Sabina, poor child, has
all this time been reckoning by Cupid's chronometer,
whose hours are seconds ? " Well, well,
what does it matter o' summer nights like these ?
Sit you down, niece, and rest a bit ; and Sabina
here will sing us the song she was over when
you came."

Did we interrupt your music, child ? " asked
Eadegund ; " what was it ? "

Just a little love ditty, niece, nothing more ;
but as pretty a trifle "

Then begin it again," said Eadegund.

*' Yes, do. Cousin Sabina," yawned Otto ;
there's a dear child."

No, T can't ; no. Otto, not to-night," pleaded

the girl in low wearied tones ; and Niklaus,
looking at the face grown so pale and lifeless
again, urged her no more.

Oh but I say, Sabina," persisted Otto, whom
his sister, on the plea of having business with
the goldsmith concerning some elaborate inlaid
framework for her new picture, had dragged out,
just as he was going to bed, " do ; we want
waking up a bit."

'' No, Otto."

'leave her alone," said Niklaus, 'you can't
make little birds sing that won't ; you ought to
know that by this time."

This jeu esprit of the Burgomaster's seemed
hopelessly to quench the smouldering conversation
; and Eadegund rose to go. '' Come," she
said, shaking the semi-somnolent Otto by the
arm, "let us go home."

We go the same way," said Dasipodius, who
had also risen.

Nay," remonstrated Niklaus ; " so early yet !
The sparrows are hardly abed."

I have to be up as soon as they. Burgomaster,"
replied the mathematician. " The
Horologe "

"Oh, ay, the Horologe, the Horologe, as you

please then, Herr Professor," laughed Niklaus,
giving him a gentle push ; " if every swain was
as true to his mistress as you are to the Horologe,
the ladies would have nothing to complain
of. The body of you may be here, but heart
and soul of you's in a certain pitch-dark wooden
case we wot of. Come, dear child, bid the professor
good-nio'ht, and let him oro."

The girl silently laid her cold hand in the departing
guest's, so chill it was that it sent a
shiver through him for all that summer nio;ht
heat. " Farewell, Mistress Sabina," he said.

All iciedersehn. Till we meet again. Goodnight,
niece, sleep well, nephew " ; and patting
the blinking, yawning Otto on the back, the
Burgomaster accompanied the trio to the postern ;
then carefully bolting it, he proceeded to take
his nightly patrol of the premises. That done,
he returned to the dining hall.

Elbows resting on the table, her chin in the
palms of her hands, Sabina sat, gazing into the
lamp's dull flame. One by one the big tears
were coursing unheeded down her cheeks, and
fell heavily on the dark polished oak table. In
spite of her bravest efforts, they had welled
up as the comparison forced itself upon her, between

that January night, when the snow had
lain half a yard deep outside, and within the fire
had crackled and danced so cheerily there upon
the hearth, all dark and sepulchral-looking now,
with its brass dogs idly grinning. Each incident
of that time, and of this just jDast, her memory
recalled. How different ! Such difference they
had, as life and death can show. Then, the transfiguring
light of love overspreading that face,
which she never knew whether to call more
grand, or beautiful ; only this she remembered
of it now, how earnestly, how solicitously it had
bent over her, and ah, sweet angels ! the caress
of those hands that would not let hers go ! Tonight
that face, grand and beautiful indeed, nay,
if it could be so, nobler still ; but alas, so cold,
and chill as hewn marble itself ! like some
sculptured monumental crusader away there in
the cathedral shadows ; and though once again
they had been face to face, had spoken together,
and he ? well, kindly and gently enough, what
hollow empty words ! More than half of them a
mere waste, such as two people will interchange
who laye nothing; in common.

It was strange too, marvellously strange, how
unlike in their unlikeness were those two eyen-

JSrZ

kings of her young life. Each time, for example,
Dasipodius had had his little story to tell her ;
but that one he had told to-night, although,
heaven forgive her, it was the dear Christ's
own, was, though she could not tell why, harsh
and bitter sounding ; while that story of the little
mouse  and the saints only know where he had
got it from !  was a nice odd fairy-tale sort of
thing ; and though indeed she had pouted and
demurred to its pointless ending, it had flowed
so sweetly and softly from his lips, that she had
felt herself in a veritable dreamland of all that
was brightest and saddest and best. And 
and then she shivered, and her eyes stared
fixedly into the flame of the lamp  then the
appearance of Eadegund upon the scene ! Well,
but what of that ? Who more welcome in her
uncle's house, when she chose to come, than
Eadegund ; but of course Eadegund being so
clever, and she herself just the most ordinarily
gifted little woman from an intellectual point of
view, there could be no close friendship between
them, still she had always striven to make things
pleasant for her cousin, when she did vouchsafe
her presence there. All the same, it did seem
hard, that just to-night of all nights ah heaven!

as she had stood upon the threshold there, not
half-an-hour since, what sweet word was that
which had passed his lips. His ! Something
in his utterance of it had brought all the memory
of his old infinite tenderness to her sore heart,
and then  Cousin Eadegund had looked in ! and
tenfold more cruelly than before had fallen the
old darkness and desolation, because she mis-doubted
her own perceptions ; and whether
it was not the fainting fevered longing for one
such kind poor echo of all those sweet endearing
epithets he used to lavish upon her, which had
not created a delirium, and deceived her own
sense of hearing 1 Ay, yes, it was all a dream,
a blessed, cruel, sweet, deluding dream, and 
Come, dear child ! cheer thee ! " So spoke
Niklaus, returning from seeing his guests depart.
'* 'Tis all over now, and tell me, was it not best so?
Oh, ah, trust old fathers for seeing how best to
steer the ship. Say, need there be any more
breaking of my little bird's heart over scattered
crumbs ? Now you've seen for yourself that
Master Dasipodius has forgot all about it, hey ?
and hasn't half a thought to spare for you, or
any other fair maid, from that wooden sweetheart
of his. See now, see these foolish tears

have wept the lamp out ; and we should be all

in the dark, if it weren't for the stars. Are they

to be my little lady's candles, yes ? Goodnight

then, dear love, good-night. Sweet

dreams ! "

********

Meanwhile the Burgomaster's trio of guests
turned homewards together. At the corner of
the Domplatz, the mathematician, pausing, bade
the other two good-night.

'' My blind eyes," he added, " make me a poor
squire, Mistress von Steinbach ; and Otto
is with you. Don't be late in the morning," he
continued, turning to him. " Those bells are not
fixed yet, recollect."

'' I say, Kadegund," said Otto, as they crossed
the Platz together alone, " he's put out about
something. What is it ? "

' Am I his conscience keeper ? " she asked in
chilly tones.

Now, now, you're always so confoundedly
heavy down upon a fellow directly he makes a
little remark. I'm not his confessor any more
than you are, my dear, but I think I know what
vexed him."

Well ? "

"You."

I ? "

Yes," and Otto nodded sapiently. " I don't
think he wanted you  us round there ; and I
don't think Cousin Sabina did neither, for the
matter of that."

'* Nor Uncle von Steinbach neither, eh?"
mimicked Eadegund. " Speak for yourself, dear
brother, and remember that ladies are always
welcome everywhere and anywhere."

*' Oh, are they ! " grunted the gallant creature.
*' It's the fashion to say so ; but hie times out
of ten they're just a nuisance."

Supposing now," continued his sister, " that
it was your company, my dear, which could have
been spared ? "

*' Well," sparred he, ** whose fault was it, I'd
like to know, that I went ? "

*' The Horologe must be attended to."

*' Oh, hang it ! " groaned Otto. " As if I
didn't knows that ! But to go bothering about
it just as one's had one's supper. If you want to
bring on indigestion, that's the way to do it ; and
you know what Wolkenberg said about me. Oh
you may laugh, but if I'd been Dasipodius "

Was it my fault, pray, that he was there ? "

No," said Otto. " I didn't say it was, Eadem
and "

Well ? "

''I don't think it was."

Wasn't it the Burgomaster I went to see ? "
she challenged, stamping her foot with impatience.
'' Speak."

Oh, ah, well you know," yawned he.

Then don't talk nonsense ; and go to bed, for
pity's sake. Perhaps you'll find your wits there.
When you're sleepy, an idiot's nothing to you ! "

MORE FAYOUE And PREJUDICE."

TT70EDS lightly spoken, the old aphorism has
it, sometimes touch earnest ; and the saying
was j Justified very fairly of itself to Otto von
Steinbach. Nothing, as far as he could see, was
more likely than for that fetish of a Horologe to
be driving him mad before it was fairly fixed in
its place.

Persistently as some monstrous shadow the
thing haunted his life. No sooner had he shifted
the burden of it from his own shoulders, than it
took up another mode of aggression, and one
wholly unexpected, although not novel, in so far
as Syndic Tobias Hackernagel was concerned
in it.

Recent events might have led the superficial
observer to infer that perhaps the Syndic had
also had enough and to spare of the Horologe ;
but that was not to know the real Tobias Hac-kernel

 the Irrepressible. Easier to stamp
out the life of a poisonous worm than to efface
his individuality. Of buoyant elastic temperament,
as his sincerest admirers in whose foremost
ranks stood Syndic Hackernagel, called
him, imperviously vain and impudent, as another
and increasing section of the community held
him to be. still he would not hide from himself
that that day's work at the Chancellery had
perilously threatened his social extinguishing.
His attempts, failing either to ruin or everlastingly
to vilify Dasipodius, had recoiled on himself,
and stultified him in the sight of the whole
city. If he still outwardly retained his old
status, he was secretly conscious that he owed
that to the generosity of Dasipodius, who had
pleaded with the powers that were on his behalf;
and he knew that to him also he was indebted
for the hushing up of proceedings against him.
Coals of fire all these, which, gladly as he accepted
them, seared his little soul to the quick ;
and only served to remind him of what was
irretrievably lost. Only the scantiest shadow
now of all those greetings in the market-place,
and bowing down, which the crowd so dearly
loves to lavish on a man who can talk by the

yard, and talk well, as words go. There are
limits even to this sort of homage. While he
had observed the golden rule with some show
at least of decency, his neighbours, in consideration
of his tongue's attributes, were willing to
fool him to the top of his bent, and amiably fell
in sith his idea of being of a clay superior to
their's ; but the cord can be stretched too far,
and the people, not a hoodwinked, lynch-law
loving proletariat, but a peaceable orderly community,
with some reverence for fair dealing,
and a conviction, somewhat tardily arrived at perhaps,
that this man had been leading them by
the nose, turned the tide of his popularity to the
lowest ebb, and the salvos and lo paeans were his
no more, and great had been the fall of Tobias
Hackernagel.

He had only to put his head outside his own
door to come in contact nth the unpalatable
truth. Differ and harry and snarl even to
blood-shedding as they might, over Justification,
and Predestination, and Election, and Grace, and
Original Sin, as these Catholic and Calvinist, and
Lutheran, and Serve tian, and Zwingiian Stress
might, at least pretty nearly all had
come to be of one mind concerning Tobias

30

Hackernaoel's moral wrongs against themselves
and Dasipoclius. Only the handful best able to
pronounce his own particular Anabaptist Shibboleth,
still held to his immaculacy ; just as their
creed sanctioned any other extravagance and outrage
against laws divine and human. But Anabaptism
was not just then in the ascendant in
Strassburg ; it had been eating its own head off,
its popularity was on the wane, and many of the
saints had fallen away. Even Hackernagel,
staff and anchor of the sect, had come under
suspicion of unsoundness ; just as, generations
later, the very chiefs of the Reign of Terror came
to be held suspects ; and in his hour of greatest
need his supporters had dwindled to an insignificant
minority, chiefly by reason of doubt
touching his absolute faith in that doctrine which
enunciates that a community of goods is indispensable
to a soul's salvation. Some, chiefly the
leaner and hungrier of the elect, went so far as
to wait upon him, and to represent to him this
blessed truth in all its undisguised purity ; and
to admonish him that his failing to recognise its
exceeding loveliness had brought this judgment
upon him ; and when he kicked them out of his
luxurious house for their pious pains, they, fired

with zeal for returning evil Yitll good, fell upon
their knees in the street before his door, and ina
loud voice besought that the scales might be
torn from his eyes, and that he should be brought
to a practical recognition of the wondrous doctrine.

In fairness, however, it must be acknowledged
that Tobias had never heartily subscribed it. If
his co-religionists chose to rim naked about the
woods like forked radishes, and grub for roots
]ike pigs to feed themselves, that was not his
own especial taste ; he preferred scarlet and fine
linen, and a carnivorous diet, and had spoken on
his abhorrence of fanaticism on such points as
savouring of accidental force of circumstance
outside and beneath the consideration of the
true spiritual believer. And so while outwardly
conforming, the thing Tobias Hackernagel called
his heart had grown somewhat estranged from
his sect, which, as he said, pushed matters to
lamentably unwarrantable length ; and that there
were delicate distinctions to be drawn between
wdiat you preach and what you practise.

Yes, I see," one day said Otto, to whom he
would frequently enlarge on the subtle question.
You mean that what is sauce for the gander, is
not always necessarily sauce for the goose."

'" I lent myself to no such vulgar comparison,"
indignantly returned Tobias. ' ' Sometimes, do you
know, Otto von Steinbach, I look at you "

Otto nodded animatedly, he bad noticed the
fact, until its recurrence had grown almost
unpleasant ; and he was glad to contemplate
some possibility of its explanation. "And I
confess," went on his future father-in-law, " that
I frequently find myself transfixed with amazement,
not to say consternation and perplexity, at
the strange vagaries of nature which has implanted
in the bosom of a scion of such an illustrious
house as the von Steinbachs unquestionably
is "

"Oh yes," said Otto, elevating his head, " it's
all that. No mistake about it."

"You interrupt me," said the Syndic, waving
him to silence. ' ' I was observing that nature
which has implanted in the bosom of a scion of
the illustrious race of von Steinbach, such an
inordinate inclination to indulge in inelegant,
inept, and indecorous inanities. I am not making
these observations in a fault-finding spirit,"
went on Hackernagel in honey-sweet accents ;
we are none of us perfect, and I am not, you
understand "

Ohno-

You interrupt ; I repeat that I am in no
vay desirous of exposing your weaknesses, I
would simply exhort you to evince more saliently
the features of the race from which you are sprung,
show some marks of the high breeding for which
it is renowned. I would have him who is to be
so intimately connected with me "

Did you get me here to tell me all this ? "
asked the young man, who had foregone a pleasant
evening game at quoits in a meadow out beyond
the ramparts, in compliance with the expressed
wish of Hackernagel to have a few moments'
conversation with him that evening ; and now
the conversation threatened that didactic turn
which he hated from the bottom of his soul.
Is this what you wanted to chat about you
said, you know ? "

"Not precisely," said Tobias, "the opportunity
simply suggested a word in season."

*' Hem," said Otto, drumming his well-shaped
fingers on the window-panes, while he gazed
regretfully at a passing group on their way to
the quoit ground, " but about what you wanted
to say to me ? Perhaps you are waiting though
for Gretchen. "Where is she ? "

"Curb your ardour, my young friend," adjured
the fond father with an indulgent smile.

"Ardour ! Here I've been kicking my heels
more than half-an-hour, and I've only just asked
where she may be. There never was such a fish-blooded
girl as she is. Doesn't hurry herself a
scrap to come downstairs, though she must know
I'm here," he grumbled on, heartily wishing himself
somewhere else, " as well as I do."

"No," said Tobias, "I did not tell her. She
did not know you were coming."

"Then," returned Otto, brightening a little,
I'll go and find her."

Stay," said the Syndic, laying his hand on
his arm as he moved towards the door. "Gently,
my good fellow, you cannot see Gretchen tonight.
She is  indisposed."

"Why, her face was red enough this morning,"
said Otto in some surprise, "when I met her near
the market. What's the matter with her ? "

"A  nothing whatever to be alarmed about,"
said Tobias soothingly. "A sudden  headache, a
cold, a fit of  well, can I tell ? "

"A hole in her temper ? " grunted Otto, soured
by the prospect of a tete-astute with Tobias.

Nay, fie for shame," returned Hackernagel,

playfully shaking his forefinger. " She appeared
to be  not quite herself, and I recommended a
night's rest. She's in bed and asleep by this
time, I make no doubt, and will be perfectly
recovered tomorrow."

"Ah," said Otto, taking his cap from the
table, and with a glance at the door, " then
I'll go, and come again tomorrow, shall I ? "

Go," sighed Hackernagel, " go to your
amusements. Sometimes in the solitude of
the night hours I ask myself whether I do
well to entrust child of mine to one of an
idolatrous and unregenerate race. I ask myself
I say, can the heart of one who loves such
vain pastimes, such time-triflers as quoits or "

It's a thundering good game," said Otto, " if
you've got anything of an arm."

Cannot youth spend its days more profitably
 "

Oh well, you know, we've talked that over
before."

We have," assented Hackernagel.

"And if that's all  if you've nothing else, I
mean if you've nothing so very particular"  and
Otto cast another longing look at the door.

On the contrary," said Tobias, smiling

meekly ; " it is simply that I am waiting my
turn to speak ; my chance of rendering myself
audible. But it is as well perhaps as it is ; you
have afforded me the more opportunity for reflection,
and perhaps what I would have said had
best be left unsaid " ; and with another deep
siofh Tobias sank into a chair.

Is it amusing ? " asked Otto, laying down his
cap again, and seating himself on the edge of the
table close beside the Syndic, who made no
answer, but sat rubbing his stubbly little chin.

It is merely one of my ideas," he replied at
last. Otto's face fell. " One of my ideas," reiterated
Tobias ; " how shall I preface it ? "

'' Don't ; come to the point at once."

'' The point ? Ah, well, it's a many-sided one,
so to speak," said Tobias reflectively; "you, asa
mathematician "

'never mind about that," interrupted Otto.

"As a mathematician may feel disposed "

If you're going to begin to talk about
whether a point's got any sides," said Otto with
a ghastly smile, '' Dasipodius is your man."

The Syndic's brow darkened, and his lean hand
shook uncontrollably as he lifted it almost
threateningly. "He and I differ," he said,

feigning a carelessness, " too fundamentally in
our systems of philosophical enquiry for me to
care to enter upon any disquisition with him, of
whatsoever nature. And I should have imagined,
Otto von Steinbach, that instinctive delicacy on
the part of one dio is soon to find himself allied
so nearly with myself, would have for ever
banished from that individual's lips all reference
to a name which cannot but sound offensive in
the ears of both myself and you."

If you find it so, Master Hackernagel, "
rejoined Otto, reddening a little, " why then  
you do, you know ; but just you be content to
speak only for yourself. For my part I've no
fault to find with Dasipodius ; and if I choose to
say his name, why, I might say a worse, there ! "
And thrusting his hands into his pockets, Otto
sat staring fixedly before him, with an unwonted
determination written deep into every feature of
his face.

You are always so impetuous, my young
friend, so excitable ; that is your besetting 
ahem  defect, and "

You were going to tell me something amusing."


Your last observation inclines me to a doubt

whether you will reap the amusement I anticipated,"
said the Syndic, setting hard his two
rows of long yellow teeth like some snarling
wolf, " if you have grown so fond of Dasipodius
all of a sudden "

'' Did I say that ? "

If you like seeing him ride the high horse
over you, if you enjoy being trampled on and
made a laughing-stock of, if your ears delight in
such music as I heard howled after you as you
turned the corner of this very street, half an
hour ago : 'There goes our fine Doxologies ! ya 
ah ! ' "

The young man winced and reddened painfully.
Such sounds had indeed grown cruelly
familiar to him.

' Ya  ah ! cock-doodle doo ! a heller for
stick-in-the-mud Steinbach ! ya  a  ah ! ' "

For Heaven's sake I " writhed Otto.

'A fine sort of fellow he is,' " mocked on the
merciless Hackernagel, " ' eh, neighbour Hans ?
Don't know how many twice twelve make yet,
ya  ah ! '" and the Syndic snapped his fingers in
Otto's face.

"That," said the young fellow, paling and
quivering, but with a certain cool sturdy endurance

Tobias was hardly prepared for, " is not
Dasipodius' fault. If anybody's to blame, it's "

He stopped abruptly ; to utter the word on
his tongue's tip would have set irrevocable enmity
between them.

Not his fault ? " furiously hissed Hacker-navel
; " not his ? "

No ; he has never uttered a word of  will,
what he might have said, don't you know."

Oh ! he's a saint of saints, isn't he ?" savagely
sneered the Syndic. '' Not the idolatrous bread
on your mass-tables is more bowed down to now
than this Dasipodius. He can do no wrong, this
infallible figure-machine, can he ? The men, one
and all of them, shout his praises through the
very streets ; the women love the ground his
proud feet tread ! "

Some may," said Otto qualifying.

Ho ! " sneered Tobias, ' well, only look at
home. There's Mistress Eadegund, the most
talented woman in Strassburg, and "

"And my sister," said Otto ; " and we'll leave
her name alone if it's all the same to you."

Oh, as you please," jauntily replied the Syndic.
" I alluded to it simply as an instance of
the court which he gets paid him."

"Gets paid him, yes," echoed Otto; "he
doesn't seek it anyhow. It comes ; I don't know
how he manages it," he continued with a rueful
sigh, "but it comes."

Of course it does. Your idols, your saints
never do speak, do they ? They leave that to
their high priests ; and he's got his. That
fellow Habrecht."

ON THE GOOD FAITH OF SYNDIC HACKEENAGEL. "

'' Tout," continued Hackernagel, watching with
eager scrutiny the cloud gathering deeper
and deeper on Otto's face, " I must be careful
what I say of course. You and Master 
are doubtless as friendly as a pair of
love-birds in one cage."

"No," broke forth Otto, 'that we are not.
He was always an awful nuisance, Habrecht, and
always will be. Obstinate as a pig, you know,
when he's got a fancy into his head of how a
thing's to be done ; just square and square that
way it must be, and no other."

Just so," said Tobias sympathetically ; " and
tells you you're a fool if you don't obey orders
to a hair's breadth, yes ? "

'' Well, he doesn't stop to pick his words,"
acknowledged Otto.

No," said Tobias, " I know Isaac Habrecht,

aud I owe him  that is, but for my, humanly
speaking, strangely weak proneness to forgive
injuries, I should owe him a grudge or two. But
good for evil, my dear Otto, always good for evil."

"Yes," sighed Otto, "and after all Habrecht's
bark is worse than his bite. I do think that."

"You defend his tyranny then?" challenged
Tobias.

"No I don't."

You do, my good fellow ; you have your
points, but you've no more spirit than a sheep.
I suppose," he added with a cynical sneer, " it
was all given to that sister of yours."

"No such thing!" flashed Otto; " I've
I've a tremendous spirit. Why, I'd knock you
down as soon as look at you ; that is, you know,
if I wanted."

"And yet," contended Hackernagel, in compassionately
emotional tones, "you sit calmly
down and accept any abuse this fellow chooses to
throw at you, and look as if you liked it. Perhaps
you do."

"No I don't," fervently protested Otto.

Then let him know that. It's only your
duty ; a duty you owe, if not to yourself, to the
whole studio he despotism over."

' Think so ? " ruminatingly said Otto.

They'd thank you for it, I'm convinced."

But how ? How's it to be done ? that's the
point. You don't know what a tough-hide he
is ; words don't make as much impression on him
as a knife does on a tortoise's back. You may
spend all the sharpest wits you've got and "

Yes," nodded Tobias, " that is perfectly true,
I'm sure. It happened to come under my own
observation not long since, this odd insensibility
of his to even the most brilliant kind of wit. He
got himself invited to a public supper at our
Hall, Fishmonger's Hall ; and I, being senior
warden, was called upon to make a speech, and
I made it ; one of the most brilliant emanations,
I distinctly remember it was, that perhaps ever
left my lips. An absolute incrustation of my
keenest, neatest, most incisive style. And he
never so much as smiled once, I give you my
honour, not once."

Ah," said Otto, " I'm not surprised."

' Never moved so much as a muscle ; and he
ought to smart for it. I mean for that tyranny
he exercises over you."

Oh ! ah ! but how ? If one could just give
him a touch up or two without  without "

Well ? " eagerly demanded Tobias.

Well, you know, without doing him any real
harm, why  I'm your man."

You'd enjoy it ?  ho ! ho ! ho !  you'd enjoy
it?"

See if I wouldn't, hare's heart though I am,
hey ha ! ha ! ha ! "

"I'll ha! ha! ha! Shall L" said Tobias,
when his hilarity subsided sufficiently for him
to speak, "give you an idea or two? You haven't
any of your own ? "

Not the ghost of one," grinned Otto, tickled
by the Anabaptist's outburst of laughter ; a thing
so rare that he had never been the fortunate
witness of it.

Listen then," went on Tobias. " Habrecht,
you say, is thick-skinned."

"As a rhinoceros."

But he's got his vulnerable point, ha ! ha !
every bit as much as ever that Nibelung fellow,
what was his name ? "

I forget, never mind," hurriedly said Otto ;
it doesn't matter. And this  tender point ? "

Vulnerable was my term," corrected Hacker-navel
with dignity.

Vulnerable point then ? "

Is Kaspar Habreclit, his young brother."

The devil ! "

Hush ! my good dear young friend," besought
the scandalised Tobias. "Oh hush, hush."

"Thunderweather ! you've hit it," ecstatically
shouted Otto.

"Hey ! " and Tobias' green eyes glittered with
yellow light, as he twined his snaky fingers gleefully
about. " Yes, I flatter myself. Now this
young  prodigy and you are not exactly bosom
friends ? "

"No," replied Otto. "There's no particular
harm in the fellow, except that he's a genius.
At least Dasipodius says he is ; and I "

You've nothing in common with him ? "

Yes, that's it. How can I have ? He's the
dreamless, moonstruckest, fancifuUest creature
anybody ever saw, and he's always pottering
after Dasipodius. Oh it's  it's  I don't know
what it is. Favour and prejudice all round,
that's what it is."

"And lamentably ill directed. To encourage
this sort of back of cutting and chopping things
out of wood, that the boy has. What is it,
logically regarded, but the most barefaced
encouragement of idolatry."

36

Oh, I don't see that," interrupted the unreformed
Otto. " No, I can't see that. I only
should like to  to "

'' "Which," went on Tobias unheeding, and
meekly folding his palms, "it is our mission, at
any cost  at any cost, I say, to stamp out ; and
my daily supplication is that a day will dawn
for you when you will be able to "

Kick him," said Otto, starting from the
reverie into which he had fallen. " I should
dearly like to get a chance of it."

Just so," acquiesced Tobias, " I thought as
much. But gently, these desires of the flesh
must be curbed. The chastening which it comes
to be ours to inflict, must be done in a spirit of
christian love. If we desire to see pride humbled,
still we wish our enemy well."

He's not exactly my enemy, he's only "

Not your friend, you say. I repeat then, if
sou wish him well "

But I don't," interrupted Otto with sulky
energy.

Didn't you say just now you wished to kick
him ? " asked the Syndic, making one more
desperate effort to fire this very damp touchwood
into a blaze.

Oh yes, 1 shouldn't mind," lazily laughed
Otto.

Figuratively, of course ? "

Eh ? "

"A figurative kick."

No," said Otto, lifting one of his handsome
feet and contemplating its tip.

My friend, you're wrong," said Tobias, following
the direction of his eyes. " You'd miss the
express aim you had in view."

Should I," laughed Otto out of his conscious
supremacy in athletics. " We'd see about that."

Yes. Listen to me ; there are those, and if
I mistake not, this young Habrecht is one, on
whom spiritual castigation would approve itself
far more salutary than the severest corporal
chastising. Not on the vile body, believe me, of
this young upstart should your experiment be
made, but on the subjective and tangible results
and creations of his mental and intellectual conception.
You follow me ? "

Otto intimated that he was doing his best.

From the personal observation which I have
been at some pains to make, I am disposed to
argue that this could not be more thoroughly
and satisfactorily effected than by  in brief

by reducing to silence that graven image,
that absurd wooden fowl on the summit of the
right-hand tower of the new Horologe."

Smash the cock ! " gasped Otto, when at
last articulation came, his curly locks stiffening
and bristling as though stirred by an electric
current, his eyes extended to their utmost
capacity.

I said damage, not "

Smash the cock ! Who is to flap his two
wings, and open his beak and screech cock-doodle

! Smash "

Damage," reiterated Tobias, " is not "

Smash ! " and then breathless, his eyes still
transfixing the Syndic with a stare of horror.
Otto rose, and sank again into the nearest chair.
Fool ! " hissed Hackernagel. " Was ever
such an idiot as you are ? Listen now, I mean
no more than to silence the abominable thing's
profane screeching  ha ! ha ! ha !  a little, justa
little sooner than  look," and touching Otto
on the shoulder, Hackernagel pointed up to the
Cathedral's fair fretted spire, crimson glowing
in the rays of the setting sun. " When
yonder harlot of Babylon shall be cleansed from
her impurities, when her rottenness and corruption

shall be washed away, and she stands
forth in her nakedness, shorn of all the pomps
and vanities which superstition, and what her
papist lovers in their blind worship of her call
the beauty of holiness, and the hour is at hand
when she shall be delivered unto us "

You 1 " gasped Otto.

"Ay, us. Us, the Lord's Elect ; the company
of His chosen Saints, drawn from Gehenna fires,
where in His own blessed time all but we shall
lie howling. Do you think then, I say, that weare
likely to be tolerating a crowing cock within
that sanctuary's walls ? "

Oh, come now."

When the foul idols of the groves of Antichrist
shall be cast headlong  when the high
places shall be cut off  when Bell bowel down,
and Nebo stooped when the priests of Baal
shall no more lift up their hands in the tabernacle
of the Lord, then surely as darkness
follows  that is, I mean as light follows darkness,
shall the voice of this profane bird be no more
heard crying aloud "

"Cock-a-doodle-doo ! cock-a-doodle-doo !"
shrieked Otto, startled by the mental picture
Hackernagel's words had conjured to him of

the poor bird protesting for dear existence
under such iconoclastic conditions ; and then he
broke into an hysterical screech of laughter,
so wild and weird, that the startled Tobias
paused and stared at him in speechless amazement.


"I fail to see," he said when he could make
his voice heard, " how any remark I may have
made, can be provocative of such ahem  unseemly
mirth."

"Why," and Otto broke forth afresh, "it's
the best joke I've heard for ever so long."

'i'm not accustomed, I believe," said Tobias,
paling with rage, " to indulge in empty and
foolish jesting."

Not a joke ? " said Otto subsiding. " What
is it then ? "

"And I was never farther from one in my life,
than I am at this moment," sulkily continued
Tobias. " Listen to me you  do pay attention,
my good Otto, do be serious. Your sister Kade-
gun has a key to the little door of the Thomas'
Chapel, has she not ? "

"Of the Saint Thomas' ChapeL Well, and
what if she has ? "

My good fellow, listen. You as her brother

nothing now would be easier than for you, I
make no doubt, to  to get possession of that
key for an hour or two ; say only one little
half-hour even."

'' What to do, Master Hackernagel ? "

Say no more than ten minutes, if there's
much difficulty about it."

What to do ? " reiterated Otto.

Do ? " shifty laughed Tobias. " Haven't I
said it half-a-dozen times. Wrench that bird's
head off."

"And the cock," said Otto, with a speculation
in his eyes fixed on Hackernagel's retreating
skull, curiously suggestive of getting his hand
in, '' the cock is part of the Horologe."

"Exactly," cheerfully assented Tobias.

"If I thought yon were serious, Tobias
Hackernagel."

Why, such an act would exalt you into the
ranks of the saints elect."

Then hang me if I "

You will ! you will ! " cried the Syndic,
craning forth his lean neck.

'' Will I ? What do you think I'm made of ?
Look you here now, if I thought you so much
as dreamed of laying a finger  you mark *? "

Hackernagel's smile dwindled to an uneasy
twitching of his thin lips.

"A finger on Master Dasipodius' Horologe  "

"May it be accursed, I say," hissed Hacker-navel

through his clenched teeth ; " and may

he be double d "

Beneath the grip of Otto von Steinbach's
iron-strong fingers, the evil word lies strangled
at its birth-throes in Hackernagel's throat. The
shrivelled little abortion, the mockery of God's
own image, is a mere scarecrow stick in the hands
of the young athlete, and with eyeballs starting
from their sockets, and Otto's knee pinning
him to the ground, Hackernagel lies prone,
vainly gasping to articulate one word for
mercy.

'' Now ! " shouted Otto, " what do you say 1 "
Otto ! for dear heaven's pity  Otto ! " and a
woman's hand, small, perfectly shaped, white as
snow-drift, its owner's one indisputable beauty,
grapples with the purple red of Otto's straining
fingers. Feeble as is the actual physical strength
of those two hands by comparison with his,
the suddenness of the action, or possibly something
of that mysterious sense of compassion it
is the prerogative of a true woman's touch to

exercise, loosens Otto's clutch ; " Otto, leave
hold ! would you murder him ? "

I might do worse," muttered the young man
through his set white teeth, glaring down on his
prostrate victim. "Well, take your life then,
coward ! miserable, sordid Anabaptist reptile
that you are ! "

Lift  your knee," gurgled the Syndic, '' dear
Otto oh ! "

"All in good time. Certainly, dear Master
Tobias," mocked his vanquisher; "when first
you have made me one promise. Do you
hear ? do you hear ? " for the exhausted Tobias
has closed his eyes.

"Anything, anything," he gasps, " if only,
Gr  Gr  Gretchen, darling, if he  would just
move the 1  least  oh "

And Gretchen turns her appealing eyes on
Otto ; but the young man feigns not to see.

If I could, ugh  ugh  " groans the unhappy
wretch, " co  could speak ! "

You must contrive to do that as you are,"
growls Otto. " Or if you like it better," and
dragging Hackernagel by the combined leverage
of a wrench and a kick to his knees, and holding
him gripped fast in that position by the nape of

his neck with one hand, he drags with the other
at a slender silver chain, hanging round his own
neck, and draws forth from the breast of his
doublet a small exquisitely chased silver gilt
crucifix : " Now ! " he cries, thrusting it within
a couple of inches of Hackernagel's face,
swear ! "

A loathing horror overspreads the Syndic's
livid terror-stricken features, and his head sways
heavily from side to side ; while his dulled eyes,
almost hidden beneath their swollen lids, blink
hither and thither, as though to elude the sight
of the sacred token which von Steinbach holds
persistently before him. " Swear," continues he,
swear that, by word nor deed, by your own
hand, nor by any other means, you will not
harm Master Dasipodius' Horologe, now or ever.
Swear ! "

Hackernagel maintains a sullen silence.

"Swear!" shouts Otto, shaking him like a
sack of chaff. " By this Eood, as you hope for
mercy at the Great Judgment. Swear  by this
Rood. Dost hear ? "

One instant more of dead silence, during which
the slightly relaxed grip upon his throat grows
tender, and then the bluish white eyelids slowly

open, and like a lurid lightning flash across a
leaden sky a gleam of cunning intelligence lights
up the Syndic's ghastly face and dull green eyes,
as for one instant, one brief instant he turns
them on the figure of the Crucified Christ. " By
this  Eood then," and a hideous mockery of a
smile consorts his livid and swollen lips, ''I
swear."

Good," said Otto, with a look at his victim
dashed with a touch of curiosity which, however,
was lost in a smile of scornful triumph, and releasing
him with a jerk which sent him sprawling
helplessly across a huge oaken chest. Then
snatching up his hat and striding to the door, he
clutched its handle ; but before he could turn it
Gretchen was beside him. " Otto ! "

Oh ! " he cried, veering sharply round upon
her. " Yes  you, I had forgotten you, quite.
By the Mass though," he hurried on with a fierce
hysterical laugh, "it's as well, I suppose, that'
you came in when you did " ; and he turned and
gazed with satisfaction at the Syndic, stretched,
still apparently past all speech, where he had
flung him, " else your precious parent might
have been even in a worse case than he is."

Then he turned his back upon her, and began

a desperate struggle with the door handle, which
refused to yield. Suddenly it flashed upon him
that the Syndic, when he had first come in, had
drawn the bolt ; alleging as an excuse for doing
so, that the catch of the ordinary handle had got
a trick of slipping ; but the circumstance recurred
to him now with its own significance. " Where
the deuce," he cried, fiercely fumbling at the
bolt, and then turning again on the trembling
Gretchen, " did you get in ? "

' Yonder," she said unhesitatingly, pointing
towards a recess in the wall, revealed by a panel
slidden back into the rich ebony wainscoting.

Oh," said Otto, crossing the floor and peering
into the dark ambush. " I see," he added, with
curling lip, " you shut yourself in here to play
eavesdropper  yes ? A nice pretty game. One
that you often play at, eh 1 "

"Nay, Otto," shivered the girl. ''I I''
and she turned her eyes fearfully towards the
semi-unconscious Hackernagel. " It was for 
you  your sake ; I was afraid  for you "

And why ? "

"I do not know ; but I was. He "  and
again looking shrinkingly at her father, she
added in tones only audible to Otto : " When I

said you would be coming this evening to  seeme
 that was what you did say, dear Otto ? "

The lover stamped his foot wrathfully and
gnawed his comely moustache. " Well ? "

And he," she hurried on, " was angry with
me, and ordered me to my room, and said I was
to be ill."

"And why, pray 1 "

'* Because  he wanted to have a little private
chat with you, on a particular and  important
matter."

Ah ! And you, Madame Curious, had a
fancy for knowing all about it too ? "

The girl hung her head in silence. Otto took
it for assent.

Well, and it was a pretty comedy, wasn't
it ? " he asked, keenly scrutinizing her face.
But you had an inkling of the plot beforehand
maybe *? "

I could not tell," stammered Gretchen. *'' I
did not know."

That the villain would get the worst of it,"
he sneered. " No, that was not set down ; but
does it please you, this ending ? Is it to your
liking ? Speak ! " he yelled out. '* Is it to your
liking, I say ? "

Otto ! spare me," sobbed the miserable girl.
He is my father."

Ay, he is that. The crocodile had spawn ;
four daughters passing hateful ; and one  she
was of them all most like him  took woman's
likeness, and would have mated with an honest
man."

Otto ! " shiveringly implored the girl, sinking
on her knees beside him, and convulsively
seizing the hem of his short Spanish cloak.

But he  he," whirled on Otto, striving to
tear it from her, " found out the foul nature of
her in time and "

Otto ! "

Loathed her. Ay, do you hear me, Gretchen
Hackernagel ? loathed her ! " and then he tore
his hand, wet with her tears, from her clutching
agonized grasp. " I took you," he hurried on,
savagely wiping them away, " I took you for an
honest woman. I was a fool."

Yes  no," wailed she, swaying under his
rough thrust.

I've been one always somehow. And he,"
muttered the young man through his set teeth,
glaring at the prostrate Tobias, ' and he wanted
to make me a thrice-dyed one, and he did it,

did it ! But look you here, my girl, his knave I
will not be ! "

Then dragging his hat down over his eyes, he
strode to the open door, but Gretchen hung upon
him like a dead weight, sobbing his name again
and again.

"Why do you hold me?" he cried, tearing
the delicate lace ruff of his sleeve into shreds, in
his endeavours to free himself. " I wash my
hands of you and yours for ever. I mil never
see you, nor speak to you more. I would sooner
tou'oh hell's burning pitch than such as you.
Thumbscrews and iron boots, and  and all the
rest of it, should not make me. And," he cried,
facing round on Hackernagel, now painfully
bringing himself to a sitting posture on the edge
of the chest, " may that curse which you, Tobias
Hackernagel, would have cursed Conrad Dasipo-
dies with, light on me, if ever again I set foot in
this house while you live in it ! "

Then with a creaking wrench and a burst, the
door flew open, and he was gone.

love's alchemy.

pADEGUND VON STEINBACH stands
before lier easel, palette and brush in hand.
Throughout the long mid July day she has been
working at the Queen Eleanor, which has stood
at such a long standstill in favour of the more
pressing claims of the Horologe pictures ; but
they are all complete now.

Glad of it. and yet sorry, the artist was ; with
their last touches she felt that something had
faded out of her life. While the work had been
in progress, it had linked her existence with Dasi-
potius ; necessarily placing her in almost daily
communication with him, and still even, while
he was in his banishment, it had seemed to her
that the spiritual presence of him hovered about
the Cathedral, and brought her a strange content.
Then too there had been her unceasing
toil to disentangle the meshes which had been

woven around him, and the glory of her share
in helping him back to his own ; a glory cruelly
dashed with its humiliations. Those were no
light pangs which wrung her proud soul, when
brother of hers, by reason of his incapacity, was
set aside. But now all these things belonged
to the past ; and the general content she had
aided so materially in bringing about, was to hera
living death. Restless by temperament, an
idiosyncrasy aggravated by circumstance, Eadem
recoiled from prosperity's dull dead level-she
loathed the sunny calm of orthodox well-to-do
existence, which made the Ultima Thule of
the ordinary women of her social rank in the old
city ; just as unshadowed yellow noon sunshine
glittering on a waveless sea was charmless and
wearisome to her. Scornful billows tossing
beneath a moon half-veiled in the wind-driven
rack, the creaking of the black pine boughs on
the ruo'D-ed mountain-side of her own native
Elsass, were dearer to her than the softest of its
endowed uplands. A Dorothea's saintly patience,
if it did not irritate her, assuredly never
inspired her brush ; and yet  once she had
limned a saint passing well ; but then in that
San Lorenzo, it was not the passive resignation

37

of mediaeval art she had helped to perpetuate,
but the grand dauntless endurance of a living
sentient man. The spirit of the Renaissance,
in all its comminglings of strength and of weakness,
of evil and of good, was dominant in the
genius of Kadegund. In the delineation of the
power of human passion she was unsurpassed,
and never, save perhaps in that one notable
exception, had her brush obeyed the conception
of her brain, as in this Queen Eleanor.

It is bespoken, as Eadegund's pictures invariably
are, and by no less a personage than
her dowager Majesty of France, Catherine de
Medicis. The subject the queen had pronounced
a, most interesting one, and her pleasure in the
contemplated possession of it is infinitely enhanced
by the consideration that she had carried
it off in triumph from his Grace the Duke of
Alva, who had also bidden high for it ; higher
indeed than the state of his coffers altogether
warranted. He had however stretched a point,
on account of being specially desirous of presenting
it to his master King Philip, whose sweet
countenance he had some particular object in
propitiating just then, and in whose sight the
chef d'ceuvre could not but find favour ; but the

artist had roundly refused to enter into any-bargaining
of whatsoever kind with the " gentle
viceroy," and with a scornful laugh signed the
contract which made it over to the queen, saying
that between two ills, one might choose the lesser,
and at all events, she had rather think of her
"poor picture in the Louvre than in the Escorial".

To watch Eadegund at her work now, one
would infer that her tether of time for completing
it was at its end, or well-nigh so ; but
that is not the case. With the one exception
of the Horologe pictures, Eadegund had never
been brought to fetter herself to dates ; and
clients had always to bide her good pleasure for
their pictures, and neither could she be brought
to make any promises about the Queen Eleanor
by the envoy of royalty, who had found himself
compelled to return to his gracious mistress and
explain that it would be ready when it was
ready, in such courtly euphemisms as his wits
might help him to devise.

And now to-day, after long surcease, Eadem
has toiled at it since dawn, which in July
smiles mockingly on midnight. The light shadows
on the Cathedral dial .are telling three
o'clock of a sweltering midsummer afternoon,

whose burden and heat one would fancy oppressive
enough to subdue the veriest enthusiast to
a siesta ; and indeed Strassburg, for all the animation
its streets present, might be a city of
the dead. But the beautiful hands of the artist 
beautiful, yet somewhat wasted and transparent,
work on in that still chamber with fevered
haste, only pausing now and again hurriedly
to brush back the dark rings of hair falling
darkly over her knitted brows, or to wipe away
their gathering moisture.

Why the mischief do you work so hard,
Eadegund ? " Otto had sauntered out eight hours
earlier in the day, as he had betaken himself
lazily to his own concerns. " I don't believe
Dasipodius himself will do a stroke of anything
to-day."

'' I wouldn't stay away from the Dial, if I
were you," laughed she, " on the strength of
that supposition."

I didn't say I meant to, did I ? But it's
enough to kill one to put one leg before the
other, that's all I know. And as to one's hands,
its just all their work to keep) mopping one's
face," said the martyr to meteorological circumstance,
as he suited the action to his words, with

a delicate wisp of cambric, and stretched his elegant
length on a couch beside the open window,
shaded by the broad green leaves of a luxuriant
vine. 'rand fancy anybody doing anything
when anybody's not obliged. That picture

now "

It must be finished. If I don't make haste

Make haste. Dii lleher Simnel ! " ejaculated
Otto, closing his eyes, as if the mere words
exhausted him.

It weill never be done."

Oh come ! Never's a long day. Just as if
there weren't months and months coming for
you to be doing it in."

Nay," she answered, contemplating it with a
strange loving wistfulness. "How do I know
that ? and I would not like to die leaving it
undone."

Die ! " echoed Otto, opening his closed eyes
to their broadest and fixing: them on Eadeo'und.
Why should you talk of such  such  Eider
? " and rousing back to a half-sitting posture,
he repeated her name in tones of piteous
enquiry. " Ashy should you talk of  of dying ? "

Why should I not ? As well as another."

"Oh, ah ! " replied he, sinking back again
with a relieved sigh into the cool shadows.
*' That way of course. But it isn't cheerful
such sort of talk. And I don't like to hear it."

' And if I were to die?"

'' Don't," whimpered Otto.

Don't be an idiot," she said. " Would you
fret for me a week, I wonder ? Sisters are of
small enough account, dear, to married brothers."

I shall never marry, if you're talking at me,"
he said gloomily, rising and lounging towards
the picture, where he stood with his eyes fixed
on it, but somehow able to see only a confusing
mist of colour.

Oh, indeed ! " laughed Eadegund. " I should
like Gretchen to be behind you now."

Gretchen be "

What ! " interrupted Eadegund, turning,
brush in hand, upon him, and transfixing him
with her astonished gaze. " You two have
quarrelled ? "

Never you mind, Eadegund," he said, flushing
uneasily.

"You have."

Never you mind, I say." 

Otto ! Gretchen has never jilted you ? "

Oh ! ho ! ho ! Jilted me ! Come, that is a
good notion ! Jilted me. No, my dear ; not
exactly."

You're a wondrous bargain," she said with
a careless smile, turning; ao;ain to her easel.
*' But "

Now look here, Eadegund. If you're going
to preach  look here, Eadegund, I'm not a baby,
and I'm not going to stand here for you to be
telling me I'm dishonourable."

"My dear boy."

"And this and that," and he shifted uneasily
from one leg to the other, " this and that, don't
you know ; because there isn't an inch of dishonour
in it. That is, there is a great deal, but
it's all on the other  now see here, Eadem
I'm not going to tell sou a word about
it, nor anybody else neither ; so it's no use
asking."

My dear child, do I want to know ; was I so
much in love with this brilliant alliance, and
your beautiful Gretchen ? "

Oh come ! there are plainer women than
Gretchen, now then ! "

"Her sisters, yes," said the merciless Eadem
" No, my dear, I cannot offer you my

condolence. The connection was no such desirable
one."

Oh," interrupted Otto, " we needn't rake up
all that, because it's done with ; the whole thing's
at an end," and a heavy sigh broke from him,
which was, however, less for the discarded Gretchen
than for Eadegund's provokingly cool indifference
at his startling disclosure. Secretly, so
secretly that he was himself unconscious of it, Otto
had trusted to finding sympathy from Radegund.
The faintest spark of it would have drawn from
him the whole truth of his rupture with Hacker-navel
; and his shallower nature thirsted now for
some counsel from her. He had half dreaded,
half yearned for that anticipated "lecture" from
Eadegund. Time had been that she would have
taken up the cudgels for poor Gretchen, and
rated Otto soundly, not assuredly out of any
personal affection for the girl, of whom she knew
comparatively little beyond the fact that she
seemed better than her kin and surroundings,
and so much she had made it her business to
ascertain ; but because her instinctive sense told
her that it was ignoble to break the troth he had
plighted; but now now " When did this
happen ? " was all she said.

"Last Wednesday."

To-morrow  a whole week ! " she replied,
lifting her brows in feigned surprise. " So long !
why, you'll be casting about for a new sweetheart
by Sunday ! "

'well," dolefully acknowledged Otto, 'rit is
dull without one, awfully."

Poor dear boy."

Oh, it's nothing to laugh at, Eadegund,"
he said, aggrieved by the smile he fancied he detected
lurking about her lips as she bent over
her canvas.

Laugh, child, why should I do that ? I
was only thinking that if you're really off  and
you are ? "

Oh, it's as real as mud," said Otto ; "I
wouldn't touch him "

Him ? "

Her, of course, I mean ; how dull you are,
Eadegund  with a pitchfork."

"And since, then, you're so thoroughly off as
all that with the new love, how would it be to
return to the old ? Cousin Sabina," she said,
calmly working in her flesh-tints on the murderous
queen's jewelled fingers.

Sometimes," said Otto, after a brief silence,

sometimes 1 do think you're a little mad, Eadem


Is there such insanity in supposing that
when a pretty little Jill like Cousin Sabina is
Feckless "

That's no fault of hers  at least, I mean, it
is  that is, I mean "

"Feckless," insisted Kadegund, "that a handsome
young fellow like you are, should not go in
and win."

"Ah ! " sighed Otto groaningly, surveying by
a severe contortion of his spine the middle seam
down the back of his doublet, in the tortoiseshell
and silver mirror behind him, "it is curious of
course."

"Silly boy," she interrupted, "what hare
hearts you men have ! Does it follow because
Sabina happened to refuse you once, once when
her little brain was turned, that she'd do so
now ? "

No," said Otto, calling up remembrances of
certain renewed overtures of his, which he had
kept secret in his own heart, as Eleusinian mysteries
; "no, of course it doesn't follow."

"And things are changed since last you went
a wooing; in the Munster-o-asse."

"Think so?" said Otto meditatively. "I
don't know so much about that ; I take it there's
been more  well  muddle, you know, than
change."

*' Ho ! " contemptuously laughed Eadegund.
"No change?  no change? Next you'll be saying
that these two still  Heaven help us !  still love
each other ! "

Dasipodius and Cousin Sabina ? Ay, yes,"
nodded Otto, " I dare swear they do."

Fool ! what sort of eyes have you that you
could not see the coolness between them when
we called in the other evening at the Munster-grasse
? and how glad Conrad Dasipodius seemed
of an excuse to get away ? Couldn't your stupid
head comprehend as much as that ? " she demanded,
stamping her foot.

"Yes," admitted Otto, "oh yes."

"And how anxious he was to be coming with
us. You saW' how he wanted to come with us ? "

But Otto was absorbed in critical scrutiny of
the canvas before him. " Eadegund, I say, what
a she-dragon you are making of this woman ! "
he said at last.

Unchanged ! " muttered the artist, staring
gloomily before her. " How can you say so ? "

she added in a louder tone. " Tell me now,
Otto, have you forgotten already that letter
she  asked me to write for her ? Speak, have
you forgotten it ? "

"Am I likely to ? " replied Otto with unwonted
animation ; " for my part, I know I wish we,
you and I, Radegund, had had nothing to do
with the thing. I had better have burnt my
fingers off in the fire like  what was the
fellow's name, the Woman fellow ? Mu  Mu 
never mind ; but if I could have guessed what
a devil of a business it was going to bring
about "

Hush ! "

I'd have  I'd have "

If you don't make haste you'll be late," said
Radegund coldly, resuming her work ; " goodbye,
brother mine, till this evening ; and  take
my advice, don't go putting yourself out again
to-day about nothing."

Nothing ! " fumed he, turning to go.

"No, it's too hot. And Otto," he looked
back, "think over what I've been saying about
that first little love of yours."

With a grunt Otto departed, and through the
long sultry morning Radegund had toiled on

without intermission. It seemed as if those
hands must be fraught with superhuman
strength ; slender always, they looked cruelly
fragile now, and, unless the dark purples in the
upper lights of the motioned windows were
casting strange shadows, had a wasted sunken
appearance, which allowed the veins to show,
visibly threading each other through the transparent
skin. Yet hour succeeded hour, and still
with fevered hurrying unrest they toiled on, and
the picture gathered a terrible vividness.

Once she paused to drag off and fling aside the
black velvet hood-like cap she wore ; and again
and again she wiped away the gathering moisture
on her face, colourless as alabaster, save for two
burning spots on either cheek. The day was
indeed a sweltering one. Could it be the heat,
she at last vexedly asked herself, which was
marring all her work, by affecting the colours on
her palette ? so that, labour as she might, they
refused to stay on her brush, but ran clown, and
clotted, and did everything but what was required
of them so persistently, that at last she
threw down her maul stick in desperation. " It's
all Bruno's fault ! " she muttered to herself,
angrily considering the delicate white folds of

the hapless Rosamond's pearl-broidered gown ;
he told me to mix in more white lead, and see
what's come of his cleverness ! He must have
meant more of the sulphate powder ; I knew he
was thinking of something else when he said it.
Well, he told Otto he should be here to-night 
to-night ? that is to waste hours. No," and
laying aside her tools, she picked up the discarded
hood, and gathered her dishevelled hair
under it ; then throwing a light camlet wrap
about her shoulders, she hurried out in the direction
of the surgeon's house.

She'll get sunstroke," cried more than one,
coming to their wide flung open doors to look
after her as she passed swiftly onwards. 'ein
these dog-days. Think only ! thou dear Heaven !
To come abroad at this hour ! "

She's mad ! "

'artist folks always are ! "

"Do you mark how pale and thin the painting
woman has grown ? " demanded Ezekiel Grum-
bach the Calvinist, of Isaiah his Anabaptist
neighbour.

"Ay," nodded heaven's predestined. " Maybe,
brother Ezekiel, her papist sins are finding her
out at last, and beginning to gnaw her vitals."

'let US hope so, neighbour."

She looks pale indeed, poor thing, doesn't
she?" said a buxom little house-mother, catching
up her chubby moon-faced firstborn from his
cradle, and coming to join the group of gazers,
*' fearfully pale!"

As the pestilence that walketh at noonday."

Nay, brother, thou art wresting the Scriptures.
'Tis the sickness, not the pestilence
that walketh at noonday," mildly rebuked the
other.

"The Bible was made for man," retorted Isaiah,
turning his back on his neighbour, and retiring
under the sanctity of his own roof again.
Thy quibbling savoured of the schoolmen ;
and standeth in my nostrils."

She's fit to be the Emperor's wife," said
little Crispin Krebs, the hump-backed cobbler,
looking up after her from the tall buff boots he
was patching. " See only how she walks. Her
feet never wore tight brodequins, if I know
leather from prunella."

God bless thee, lady ! " murmured the blind
beggar by the fountain. " I knew 'twas you, by
Strow's tail."

Strow's tail ? " said Eadegund, stooping to

drop a coin into the dog's tin cup, and gently
stroking his shaggy head.

'ray. Let him catch but the sight of you
ever so far off, and I feel it begin to go wag wag
here against my legs so fast that if 'twere 'prentice
made, and not the dear God's own work, 'twould
come off, I do think."

A VISIT TO DR. WOLKEXBEEG's.

"nOCTOK WOLKEXBEEG was not in when
 Eadeound reached his house. All the
forenoon he had not stirred out, as Trudel
explained ; been as lone in fact as the church
weathercock, but about an hour since, he had
been sent for ; young Hans Vogelweid had fallen
out of the apple tree  a pox on his thieving tricks
green sour apples too !  and broke his leg, and
the ne'er-do-well's mother had come shrieking her
heart out for the master, who had gone off with
his splints and bandages to set young hopeful's
wicked leg. " Just as so 'tis ever," grumbled on
the old housekeeper, who had not been part and
parcel of Bruno's establishment ever since he
possessed one, without knowing how the heart's
beat of him jumped ; and with a glance of thinly
veiled significance at Eadef>;und. " Just so 'tis
ever in this weary world. The bad ones make

38

the mischief, and the good ones have to bear the
brunt of it."

Would Mistress von Steinbach walk in, and
be pleased to wait till the master came back.
There was her own little room  but Trudel
offered this special hospitality a trifle frigidly ;
for besides that she held certain grudges against
Eadegund on another person's account, the artist,
from a general point of view, was no favourite
with her. Mistress von Steinbach, she would
confide in a tone of compassionate contempt
to her circle of intimates, couldn't hold a nice
little gossip with you to save her life, poor
thing ! Trudel' s mind therefore felt as if quite
a weight had been lifted from it when Eadegund
declined the proffered civility, and passed on into
the doctor's own room, where the old woman,
shutting the door upon her, left her to herself.

Wearied with her long day's labour, and her
walk through the heat, the artist threw herself
into the doctor's chair, a comfortable shabby
thing, whose once gilded leather was blackened
now, and slippery with age and use. The place
is very silent ; only the fidgeting up and down
of Tobit, the blackbird, in his great wicker cage
beside the open window looking into the sombre

high walled garden, breaks the stillness. Never
as now has Eadegund so entirely realised the
utter loneliness of this life of Bruno Wittenberg's.
Only poor old Tobit, and Balder, of
course  Balder the beautiful, shortest and ,
longest carcase, most eccentrically
eared and tailed, loving-hearted dog in all Strasbourg,
to wait on the goings in and comings out
of this man whose life is more than half spent
amid scenes of suffering and sadness, and making
the existence of others endurable to them. And
where, she asked of herself  asked because the
question forced itself upon her, and would not
be stifled down  where was the human consolation
of this consoler's life ? All that sweetness
of companionship, which is the priceless heritage
of rich and poor alike.

It is not good for man to be alone." And if
in the Scripture there were things Eadegund
dared to question, that at least was not among
them. The absolute isolation of her own being,
with all its passionate longings, taught her only
too well what the solitude of this man must be.
And why was it so with him ? This foolish
golden-haired blue-eyed Bruno, secretly worshipped
by a score of fair maidens ; and with

a smile which, if it has in it something of
exultation, is infinitely fuller of sadness, Eagles
leaves thinking, and lets her eyes travel
in vague drowsy curiosity round the vaulted
chamber's smoke-embroiled stone walls, hung
with stuffed scaly reptile creatures, whose scared
eyes seemed to be transfixing with a dull watchfulness
the surgeon's truckle bed yonder in the
furthermost corner.

Truly a strange grim place to live in, and
grow gray in, and so one day to die in 1 And
then those desolate rooms above  she thought
of them with their rich furniture rotting and
mouldering away like dead things in their
shrouds ; and how with her lay the power to
give life to this joyless silent place; and then
with that strange sad smile upon her face, and
her tired aching hands clasped upon her bosom,
as though, waking or sleeping, she guarded there
something which never rack nor sword might tear
from her, the weary eyelids closed and she fell
asleep. A sleep it was heavy and dreamless as
of one physically and mentally tired out ; and
when at last she stirred, the shadows had begun
to gather, and Bruno Wolkenberg stood beside
her in a halo of evening sunlight, whose moaned

haze, streaming in tlivougii the tawny glass
of the lattice, threw so clamorous a brilliancy
round his tall figure, that to the artist's only
half-awakened senses, he seemed for the moment
like one of those old romance heroes he could tell
of so well.

Eadegund," he softly murmured.

The sound recalled her to herself ; and pushing
back the dark rings of hair from her forehead,
dyed momentarily with a flush of confusion, she
sat uj).

Caught napping ! " she cried with a petulant
smile. " Well  I suppose I was tired out with
waiting for you. Dr. Wolkenberg. I thought
you'd never come. Where have you been such
an age ? "

I am sorry," began Bruno, who did not think
it necessary to explain that he had been back an
hour at least, and creeping about like a thief on
his own premises for fear of wakening her. " I
am very sorry I was not in when you did me so
great an honour."

"Ay," interrupted she, glancing through the
window at the flowers gratefully stirring in the
light evening breeze, and then up at Tobit composing
himself for the night. "It was provoking

of you, Dr. Wolkenberg. Very vexatious ; and
now, nothing more can possibly be done to-day.
It's hopeless to think of it."

Is anything amiss ? " asked Bruno, looking
for the hundredth time within the last hour at
the thin nervously restless hands and wean face
of the woman he so passionately loved.

Very much amiss ; my picture "

"Ah, the picture," said the doctor more cheerily.

"And it is your fault ; all your fault."

Give me the symptoms," he said, his face clearing,
" and perhaps I shall hit upon the remedy."

It's past retrieving  almost," she returned
crossly. " Your grand new medium's a failure.
The colours run all one into the other, till my
best touches come like hideous daubs."

The thrones or the crimsons ? "

Both  all, they muddle, I tell you, into each
other  ah sickeningly ; but the white's the worst.
Streaky whitewash ; and though I've been hard
at work hours upon hours "

How many ? " challenged Bruno.

"Since dawn. And the longer I worked, the
worse it has come."

"Ah ! " said Bruno, nodding his profoundest
aesculapius nod, "exactly so."

"And what," demanded she, " is the reason of
it?"

"The heat," he answered, his eyes still searchingly
studying her face. "Only the heat I hope."

Ah," she said, leaning forward and scanning
the doctor's pharmacopeia arranged on the stone-stabbed
bench before her, "that is what I guessed.
It wants some more of that deadly poison stuff
you said it was, to stay it. Make haste. Dr.
Bruno, and give it me, I must be going again."

So soon ? " asked he, stifling a sigh, and his
blue eyes still thoughtfully considering her.
"Nay, have patience just a little while." Then
he dragged a low stool beside her, and seating
himself he took the fevered hand hanging over
the chair's arm, and counted as well as he might
for its wayward restlessness, its throbbing beats.
A little patience. Qui va sand  remember
the wise saying of your Italian friends  va
montana  and do not fret and worry yourself so
over this picture. Believe me, I do not think
the pigments are all to blame."

"Is it this hand then ? " she cried, fiercely
wrenching' it from him, " which has lost its skill.
That is wdiat you mean, Bruno Wolkenberg ! "

"Heaven forbid ! " he said, looking at her in

perplexed amazement, "why should I say anything
so far from my thoughts ? No. no. What
did T mean more than that you have been toiling
too closely at the Horologe pictures ; and now
this one, and the weather so scorching hot, and 
and  take a doctor's advice," he pleaded with an
efibrt at a smile, " and rest a little. You need
it."

Eest," she murmured, her gaze wandering
once again to the chemical array before her.
*' Eest is only for the dead ; you know that,
Bruno, as well as I do. Here there is neither
rest nor peace. They talk of hell, these priests
and petits, but that is here  in this world.
Beyond is nothing ; you know it is so, Bruno
Wolkenberg," challenged she, gripping the arm
of her chair, and turning her hollow eager eyes
on his face. " Nothing ! "

"Eadegund," he said gently, "what are you
saying ? You are ill, you are not yourself."

Ho ! " she cried with a discordant laugh.
Am I not ? Well, well, I have heard them
call you Saint Bruno, and  yes, it is very well
for people like you to please yourselves with
such pretty fancies ; but for me  Bruno, tell
me," and she swept her hand lightly over the

glass, phials and boxes on the table before her.
That stuff, that vehicle you mixed for my
colours, it is poison, you say?"

'deadly."

And to think now," she said in dreamy
tones, " that such deadliness should have power
to give life to such beauty."

*' It is but the natural law," said the surgeon,
with a sudden light in his face, momentarily
chasing all the shadows. '' Good even out of
evil itself. God's own world, Eadegund. ' And
when He made it, He saw that it was good.' "

'' What an old-fashioned creature you are ! "
she said with a petulant smile. "And when
it's the thing too to believe everything and
everybody is going to the bad."

That comes of heretical teaching," shrugged
Bruno. " AYe owe our new-fledged pessimism to
the learned Doctor Calvin."

"Ay, but some," she said mockingly, "some,
he says, are to be saved."

"I'd rather be in limbo," said the daring
Bruno, " than with those same good folks.
Heaven forgive me if I am wrong, but it seems
to me that a more worthless "

For shame. Dr. Wolkenberg ! " laughed she,

and be careful, do. Remember the fate of one
Servetus."

A more worthless idle set than these Elect
ones does not cumber the earth," persisted
Bruno.

You believe in the efficacy of works  good
works ? "

Ay, that do I," said the doctor fervently.

Then prove your argument," she said, rising
abruptly, " and give me this stuff 1 want, and
let me go back  to my work."

Nay," he contended, smiling. " I am too
faithful to my proposition for that. Everything
in its own good time and place. I cannot give
you this you ask me for."

Cannot ! " and angry sparks kindled in the
artist's eyes. "Is it then so costly '? " she said,
laying her hand on the embroidered velvet
aumoniere at her side. " I have money, Dr.
Wolkenberg."

Eadegund," he said, paling, "I should have
said I will not."

'' I see  I know," she rejoined quickly. " You
are afraid to trust me with poison. Why ? "

You accredit my words to-night with strange
meaning," he said, colouring a little. " Why

indeed ? " he added, with grave dignity. " It is
not natures made of such stuff as yours which
would stoop, even in their worst need, to such
baseness as that."

You rate me too highly, Bruno," she said.

"And with all the world," he went on, as
though he had not heard her interruption, " all
the world at your feet. Poison '? nay, no. Why
speak of it ? " he said shudderingly. '' What
did I mean more than that I would not give you
this stuff because I want you to lay aside this
painting work for a while ; only a little while,"
he said beseechingly. " You need rest I tell
you, Radegund ; you are ill."

'' And you  are a croaker, Dr. Bruno. No,
listen now," she said, softening at the utter
misery in his face. " I tell you, you do not
understand. Rest would kill me."

Only a week," pleaded Bruno.

Every hour of delay frets me," she rejoined,
waving; her hands to and fro. " When the night
comes, and I can work no more, then I cannot
sleep for the haunting of it."

"Exactly so," nodded the doctor. "And
what is that but the evidence of an overtaxed
brain ? "

It may be as you say," acknowledged she.
'' It may be only that. Still your remedy is
worse than my disease. Come, Bruno," and she
laid her hand caressingly on his sleeve, " give
me the stuff and let me go."

I cannot conceive," said Bruno, thrilling
wit] the witchery of the sweet contact, and
blundering out the words that came uppermost,
for the sake of keeping the glory of her presence
yet a little longer in his gloomy sanctum, " I
cannot conceive why this picture is so dear to
you, Kadegund. It is masterfully thought out
I grant, and its execution is faultless, but the
subject !  such a gruesome one ! How on earth
came you to think of it ? "

Can we account for our  inspirations ? "
asked she, evading his eyes.

It is very terrible."

"It is true."

"The more hateful then."

You are hard on my poor queen."

Poor ! " echoed Bruno, his eyes growing
round. " It is her victim, I would take leave
to say, one is more inclined to pity."

Not so," murmured Kadegund. " She was
happy. Happy, though a thousand daggers

and poison cups tortured her. She was beloved."


Bruno sighed. Who was he that he could
gainsay her ?

Tell me, Bruno," she said, after a silence
long enough for the last fleck of red sunlight to
fade from the darkening room, "had you lived
then, and chanced to love that woman "

That murderess 1" he cried, with a loathing
shiver.

Ay, yes, her. Would you  how about your
love for her then, Bruno ? " she said, tightening
her grasp upon his arm, and gazing hungrily
into his face. " How about it ? "

Love ? with blood upon her hands ? "

No ; I do not mean that  no. How literal
you are ! "

God in Heaven ! what do you mean ? " he
cried, in his vexed bewilderment.

You foolish Bruno," she said, lifting her
hand from his arm, and sending him from her
with a light push ; then breaking into a hollow
mirthless laugh, she sank down again into the
chair from which she had risen. 'may not I
weave my little romances as well as you ? "

Romances ! " echoed the perturbed Bruno,

brushing his hand perplexedly before his eyes.
*' Nightmares, Eadegund " ; and coming beside
her, he knelt, and tenderly strove to possess
himself of her two hands. " Love ! "

No ; hush ! hush ! " she cried, with tearless
sobs, " hush ! "

I will not ! " broke forth the despairing man.
Eadegund, if I do not speak, my heart will
break. Is yours so stone-hard  dead to love ?
Why do you look at me like that ? Eadegund,
have you no pity ? "

Pity ? " she echoed coldly. " Pity for
whom ? "

For yourself ; for me. Something troubles
you. Ah, if you look at me so, I shall go mad,
I shall go mad, Eadegund  love, dear love 
Eadegund, not all hell's worst torments could
make my soul suffer the misery it feels, to seethe
shadow of suffering come near you ! "

All the deep chivalry of his nature was stirring
in him to feed the intense patient love he bore
for this woman, whom, in that mind of his, which
revelled in type and symbol and imagery, he had
always compared with some stately plant ; and
now after long secret agonized watching, he had
come to understand how, beyond all hope of

doubt, some canker, mental or physical (or
might it be both ), threatened the life of it ;
and his unselfish devotion yearned with a longing,
not all her cold indifference could quench,
to take her to himself, and soothe back her pain.
To him this moment seemed supreme. Could
he have lain down his life for her now, and
bought with it for her the old brilliant vitality,
could his eyes have caught one ray of the haughty
triumphant smile of past days, it seemed to him
that to have died here at her feet would have
been a joy indeed. But the living death his
existence passed in, had grown an unendurable
torture, and his clutch now upon her arm was
like the convulsive grip of a drowning man ; yet
she, shaking him ofi*, rose, and with haughty but
somewhat swaying gait, swept past him towards
the door.

"I do not understand you, Dr. Wolkenberg,"
she said, pausing there for an instant, and a
smile colder than a marble Pallas Athens's
curved her pale lips. " I think you must have
caught the sick fancies of your patients that
you see anything amiss in me. When I want
your advice, 1 will ask it of you."

Eadegund, if there is any pity "

Bruno Wolkenberg," and she fixed her proud
sad eyes on him, " I did not dream of this from
you. Had I thought you were made of no better
stuff than the herd of fools who come plaguing
me with their pretty nothings, do you suppose
1 should have trusted myself here to-day  tonight
? under your roof, in your house ? Hark!"
and as she spoke the Cathedral clock struck
seven. " When I go now, think you there will
be no curious eyes, no gossip-mongering tongues
to mark how Kadeguud von Steinbach visited
the surgeon, Bruno Wolkenberg, yesterday, and
did not quit his house till nightfall ? "

"If," beofan he, with flushing; cheek and
brows, " if they dare "

Oh ! " she laughed scornfully. " They
would dare much more than that, these worthy
gossips. They would call in question the most
flawless jewel of Christ's own crown. And forme

 well, is this the place, the time " she

hesitated, her face crimsoned, and her eyes fell
beneath his gaze.

'' You are false," he said, " to yourself, Kade-
gun. You are saying what your heart does
not feel. God knows," he went on, earnestly
watching the attend half-lifted eyelids, " as I do,

God knows how pure, how noble your heart
is."

"Bruno," she wailed, "no, no, you do not,
you cannot "

"And how it is proof against the paltry
malice of a thousand slanderous tongues, Eadem
No, do not let that wretched phantom
of what the world calls ' propriety ' come between
our "

Friendship ! " she said, returning a step or
two, and stretching out her hands to him, with
a smile so sweetly, radiantly defiant, that for the
moment she looked again like the Eadegund of
old days. " No, by the mass ! that it shall not.
You are a magician. Dr. Bruno ! I think indeed
I was only trying what it might feel like, to play
the dainty damsel, and be coy and maidenly,
like my little Mistress Cousin Sabina, and the
thousand and one of her stamp. Come, forgive
me, Bruno, comrade, brother  how shall I best
call you ? Nay, now, but I know, it shall befriend
again  yes ? Now and always friend ;
the best, truest name of all. Bruno, dear Bruno,
if you look at me with those Rhadamanthus
eyes an instant longer, they will annihilate me.
Don't be cruel any more, but give me," and

39

grasping his trembling hands, she dragged him
back to the table  " which is it ? The stuff 
give it me, and let me go, dear, dear Bruno."

And the surgeon did even as he was commanded.


PLAYING WITH FIRE.

rpHE domestic storm which had for so long
been brewing in Syndic Hackernagel's
house, burst with such disastrous force after
Otto von Steinbach's recorded dsit there, that
it resulted in an exodus among his servants, who
declared that the master's tempers made the
place unendurable ; and it was only the unhappy
accident of their blood connection with the head
of the establishment, which militated against the
young ladies emulating the wise example.

Which was the lesser evil of the two which
had now to be endured, it was hard to say.
Hackernagel rampant  from cellar to roof,
prying into everybody and everything he could
lay his lean suspicious fingers on ; kicking the
dog, shunting the cat from corners which by
time-honoured appropriation were her own ;
banging the doors, leaving them open when

the draught was enough to cut your head oJBf,
insisting on their being hermetically closed when
everybody was gasping for air, and generally
superinducing misery for all who enjoyed the
privilege of making part and parcel of himself
in the remotest degree.

This of course was abominable enough ; but
there were those who preferred it to Hacker-navel
couchant, and among these was Gretchen.
She shrank in common with all the rest, when
he vented his spleen on everything which came
within bowshot of him, but she trembled with a
vao'ue awesome fear, when his mood changed to
a sullen extreme, and he would sit for hours
gazing before him, speaking no audible word,
yet muttering to himself, with an ugly twitching
of his bluish lips, and a dull baleful glitter in his
pale eyes. Sulky Tobias Hackernagel was by
nature, but such an abyss of gloom, for such a
prolonged spell of time, he had never yet lurked
in. That look in his eyes, like some savage
animal's lying in wait for its prey, haunted the
girl. She knew her father not as he was known
by the world, with his oily tongue, and his
pinchbeck periods, but as dwellers under the
same roof know each other, and the experience

told her to fear the outcome of that moody
silence. To her sisters, their father was " in a
temper," certainly an abnormally hideous one ;
something had gone wrong with him in the
fish market, where he still retained his little
vested interests ; or likelier still, somebody's
words had dinned down his own in some stand-up
polemical tussle, and with their normal
capacity of endurance stretched to the utmost,
the young ladies were waiting for him to emerge
from his slough of spleen. But then they were
ignorant of so much as a hint of all that Gretchen
knew. The poor girl, dreading their triumphant
mockery of sympathy which would be her lot
directly the jealous trio should come to scent her
lover's defection, strove to guard her unhappy
secret intact as long as she might, instinctively
conscious that her father was not likely to blazon
it abroad.

If Gretchen's nature had inherited many of
her dead mother's virtues, it was also touched
with something of her sire's keenness and caution
; and that it had been, which had prompted
her to act as she had done, on the occasion of
Otto's last visit. Its stormy ending did but
confirm certain surmises she had formed for

some time past, and prompted lier to keep a
close watch over her father's actions ; a supervision
which grew the more intense when he sat
absorbed in those long sullen silences.

Like a nightmare that ugly speculative gaze
oppressed her. What it boded she spent hours
in attempting to divine. That it meant mischief
was as certain as that a cobra stings; but mischief
against whom ? Otto of course, argued the girl,
out of those thoughts which went flying fast to
that which was dearest to her. First and foremost,
beyond all question against Otto ; for was
not vindictiveness a primal attribute of Tobias
Hackernagel's ? and if ever man bore grudge
against another, must not he be bearing it against
Otto now ? and besides Otto  besides Otto  and
then Gretchen Hackernagel would shudderingly
live over and over again through that scene,
until one day, about as many as ten afterwards,
there came sore perplexity to couple with her
wretchedness.

It chanced that Time's wheel had brought
round her allotted fortnight for taking the head
of domestic affairs ; and in her morning pilgrimages
to and from market, which took her
across one angle of the Cathedral Platz, she had

more than once caught a glimpse of Tobias
slowly parading before the facade of the Cathedral,
and not content with this, exchanging (if
eyes were to be trusted, and she was beyond
earshot) a passing word with Prudentius the
sacristan ! Now, that he had been led thither
by some sudden affection for Prudentius, Gretchen
found inconceivable ; Prudentius, of whom
times out of number, she had heard her father
express wholesale abhorrence, as one of Strasbourg's
fullest, most practical agents in maintaining
the ancient order of ecclesiastical rule ;
and all the more carefully to be kept at arm's
length, by reason of his subordinate position,
which, as Tobias held, rendered his corrupt
workings doubly insidious. A foe to be stamped
out by hook or by crook, by fair means or foul,
if only one could compass them. An obstinate,
irreclaimable monk and door-keeper of the mighty
temple of darkness in their midst !

A strange portent indeed. The cadaverous
skin and bone of Tobias and the abundant rosy
flesh of Prudentius did not differentiate more
thoroughly than the inward men of these two
Strassburgers. It would have been easier, one
would have thought, to assimilate oil and water.

than to bring this fanatical Anabaptist and smug
Catholic to so much of speaking terms as compassed
a civil good-day ; and yet here was Tobias
to be seen airily originating to and fro in the
very shadow of the Cathedral walls, and always
in the neighbourhood of the sacristan's own snug
quarters adjoining the St. Laurence chapel ! It
is true that the Syndic took as much precaution
as possible not to be seen of the men and women
of his persuasion ; and if any such chanced upon
him there, would explain, with all the elaboration
of diction for which he was so renowned,
that just that corner was the most delightfully
cool spot in the whole city.

And I suppose I may walk where I please,"
as he blandly observed one morning to Prudentius,
who was busy with his broom about the
steps.

Certainly, Master Hackernagel, certainly,"
acquiesced the sacristan, with careless good
humour. " It's God's air."

Oh  yes," assented Tobias, sniffing, however,
a little dubiously at the atmosphere touched with
the breath of incense wafted through the open
door.

"And it's a free city," continued Prudentius,

always ready to vary his life's monotony with
the interchange of a friendly word or two ;
*' there's no law against your walking your legs
off hereabouts, if you please. '

Oh, no. As you observe, my friend, quite
correct, quite so. All things, as you say, are
lawful "

"And," anxiously commented Prudentius,
casting hungry glances in the direction of his
private apartments, thence issued a savoury
odour of something like nothing so much as fried
ham, " what a blessed consoling doctrine it is.
Master Hackernagel ! "

Lawful, as you remark ; but all things are
not expedient, friend Prudentius, hey ? "

"There may be something in that," coincided
Prudentius, *' something in that, I daresay."

It involves a hecatomb of doctrine, my good
friend; simply a hecatomb."

"Ah ! " said the sacristan, suppressing a yawn,
does it now ? "

"You ask me how," continued the Syndic,
lifting his hand and waving it in the direction of
the Cathedral. " Take an example, a case in
point ; an instance that at once suggests itself
to the most superficially reflective mind."

"Just SO," said Pruclentius, scenting the
morning air, each instant growing heavier \Yith
luscious fragrance.

"An instance that at once presents itself for
the sake of argument, simply for the sake of
argument, you follow me ? good. Now, abstractedly
 abstractedly, mind you  it would afford
me no small gratification to step inside this little
door here, and take a stroll round your Cathedral."

"By all means," interrupted the sacristan,
with a brightening face, " pray do if you want.
Master Hackernagel, step in and stay as long as
you like, while I "

Softly friend, softly. And yet, I say, and
yet, I refrain from so doing."

But why '? " urged Prudentius, turning to the
door and pushing it wide open ; "go in if you
want ; isn't the place as free to you as it is to
the best of us ? "

Get thee behind me, Satan ! " cried Hacker-navel,
retreating in pious horror ; " shall it be
carried down to posterity that Tobias Hacker-navel
afforded such countenance to papistry's
expiring flame."

Nobody would ever know," said Prudentius
grumblingly. "And if they did "

'' Shall it, I say "

"There! there!" interrupted the sacristan,
** don't waste breath on it. In with you if you
want ; who's to see you ? "

Principle, my good creature, you overlook
the principle involved ; principle is everything.
But," continued Hackernagel, heaving a profound
sigh, " you speak according to your lights. Individually,
are you to blame ? I trow not. Lights
did I say ? darkness I should have said ; for
what are you but a practical illustration of the
erroneous doctrine of your teachers ? What do
you prove but that, with those who are given to
much serving, conscience is a very secondary consideration
indeed."

"Ay, by the Mass, you may say that, Master
Tobias," returned Prudentius, sighing in his turn,
and folding his arms on the top of his broom.
There's none of us is everything we ought to
be, eh ? and what with all my hands and legs
find to do, I don't say but that my conscience
has got to look a good bit after itself. Scrub,
sweep, dust  dust, sweep, scrub, year's end to
year's end ; and now, as if there hadn't been
enough, there's the Horologe."

"Ah ! just so."

"And the dust and grease they do make over
it "

"A fine piece of mechanism," interjected Tobias.

Eh ? "

I say the Horologe is a fine piece of mechanism
; the happy result of  ahem  of a
combination of talent."

Well, I don't know," slowly said Prudentius ;
some do say that too many cooks nearly
spoilt its broth ; and if it hadn't been that the
Professor Dasipodius took it in hand again
when he did, just in the nick of time, we
shouldn't have had it by Saint Laurence's
day."

"The fourth of August you mean, friend."

I mean Saint Laurence's day as 'tis writ
down in the contract, it was to be ready by.
But we're safe to have it now, without fail."

Do you really think so ? " smiled the Syndic.

Think ! Pm sure. The Professor Dasipodius
has said it, hasn't he ? "

I cannot conceive the possibility of its being
ready," said Tobias.

'' Seeing's believing," grunted Prudentius.

There's an element of truth in your remark,"
blandly returned Hackernagel. " I imagine now

that if  if I did just take a stroll round, I might
obtain a glimpse of it  yes ? "

No, by the Eood, that you wouldn't," briskly
returned Prudentius ; " it's as completely hidden
from vulgar observation as a twelve hour old
baby in its swaddling clothes, or a bride before
breakfast on her wedding; morning

whose orders ?." angrily demanded Tobias.

By my lord Bishop's ; and nobody can see
an inch of it, unless "

Unless ? " asked the Syndic, carelessly
jingling some loose cash in his pockets.

Unless I or my lord please."

And you "? " said Tobias, drawing forth a
florin and displaying it in his open palm.

It's quite against the rules, I tell you," said
Prudentius, affectionately eyeing the piece of
silver. " Though I don't say I see there's any
harm in it myself."

Harm ! my good friend ! " protested the
Syndic in wounded tones. '' And every rule has
its exception," he added, as he slipped the coin
into Prudentius' hands.

MOTIVE POWER."

The sacristan's fat fingers closed upon the
bribe ; and without more ado, he conducted
the Anabaptist into the nave of the
Cathedral, preceding him in the direction of
the Chapel of St. Thomas.

Within a few yards of it, Prudentius, turning
to address his companion, observed that his hat
still decorated his head. Irritated out of his ordinary
serenity by the irreverence, the sacristan
assisted in its removal by a light but vigorous
upward tip. "You've forgot your hat, friend,"
he said, and the thing fell, and rolled forward
some distance.

Nettled by the practical reproof, Tobias stooped
to recover his property ; but blinded by angry
haste, his foot came in contact with the broad
low step of an old monumental tomb, and tripping
up, he fell sprawling his length against its

painted alabaster cornice work, whose once glowing
gold and crimson colour was dulled now by
age. Some jagged marks and indentations in
the tomb's surface indicated that it had at sometime
borne an effigy of its dead resting below ;
but at the present moment only a sculptured
cushion lay at its upper end.

"The foul fiend seize you!" snarled Tobias,
glaring at the tomb, and rubbing his bruised
shins, " for the popish whited sepulchre you
are ! Breaking honest folks bones like that ! "

Hush ! sh  sh 1 " whispered Prudentius in
awe-stricken tones. " For blessed Mary's sake,
mind what you're saying  hereabouts ! 'Tis the
tomb of Mistress Sabina von Steinbach that 
the saints help us ! what are you staring at ? 
her I mean that was old Erwin the architect's
daughter ; not our little Lily, God bless her,
and long days to her."

"Ah, the dead Mistress Sabina von Steinbach."

"Ay, if so be that she is honestly dead. But I
don't know, I don't know. She walks, Master
Syndic, she lualks!'' and though it was broad
July daylight, the sacristan glanced cautiously
over his shoulder.

Walks ! " echoed Tobias.

Yes, yes ; gets up when the clock strikes
midnight, and goes rambling all over the place.
You don't know where you mayn't come upon
her. There's not a hole nor a corner you're
safe from her in, after dark. It's awful. 'Tis
said she does no more than just sit up a bit and
turn this stone pillow here," and Prudentius laid
his hand gingerly on the cushion with its delicately
sculptured broidered passementerie, " and
go to sleep again ; but those who say that haven't
got to be all alone in this great place at all
hours ; and I should hope I may be allowed to
knows best."

My good friend, this is sheer superstition on
your part, believe me," said Tobias, shifting his
ground a pace or two further from the tomb.
"Lamentable superstition."

Is it ? " said Prudentius. " Is it ? I'd just
like you to be in my frock. Ay, you may well
shudder and turn up your eyes  in my frock,
one of these fine nights ; a moonlight one's the
time for it  and you'd soon see."

The Syndic smiled an indulgent smile.

Oh, grin, grin, as much as you please," said
Prudentius, wagging his head indignantly. "Any
ape can do that. But it's as true as the Holy

Gospels ; and it's been worse, mind you, ever
since the Horologe has been doing ; and we've
had Mistress Kadegund von Steinbach about the
place."

And how," said Hackernagel, not without
interest, " do you account for that ? "

'' Eh ? easy enough. She's of the same sort,
don't you see," explained Prudentius in confidential
sotto voce ; '' and when she dies, it's my
belief there'll be two of 'em. Oh  hu ! I
wouldn't be sacristan here if anything was to
happen to Mistress Kadegund von Steinbach,
for my weight in gold. It's too awful to think
of even," and there were tears in the sacristan's
voice. " I've begged my lord times out of
number to lay the poor thing "

'' Mistress Kadegund ? "

"No, her  her that loss Mistress Sabina, with
bell, book and candle ; and what does he do but
pats me on the back, and say it's all nonsense ?
But you see, my lord isn't in here shutting up
after dark like me."

But where," asked the Syndic, eyeing the
tomb's surface with increasing curiosity, " may
she be now ? Not walking at this time of
day ? "

310

Don't jest, Master Tobias," shudderingly
pleaded Prudentius. **No, heaven forbid! they're
mending her, that's alL Her nose was completely
worn out, and both her two poor arms were broken,
and you couldn't see her neck for cracks ; and they
were going to patch her up here on the spot, but
my lord said she'd best be taken away bodily,
and made a good job of first as last, and so there
she is in Master Eudel the sculptor's studio ; and
tomorrow the painted and gold work here's to
be touched up ; and it's all to be spick and span
by Saint Laurence's if possible; but Master Eudel
won't promise ; she wants such a deal doing to."

"And does Mistress Sabina ' walk ' now her
graven image is not here ? " enquired the Syndic
with pardonable curiosity.

Not to my knowledge. No, I fancy not.
Ever since they've had her at the studio, there's
been more peace and quietness here than I've
known for many a day ; but then Mistress
Eadegund von Steinbach took herself off a
week or two back. She finished her painting
work then ; and rare and beautiful it is," continued
Prudentius, passing under the screening
canvas and setting his companion at a standpoint
for viewing the whole thing to the best advantage.

Oh, I'd give the archfiend his due ; rare and
beautiful it is. Say if it isn't."

To the sacristan's sore disappointment and indignation,
Hackernagel hardly vouchsafed even
a superficial glance at the Clock's external glories,
excepting indeed to glower at the cock atop of the
pinnacle ; and looking towards the rear of the case, <
carelessly observed that it was all a piece of vanity,
whose worth had better have been given to the
poor.

'' Maybe it finds more favour in the Lord's
eyes than in yours, Master Tobias," returned
the offended Prudentius, '* like a certain box
of spikenard we knows of, did. If you don't
like it, why "

** My friend," interrupted Tobias, hastening to
repair the breach, "you misapprehend me."

"Ah well," magnanimously replied Prudentius,
"that's an old bone to pick over; but while the
good God's made the sort of creatures of us weare,
it's one, I take it, we Catholics have got the
fleshy end of."

I beg your pardon, spiritual "

"Ah, leave it alone, man, leave it alone," hurriedly
cried the sacristan, not ambitious of being
discovered by any stray member of the Cathedral

Chapter engaged in polemical disputation, or indeed
in any tete-astute whatsoever with the Anabaptist
; and he hastened to conduct Hackernagel
round to the back of the huge case. " Maybe
you're like my lord, and have a turn for insides.
Mind ! mind ! mind ! " he added in sudden
affright, for scarcely had he opened the small
door shutting in the dark chamber, with all its
vast network of chains and wheels and pulleys,
than half the Syndic's body was thrust inside.
'' Oh, thou dear Heaven ! " he groaned, tugging
vigorously at the tail of Hackernagel's gown ;
and his nose such a long one too ! "

My good friend," reassuringly smiled Tobias,
forced for his raiment's sake to yield, "I can
take care of myself. I should have come to no
harm."

"Ay, ay, but the Horologe might," said Prudentius
with a sigh of relief ; " and then what
would become of me ? "

What do you mean  to insinuate ? " demanded
the Syndic, paling to greenish white.

Oh, no offence, Master Hackernagel, none in
the world ; but for my part, I hardly dare so
much as look at it ; it does put me in such a
twitter always for fear the whole thing should

go off in a whirr  r  r  . Mind, now do, Master
Tobias," implored Prudentius, for once more the
Syndic's head was inside the case.

"I presume," he said with a leisurely air, *that
all this marvellously interesting mechanism is
mere chaos to you ? "

Oh dear yes," replied Prudentius, who interpreted
this term with which he now for the
first time made acquaintance, into a convertible
expression for child's play ; " I've got it all at
my fingers' ends as one may say."

Indeed ? " said Tobias. " Eeally so ? "

Dear me, yes," and the sacristan's air was
a faultless reproduction of Tobias' own. " I
could tell you the primary wheels, and the
secondary wheels ; I can indicate to you the
links connecting the inferior with the superior
mechanism ; I can explain the superficies "

Can you now ? "

Yes," chatted on the sacristan ; " but it's
nothing, Master Syndic, nothing but what a
man enjoying the opportunities I have, ought to
be able to do. I have, I hope, picked up my poor
crumb or two of scientific knowledge. Only last
week, for example, I had the privilege of shedding
light on the Professor Dasipodius' explanations

of all these different interior pieces to my Lord
Bishop."

Shedding light r'

"Yes, I held the candle, while Master Dasi-
potius pointed them out to my lord."

"Ah ! that was excessively interesting. Now
this great chain for example, that passes down
from the top there, and coils round this windlass
I have my hand on "

'sand if you'll be so good as take it off I should
be glad," said the sacristan. "If you'll only keep
your distance, I'll explain what you please."

With smiling alacrity the Syndic obeyed.

You see," went on Prudentius, " that's not
what you fancy, Master Hackernagel."

Not what I fancy ? " loftily demanded Tobias.

No, you flatter yourself you've hit the mark
there. You think you've got the right pig by the
ear, because it's the biggest thing you can see.
That's a general error with the vulgar."

What ! " fumed Tobias.

I say that's a sort of notion of the uninitiated,"
said Prudentius, gliding as well as his
pursy little physique permitted, into the calm
deliberate manner of Dasipodius ; " but this
windlass here has next to no connection with the

main artery  as one may term it  of the Horologe.
If, let us say, for sake of argument, you
were to be having a fancy for cutting this
chain "

'* Heaven forbid ! " shudderingly ejaculated
Tobias ; " but as you say, friend, for the sake of
argument ? "

Why then, as sure as you stand there, the
whole concern would come down with a rattling
clatter, and dash your brains out ; but it wouldn't
do any mischief worth speaking of. No, no,
Master Hackernagel, here's be your spot for that.
See ; " and with intense circumspection, Prudentius
pointed towards a disk of burnished metal,
pierced in its centre by a grooved cylinder, round
which was coiled a chain of such fine delicately-fashioned
links, that in the semi-darkness of
the case, it was only visible on near examination.


I see something," began Hackernagel, peering
close.

Mind how you look," cautioned the sacristan.
"Well, Syndic Hackernagel, that something as
you express it is called by a  ahem  a  technical
expression, which you would not understand
if I were to say it," hurried on Prudentius, whose

memory ran short of the big word characterising
it. '' No matter, you see the chain ? "

*' Yes, yes."

*now, carry your eye upward, good. You
follow it ? "

Not far," said Tobias, straining his pale little
eyes to agonized intentness.

That doesn't matter, it's there all the same ;
and it goes up and up, and in and out, that fine
dear little chain, through all these great lumbering
cogs and weights and levers and things,
till at last it comes to the wheel that is fixed just
behind the crown wheel, at the back of the hour
dial ; and there you observe a tiny metal cylinder
catches it, and assists it to pass on to  hem 
hem  the Saints know where, and you'd never
follow me, if I were to explain all night 
touching in its progress a certain vertical axis,
which in its turn meets a second upright spindle."

How excessively interesting ! "

Yes, oh I could tell you a great deal ; if I
had leisure."

"I'm sure you could ; but as you were observing,
if "

"Ah yes, if you wanted to be playing the
devil with it all "

My friend ! my friend ! " remonstrated the
Syndic, "you employ such strong terms ! "

Science does," said Prudentius, elbowing the
SjTidic aside, and banging to the door of the
case. " She calls a spade a spade ; and if my
technical mode of expression is over your head,
why, I can't help that. Syndic. I suppose nobody
will pick a crow with you, because you don't
know everything."

Oh but I do, I did  I followed every syllable
of your explanation. It was most lucid ; and
as to that exquisite little chain, you mean to
say "

I mean to say, Master Hackernagel," said
Prudentius in mollified, but solemn accents, " cut
that little chain, and good-bye to the Horologe."

You don't say so," gasped Tobias. 'rit is
past my comprehension ! "

Ay, like enough ; but it's as true as it is that
the breath would be out of your body if the
hangman were to wring your neck. Didn't I
hear the Professor Dasipodius making it all clear
as ink the other day to my lord ? ' The whole
organism, my lord,' says he, ' would be totally
destroyed.' 'Wouldn't run far short of murder
itself so to speak, would it, Syndic ? "

Murder ! " said the Syndic, " murder ! the
silencing of a stock and stone like that ? "

'T would go near to being the death of the
Professor Dasipodius, I take it ; and, let alone
any damage to this," went on the sacristan,
striking his fist affectionately on the clock's
panels, " he'd be a bold coward who'd show
himself in Strassburg streets after he'd offered
a hair's-breadth of vexation to our professor 
now."

You'd better put him in a glass case at once,"
sneered the Syndic.

VADE Satan.

A ND now, Master Hackernagel, if you don't
' mind, we'll go," said Prudentius, ignoring
Hackernagel's last remark. " You won't see anymore
if you stand staring at it till midnight," said
the sacristan, lifting as he spoke the great bunch of
keys hanging at his girdle, and selecting one
smaller and more richly wrought than the rest,
he inserted it in the lock of the chapel postern
and threw the door open, motioning the Syndic
to precede him.

Safe outside, he turned and carefully locked
the door behind him, letting the keys fall with a
clatter at his side again.

'you hold the power of the keys, friend,"
said Hackernagel, lifting them into his hands,
and looking at them with an air of languid
interest.

'* Ay. As I have done any time these twenty

years past, Syndic Hackernagel," said the sacristan
proudly.

An onerous trust."

"Very much so," acquiesced Prudentius.

'' Sole and absolute power, if I mistake not ? "

"You do not, Master Syndic. That is,"
amended Prudentius, " with the exception of
this one."

Which you have just used ? "

Which I have just used," and he fingered
it tenderly. "It is the key of the Saint Thomas
Chapel as you saw. My lord likes to enter the
cathedral this way ; and had a duplicate made
for his own private use ; but this is the original."

And a charming specimen of metallic work
it appears to be," said Hackernagel, examining
it, as if he cared for such vanities.

You're right there, Syndic. You wouldn't
find a handsomer if you were to hunt the empire
through. It's Master Wenzel Jamitzer of
Nuremberg's own designing and casting. See,
here's his token, W. J., graven in the midst of a
shield, with the scutcheon of the Coppersmith's
guild above. Plain enough, eh ? "

Oh, perfectly so," said Tobias, bringing it
well up to the tip of his nose, and scrutinizing it

through his squeezed-up eyelids, " perfectly so ;
I should know it  it would, as you observe, be
recognizable at half a glance among all the
others."

Seventeen in all," said Prude ntius, lifting the
whole cluster and looking at them with proud
affection, as he let them slip one by one through
his fingers. 'rand a precious weight they are to
be having dangling about you day and night."

Day and night ? Dear me ! dear me ! How
excessively interesting. Then you sleep with
them about you ? "

'' I should rather think I did ! ' Safe bind,
safe find,' you know, Syndic; that's my motto."

"And a most wise one," conceded Hackernagel.
The Bishop chose well when he elected you fora
janitor."

I flatter myself he did. Syndic Hackernagel."

*' But I can well imagine your post is no
sinecure. Your time," elucidated Hackernagel,
'* is well occupied."

Occupied's no word for it. As I told you
before, Syndic, it's just scrub, sweep, dust, from
morning till night. Lock, unlock, take out, put
away, cover up, uncover. And then the candles
and lamps. There  I don't complain. Master

Hackernagel, but the mess and grease after
there's been a grand function on, is enough to
send you into your grave. Takes it out of a
man, till he's as dry as any rotten stick. I don't
know that ever a cup of good wine comes amiss
to an honest man. Master Tobias, but the morning
after a red-letter day "

You drink wine ? " queried Tobias, attentively
considering the flesh tints of the sacristan's
nose.

Give me my chance," laughed Prudentius,
and I'll soon answer you that question."

*' You're a merry fellow," smiled Hackernagel
responsively. " And differ as we may," he continued
with an air of tolerance, which fitted him
about as well as a lion's skin would fit a hyena,
differ doctrinally as we may, far be it from me
to assert that Scripture forbids imitation of the
juice of the grape."

Forbids !" cried Prudentius, holding up his
two hands. 'odds, my life, man! It commands
it ! 'Take a little wine for thy stomach's sake.'
Ho ! ha ! Twist, and turn it how you may, you
can't make any other rhyme or reason out of
that."

My friend," returned the Syndic mildly, " do

I wish to try ? It is the abuse of such lawful
pleasures I condemn ; not their use."

And I have heard say," returned Prudentius,
that there are some folks of your way of thinking,
who carry that pretty far."

A mere invention of the enemy," answered
Tobias, waving away the imputation.

"I'm not so sure," answered Prudentius, blinking
meditatively through his half-closed eyelids ;
I've got a cousin now, who has been for years in
the service of Sauersuss and Sons, the famous
vine-growers out by Trees, there, and they do
business with that fellow Ezra Schlau, the landlord
of the ' Three Eavens,' down by the Fisherman's
Gate, and times out of counting, I've heard
Cousin Wended say he's their best customer ; for
all he's such a close-fisted dog. Their best customer
both for quantity and quality. None of
your wish-wash for him. And Ezra's a heretic
of just your very cut and colour. Master Hacker-navel,
if I'm not out."

The Three Eavens is certainly a reformed
house," concluded the Syndic.

*' Ah !" grinned Prudentius, " time it was, if
some tales are true."

A most excellently conducted establishment,"

hurried on Hackernagel ; " I speak from personal
knowledge."

Of its liquor ? " said Prudentius.

Of its landlord," returned Tobias ; " and I
can only say that I have ever found him a shining
example ; a most precious saint among saints,
seeking unceasingly for whatsoever things are
best."

Just that," said Prudentius. " Just what
Cousin Wended says ; and if it wasn't as much
as my place is worth, to be seen within half-a-mile
of his reformed ramshackle rat-hole, I don't
say but what I shouldn't have more than half a
mind to be finding my way down there, and
letting him have my opinion of his wares one of
these fine days."

Or nights, " said the Syndic.

"Eh V said Prudentius, jerking his shaven
head patiently on one side, like a listening bird.

I say, my good fellow, that if the narrowness
of your creed shackles your liberty by daylight,
you're not such an idiot, I suppose, as to allow it
to fetter you down after dark."

''Oh well, you know," returned Prudentius,
we're under rule here."

Psha ! you individually are not ; your official

duties exempt you from the mill-wheel ways of
the rest."

That's true. Yes. My lord, in consideration
of the weakness of the flesh, has given me a dispensation
from attending Compline after a hard
day of it."

Exactly."

But we are all of us locked up as tight as
maggots in a cheese, including my lord himself,
by nine of the clock ; and in half-an-hour after,
every man-jack of us is snug and snoring till
Lauds."

Nearly five hours."

And bolted and barred ''

'* And Brother Prudentius has the keys. Ha I
ha ! ha !" laughed the Syndic.

Ha ! ha ! ha !" chimed in Prudentius. " By
the mass," he went on, meditatively smoothing
his chin, "it wouldn't be a mortal sin, I suppose."

Sin, my good friend ! Heaven forbid that I
should lay a stumbling block in your path. You
have your dispensation. Can it concern my lord
how you choose to turn it to account? In swinish
sleep, or in contemplating calm moonlit nature**

That's all fine enough talking," said the
sacristan, " but you don't know our chapter. Ff
311

SO much as a mouse hereabouts should come to
know that I'd been within a mile of that place, it
would be better I hanged myself at once."

Who is to know ?"

 ' Conscience, Master Tobias. Conscience must,
anyhow."

Pooh ! give it liberty  for once," sneered
Hackernagel.

Oh ! that's well enough for the like of you ;
but we've got to keep ours straight and clear.
We've got to make a clean breast of everything,
don't you see."

Tobias grew pale. " You'd never confess "

Needs must," shrugged Prudentius, " when
the devil drives."

But confess that, man ! Like one of your
Sins 

Eh!" returned Prudentius, opening his round
eyes to their widest, " and Father Gottfried
wouldn't reckon my making a night of it down
at your Three Eavens, one of the smallest of the
lot, I fancy."

"Then," said Tobias cheerfully, "don't tell
him about it. That's all you've got to do."

Is it ? " said Prudentius, " and tumble out of
the frying-pan into the fire ! No thanks. Syndic

Hackernagel. Drink of that sort's good stuff, I
grant you; but I don't exactly feel inclined to lay
perjury on my conscience for the sake of it."

You'd find it worth the risk," said Tobias intones
of mocking contempt. " Ezra Schlau's
Niersteiner doesn't find its match in all Elsass.
But what is it to me ? do as you like."

The sacristan's full rosy lips fell moistly apart,
but he continued to shake his head resolutely.

'but tell me  seriously, my good friend.
Let us put it, for the sake of argument, that you
were to confide this little frolic to your priestly
confessor, what do you imagine "

There's no imagination about it," ruefully
interposed Prudentius, "it's as certain as that nose
is on your face, that he'd set me down to dry
barley bread and cold water for the next six
months,"

Psha ! That's not what I mean. Would he
dare to reveal your confession ?"

Ho ! don't you know better than that ?" said
Prudentius, compassionately measuring the Anabaptist's
length and breadth. " No, not exactly ;
if he cared to keep his skin whole on his body."

'' Bless me," gaily cried the Syndic, " I'd no
conception now, that flaying alive was the penalty

for betraying the secrets of the confessional. Are
you quite certain of this ?"

"Well," said the sacristan, "it's something of
the kind, more or less."

But nothing so very far short ?" briskly pursued
Tobias.

Oh ! it's sharp enough anyhow. You'll find
it all set down in the canon law, if you want to
know. It may be hanging, drawing, and quartering
for all I can say. And he'd have his
spiritual flaying alive in any case."

Spiritual V

Ay, yes ; he'd be unfrocked."

Bless me ; how curious now."

It would be curious if he wasn't," irefully
cried Prudentius. " Would he be worthy of his
cloth, after he'd broke his oath T

Not if he believed in  in the terms he swore
by," said Tobias, evading his gossip's eyes and
glancing round the Platz.

No honest man would swear by them, if he
didn't believe in them," said Prudentius, turnings
away in the direction of the neglected, but far
from forgotten broil.

One instant, friend," said Hackernagel, laying
his hand on the sacristan's ample sleeve.

Do I understand you that the ecclesiastical law
is so startlingly severe 1 "

Not severer I fancy than your civil law is on
a man who is false to his oath, eh ! Syndic ? "
somewhat hotly rejoined Prudentius. " What
may be the punishment now over yonder," and
he jointed towards the chancellery, " for per-for

per  per  " stammered the Syndic.

Ay, for perjury. What may it be ? You've
got that at your finger ends, I make no doubt."

I  upon my honour  I  you are  common
law is not my province ; and," added Hacker-navel,
breaking into a forced uneasy laugh,
what in the world all this has to do with Ezra
Schlau, I  I fail to see."

I haven't the least doubt you know what's
what. Syndic," said Prudentius, shaking his head,
as well as the best of us ; but it won't do. You
see I'm a "

Fool ! craven ! chicken-livered papist !"

"No such thing," said Prudentius, squaring
sharply round. " Say that again if you dare."

I do ! I do !" hissed Tobias, jerking out his
peaked little chin at him. " Are these swaddling
clothes," and he contemptuously tweaked the

sacristan's skirts, " that you may never drink a
cup of wine without asking your priests' permission."


No such thing "

Do you call yourself a man "

''No such thing."

'' Then prove it," snarled hack Tobias.

I will," hysterically said Prudentius.

'rand when?"

To-morrow  to-night. Just whenever you
please. Just whenever you please."

"Softly! softly! my friend," smiled Tobias.
Are you forgetting that I'm to stand treat ?
and I my engagements, you understand, do not
leave me free this next day or two. What do you
say, for the sake of being definite, to this day
week?"

Won't do at all," said Prudentius, shaking
his head ; " it's the eve of Saint Laurence."

And what then ? If you wait till its neither
fast nor feast with you," growled Tobias, " you
may wait till doomsday."

But the eve of Saint Laurence, surely you
forget. Master Tobias, and next day the Horologe
day."

And what that has to do with preventing you

from drinking a cup of wine is past my comprehension.
Certainly, I know as well as you do
that Tuesday is what Saint worshippers are
pleased to call Saint Laurence's day ; when this
clock, which it appears to me is turning the heads
of everybody "

"Well," interrupted the sacristan, " and think
of all the preparations. Think of the chairs, and
flowers, and trumpets, and flags, and candles, and
crowds and crowds there's room to be made for
Why, already Fm ofi" my head nearly."

If not quite," soothed Tobias, patting the
little man's shoulder, "if not quite. It really is
painful," he added sighing, " to see such zealand
talented energy as yours thrown away on the
serving of idols and gewgaw trumperies. But,
my worthy friend, I know as well as you do, that
every detail is to be complete by the stroke of
midday on Monday, by order of the Municipal
Council. Did not I myself, in my official capacity,
sign the order ? "

'' They may order as much as they please,"
grumbled Prudentius, " we shall never be ready."

"And what," continued Tobias, "can be more
refreshing after such hard physical toil, than a
cup of good wine ? "

And ready or not ready," went on Prudentius,
every door of the place is to be closed by dusk
on Monday evening."

Precisely."

And not a soul, not my lord himself, is to be
let come inside after. Unless, of course, Master
Dasipodius may please to ' look in,' as he always
calls it, poor gentleman !"

When ?  at what hour ?" sharply demanded
Tobias.

'' Oh ! betimes in the morning, before the
doors are open. Just to make sure the last pin s
stuck in straight."

The last pin ?"

Why, that it's all ready, don't I mean."

He would do it before about eioht of course."

I wouldn't swear to that. Our Professor is
in general as regular about his comings and goings
as his own foot-rule ; but monday night, I
shouldn't feel myself safe from him, so to S23eak,
after daylight ; and I was thinking of asking my
lord's permission to stay all night in the Cathedral,
in case of accidents."

Accidents ? "

Ah ! I mean, just for the sake of being
ready."

' Oh ! just so," said Tobias.

'* It isn't everybody of course would care to
offer such a thing in the dead hours, when you
can't hear so much as a mouse stirring outside.
It's trying to the nerves ; most trying."

"And what braces them better than the juice
of the grape ? So come, friend sacristan," and
Tobias slapped the custodian's broad back with
enoamno' familiarity. "I'm none so unreasonable
after all. Eh ?  ha, ha, ha !"

Ha, ha, ha ! you're a sly one, you are,"
laughed Prudentius, bestowing an appreciative
dig into the Anabaptist's lean ribs ; " and hang
me if I don't take a look in at your Three Eavens
o'Ionday night as you say "

Hush ! Hold your peace !" snapped Hacker-navel,
in sharp, savage undertones, which effectually
scared the sacristan's hilarity, while the
Syndic's jaws fell with an audible chap into their
normal longitude, as Gretchen Hackernagel, basket
on arm, stood at his elbow. " Gretchen, my
good girl ! " he asked turning on her, " what do
you do here ? "

'"' Do ?" mechanically echoed the girl, in whose
eyes, as she turned them on Prudentius, and
then on her father's face, was a strange bewildered

expression, " I was  only  on my 
way to market."

And is this the  way to market ?" mimicked
Tobias, joining this arms into hers, and roughly
dragging her from the spot. '' What were you
doing there V he demanded, in curiously less
honeyed accents, when they were well out of the
sacristan's hearing. *' Skulking about ? "

'' Father, I had but just crossed over, out of
the hot sun."

By my soul ! " he growled, letting his hand
slip to her wrist, and tightening his grip till she
cried out with the pain, "if it were hot as "

"Father!"

Let me catch you again within a street's
length of these popish walls, and  What did you
hear me say ? What was I saying ? Eh ? eh ? "

Nothing, father," faltered the trembling girl.

Sure ? "

Quite sure."

Did you hear me  smile ? "

I  I  fancied "

It was with pity then ; of deepest, tenderest,
heavenliest compassion for  for that poor lost
sheep Prudentius. Do you understand ? Hey,
do you understand ? Speak."

Yes, father," answered Gretchen, casting
down her eyes.

Good. Now go," said Tobias, releasing her
and sending her on her ways with a rough push.
And if you're going to buy capons, see you
give the fellow half what he asks, and not a
heller more. And hark you here, no dead flesh
mind ; pick them out alive, and see them pinned
through the neck yourself."

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK.

TXrHETHER Dasipoclius' visit at the Munster-strange
had brought Sabina consolation,
or rendered her fifty times more wretched, she
was wholly unable to determine ; only she knew
that her young life had come to be very very hard
to bear, and there were times when her desolation
was so utterly unendurable, that she was
fain to creep away like some poor sick animal,
and do battle alone with her grief. Very woman-fully
she strove to stifle into silence the memories
which were as dear to her as they were "bitter.
The more effectually to live them down, the
little woman had a habit of selecting that spot
for her meditations where hardly more than six
months since, she and Conrad Dasipodius had
plighted their mutual troth.

There had been snow on the ground then,
icicles had hung from the bare trees, and the

north-east wind had whistled over the frozen
river, lout then there had been beating against
each other two warm hearts which knew not
cold. Now there was but one, lonely and chilled
to the core ; and not all the sunlight smiling so
cheerily among the branches, and flecking the
grassy banks, and sparkling diamond-bright
among the Ill's gentle ripples, could shed into it
one ray of genuine warmth.

There was not a single word of that brief
sweet stolen interview which the girl had not
treasured up ; and the spot's associations so
vividly recalled the mathematician's every look
and accent, that sometimes Sabina almost cheated
herself into the belief that all the later past was
some ugly dream, and that still he was beside
her murmuring those words of love. 'ris it to
end like this ? " he had asked ; and oh Heaven !
to think of the passionate tenderness breathing
through his low calm tones then ! To end like
this ! Ah me ! ah me ! And then  then those
strange words more enigmatical now their signification
had been in some sort solved, than
then when it had been utterly obscure to her.
Darling, I think I could work miracles for your
sake. And you ? You will be brave for mine ? '*

And belted knight was not braver than that
love-lorn girl. She had not dreamed then that
it was such sort of courage which would have
been required of her. The giving up of his love
itself ; the very life's blood and nourishment of
hers. Her pride of maidenhood would have
simply whispered her that if such a fearsome
chance as that should befall, then at one and the
same breath, hers for him must perish too. And
yet the love she was bearing him now, outshone
the old affection as the liner's gold outshines the
earth-dulled nugget. Brave for his sake ? Ay,
ay, for his sake.

And so one of those latter July mornings,
Sabina von Steinbach, as many a time she had
done, and looked to do again, having set household
matters in good training for the day, donned
hood and mantle, and intimated to Niklaus, with
a kiss on his bald crown, that she was going out.

'' Ay. So do, heart's dear one," said the Burgomaster,
looking up from his ledgers. " So do.
The fresh air will give your cheeks some roses,

and I would come with you if " and then

he glanced with divided affection from his girl's
face to the huge folios before him. *' Shall I ? "

No, Vaterlele," hurriedly assured Sabina. " I

shall do quite well alone. T am only going to
take a little stroll by the river."

Bless my soul ! " half-frowning, half-smilingly
soliloquized Niklaus when she was gone.
What a fancy she always has for the river to
be sure ! Now I call it rather a dismal sort of a
promenade myself ; but I expect she carries her
pockets full of crumbs for that posse of ducks
and geese that always quack one deaf just about
there. That's the secret of it. Never was such
a girl as she is for dumb animals ! "

A veritable lover's walk of summer evenings
was that tree-bordered river path leading from
below the fish market, out under the bridges to
the Fisherman's Gate. In the forenoon however
the place was quiet enough ; and once past the
St. Stephen's Tower, it was (save for the waterfowl,
who, boasting an island domain somewhere
out in midstream, were given to prosecuting
voyages of discovery along the banks) silent and
sequestered as saddest heart could desire ; and
Sabina, strolling slowly onward, barely anticipated
encountering a single straggler. As however
she neared the spot sacred to her hopeless
love, which stood somewhat hidden by a bend
in the path, and shaded round by tall bramble

bushes, her ear caught a low wailing sound,
broken by cruel sobbing. Instinctively she
stopped and listened. A woman's voice ! and
she made a step forward.

Lonely and miserable is she, poor thing,"
murmured the girl to herself, the ready sympathy
welling up into her eyes. And why, I
wonder ? why ? "

With a light warning rustle of the bushes,
Sabina stepped forward, and found herself in the
presence of a woman seated on the trunk of a
fallen tree ; a market-basket, whence straggled
the dislocated necks of a couple of capons into
the long rank grass, lying beside her. Unconscious
of the intruder, her face hidden in her
arms folded upon her lap, she sat rocking herself
to and fro, moaning, " Otto Otto  my Otto ! "
and not a word besides.

'' Why, Gretchen !  Gretchen Hackernagel,"
said Sabina in a soft tone of recognition.

"Who sent for you, Sabina von Steinbach?"
fiercely demanded the Syndic's daughter, sitting
bolt upright, and tossing back the red golden
luxuriant hair, all dank and tear matted, while
she stared through her blurred eyes at the intruder.
" Who sent for you ?" If anything

could have aggravated the girl's misery, it was
this most palpable reminder of the existence
of her, whom Gretchen in some sort regarded asher
rival in the graceless Otto's affections.

Dear Gretchen "  began Sabina.

Leave me alone ! " sobbed out the unhappy
girl. " I hate vipers."

'' You hate ? " reiterated the puzzled Sabina.

'' Vipers. That's what I said, Miss Innocence ;
and I suppose you're as happy as the day is
long, now you've managed to coax him back.
And oh, isn't it nice to have come here, and
caught me crying about him ? Only I wasn't.
Don't flatter yourself. Cry about him indeed !
Oh ! " and she laughed hysterically. " I like
that. He'd be a rare fine bargain to cry about."

He ? "

*' Ho ! don't stare at me like that, you false

cat, you. You think I don't know. But I do

I do. And you'd like to be having them all

to twist round your little finger, wouldn't you,

if you could, and then bid them be off for a pack

of idiots : like you served Master Dasipodius.

Oh, ho ! don't I know ? Doesn't all Strassburg

know ? "

*' Like I " faltered Sabina, turning deadly

312

pale. " Do you know what you're saying, gretchen
Hackernagel ? "

Every bit as much as you do, Sabina von
Steinbach," retorted Gretchen, in broken but
fierce tones, rising and picking up her basket,
and stepping a pace or two forward, she stood
boldly confronting Sabina with her tear-swollen
eyes. " I suppose it doesn't want spectacles to
be seeing that the prosperous Catholic Burgomaster's
dainty daughter is a better bargain
than the disgraced Protestant, Tobias Hacker-navel's.
Oh, no, he's sharp enough when it suits
him, is Otto  Otto ! " and at the name's recurrence,
her tears broke forth afresh, " and  do
you hear  ah ! don't go on staring at me like
that. It will drive me mad  mad."

"I won't, I won't," assured Sabina, fixing her
astonished gaze more and more persistently on
the broken-hearted Gretchen.

'rand next, I suppose," continued Gretchen,
'* you'll be making believe you know nothing
about it all. Have done ! " for Sabina strove
to speak, ** telling me you don't know where
he went the other night, after he'd rushed off
like a whirlwind, swearing it was for ever  and
ever  and ever  oh."

Do you mean Otto  "

"Yes. yes, I mean oh."

By our dear Lady's honour, I do not know,"
asseverated Sabina, lifting her blue eyes from
Gretchen's to the hardly bluer sky, "for I have
not seen Otto for an age. He has not been near
our house for "

Wel 1 "

"Ah, for more than a fortnight."

Gretchen's face softened perceptibly.

"And," continued Sabina, " tell me, Gretchen,
calmly  if you can. You do not mean that you
and Otto have quarrelled ? "

He has," said Gretchen, wiping her eyes, and
turning them shyly, and more than half emptied
of their harsh mistrust and defiance, on Sabina.

"But, dear child, what about V insisted Sabina,
laying her hand caressingly on Gretchen's.

"Ah !" sneered Gretchen, shaking it off. "Now
you'd dearly like to know, wouldn't you."

Indeed I would, if it could help to right it
fbr you, Gretchen. Else," added 'she with a
sigh, and in tones of such weary unmistakable
indifference, that Gretchen started and stood
intently studying her sad patient face, " else I
care little enough I think."

Hitherto there had been small enough sympathy
between these two. The devout Catholic
girl with her illuminated missal and her thousand
and one quaint legends of Mother Mary and the
Saints, shrank from the more bare verities of the
faith in which Gretchen Hackernagel had been
reared. She could not sit down and share with
her dreamy speculations over the Stigmata of
gentle Friar Francis, the " Tolls lege" of the
great Father Augustine, the sweet charity of
the blessed Elizabeth of Hungary, or make
with her brain pictures of Heaven's golden
gates and sapphire walls. For Gretchen Hac-kernel,
these things wore no vitality or colour,
and her life's conditions had only shown her the
Christian religion as a hard ungracious task-mistress.
Then too, on her part, Gretchen had
for so long secretly hated Sabina as her formidable
rival ; and so it had come to be that
these two, occasionally thrown together, were
acquaintances, not friends. Yet now those last
simple words of Sabina's had struck a chord of
sympathy in Gretchen's heart. It may have
been their sad hopelessness, or perhaps the ring
of gentle forbearance to which Gretchen was such
a stranger in her own house, that touched her. *

And I think," went on Sabina, after a brief
pause, " you will like best to be alone again. If
indeed," she added wistfully, "I can do nothing
to help you to win that  win Otto back."

Would you ?" and with keenly searching eyes,
Gretchen looked into Sabina's face. '' Would you
indeed do that ?"

Ay, indeed," said Sabina in tones of grave
assurance. " Indeed, if I could. Tell me how,
Gretchen ? " and again she laid her hands on Gretchen's,
and this time they were not shaken off.
'' Tell me what I could do ?"

He minds all you say to him," said Gretchen,
gazing with gloomy speculation into the river.
*' It has always been Cousin Sabina this. Cousin
Sabina that, till I have just hated the very sound
of your name."

Nay, now. Otto is my cousin," contented
Sabina, *' and if he should like me a little, that is
only his duty ; he would be dreadfully wicked if
he didn't, and I won't have you angry with him,
or me either, for that, you naughty, child. If he
likes 'Cousin Sabina,' isn't it one Gretchen 
we know, he has asked to be his wife ?
and that should be enough, and a great deal more
too," she added with a little sigh, " if you love

him, Gretchen, as many a time he has told me he
loves you, don't yon know," argued the cunning
Sabina. " Come now, tell me. This is no more
surely than a little passing cloud between you V

But Gretchen shook her head. " You know
nothing about it," she said.

Nay, very well then ; I will go. It would
make me sorry to have you fancying I was meddling
in what does not concern me. So good-bye,
Gretchen Hackernagel ; " and she turned and
strolled homeward by the path she had come,
musing greatly as she went.

'' Now, what can those two ridiculous creatures
have found to quarrel about ? Just as if there
wasn't real misery  oh dear ! of all sorts in the
world, without their making up any. Poor dear
thing ! I won't have it. No," and the little
autocrat cursed her lips resolutely, and set down
her small foot as she walked, " I will not have
such absurd nonsense, and I shall tell Otto so."

Her opportunity speedily presented itself ; for
she came face to face with that young gentleman
as she turned the corner of the Munster-grasse,
and learning that she had something very particular
indeed to say to him, he followed her, most
lamb-like of captives, to the house, where his

brain having been rendered lucid by a tankard
of ale, Sabina demanded without further preamble,
" What he meant by it ?" and when, not
quite inexcusable perhaps, he said, " Mean by
what ?" all the answer she vouchsafed was, '' Oh,
you know very well ".

Upon my honour."

Honour ! Oh, really, now, that's too good,"
sarcastically flushed up the indignant little lady.
A great deal too good. And you treating poor
Gretchen so. Oh, whistle as much as you like,
sir," as Otto indulged in a long low sibilation.
*' That shows how true it all is ; and I know all
about it, I tell you. Yes  all."

By Jove, you do !" cried he, starting ups.

By Jove, 1 do," nodded she ; " and now, see
here, Otto, if you don't go back this minute, and
make ups with her, I'll  I'll never speak to you
again."

But  but  " said Otto, staggered by the
awful threat, " but, look here."

I won't," she said, throwing her hood down
on the table, and smoothing back her bright
ripples of hair, she seated herself at her frame,
and proceeded to stab her tapestry work with
extraordinary energy. ' And I hate the sight

of you, cross-grained, false, unkind, cruel creature
that you are. I should like to stick you allover
with this needle ; that I should."

But, Cousin Sabina "

Oh ! I'm no cousin of yours, I can tell you ;
and I won't be. Never again till"  and then
just the very faintest flicker of a smile relaxed the
tightened lips  '' till you turn Gretchen Hacker-navel
into another cousin for me."

Are sou so very anxious then for the connection,
Sabina?" demanded Otto in tones whose
measured soberness impelled her to look up at
him.

'* That," she answered, more composedly resuming
her work, " has nothing to do with it.
A promise is a promise. Is it or isn't it ? "

Oh, yes ; all that."

'' And you've promised to marry Gretchen
Hackernagel. Have you or haven't you ? " persisted
his stern inquisition.

Yes ! oh, yes ; you know," said Otto, " all
that. I don't deny that."

Very well then."

** But look here, Sabina. You wouldn't  I say
you know, look here now, Tobias Hackernagel
is such an infernal old rascal."

For slime !" said Sabina with an odd gleam
of satisfaction dancing under the cast-down eyelids.


Oh well, it's the same thing. He would be,
if he dared."

Are you going to marry Tobias Hackernagel?"
she demanded grimly.

Upon my word and honour now, Sabina,"
cried the despairing derelict, "who'd have imagined
you'd go looking at it in that light ? I should
have  hem  supposed that you of all others 
that  that  oh 1 really, you can't understand all
about it ; you can't indeed !"

I can, sir ; I do, I tell you. I know a great
deal too much ; and I hate people who  who
make love to girls, and then, well, change their
minds, and want to draw back. And why
pray ? Just because fathers-inlaw are not
saints."

It's just because he is one," groaned Otto,
*' that there's no knowing how to take him."

It isn't very likely," she rejoined, " that I
should be fond of Syndic Hackernagel. You
ought to know that, Otto. I think you do," and
Sabina bent her head very low over her work, to
examine some ugly flaw in the golden thread she

was using. " But I'm a woman for all that ; and
I should hope I'm able to reason properly, and I
tell you that you are very unreasonable, and very,
very wicked, and very, very, very cruel, and 
oh, so horribly, so detestably stupid," and the
thread snapped off at a tangent, '' not to know a
good thing when you've got it."

A good thing ? " vacuously echoed Otto.

'' Oh thou dear Heaven ! " sighing ejaculated
Sabina, a bright rose-flush dyeing her pale
cheeks. '' How plain one has to speak, to be
sure ! Yes, that's what I said, sir. A good
thing. A true woman's love."

Oh, well, as to that," returned he, stroking
his hyacin thine locks, "there's no end of it.
I mean, you know, there are heaps of girls."

'sotto," gravely said Sabina, pausing in
her work, and resting her hand on the frame's
edge, " there is not the faintest necessity for you
to be telling me that our Antinous there," and
she pointed with her needle out to the courtyard
fountain, on whose marble ledge a magnificent
peacock stood pluming his spread tail, and arching
his satin neck in the midday sunlight, " is
nothing like the vain, conceited animal you are.
But girls, as a rule  as a rule, mind  don't like

that sort of thing. I don't, for example ; it's
turning things, as it were, wrong end first.
And you may look a long time  a very longtime
 before you'll find any other girl to worship
and bow down to you, and make you everybody,
and herself nobody, as Gretchen Hackernagel
does."

I do think she's fond of me," languidly smiled
he.

She loves you. Otto. Trust me. I know,
I can tell ; loves you dearly  dearly. And will
you throw such love away ? Do you want her
heart to break for your sake ? Would that be a
triumph to please you ? "

Otto was not sure that it might not be ; but he
felt Sabina's gentle eyes upon him, and contrived
to look contrition's very incarnation. Sabina
gathered courage.

Would you like her death to be at your
door ? " she hurried on.

"Oh, Himmelsdonnerivetter ! What things y ou
do say to be sure, Sabina. No, of course not.
Who would ? I only thought "

Of yourself, as you always do," she said in
stern reproach. "But Otto  dear Otto," and
then her tones softened, and she rose, and coming

beside him, laid her hand lightly on his shoulder,
*' if you have any heart at all, and indeed I know
you have, take back, take back this that the
good God has given you, and thank Him on
your knees you have not lost it for your carelessness."
But he only shook his head grunt ingle.

Do you know," she went on, " how many
there are who have played away with such a
thing, or misused it, or lost it  nay, I do not
know how. I cannot tell. Maybe because it
never was really and truly theirs, as Gretchen's
has been  is yours. Otto."

It's an awful sacrifice," grumbled he, thrusting
his hands into his pockets, and surveying, ina
sort of absent admiration, his pair of outstretched
comely legs, " and then it's frightful to
think v/hat that dispensation for marrying a
heretic will cost. It's a precious extravagant game ;
and upon my honour, I don't altogether think it's
worth its candle. I  I don't mind telling you I
don't, Sabina."

And I wonder you're not ashamed of yourself
for your pains ! " flashed she.

And if I do do it, I do it against my better
conscience look you; utterly and entirely against
my better conscience."

Oh, never mind your conscience ! 'J joyfully
cried the unprincipled little woman. " Now godo,"
nd she sent forward the chair in which
lie was tilting himself at perilously sharp angles,
with such force, that he had to spring to his feet
to save himself the alternative of measuring his
length on the floor, " go and set about it at once."

'' Oh, I can't do that. No, look here now,
Sabina, you can't make me do that." And Otto
emphatically shook his head. " I'd sooner die.
See now, I've sworn I'll never set foot in his
house again."

What a silly boy you are," laughed she.

"Oh, you may call me names, but hang it, I
mean to stick to that, so there ! "

Then do," she said, still quietly laughing to
herself, "go to the Fisherman's Walk, and if she's
not gone, she's sitting there  in that little nook,
you know it, don't you. Otto ? just short of the
St Stephen's Tower, where I left her, sobbing her
heart out, and all for a piece of rubbish like you."

"Do it on the sly. Be clandestine, be "

Oh, Sabina ! "

Ah, be what you will, if only you do it at
once, and  see now, Otto, if she's gone, find
her  wherever it is. Yes ? "

Oh, all right," grunted he.

You're safe, you know, always to find her on
the way to market at all events."

And how is it possible for me, I should like
to know, to be leavings the Studio at such an
hour ? " objected the ardent lover.

Ah, just as if Con  the Professor Dasipo-
pious was as strict upon you as all that ! I'm
quite sure you're not so precious as not to
be spared one little half hour. Come now, if
you make good haste, you'll catch her now. I
will walk with you as far as your house. Eadem
seemed but poorly last night, and I want
to see her, and try to cheer her up a bit. So
come. I will take your arm. Cousin Otto, if
you're so gallant as to lend it to me."

And after this fashion, Sabina compassed the
getting of Otto as far on his quest as the corner
of the Domplatz.

MAX PROPOSES,

preparations, as the sacristan has told
-* Tobias Hackernagel, are being made on a
grand scale for the Horologe's unveiling and inauguration.


In the Cathedral, High Mass having first been
celebrated by the Lord Bishop, the Horologe is to
be solemnly denuded of its bonds and shrouding ;
and a musical service of strophe and antistrophe,
decani and cantoris is to follow, especially arranged
by Master Wolfgang Dachstein for the
occasion, and to swell whose triumph burst,
all the city's capable harps, sackbut, and dulcimers
have been chartered. An Orpheus indeed,
Master Dachstein, with his music that promises
to hush down for once the strife of tongues, and
charm into one vast friendly concourse under the
mighty old Cathedral's roof, men and women of
all persuasions.

The bishop) and his chapter are to preside ; and
Strassburg's civic dignity is to be represented by
all her chief magnates, Town Council, University
rector and dons. A raised crimson-draped dais,
flower garlanded, has been erected for all those
engaged in the making of the Horologe, and the
central figure of this goodly body will of course
be the Professor Conrad Dasipodius. These duly
accommodated with specially assigned seats, "first
come, first served" is to be the order of the day ;
and Teutonic endurance will meet a crucial testing,
since by seven o'clock ante-meridian, Brother
Prudentius is to open the great western portals,
and admit the outside world to the broad nave
and aisles of the church, although not sooner than
ten o'clock the long procession, with wreath
and banner, and smoking censer, will enter in
ceremonial and festive garb ; and chanting the
introit as they proceed to the celebration of Mass
at the High Altar. But, as Prudentius says, it
will be such an affair as you'll never see the like
of again if you lived to the age of Jerusalem ;
and if you can't keep yourself still for three hours
for the sake of it, you must be poor creatures !

By almost general consent, party differences
have then been sunken on this august occasion.

Rector Sturm of the University, albeit of the
new persuasion, is no bigot, and all the professors
have followed his suit, and accepted my Lord
Bishop's invitation to attend the ceremony.

The municipality, consisting, indeed, of many
Lutherans and Calvinists, has also signified that
it will have pleasure in attending; and the science
of Professor Dasipodius seems to present a basis
of unanimity and cordiality which gladdens the
hearts of most.

One member only of the municipality. Master
Syndic Hackernagel, declines to countenance the
festivities. " Is it to be supposed, or conceived,
or imagined," as he pathetically puts it in his
response to the invitation, that he should dream
of imperilling his precious souls welfare by putting
even as much as his head inside the place ?
and then with phraseological flow and elegant
circumlocution, he sets forth some few of his
motives for refusing to be present at what he
styles a preposterous piece of papistical pageantry.
Before it had been half read through, however,
this priceless document, forwarded in due course
to the Horologe Managing Committee, and intended
by the inditer to be preserved among the
city archives, owing to pressure of affairs, got
313

set aside for the moment, with a view to after
consideration ; and by misadventure slipped into
my lord's chaplain's waste-paper basket, so that
it was never known in its entirety. Had it been
read to its ending, it would have been found that
Syndic Hackernagel further intimated his intention
of with drawling the light of his countenance
from the very city itself on the great festival
day ; and in order to avoid as much as possible
all their profane preparations, contemplated
taking his departure early on the preceding
evening. " Your scarlet, and purple, and fine
linen offend my vision. Your sweet odours and
incense stink in my nostrils," politely wrote the
Syndic. " Is this a time, oh ! sons and daughters
of Adam, to pipe and to make merry ? "

That it is, clearly speaks the prevailing
opinion ; and the old free city vies with the
Cathedral in preparations for pranking herself
out with gay garlands and streamers, and gorgeous
Flanders tapestry ; and the solemnities over,
there is to be rope-dancing and countenancing,
and rumour, though some hold that news too
good to be true, says the conduits are to run
with wine ; and at sundown there is to be a
magnificent civic banquet, when health and long

years to the Professor Dasipodius is to be drunk
with three times three ; and for those who do
not regard play-acting as the devil's own pastime,
there will be performed the merry comedy of
The Birds," done into the vulgar tongue ; but
since even Aristophanes made easy may prove
caviare to some of the groundlings, the whole is
to conclude with a fytte or two of mummery and
buffoonery ; so that sage and simple, rich Tdts and
poor ones, and no wits at all, may have their fill
of pleasure. Lastly, when darkness has quite
set in, a fine transparency, allegorical of everything,
is to be lit up, and fireworks are to turn
night into day, and proclaim to Elsass far and
near that the famous Horologe stands complete
in all its wonder and beauty. And so " man
proposes ".

The mainspring of all this busy stir, Professor
Conrad DasijDodius, in his own heart of hearts, is
hardly so enraptured as some consider it behoves
him, at all these noisy honours. To
begin with, a brand new suit of clothes will have
to be struggled with on that hot auspicious
morning; for hot most unmistakably it promises to
be : and although the raiment's magnificence is
of the soberest sort, still it is new ; and Dasi-

potius abhors new clothes, and all his mathematical
genius has no more helped him to solve
the problem of fitting himself comfortably into a
yesterday's made doublet, than it has revealed
to him the way of fitting square into round. It
is a minor evil, but it worries him in an ever-present
sort of way, just as does the consciousness
of his having to make a speech at that
banquet ; and the mathematician is not great at
sparkling rhetorical impromptu. All this is the
Nemesis of genius, impregnating its laurels with a
bitter taste; and Dasipodius utters a passing word
of impatience over it to Isaac Habrecht, accompanied
by a sighing wish that the day were well
over, and the world in its senses and its work-a-day
dress again. But for once the great mathematician
has miscalculated ; and his perplexities
find no sympathy from the downright unsentimental
Switzer, who wholly and unreservedly
sides with the populace. "They were never more
in their senses than they are now," roundly asseverates
he, '* when they've made up their minds
to give honour to whom honour is due. They've
got certain rotten-egg scores to wipe off, and
they know it ; and how they  ha ! ha ! ha !  how
they did hoist that young jackanapes up aloft."

For pity's sake ! " laughed Dasipodius, " I
hope they will not extend any such attentions
to me. One must need sharp eyes for such
giddy elevations. I can't conceive how he
managed to hold on."

"He didn't  long," sardonically grinned Isaac.
"He came down like a plummet."

Never mind, Isaac, let that be ; Otto's an
honest lad enough, and he's done good work
lately."

"Ay," grunted Isaac ; " I'm not going to deny
that ; and I'm right glad he's to be one of us
when we take our seats on that fine dais they're
hammering up  alongside of you, master."

You on my right hand, is it not so ? " asked
Dasipodius.

Nay," rejoined Isaac ; " I on your left. Mistress
Kadegund on your right."

Ay, to be sure. How could I forget her ?
That comes of being the poor blind mole I am.
Place of course to fair ladies ; and our gifted
townswoman will look a veritable rose among
weeds like us, eh, Isaac ? "

It will be but a white one then," answered
he. " Mistress Eadegund has grown sadly pale
and thin lately."

Why, that is bad hearing," said Dasipodius
in a tone of real concern. " She has been
working too hard perhaps *? "

I do not know," shrugged Isaac. " I see
only she is greatly changed these last few
months ; since about  well, I think you would
scarcely recognise her, if "

'' If I could see her ? I hope it would not be
so bad as that. You are a croaker, Isaac, and
see through grey spectacles."

"Maybe so," acquiesced Isaac, "but I'm not
the only one who does, I take it. Doctor Wittenberg,
and he should know, sees it too, or I
much mistake."

I think you must," returned the mathematician.
" He has breathed no hint of it tome.


"Like enough," sententiously responded Hab-
recht, glancing up from his work at the calm
blind face before him. "Men  nor women
neither, I suppose, don't always say all they
think. If they did, the world would be pretty
soon upside down."

True, true," said Dasipodius absently ; " and
now can you tell me," he went on, " since you
seem to be having the order of the day at your

fingers' ends, how the  the other ladies are to
be placed ? "

The ladies," echoed Isaac, looking up again
from his brass filings, and fixing his eyes with
an air of profound mystification on his chief.
Had he heard aright ? " Did you say  the
ladies?"

Why not ? " challenged Dasipodius, turning
away and bending over the sill of the lattice to
fling it wider open.

When he faced round again, there was a deep
flush on his pale cheek, possibly the result of his
struggle with the window hook. " I simply
asked you how the ladies, the Syndics', and
professors', and Burgomasters' wives and sisters
and daughters are to be accommodated ? "

*' Oh bravely. Though it is said that there's
no end of hubbub and squabbling going on about
it. They all want the best places, you see. Frau
this vows she won't sit second to Frau that ;
and Frau the other's madly jealous of both. I
expect the committee's got a nice time of it
between them all. Mistress Sabina von Stein-bach,"
went on Isaac, scraping away with increased
vigour, "has a special seat assigned her,
as chief Burgomaster's daughter. And lovelier

Queen of Beauty never graced knightly tournament.
'Tis a pity our Lily's heart is not as
gentle as her face."

'' What did you say, Isaac ? " sternly demanded
Dasipodius.

*' I say," replied the shifty Isaac, " that folks
do say Mistress Sabina has declined to be
present."

Likely as not," sighed Dasipodius ; " but on
what ground ? "

"A woman's ; that never yet grew rhyme nor
reason. But I say it's not true. She'll be there.
Trust her for it. Oh yes."

"Do you think " said Dasipodius brightening.


I think never was raree show that didn't
bring young maids, ay, and old ones too, and
matrons too, to say nothing of the widows, out
of their shells, like snails after a shower. They're
all of one weft  women."

"What a misogynist you're grown," said Dasi-
potius with a faint smile.

"Am I?" said Isaac, pushing his tools together,
and pocketing the result of his labours.
Well, Strassburg seems to me a rare good
training school for that craft."

ST. Stephen's tower.

"Then Otto Yon Steinbach reached the St.
Stephen's Tower, he found his Ariadne
gone. Calmly consoling himself with the reflection
that tomorrow would do just as well, he
went home again ; and after some little beating
about the bush, informed his sister that he had
determined on mending the breach between himself
and Gretchen Hackernagel ; at the first blush
of which piece of intelligence, Kadegund was inclined
to be angry ; but the natural generosity
of her soon asserted itself, whispering that the
course was the only right one, and "at least, poor
child," as she said, " there will be one heart with
a little peace in it again." Otto, however, said
he didn't know so much about that, and that,
turn it how" you might, right it would never be.
How was it possible, for example, that Tobias
Hackernaofel would tolerate a son-in-law who

refused to enter his house ; and enter it, the
young man swore to himself, no powers natural
or supernatural, nor the two combined, should
induce him. Their meetings would, as a consequence,
have to be sub rose ones ; and altogether,
take it at its best, it was an awful nuisance ; but
then he had promised Sabina, and come what
may, a fellow must stick to his promise.

On being pressed by Eadegund touching his
suddenly conceived abhorrence of Tobias Hacker-navel,
Otto first grew furious, and then falling
fathom deep into sulky silence, he finally betook
himself to bed, where only he felt secure from
further cross-questioning. Next morning, being
the Saturday preceding the all-important Tuesday,
he, fearing to be importuned afresh, made a
desperate attempt to get out of the house before
his sister showed herself ; but she detecting him
in very fragrant delicto dragged him back into
the hall, and placing in his hand a key, desired
him to carry it across, and deliver it to the
Bishop, " and to my lord himself mind ; and no
one else," adjured she. "He has just sent for it."

"If it is so particular," crossly returned Otto,
why on earth don't you do it yourself ? "

Because," returned she, "it is impossible forme

to leave the house just now. The Countess
of Eumpelpuppelschnarchentein is waiting in
my studio to begin a sitting, and she's frowning
thunderbolts already, because I begged her to
excuse me for an instant. So run now, Otto,
there's a dear boy."

But Otto did not run ; he dawdled at snail's
pace across the Platz, keeping up a grumbling
commentary as he went. " I don't half like the
job," he soliloquized, " and what's more, I shan't
do it. That place," and he glowered up at the
massive stone walls of the Episcopal Palace,
*' always gives one the notion of a prison ; as
if one oughtn't get out again if one once got in.
And then, my lord  well, Eadeguncl may admire
him, but he's got such a deuce of a way of looking
one through and through, as if  no, thank
you. Besides, it's not at all the proper sort of
way of giving up such an important trust. It's
informal, business like, wretchedly business
like. These women never do have any head
for that kind of thing.' Wasn't it my lord himself
who delivered it into her hands ? and isn't
it she who ought to give it him back, her own
self ? Of course, of course. It's only my duty
to point out to her that it is her clear duty ;

hers and nobody else's, certainly nobody else's.
And as to his wanting it in such a hurry, that's
absurd." And Otto glanced towards the wide-open
cathedral doors. "He can get in half a
dozen ways if he wants. And anyhow, when I
come back will be time enough, and to spare.
No."

And the ultimatum arrived at, Otto slipping
the key into the breast pocket of his doublet,
walked on with the speed of a tortoise in the
direction of the river.

To-day crowned his quest, and he found Gretchen
at the very spot Sabina had indicated. The
delicate mission he came on he accomplished
entirely to his own satisfaction, and with an ease
that astonished even himself. That Gretchen
would refuse to receive him back into her good
graces, had not crossed his calculations for an
instant ; on that point he was confident favour
and prejudice would for once be on his side.
His great anxiety was that Gretchen should feel
herself through and through impressed and suffocatingly
impregnated with the magnitude of the
sacrifice he was making. The selfishness which
is part and parcel of vacillating natures was
Otto's in abundance. He had, for example,

thought little of playing that sorry trick on his
blind chief, which had brought about such an
evil, and involved himself so unpleasantly, all
because he happened to be annoyed at a few
rebukeful words which, after all, he richly deserved
for his negligence. His careless head had
never calculated consequences, or indeed troubled
itself to imagine there could be any ; but from a
deliberately mean act, such as Tobias Hacker-navel
had laid bare as the matured growth of his
miserable little soul, the young man's nature
instinctively shrank ; and to shake off everlastingly
the poor scape-goat Gretchen, and wipe
the dust of the house of Hackernagel froid. his
feet, had been not his first impulse only, but the
course he would have clung to and persisted in,
had he been left to his own devices. Against it
had of course arisen that difficulty of carrying his
defection off bravely before the world. He had
been yesterday very near to making a clean
breast of his whole dilemma to Sabina ; but for
once he had held firm to his resolve, and contrived
to keep his own secret ; not assuredly out
of any compassion for Hackernagel, but, though
he hardly guessed it himself, from some latent
feeling of pity for the fair fame of Hackernagel's

daughters, and especially for her whom he had
at least distinguished by asking to be his wife,
dimly cognizant of the unpleasant truth that a
stigma upon her would in some sort besmirch
himself. Understanding so thoroughly as he did
the conditions of Gretchen's life, he was not disturbed
by the least fear that, all woman though
she was, she would breathe a syllable of that
disgraceful encounter of which she had made
herself witness. And now, being driven into
patching up a peace with Gretchen, there was,
as he affectionately remarked to her during their
stolen meeting, nothing left but to " make the
best of it ; and you are a good girl, Gretchen, I
do believe that, though you  oh come, don't
keep on crying so, you know, don't, I say."

The poor girl's happy tears, however, would
rain so thick and fast, that the breast of his brand
new dove-coloured doublet got all wetted and
stained with them, and was obliged to be sent to
the tailor's next day to get a fresh piece let in.

'' You are a good girl," he said, dragging from
his breast pocket the end of a wisp of gossamer
he called his pocket handkerchief, and rubbing
at the marks. "A very good girl, and not a bit
your rascally old father's daughter. And your

mother must have been a good woman, and was,
I know, of high and gentle blood ; else, my dear,
Otto von Steinbach would never have had anything
more to say to you, be sure of it. No, not
for fifty Sabines."

'* Sabina ? " echoed Gretchen, looking up with
suspicious eyes through her tears into her lover's
face. "And what has she "

Oh, ah ! hem  yes," said he, pulling the ends
of his moustache with his disengaged hand. '* I
don't you see  I happened to meet her yesterday
morning when  when I was hunting about
after you, Gretchen ; and we just exchanged a
word or two, she and I ; and among other trifles
she happened to say she had seen you, Gretchen."

Yes, yes ? "

**Ah well, and she's an odd sort of girl, very
odd, Sabina von Steinbach. I've always told
you she is ; and  and pretty, eh ? Yes '? "

That's a matter of taste. Handsome is as
handsome does," tartly enunciated his sweetheart.

'then," blurted Otto, ''by that rule you
should think her beautiful as an angel, my dear ;
for if she had not told me you were breaking
your heart because  well, because you had not
happened to have seen me this last day or two,

I was quite of two minds whether I should have
come looking you up just to-day. Quite of two
minds."

I was as hajDpy as a queen without you,"
fibbed Gretchen. " Sabina von Steinbach knew
nothing at all about it ; and I took pretty good
care to tell her she didn't," she pouted on with a
toss of her head. " What should she understand,
I should like to know about true love ? A coquette
of a thing like her ! playing fast and loose
as she does with a gentleman of Master Dasipo-
dies' sort."

Nay, now, Gretchen "

Oh, don't tell me, sir. You're as bad as all
the rest of them, making such a ridiculous fuss
about her. Oh, yes of course, she's a saint, an
angel, isn't she ? She can't do wrong, no. Not
even when she plays the jilt and "

Be silent, Gretchen ! " sternly commanded
Otto ; " you know nothing about that. I do
perhaps."

Oh, of course you do," retorted the jealous
Gretchen. "Anyhow you think you do."

"Just that," nodded he. "I've got my reasons,
and I don't mind telling you I think what I
think," and Sir Oracle looked volumes.

"Oh," said Gretchen, pursing her lips.

And I think," blundered on the provoked
lover, "that Sabina von Steinbach loves Conrad
Dasipodius every bit as dearly as  well  as you
love me, Gretchen."

And to shield himself from any awkward consequences
of the frankly expressed opinion. Otto
bent his head and imprinted a kiss on the lips
that were near ; and though they flouted and
pouted terrifically, they made not the faintest
effort to elude the salute.

That won't reach far then," furred she with
a smile that made her ordinary face beautiful ;
and then shyly stealing a glance at her handsome
lover, she gazed up into the sailing sun-gilded
clouds overhead, and silently wondered
what the dear Heaven itself could offer her half
so sweet as that moment. " No distance at all."

Only somewhere as far as death itself, Gretchen,"
said the presuming creature ; " and as
much beyond as may be needful, eh, my girl ? "

Do you think that ? " demanded she, rousing
from her blissful dream and looking fixedly and
thoughtfully into Otto's face, as if some new
light had suddenly broken in upon her. " Do
you think that, indeed, indeed 1 "
.S 14

By my honour I do," he said earnestly.

But can you swear to it ? "

I tell you I think. Isn't that enough ? And
by the Mass ! something too much. So keep a
silent tongue in that head of yours, do you hear,
Gretchen ? I won't have tittle-tattle. Do you
hear, I say ? "

She nodded.

So, and now good-bye, child. Goodness
knows when I shall see you again. One of
these fine days, I daresay. There now, there " 
for still she clung to him fast  " I must go, I
must indeed. What if your father should find
us here ! I say, you know, Gretchen ! " remonstrated
he.

I shouldn't care," she smiled rapturously.

'' Oh, but I should just. Come," and he
wrested from her fingers the doublet they had
drawn quite out of its elegant pleats, and set
it in order again, and patted down its gay
passementerie. ''Be a good child, and don't
grizzle. Listen now, if you can get out without
a chance of being seen, safe and certain mind,
I'll meet you here again  let me think  Wednesday
morning. There now, what do you say to
that ? "

''And this Saturday!" was her slow whimpering
comment.

' Well, look now, I'm so awfully busy, don t
you see. Tuesday the Horologe day. I shall
hardly have an instant to breathe till that's over.
Dasipodius is so everlastingly wanting my opinion
about this, that, and the other; and I'm due over
and over again at the Dial now. And look, see,
Gretchen, you wait here, don't stir an inch, till
you think I'm well into town. Yes '? It'll never
do for us two to be seen anywhere near each
other. I shouldn't like it at all."

It's so hard for you to be ashamed of me,"
she said sadly.

"Oh, well, it  no, hang it, don't say that, Gretchen.
I'm not exactly that. But  I might be
prouder of you certainly. That is to say, of
course  well, you know, devil take it ! I must
be off, I must indeed." And breaking from her,
and blowing her a kiss from his finger tips, he
was soon out of sight, whistling as he went ; for
he was pleased with the noble and disinterested
manner in which he had comported himself.

And she stood watching her lover's receding
figure until the windings of the way hid him from
her eyes. Then she sat down upon the bank to

revel for a few stolen moments in the ecstasy of
her recovered happiness. For her there is sunlight
again now upon the river, and the sky is
translucent with Heaven's own azure. The long
grass and the wayside flowers rustle and flutter so
cheerily in the light noonday breeze (which for
the last day or two has sprung up a little stormily
perhaps), as if they were whispering all together
of the tryst they have just witnessed ; and then
presently the restless frolicsome element, with a
hush ! hush ! yes, that's good news," saucily
stoops till it sweeps the very ground, parting the
tall grass blades to their stems, and next instant
is out in mid stream, dancing with the river
wavelets ; but it has not been quicker than
Gretchen Hackernagel's eyes, which have caught
sight of something shining in the grass under
the sunlight rays like molten gold.

He has dropped one of his beautiful rings,"
murmured Gretchen, rising to pick the thing up.
But no, it's too big for that. Is it perhaps his
golden crucifix ? "

Neither the one nor the other. It was the
key!

A DILEMMA.

rPHE brass key which Radegund had entrusted
to him ! Gretchen at once recognized it from

o

a description Otto had once given her of it, or
rather of its original, which hung on Prudentius'
girdle ; but the exquisite modelling and repousse
work of Master Wenzel Jamitzer's own
hands was to her all one with the copy's coarser
lines, and she recognized it by the W. J. on
the neck which formed an important part of the
design.

Now what is to be done ? " cogitated she,
looking at the thing as it lay on her open
palm, and mentally seeing Otto when he should
discover his loss. " He's been having it to go in
and out about the Horologe with ; and when he
finds it out  perhaps he will at once  perhaps
he'll come back."

Enraptured at the possibility, Gretchen waited

as long' as she dared. Longer. Half-an-hour
was her extremest tether of time, and when at
last she reached home, she had to submit to a
sound rating from Syndic Tobias, for her loitering
ways generally; and this especial hideous wasting
of precious time. Certainly her adventure did
bring about quite yq minutes' delay of dinner ;
and that catastrophe made the spark, igniting the
seething wrath of the head of the house into its
threatened outburst. The first rush found vent
in an embargo upon Gretchen against leaving
the house for  how long he did not vouchsafe
to explain  under the awful jDcnalty of never
entering it again. '* Three or four days at
least ; and that reminds me," thundered on he,
having first summoned every member of the
establishment into his dread presence. " Understand
once and for all, that after the first stroke
of midday on Monday, not a creature of you all
stirs from this house till Wednesday at the same
hour. I will have no precious eyes contaminated,
no state of grace under my supervision, imperilled
by their vain and frivolous vanities.
Time was," he continued, upturning his little
eyes, " that I had looked to see the Horologe
inaugurated with much fasting ; and that the

first duty its hands would have found to do
would have been the telling off of a delivery of a
Christian-like discourse of improving length and
the spending of the previous night season in
much watching and pious contemplation ; but
the woman of Babylon sits once again in the
high places, and all our sackcloth and groaning
are turned into scarlet and fine linen, and fiddling.
Surely I repent me sorely of ever having put a
finger to the thing," went on the Syndic with
marked feeling ; " and now it is in vain that I
lift up my hands and my voice against it, and
cry Woe ! woe ! for they heed not. But I may
restrain my household from the paths of destruction
; and therefore I say unto you," shrieked
Tobias, bringing his clenched hand noisily down
on the chair back forming his temporary rostrum,
and glowering at the scared faces before
him, "that he, or she  emphatically she, I repeat,"
and his piercing glance sought Gretchen,
standing sullenly withdrawn into an uttermost
corner ; " for is it not the poor weak female sex
which is Satan's easiest prey in the matter of
looking out of window ?  he or she who shall
dare to lift a curtain, or peep through a chink
of this house's closed shutters, after my hands

have bolted them at sundown, or sets foot after
that hour outside my doors, shall never enter
them again ! "

Having delivered himself of which overwhelming
threat, the Syndic went on to intimate that
whatever the existing larder supply might afford,
must suffice for the garrison's victualling till the
Zoological orgies should be ended ; and that
indeed entire abstention from eating and drinking
would best become them all. Then before dismissing
the trembling convention, he explained
that as far as he himself was concerned, he should
possibly spend all Monday night in the company
of certain Christian-minded persons, who  and
then the Syndic paused modestly. Well it was
not for him to say how those hours would be
spent ; it sufficed to remind them all that while
half the world was wrapped in sleep, the other
half kept watch. And early on the Tuesday
morning, he trusted to return safe and refreshed
to their bosoms. Upon which aspiration, Tobias
Hackernagel hung up his Damocles' sword well
in the family sight, and the last faint hope
of getting so much as a glimpse of the show
faded.

With dire dismay, Gretchen contemplated the

state of siege under which the household was
about to be put ; and she passed the whole
seventy-five minutes occupied by Master Peter
Bakkerzeel's discourse next morning on the deceits
of the flesh, in cudgelling her brains for someway
of restoring Otto his lost property. Ideas
of disobeying the veto on leaving the house rose
to her mind only to be dismissed as futile, and
fraught with immense possibilities of mischief,
even supposing her father's vigilance could be
eluded. The only two places where she was
sure of finding Otto were the Dial and his own
home ; and to seek him at the one would be
to bring upon his devoted head, and her own, a
shower of witticisms from his companions of the
studio, which might jeopardize her scarcely cemented
happiness past all mending again, for
Otto never was a friend to amusement initiated
at his expense. To search him out at his own
house was, if possible, a worse proceeding still ;
since besides that personally she stood in awe of
his imperious sister, she knew that Eadegund's
power of ingress to and egress from the Cathedral,
lay in this identical key ; and having a dim
and hazy perception of the real position of affairs,
she dreaded any possibility of dragging her careless

Corydon into some terrible scrape by any
misplaced zeal on her part.

Turning from this Gordian tangle of difficulty,
she strove to grapple with that other problem 
what could be taking her father away from his
own house on the night when, by his own showing,
it behoved every godly-minded person to be fast
indoors ? It was all very well for him to proclaim
pious intentions, but it seemed none the
less strange to Gretchen that he should elect to
absent himself at such a time ; and in brief,
knowing her father's aptitude for fitting spiritual
to temporal needs, and his unscrupulous genius
for making, when hard driven, the former subserve
the latter, vague suspicion of what he
might be bent upon was fed by the recollection
of the miraculous friendliness which he had
seemed to be evincing towards Prudentius. And
so, while Master Bakkerzeel pounded away at the
heads of his discourse, there came a strange
fixed thoughtfulness over the girl's face, which
deepened into lines of strong resolution, till Otto,
could he have seen her, would barely have recognized
his trembling, tearful love of yesterday ;
and her hand sought that key lying against her
heart with a nervous firm clutch, as if indeed

it were a treasure to love and guard to the
death.

At least if the thing was actually and figuratively
a weight and a burden, yet what an untold
consolation it was too, lying rigid and hard against
her heart ! How lately it had lain nestled away in
Otto's perfumed pockets ! she felt a sort of fearful
delight in her acquisition, linking his fortune
after a fashion, as it did, with hers. It lightened
her cruel sense of isolation ; she was eternally
pressing the precious treasure closer, to make
sure it had not melted into thin air, until the
amiable sisters, interchanging volleys of significant
nods and backs, affected solicitude as to
whether she had not been suddenly smitten
with cardiac affection ; and then took to wondering
in audible asides, what Otto von Steinbach
could possibly be doing with himself all this long
while ? and really for their parts, if they had
such lovers  why really ! and if men made
themselves so scarce before marriage, why it was
a nice prospect for afterwards  und so iveitey\ 

und so iveiter.

********

Meantime Otto, after parting from Gretchen,
had put in an appearance at the studio, and

occupied in all good earnest the whole day,
remained in liapjDy unconsciousness of his loss.
Only when rather late in the evening he turned
the corner of the episcopal palace, the remembrance
of his unfulfilled commission flashed across
him ; and he came to a momentary halt before
the great gates, to consider whether he should
turn in and give up the key, or carry it back to
Kadegund with that piece of his fraternal counsel
he had concocted so bravely in the morning.
Against this alternative was to be set the sharp
reprimand which would inevitably fall upon his
feather head, when Radegund should come to
know of his neglect ; while, on the other hand,
as he contemplated those hated walls from this
near view, he could not dismiss the memory of
that time when they had held him in vile durance
for three good hours. So between Scylla
and Charybdis he stood, with his hands thrust into
the pockets of his trunk hose, vaguely fumbling
for the key into their uttermost depths, but
coming upon nothing besides a shrivelled plum,
and a sticky sprinkling of marchpane crumbs,
with a large piece of which delectable stuff the
diplomatic Sabina had on the previous morning
strengthened her arguments.

Momentarily startled at finding his fingers did
not come immediately in contact with the object
of his search, he quickly recovered his composure
on recollecting that it was not in those nether
garments, but in the shallow breast pocket,
whence the corner of his gossamer cambric handkerchief
was wont to peep so distractingly forth,
that he had jnt it, but  Aller Teufel !  not the
ghost of a key is to be found there now. With
a chill turning him horseflesh from top to toe,
that sultry summer night, his trembling hands
tore the pocket inside out, but to a dead certainty
it was not there.

Slapping himself all over in his forlorn hope
that it had slipped through some torn lining, and
even going the length of taking off his shoes and
thrusting his fingers into their toes, Otto collapsed
at last in despair, the short curly hair of
his head bristling with dismay, and his eyes
roundly staring into space in the agonized endeavour
to collect his thoughts. So absorbed was
he in the magnitude of his mishap), that only the
clear gentle " By your good leave, my son," of
Bishop John, desiring to cross his own threshold,
restored the unhappy man's outward perceptions.

Hurriedly removing his cap as he started

aside, Otto would have fled, but my lord further
remarked that it was a fine evening, and promised
well for Tuesday ; and Otto stammeringly acquiesced,
letting his eyes, as he did so, wildly
seek every corner of the Platz, in some vague
desperate hope of escape from the benevolent
gaze fixed on him.

Good night, my lord," at last he said, driven
to desperation.

Good night. By the way," called the Bishop
after him, " Otto von Steinbach."

Did you speak, my lord ? " said the miserable
creature, forced to face round.

Yes I did. Khoui that key ? "

What  wh  what key, my lord ? " faltered
Otto.

The postern key to the cathedral I lent your
sister some time since. I sent to her this
morning to say I wanted it back. It has not
reached me yet."

"N  no, my lord? I 1 believe  I fancy 
that is I think  my sister   "

Just so. Tell her from me, will you, that on
second thoughts I do not want it"  Otto breathed
again  "and that I prefer she should keep it until
after Tuesday. You understand me ? "

Oh yes, my lord."

She might be requiring it again in "

In a hurry, my lord, yes."

Precisely ; and  here, here ! are your legs
made of quicksilver that you're in such a tremendous
hurry to be off ?  tell Mistress Eadegund,
with my good wishes, that it will be impossible
for me to come and speak with her as wee had
arranged ; but that Wednesday noon will be time
enough, if that will suit her. Think you it will ? "

Oh, much better, my lord," answered the
internally rejoicing Otto.

I am overwhelmed for the next day or two
with matters demanding my immediate attention."


I am sure you are, my lord."

The Horologe fills all our hands for us, eh ? "
smiled the Bishop. '"'Good-night, my son, Benedicite,
and fair dreams." Then he passed in and
shut the gate.

Bishop John's gentle valediction was not
realized for Otto ; his slumbers were haunted
that night by frightful visions, amid whose
chaotic mists loomed, brazen and fiend-like, a
gigantic key with a pale face and a huge nose.
Never since he had shifted the Horologe responsibilities

had lie been so plagued ; and at daybreak
he awoke with a shriek and a start, for
somehow the thing had grown and lengthened
out into a monstrous gliding reptile, winding in
and out of the Horologe, until the whole structure
fell crushed to powder in its slimy coils.
Then, hopelessly awake, he lay for hours tormenting
his brain for some clue to the manner
in which he had lost his precious charge. And
long before the city was astir, he was down by
the river, searching every inch of the path
between the town gate and the scene of his
rendezvous. But alas ! no key was to be found.
The long dewy grass waved in the early morning
breeze, the birds twittered their glad salves to
the risen sun, and the geese slowly sailing up
alongside of him, making their toilettes as they
came, quacked him a placid "Good morning,
gossip," as if in the whole wide world was no
such thing as worry and bother.

It's dropped in there," groaned the wretched
Otto to himself, glaring into the amber shallows.
I remember now how I kept close alongside
here, chasing that idiot of a water-rat ever sofar,
and it shook out of my pocket here ; that's
about the lomond short of it. And if it is so,"

he went on, combing his hair up on end with all
his ten fingers, " why then, first as last, I had as
well be lying along with it." Then he went
home to breakfast.

You did my bidding, dear boy, about that
key ? " Eadegund asked, as she seated herself at
the table with him ; "I could not ask you last
night ; I was tired out, and went to bed directly
that woman had gone."

She's not a beauty," said Otto, finding in her
Serenity of Eumpelpuppenschnarchenstein a
loophole for changing the conversation. " \hat
does she want to be painted for ? "

It's always the ugly ones who like dabbling
most in that sort of thing. And the key, Otto,
was it all right ? "

First taking measures, with the assistance of
the venison pasty, to put himself beyond all
power of verbal response. Otto intimated by a
wag of his head that she need not worry about
that.

You saw my lord himself "? "

Of course I did," replied Otto, quickly disposing
of his bonne bouche ; " and he told me
to tell you, Eadegund, that it was not a bit of use
your bothering to see him until Wednesday at
315

the very earliest. He hasn't got an instant to
spare, lie says."

Very well," acquiesced she, " that must do."

I say, Eadegund," said the respited sinner,
and indicating with his fork a richly embroidered
purple velvet gown thrown across a couch, "that's
never what you're going to wear on Tuesday."

Why not ? " she asked listlessly ; " it's good
enough, isn't it ? "

Oh hang it, trust you for that alway,
Eadegund. But the colour, my dear, it will
make you look like a corpse. You've grown so
pale lately, horridly."

"Have I?" she said, smiling a little ; "certainly
I never did look to you for flattery, dear child."

Oh no, I never flatter. That sort of thing's
an abomination to me. Only yesterday Gret 
ahem, a friend of mine was saying that was one
of my great charms."

What is your great charm, dear ? " asked his
sister, rousing from the reverie into which she
had fallen.

Oh, upon my honour, Eadegund, you've
grown frightfully dense lately ! I do think you
must be ill or something. Nay, no  but you are
not ? only bothered a little perhaps yes 1 " and

his tones softened into genuine solicitude. " Is
anything bothering you, dear girl ? "

What should bother me ? " she said irritably.
It's hateful to be asked such foolish questions ;
mind your own concerns, child." And while
Otto proceeded to cut himself another wedge of
pasty, she rose and began to pace the floor like
some caged creature ; then suddenly coming to
a halt beside him, and placing one arm about his
neck, she smoothed back the clustering curls.
Otto dear, forgive me," she pleaded humbly.

Oh ay, all right, Eadegund," replied he good-tempered,
and carrying on his ravages among
the edibles. " It's all right, I understand. I
know," he went on, as she looked into his face
with startled enquiry, " how confoundedly cross
things will persist in going ; and as soon as one
thing's got a little right, another  I say, don't
cr} about it though, Eadegund," for a tear has
fallen on his upturned forehead, from the dark
eyes that look too aridly brilliant for any such
grateful moisture ; " don't do that. . I can't stand
any more, I say, don't, there's a dear girl. I
can't bear to see a woman cry, somehow ; it does
worry me so awfully ; and what with Gretchen
yesterday, and now "

Gretchen ! " interrupted Eadeguud, brushing
away her tears ; " you have been seeing her
again 

Yes, I have," sturdily replied he, reddening
to his earth's ; " and I've  I've made it straight
aD'ain with her."

'but

"Now don't begin asking me how, because I
shan't  -I mean I can't, tell you, upon my
honour I can't. It's all Sabina's doing, not mine.
She would insist upon it, don't you see ; and 
there, come now, Eadegund, don't be angry, and
ask me to upset it all again, because I won't be
bothered any more about it. What's done should
never be undone ; and people may say what they
like, and laugh till they split, and  and all that
sort of thing, but I mean to stick to Gretchen,
there ! " And he conclusively pushed back his
plate.

I am not angry, child," she said gently. '' 1
am very glad. I have come to think Gretchen
Hackernagel is a good woman, and loves you
truly."

Oh, no end."

"And will make you an honest faithful wife."

Of course."

"And be a good mother to your children."

Oh come ! I say now, Eadegund," interrupted
the blushing Otto, " how you do go
ahead to be sure, when once you begin ! "

"Do I ? " smiled Eadegund. " Well, welland
I see her taking good care of you, and
keeping you out of mischief, Otto, I am very
glad Gretchen Hackernagel "

Gretchen," interrupted Otto ; " why the mischief
must you always be tacking on her hideous
surname ? "

"Gretchen, then, is to be your wife. And give
her," and Eadegund bent and lovingly kissed the
young man's cheek, "give her this from me. Your
lips will make it sweet to her," she added, smiling
with a wistful unwonted tenderness, and gathering
up, as she passed, the obnoxious gala garment,
she went out.

'the three havens."

4 After winding round the base of the St.
 Stephen's Tower, the river path terminated
in a wilderness of plane and lime trees,
whose unrestrained luxuriance overshadowed a
wild undergrowth of coarse grass and bramble,
through whose labyrinth, however, careful seekers
might thread out a narrow serpentine footpath,
slippery and slimy with damp, and the trailing
of the slugs and toads, who in undisturbed
tranquillity lived and multiplied exceedingly
thereabouts. All other winged creatures, save
and excepting the bats, and a brown owl or
two, seemed to shun the dense thicket's sunless
branches ; and if they did chance to get astray
there, would rush through the heavy air into the
cheerier world beyond, as though oppressed by
the dismal spot.

Pursued laterally for about a hundred yards,

this path widened on through an irregular alley
of chestnut trees, finally sloping down to the
brink of a stagnant weed-grown pond, on one
side of which, sunken amid sombre willows,
stood a low-gabled house, whose plaster walls,
green with the water's exhalations, were timbered
with reddish-brown beams in many a fantastic
criss-cross device. The wooden cornice-work,
belting the entire building, and mildewed and
broken in many parts, still showed patches of
faded colour and half-defaced characters, once
eloquent of scriptural saws and other sage instances,
but the whole aspect of the place was
now dilapidated, and peeling away nth damp
and neglect.

Immediately above the low dark doorway,
hung, in a scrolled iron framework, a painted
signboard, but so weather-worn and dirt-encrusted,
that something of the gift of second
sight was needed to make out its bearings.
Minute consideration, however, revealed that
those three couples of yellowish-white small
circles, pierced like shooting butts with black
spots, made the semblance of so many eyes in
the heads of a trio of weird and evil-looking
sable-winged birds. These, as the superscription

explained, were the tutelary genii of the
establishment, '' The Three Eavens," kept by
Ezra Schlau, and that " accommodation for man
and beast was obtainable there ".

The present Ezra was, however, only the
blurred copy of another and now defunct
original, who had managed to hold his head
higher among; his fellow-men than ever his son
had been able to do. Ezra the first, living and
moving in all the stir of those days which had
seen Luther pin the Pope's Bull up to scorn, had
warmly embraced that Reformer's teachings ; butin
later years he had passed over into the ranks
of Doctor Calvin's disciples, whose tenets recommended
themselves strongly to his gloomy temperament,
which regarded everything as corrupt
in this world save the heaping up of money.
The change had not been for the better, inasmuch
as his new creed rendered the man, by
nature morose and irritable, a contentious and
overbearing fanatic. Notwithstanding, he was
as much a Christian as his religion permitted
him to be, and sincere to the backbone, but he
had imparted little of this sincerity to his son ;
and while he, for example, would have kicked a
papist customer from his doorstep, though he lay

there perishing with cold and hunger, his descendant,
albeit as strictly conforming in outward
profession, was looser in his ways of conducting
business, and by no means ever over-careful to
enquire too closely into the whence and whither
of his patrons.

This Ezra's creed was one of inheritance, not
of conviction ; he had taken it with his sire's
other broods and chattels, and drifting; with the
fashion of the dav, the rigid Predestinarian had
developed into the rank, self-asserting, but not
more moral Anabaptist ; and though, pecuniarily
regarded, he had found the change no unprofitable
investment, still somehow the glory of his
house had departed ; and while thirty years
since there had not been in all Strassburg, or
its neighbourhood, a more respected and well
conducted hostelry than the Three Eavens, there
were worthy Protestant folks now given to shake
their heads dubiously about it, and allowed its
allurements to become a monopoly of the Anabaptist
portion of the community ; and those
three ill-omened birds on Ezra Schlau's signboard,
with their stolid eyes and cunning beaks,
curiously typified the stamp of humanity which
came to refresh itself in his guest parlour.

Once the place had been a centre where men
of the various shades of reformed opinion would
meet to discuss and wire-draw the teachings
enunciated by their several leaders. The spot
was a secluded one, and the disputants felt
themselves comparatively secure from inquisitorial
eyes and ears ; and argument is dry
work ; and many a horn and beaker were
called in to whet the edge of those edifying
discussions ; and old Ezra's coffers waxed fat ;
and when the time came that his soul was
required of him, he, bidding his son take example,
and strive to be just such another
godly and thrifty man as himself, paid the
debt of nature.

Touching the thrift, Ezra stuck to his parent's
counsel like a leech. Touching the godliness, if
a sour-natured, mean, grasping fellow, who made
long prayers in his conventicle, or at least turned
up his ferret eyes, and beat his breast, and groaned
as if he were really addressing high Heaven after
his sect's approved mode  if a creature who adulterated
his wine for his casual customers with
poisonous abominations, and strengthened his
jugs and tankards with double bottoms, until
indeed these graceful artifices were detected, and

he was beaten for them within an inch of his life
by his patrons, who knew a good article from a
bad one every whit as entirely as they could tell
you the difference between sanctification and
self-imputed righteousness  if a wretch who
starved his dog and cat, and kept the breath
going in his one hapless servant's body with
cold bones and mouldy scraps, and the dregs of
his beer cups, and laid a gold piece in the alms-platter
after Lord's day sermon  were a godly
man, then, not excepting Syndic Hackernagel
himself, was there in all the city, or out of ita
godlike than Ezra Schlau.

To-day, which is the eve of the great Horologe
day, mine host of the Three Eavens rose with
the lark, and has been on his legs sans intermission
ever since, entertaining: the strangers
who are pouring into Strassburg from all corners
of the compass for leagues round ; and liberal-minded
soul that he is, has been at less than
even his usual pains to ascertain whether they
may be children of light or of Beelzebub, or
what may be the sound of their special Shibboleth,
but has pocketed Catholic and Protestant
monies with equal alacrity, so only that they
rang sterling currency.

But the long day is drawing in at last ; and
the darkness is bringing with it a heavy scornful
feeling, and ever and anon, low thunderous
booming echo distantly ; and the late comers
and loiterers who have been patronizing the
wayside hostelry, straggle out to the door, and
glancing overhead, and then yonder to the lights
dotting up here and there over the great city,
pay their reckoning and trudge onward.

It must be close now upon the stroke of eight.
From the pool a heavy mist is beginning to rise ;
and the reptile creatures come crawling and
wriggling through the dank grass, to keep their
nightly Walpurgis with the croaking frogs under
the alders. From the inn's back premises sounds
a ceaseless clatter of plate and cup washing ; and
Schlau's low growling accompaniment of admonition
to his luckless factotum Hans, to mind what
he is about, finds a continuous lasso ohligato in
the music proceeding from some half-dozen nasal
organs of varied shapes and sizes, and all more
or less delicately carnation-tinted, of the residue
of the revellers in the common room.

Soon, however, these will have to be ejected ;
and only because, for the last hour and more
past, Ezra has been expecting a distinguished

guest, grace has been extended to them ; but the
guest, no less a person than one of his chief
patrons. Syndic Tobias Hackernagel, is long a
coming.

Still," as he explained with a fatigued smile,
when intimating his intention of looking in that
evening on Ezra, he might be late, " a public
man is never master of his own time ; and the
unforeseen so often occurs for him. We are
such slaves," added the Syndic. " Sometimes
not even able to choose our very company."
And while Tobias sighed heavily, Ezra, feeling
himself called upon to say something, intimated
with the utmost delicacy in his choice of euphemisms,
that if Syndic Hackernagel found it
advisable to bring the Prince of Darkness himself
there to hob and nob, he would ask no
questions ; and the pair of them woiild be welcome
to the best his poor house afforded.

Which assurance notwithstanding, it must be
granted that Ezra's faith in his wealthy customer
met a sharp test when, through the
gathering twilight mists, he caught a glimpse
of Benedictine black skirts nearing his door in
juxtaposition with the prim grey cloth trunk
hose of the Anabaptist ; and his amazement

and perplexity increased tenfold when, by the
light of the oil lamp he held aloft to illumine
the way of the new comers, he beheld the shining
round visage of Brother Prudentius himself ! for
all Strassburg, friend and foe alike, knew the
Cathedral sacristan. Ezra was however equal to
the occasion ; and obedient to the look in Hacker-navel's
face, plainly intimating that now, if ever,
silence would best become him, he proceeded, ashe
was bidden, to see after tapping a fresh cask
of the Niersteiner.

The precious liquor lay down in a circumscribed
innermost shrine, only accessible through
a large outer cellar immediately beneath the
guest room in which Hackernagel and his companion
now took their seats. The structural
arrangement of these two cellars tallied exactly
with that of the chamber above. Between them
was a massive partitioned wall, pierced by a small
iron-clamped door, which closed in the smaller
cellar, while the division in the guest room was
marked simply by a high step raising the floor
platform-wise, and forming a sort of second room,
or rather an arched quadrangular space, whose
latticed casement, looking directly on to the pond,
commanded a fine view of its green and stagnant

charms. Seen from without, this recess made a
deep snug projecting gable-end, whose walls
would have had the appearance of rising direct
out of the water, save for an embanking rush-skirted
ridge of earth, narrowing at the top into
a slippery slimy belt some half-dozen inches wide,
fringed with tall dank weeds and rotting sedge.
In the base of the wall, barely above waterman's
level, was fixed a small rusty iron grating, admitting
all available light and air into the little
outermost cellar below. Within doors, the
guest room's larger division was apportioned to
the hostelry's ordinary frequenters ; while the
upper recess had been, time out of mind, by
general tacit consent yielded up to the use of the
Three Eavens' more distinguished guests, of
whom Syndic Hackernagel in his generation
might be counted far from the least important ;
and to-night, as usual, he with his companion
were conducted to this seat above the salt.

Meantime, lamp and keys in hand, Ezra made
his way through the imposing array of casks
and flasks and bottles in the outer cellar to the
double-locked door of the one beyond. Setting
his lamp on a bracket, the thrifty host turned
its flame down to the thread of a gleam, for the

moon was up, and its stormy but brilliant light
would, as he knew, be shining full into his
treasure house. First removing the heavy
transverse iron bar before the door, he let it
slip with a loud clank, and turned the key in
its lock. Then thrusting the door far back, he
looked well round before setting foot inside. A
singular precaution apparently, but full experience
had taught Ezra that it was no needless
one.

Like a chequered carpet the moonlight covered
the stone floor, and to its farthest crannies the
place was more clearly visible than ever it was
by such scant and sickly daylight as ever filtered
in there. Silent and still as a death vault ; yet
Ezra, pausing there on the threshold, gave a
start, and then peered in with craning neck and
staring eyes, not caring to advance. Was it a
shadow 1 a slender light-flitting shadow which
momentarily dimmed the luminous floor 1 Fancy
of his it could not be, the man was such a preeminently
unimaginative one. With a grim half
smile at himself, he strode forward to the wine
cask and tapped it. Once again, as he stooped
over the spigot, his lank fingers, showing bluish
white in the steely lustre, where overcast with

sudden shadow, and lie turned and glanced
wrathfully up through the grated aperture and
its rank trailing luxuriance, at the yellowing
moon banked amid the heavy clouds. '' There's
a storm brewing," he muttered to himself, as he
returned to his task. "And not a little one
neither. Phew ! " and he drew his sleeve across
his face, " what a cold sweat this hole always
puts one in ! Enough to give a man his death
of  Hei ! hush !  sh ! a plague on ye all, for
the screeching croaking imps ye are ! Why
can't you leave my premises alone 1 " crowded
Ezra up at his amphibious neighbours on the
other side of the grating, and hurling through it
an enormous toad, whose errant proclivities. had
got him into difficulties, and precipitated him from
his native slush on to the cellar floor. "It's well
for ye all that water's your liquor, or I'd pretty
soon stop every one of your noisy throats."

Then his flagon filled, Ezra, barring and locking
up his doors again, came out and ascended to
the guest room, where he placed the wine, flanked
by a couple of tall drinking glasses, on the table
before Syndic Hackernagel and his companion.

Had I best leave you my lamp. Syndic
Hackernagel ? " enquired he, glancing up at the
316

four candles guttering and sputtering in extremis
in the rude wooden cross laths depending from
the ceiling's centre.

Nay, friend," said Hackernagel, " take it
away. There's light enough."

'ray, ay, and to spare," laughed the sacristan,
out of his reasons for preferring darkness to
light. " The moonshine here will show us the
way to our mouths."

Lifting the lamp with one hand, and pocketing
with the other the gold piece Tobias had tendered
him, Schlau retired, still lost in bewilderment at
the odd fraternization of two such inimical spirits.

"But what is to be will be," was the Calvinist's
sage comment ; " and if there's anything not 
not entirely square about it, it's the Syndic's
business, not mine."

IN V I X Y E R I T A S."

"fTO think," said the sacristan, sipping and
tasting, and smacking his lips over the
brimming glass, and then smacking and tasting
and sipping again, and finally disposing summarily
of the remainder. " To think," he repeated,
setting down the empty goblet with a
sigh, and a nod of unqualified approval, while he
cast his eyes with curiosity round the dingy
room. " To think such stuff" as that "

Try it again, friend," said Tobias, replenishing
the cup.

Thanks, Master Syndic. I don't mind if 1

do. Such stuff" as that can come out of "

the sacristan paused, casting about for a less
depreciatory term than the one which had first
suggested itself, " this simple hostelry."

** Good wine," amiably enunciated Tobias,
sipping his own modicum as gingerly as if it

were some medicinal concoction, " needs no
bush."

By the mass ! that's true ; and as to this,"
and the lay brother tossed off his second glass
of the potent liquid, '' there's nothing in our
cellars, and we've got good stuff in them, can
hold a candle to it."

Then prove your appreciation," urged Tobias,
lifting the flagon again.

Nay now," objected Prudentius, coquettishly
protecting the outworks of his glass with all his
ten outspread fingers, but leaving its mouth
utterly unguarded. " It's heady drink I expect,
and one must be careful, Master Syndic, eh ?
Yes ? "

Oh," laughed Hackernagel, " dear me, you
might drink this whole flagon full, and feel
yourself none the worse."

A comfortable sensation diffusing itself allover
the sacristan's inner man lent colour to
this assurance.

I say. Master Tobias," he began in low
tones, after a brief silence spent in a closer survey
of the quarters in which he found himself,
and a speculative consideration of the sleeping
topers stretched about the benches, " we're safe

enough here of course "? Oh, no offence, none
in the world, only I  Holy Saints ! what was
that ? " and hurriedly setting down his half-emptied
glass, the sacristan rose to his feet.
What was it ? "

Thunder," calmly said Hackernagel, making
good the vacuum. " Sit down."

But still on his feet, Prudentius drained his
replenished glass to its dregs.

Hadn't we best be jogging homewards," he
said then, a little thickly.

Ah ! " returned Hackernagel with an impatient
gesture. " There'll be no storm yet
awhile. Come, man, drink, drink. No heeltaps.
Sit you down."

Oh no. N no heel-taps," echoed Prudentius,
dropping heavily back into his seat,
and grasping the jug by its neck, he proceeded
to help himself to its contents. " No, 'wouldn't
be for the honour of the house, w  would it,
Master Hackernagel ? "

Certainly not," replied Tobias, sipping on
delicately.

No. N  not for the honour of the house ;
and," continued Prudentius, drawing his portly
little body up into a dignified attitude, and

blinking gravely across into his companion's face,
"" and it is an honourable house ; and you're all
honourable gent  gentlemen here ; and you're
the honourable gent  gentleman among them,
and  I say, Master Tobias, it's time "  and
the sacristan's hand slid from the table's edge,
and grasped fumbling after the bunch of keys
at his side  " Master Tobias, I say, hadn't web
 best  be jogging ? I've got to be up betimes ;
and if  if a man don't sleep, he don't wake so
easy. Eh, stands to reason he can't, don't it ?
That's sound s  sense, say if it isn't."

*' Very much so, my friend," acquiesced his
entertainer, sedulously keeping up his attentions
to the sacristan's glass.

Yes, common sense, as you observe, M 
Master Hack  Hack  Hackernagel. And so, as I
say, o  old friend, if it's all the same  the same
to you, we'll be jog  jog  what a devil of a row
there is out there ! "

Tobias started and glanced towards the window
; then his lips relaxed into a smile, and he
said laconically, " Frogs ".

*' Frogs, is it ? " said Prudentius, propelling
himself with some little difficulty along the bench
towards the window, where, resting his shaven

crown against its worm-eaten upright, he leaned,
and silently stared with preternatural gravity
into the night. 'eth  there's a woman out
there," he said at last.

"A what ? "

*'A woman ; a  ho ! ho ! ho ! don't be afraid,
Master Tobias. Sh  she won't hurt."

'' Fool ! "

I  I'll take care of you. I'm not afraid.
N  never be afraid of a woman ; I'm not. I
like w  women. I wonder what sh  she's like,
that one out there ; d  don't you."

Idiot ! " muttered Tobias between his set
teeth, *' drunken "

N  no, none so d drunk as  come, Master
Tobias, shall we be j  jogging?" And as
the words left his lips, the sacristan sank down
like a log on the window seat, still staring with
vacant intensity into the moonlight. " What the
mischief can she be doing out there ? " he added
in low thick sotto voce ; " where's she got to ?
Ho ! hi !  sh  I say. Syndic Tobias, sh  she's
gone. Come and see ; " and he beckoned
Hackernagel with his forefinger, describing a
curiously irregular half-circle, " come and  see."

Drunken fool ! " growled Hackernagel, engrossed

in a thoughtful examination of the
flagon's drained interior, and speculating whether
it would be necessary to sacrifice another gold
piece on its replenishing.

D  drunk yourself, Syndic," returned the
offended sacristan. " D  drunk, I like that !
ho ! and I'm no fool neither, m  mind that. If
I was a f  fool, I suppose I shouldn't exactly
have been having tli  these in my charge for
twenty years last Corpus Domini," and with
tremulous uncertain hands he lifted the precious
keys and shook them at Hackernagel. " Fool ?
N  no  no, not exactly, and I'm not d  drunk
neither, I sh  should hope. And I've got my
eyes as well as the biggest d  dog of a heretic in
all the free city, and  and it is a free city,
isn't it ? and I'm free to  to use my eyes ;
and I say there's  a woman out there on the
grass." And propping himself up on to his feet
by the aid of the window sill, Prudentius stood
pointing persistently down over it to the spot
immediately beneath ; " and Master Tobias," he
went on, twitching his face with drunken leer,
what do you say man, sh  shall we go and
fetch  fetch her in ? Yes ? It's damp for her,
isn't it  out there on  on the grass."

Grass ! " savaselv echoed Hackernao'el, " that
isn't grass, sheepheacl ! It's water."

Water ? " returned Prudentius, swaying
round, and gravely surveying it with blinking,
lack-lustre eyes. " Water  ho ! ho !  water is
it ? " he continued with a mocking chuckle. " Go
and tell that to your grandmother, ho, ho  ha."

Upon my honour "

*' Ho  ho  come, come now. Syndic," and
Prudentius shook a warning finger at his gossip,
*' no swearing. And look you here, when I
don't know eh  chalk from cheese, then will be
time for you to be trying to make a g  gull of
me. I flat flatter myself I can tell water
from gr  grass, and  grass from w  water, any
day of the week ; and you  you're just a d 
drunken c  drop  eared, igno  ignoramus of an
anabap  baptist, and don't know what you're
t  talking about. Water ! ho ! ho ! if that's
water, why then, th  this "  and the sacristan
stretching out his two arms, dragged the empty
wine flagon to his breast, and huowd it affectionately
against his cheek  " this is water ; and
and I don't know what  I'm talking about.
And  hadn't we best be j  jogging, ]vaster Hacker
 na gel ? " And next instant Prudentius

lay prone across the table, snoring in heavy-drunken
sleep.

Three out of those four candles have Expired
in their guttering grease, and the last fitful
dying flashes of light through the long low-ceiled
chamber, leave it in the intervals in almost
complete darkness ; but across the recess occupied
by the two latest comers, the moonbeams
cast a sickly lurid light ; and Tobias Hacker-navel's
face, peering cunningly intent from his
shadowy corner over the sleeping sacristan, looks
as hideously and maliciously ugly as one of the
demon gurgoyles upon the Cathedral walls.
Come, friend," he says, tentatively laying his
fingers upon Prudentius' shoulder, and roughly
shaking him ; but the sacristan, hugging his jug
tighter and closer to him, only mutters " Water,"
and sinks ten fathom deeper into his drunken
sleep.

Small chance of his wakening for hours to come.
"A man doesn't exactly empty a flagon of Nier-sterner
as he would a orlass of susan water," thinks
Tobias to himself as he turns, and descending the
step, makes a circuit among the slumberers scattered
about the benches, and carefully investigates
the condition of each. Then with a nod

of satisfaction, for they could not be more hopelessly
incapable and unconscious than they are,
of what may be passing around them, he regards
them collectively. No deception there ; the Seven
of Ephesus could not be more utterly dead to external
influence; as many corpses would be as
much aware of him and his doings as these ; and
softly closing the door which Ezra has left ajar,
he recrossed towards the recess. Sh I what is
that?

Swift as a lightning flash, some shadow flits
over the lattice, obscuring for an instant the
form of the sleeping man. Psha ! and what else
but lightning ? for hark ! one prolonged boom of
distant thunder rolls through the leaden air ; or
perhaps it is no more than a bat's flight, or the
flap of an owlet's wing, or the sudden breeze
heralding the onward coming storm, sending the
gaunt tree shadows athwart the panes. Psha !

Stepping lightly to the platform, Hackernagel
seats himself on the bench beside the sleeping
sacristan; then sweeping one keen rapid glance
all round, he stoops over him and passes his
hand deftly under the cluster of keys hanging
on the stout leathern thong attached to the broad
belt encircling the lay brother's waist, and noiselessly

lifting them on to his knees, he spreads
them out fan-wise.

There, bright as gold itself amid its dull iron
compeers, shines out Master Wenzel Jamitzers
dainty piece of handiwork ; and next instant
Hackernagel's fingers are grappling with the
buckled fastening of the belt. As it yields to his
careful handling, the Syndic's meagre lips twitch
with triumphant satisfaction. Like pearls crumbling
beneath a hammer's stroke, his chief difficulty
has fallen before him. He had laid his plans,
provided against every obstacle. In his pocket
lies a knife of razor sharpness, and an assortment
of tools in case of any necessity for proceeding
to extremes, but nothing is plainer sailing.
Strong in his integrity, the unfortunate sacristan
had pointed to his buckle belt, and
proudly said you might catch a weasel asleep,
but it would go hard with the man who should
ever dare to meddle with that. Yet now, it is
simple child's play. The well-worn metal works
smoothly in its grooves ; and ere the sleeper has
drawn three more stertorous breaths, Tobias 
holds the things he covets safe in his
innermost pocket. Two more minutes, nay, less,
hardly longer than it takes for that light restless

shadow to sway once to and fro across the steel-blue
lattice panes, and the nimble fingers have
retreated the threaded keys in order due,
and rearranged the cincture about the sacristan's
portly loins ; and so once again descending the
step and groping his way through the now utterly
dark room, Hackernagel passes out into the
corridor.

At the outer door Ezra Schlau is standing,
contemplating the state of the atmosphere; and
Syndic Hackernagel observing that there seems
to be a threatening of rain, and that he will begetting
homewards, bids him good-night.

"And your friend. Syndic ? " enquires Schlau,
jerking his head in the direction of the guest
room.

'* My friend ? " echoes Hackernagel, turning
with bland insouciance upon Ezra. " I do not
apprehend you."

Prudentius the sacristan, who came with
you."

Came with me 1 " ejaculated Tobias. " My
good Ezra, you pain me. I did not look to be
so misjudged by you. Friend ! that papist and
idolater the friend of Tobias Hackernagel ! But
1 forgive you, Ezra ; the day is yet to come

when such as you are will be able to apprehend
that it behoves us to extend charity and hospitality
to  Hark ye  and mind now," added Hac-kernel
with a sudden snarl in his tone, " if
you're asked any questions, I stumbled upon
that fellow out in the copse there. Understand ?
and it's not convenient to make an enemy of him
and his just now." A ray of intelligent acquiescence
shot into the innkeeper's face. " Good,"
was his monosyllabic comment. "And I say," continued
Hackernagel, " that it behoves the true
Christian to  Hark you here, friend Ezra, the
best thing you can be doing with yonder sot is to
turn him out of doors neck and crop as quick as you
can. And if you value your credit at a batten's
worth, I should be careful if I were you how I let
slip that his shaven crown has ever been inside the
Three Eavens. Our brethren in the spirit don't
quite perceive these things, and if you said
much about it, custom might fall off. It might,
you know, but you and I  we understand each
other. Good-night to you, friend Ezra. May you
always grow in grace and knowledge  goodnight."


You understand yourself, perhaps," soliloquized
Schlau, watching him as he disappeared

among the trees, "but may I turn double-dyed
papist, if I understand you, or ever shall. But
it's your business, not mine ; and what will be,
will be, or it'll be no fault of yours if it isn't."

Having thus delivered his mind, Ezra,
chiefly impressed by his patron's counsel
touching the advisability of getting rid of his
black sheep of a guest snoring away in the
parlour, turned in and shouted to Hans to
come and assist in the contemplated ejectment
; but dish clout in one hand, and pipkin
in the other, Hans was also wandering in the
land of dreams, and so far gone, that not a little
tax upon his gentle master's pounding and punching
powers was put into requisition, to charm him
back again. And so much achieved, there still
remained the poor wearied-out wretch's wits to
be collected ; so that full a quarter of an hour
slipped away before Ezra had succeeded in
making him comprehend to all practical end
the service required of him.

Without doors the place is as. still, and save
for the ceaseless frog chorus, as silent as a graveyard.
Scarcely have Tobias Hackernagel's footsteps
died away among the fallen leaves than
the old city's belfry towers proclaim that it

wants but two more hours to that midnight
whose next dawning will usher in the long-expected
festal day.

With the fall of the last lingering stroke upon
the heavy air, a low rustling sound breaks from
the margin of the pond, on the side which skirts up
by the inn wall, and then splashing and floundering
among the swampy weeds, with bared arms
and fingers desperately clutching at the writhen
willow and alder stems, a woman's figure looms
up ghostlike in the vaporous mist.

With low bent head, crouching close as hare
to covert, her dripping garments clutched
about her, she steals on among the tall rushes,
until she attains the opposite bank, which is
crested by a stunted hedge, beneath whose shelter,
first pausing hurriedly to wring the water from
her skirts, and twist up her dishevelled, luxuriant,
red-brown hair, she peers cautiously forth.

Thrown into sharp distinctness by the moonlight,
she can see the three ravens staring across
at her with their inquisitive painted eyes; but no
human eye marks her flitting, and gathering fresh
courage, she clasps one hand across her throbbing
heart, while with the other outstretched to tear
aside the brambles clinging to her wet cloak, and

cruelly tearing her half-naked feet, for the pond's
mud has detained her shoes, she speeds onward,
stumbling over the rough ground, trampling
down straggling bough and briar, and every
stay and hindrance. And at last, clear of the
brake, the woman gains the open river path.
Then, still on, as though the Eumenides were
giving her chase, swift as the lightning flashes
playing about her, she speeds between the dark
water and the tall hedgerows, past the massive
walls of the St. Stephen's Tower, slackening her
pace for the first time only, as she nears the gate
below the fish market, where the sentry, who is
indulging in a hand of cards with a congenial
spirit, coolly observes as he pockets the gold
piece she flings at his feet, that the city has
been consumedly dead alive of late, and if a
lady or two of her sort  and the son of Mars
winks playfully has a fancy for joining in next
day's merrymaking  he'll not be so ungallant as
to deny her.

On again, sweeter than ever, through the
echoing arches of the deserted fishmarket,
across the Platz, where the Cathedral lies a
silent black mass, with never a gleam within
or without, to foretell tomorrow's glories, its
317

pinnacled roof lying in sharp fretted shadow on
the moonlit ground  on  on, with just one
glance towards yonder stately house, where
lies one, wrapped no doubt now in virtuous
slumber, whom passing dear that woman
loves. There only, amid all the enshrouding
darkness, a light shines hazily through the
close-drawn red damask drapery ; but what
wonder in that, for does it not mark Eadegund
von Steinbach's studio, and at what unholy hours
will not her lamp be found burning ?

A terrible impediment awaits the night fugitive
just ahead in the shape of the watchman's box at
the Munster-grasse corner yonder, if only it be in
working order ; but six nights out of seven it is a
mere scrape, since Master Hunx, its sexagenarian
occupant, has a custom, which he rarely breaks
in upon, of composing himself to sleep immediately
upon taking up the reins of office.
And Providence rules that to-night shall be
no exception. Hunx has been, moreover,
drinking success to the Professor Dasipodius
and the Horologe, and now sits blessedly impervious,
lantern on knees, thunderous snoring
inside his shelter ; and rounding the angle
of the Munster-grasse, the woman flits on noiselessly,

under the garlanded triumph arches, from
which a few fresh fragrant rose petals flutter down
upon her clinging mud-sodden cloak. Courage !
and still on  only a few paces now, for the goal
lies before her dimmed and straining eyes. There !
there, where the high north-eastern wall of Burgomaster
von Steinbach's house is overhung by an
oriel window, lovely in its gracious intermingling
of green fragile summer creeper, and everlasting
carven stone foliage ; and godlike through its
painted glass, shines the flame of the little silver
lamp burning night and day in the oratory
of the Burgomaster's daughter. So, so  well
done ! and staggering to clutch hold of the wall's
deep stone bosses for support, with closed eyes,
and gasping convulsive breaths, but a smile of
infinite content on her white-drawn lips, that
woman stands.

A CONFESSION.

rnOWARDS nine o'clock that same evening,
- there was brought to the Professor Dasi-
potius, where he sat with one or two old friends
after supper, a message on the part of Radegund
von Steinbach, desiring to speak with him.

A shade of annoyance crossed the mathematician's
face ; he had promised himself to spend
that evening with his father and his guests in
peace and quietness. It had been with them a
sort of little gala night, such as one does like to
keep over some work well carried through, when
brain and hands long on the stretch, slacken their
tension at last, and dare to lie fallow. Tomorrow
of course, the mathematician must beat
the general disposal, but this night he calls
his own holiday; and he has counted on keeping
it alone with Christian and Bruno Wolkenberg,
and those they best care for.

Dasipodius and his two coadjutors, Isaac and
Kaspar Habrecht, have come home late in the
afternoon, flushed with their crowning exertions ;
and now supper done justice to, they are gathered
out in the cool twilight, to discuss at leisure a
bottle of the Marcobrunner ; and the festivities
have just reached that comfortable phase embracing
the Franco-German Cession question,
when Mistress von Steinbach's messenger is
ushered into their presence.

It is tiresome," said Dasipodius. *' I should
have been obliged to your mistress," he added,
addressing the servant, '' if she could have let
her business stand over. Is it urgent, think
you ? "

She desired me to say it was very urgent.'

Shall I run across for you, Conrad ? " enquired
Bruno Wolkenberg.

"Ay, ay, so do," smiled Burgomaster Niklaus.

"I'll warrant you the doctor proves more gallant

than the mathematician. Upon my honour, Herr

Professor, I dare swear it isn't many would stand

"hesitating, when my lady niece calls a parley."

Maybe it is some question concerning the
Horologe. Hadn't you best go, master '? " urged
Isaac Habrecht.

"Ay," answered Dasipodius. " Give me mystick,
Kaspar." And extracting from the little
company a promise that they would not stir till
he came back, he followed the servant across the
Platz, and being conducted up the broad staircase,
was ushered into the artist's presence.

She was alone in the shadowy room, lighted
only by the magnificent silver gilt lamp depending
by long chains from the carved ceiling. The
deep windows, wide open, were entirely concealed
by the heavy silken curtains closely drawn, and
even wrapped across. In its accustomed place
stood the artist's easel, with the Queen Eleanor,
if only those half lights did not deceive, complete
as its creator's hands could make it ; and standing
out in its fearsome grandeur, like some terrible
reality of blood and crime. Even as Dasipodius
entered, she seemed to have been bestowing on
it some finishing touches, for at the sound of the
opening door she laid down her brush, and
gathered up about her bosom the disarranged
lace forming the ruff* of the long loose white
wrapper she wore.

Magnificently beautiful the artist looked ; yet
the beauty was of a stern, almost repellent sort,
until as she advanced a step to receive her visitor,

the fixed severity of the wonderful lips
relaxed into a smile of rare womanly tenderness,
and a deep flush suffused the marble pallor
of the perfect features, while a sweetness passing
words moistened the scorching lustre of her dark
eyes, as she fixed them on Dasipodius, standing
there in the calm dignity of bearing natural to
him, tempered by the air of patient intentness
which his infirmity had rendered habitual.

A little hard it was to realize that that involuntary
setting in order of her disordered toilette
had been a work of supererogation as far as it
concerned Dasipodius ; so difficult to grasp the
fact that those luminous eyes, which seemed to
see far beyond and above the ken of ordinary
men, saw indeed nothing. Only more careful
consideration of the grand face taught, that not
in the eyes, but in the conformation of brow and
temples, and of the deep-fringed eyelids, lay all
its marvellous force.

You sent for me ? " he said.

Ay, yes," she answered. '' Will you not be
seated ? "

*' I thank you, no. I have left guests at
home ; and I must return to them as soon as
possible."

As you always must, Master Dasipodius,"
she said with a bitter smile, "when I crave a
word with you."

Nay," contended he. " It is always your
pleasure to twit me with discourtesy ; but I am
all attention. Is it the Horologe ? "

"The Horologe ! the Horologe ! " she burst
forth. " Is that thing to be for ever and ever
dearer to you than human hearts ? "

I trust," he said with a half smile, which yet
was very sad, "that it may prove itself truer than
some are. And now, mistress, your commands."

You are bitter on your friends," she said,
paying no heed to his last words.

Not so," returned he with some fire. " Not
so, by my faith. Do not think that I complain.
Then I should hate myself for the ungratefully
wretch that ever cumbered this fair world. I
wonder who in their trial time have ever been
blessed with such kind sympathy and help.
Mistress Eadegund, as I ? "

Indeed," she murmured tremulously, '' we 
they have all loved you well ! "

True metal all of them, save only one."

And she ? " challenged Eadegund, looking
up earnestly into his face.

God help me' he said solemnly, " for prizing
her beyond all the rest. Dearly as the sailor prizes
the Pole Star, though the sky be ablaze with
planet and constellation."

And that lost ? "

I beat about on a lifeless sea."

*' And pray for death ? "

No. I trim my sails as best I can, and bide
my Master s bidding. And now "

And she ? That life star ? " said the artist.

You push me too close," he said with a touch
of petulance ; " and I used a false simile. I tell
you I deceived myself You know I did. Such
a star I never saw, poor blind wretch that I am I
It was but an empty fleeting flash. Not the
gentle saving beacon-light which most men
find."

'' You are wrong," she said in less hurried
tones. " Wrong."

I was. To my sorrow," assented he, bowing
his head. " And as the tree falls, it lies. Now
will you be pleased to "

Cruelly, bitterly wrong," she went on vehemently.
" You were a fool, I say. A miserable,
blind, blind fool, Conrad Dasipodius."

"As you say, mistress," assented he, again

colouring deeply. " And if  well, you always
were famous for speaking home truths."

Oh my God ! " she cried, shivering at the
chilly sarcasm of his tones, and turning her head
from side to side, like some distraught creature.
Was it her doom that he should always misapprehend
her, that her words should always sting
him to the quick ? " Did I mean that ? I mean
it is all a lie ! A bare foul hideous deception."

Once again the stately head drooped acquiescing.


It was no vain fiery toy. She was true ;
true, I tell you, and loyal and constant as ever
pole star."

We will leave metaphors alone," he interrupted
coldly. " Such holy comparison can
never stand for a poor shallow-hearted childlike

 like " he faltered, her name seemed

sacred to him even yet.

"Her you loved?" demanded Radegund, her
breath coming in short quick gasps, and the
hectic crimson in her hollow cheek fading and
deepening, and fading again.

'' Like her I love."

The artist's eyes closed, and heavily as the
head of a corpse, hers fell upon her breast, while

she sank down upon the couch near, and
for a space there was silence, broken first only
by the striking of the Munster clock. Ten !
Then slowly lifting her face, fearsomely drawn
and death-white, she fixed her eyes, terrible now
in their piercing but lustreless brilliancy, upon
Dasipodius.

Yet," she said, " you think her false ? "

I think," he answered, " that I exacted from
her what she had not to give."

You do not blame her ? "

I," he paused  " Mistress Eadegund, I do
not know by what right of yours I should be
brought here to lay bare that which my own
soul," and his whole frame drooped and trembled
agonized as he spoke, ' ' flinches from looking
into. Is it some pleasure you find in mocking
me, or do you perhaps make yourself my scourge
for my presumptuous folly ? "

She smiled scornfully.

'' Then bethink you," he went on ; " look into
your own heart, ask yourself whether there is
nothing, no experience of your own life, to plead
for my weakness, and tell you we may curb, but
not kill love."

No answer, save the low panting breath of the

woman near him. His keen ear caught the
sound, and he mistook it for the expression of
her heart's jDity for him.

Have I not your compassion now ? " he asked
gently. " I know you can be generous. Do you
throw away your scorn, and give me your pity ? "

Still no answer. Only silently the artist's
hand stole to the bosom of her dress, and she
drew from it a folded square of parchment somewhat
frayed and soiled, whose green tying ribbon
was attached to it by a broken seal.

If," went on Dasipodius, " she did not love
me "

Ay, but she did, Conrad Dasipodius."

He shook his head slowly.

As that star you spoke of just now," she
continued ; '' true and faithful, pure and unsullied
as five times tested gold, Sabina von
Steinbach's love is for you."

But he only shook his head more persistently.

Your kind words," he said, " are bitter cruel.
My wound is sharp ; I have borne  I do bear it
as I may ; but these sweet deluding assurances
of yours are cankerous torture to me, and by all
your own heart loves "

'* Have done ! " she wailed, starting from her

seat ; and staggering to his side, she thrust the
parchment into his hands. " Eead that ! "

Mistress ? " he said, reaching it back to hera
world of rebuke and pained enquiry in his
chill reproachful tones.

'' God help me ! " she murmured under her
breath, gently, almost reverentially, receiving it
back from him. " Are my senses forsaking me ?
Listen then."

And in hoarse broken accents, with parched
and cleaving lips, but word for word, end to end,
she read out to him Sabina's sad little epistle of
farewell ; just as she herself had written it at the
girl's dictation that wintry afternoon, there in
that very room, on the very spot where they
stood.

Once or twice as he listens the mathematician's
face lightens and overclouds again with varying
emotion, but as the last words leave Eadegund s
lips, it settles into stillness.

I cannot tell," he says then in icy tones,
** what end this jugglery of yours, may be having
to serve, Mistress von Steinbach."

Jugglery ! " she cries, her eyes flaming now
with wounded pride. " Oh, I am well served,
well served ! " and she gnaws her pale lips. " Is

not this conclusive evidence enough how you
have misjudged her ? "

Surely no," returned he, with a slight shrug
of his shoulders, and a smile whose bitterness
ill-suited the graciousness of his lips. "Anymore
than I can conceive how this letter  which
is mine, mistress," and he claimed and took it
with both hands outstretched ; " and which was
sought for high and low  got into your keeping.
Any more," he went on, after a momentary
pause, " than I can form a guess whom your
cousin deputed to write it for her. She is notable,
I know, to do such things for herself."

It was I who wrote it."

"So," he bowed. "At her bidding? You
served her well in her hour of need. She must
feel herself beholden indeed to you."

"And it was I," continued the artist, cowering
under the steel-cold edge of his tones, " I who
when Otto brought it back here again to me "

And why did he do that ? "

He can best tell, or some devil who prompted
him. I cannot ; I am guiltless of that at
least."

But "

Sometimes I have thought that its ending

seemed kinder than its beginning. You remember
you deputed my brother to read it ? "

"Yes, yes."

And perhaps for his own love suit's sake
with the child, he judged you had best never
come to know how warmly it closed."

*' Chilly warmth at best," bitterly laughed
Dasipodius.

It might have whispered to you that she
loved you still."

At the time ? Yes, it might have done so'
he conceded. " It might have deluded me into
dreaming some such foolishness. Do you wish
me to thank you for keeping it from me ? "

That is why I was glad to keep it from you,"
she murmured, in the tones of some rack wrung
creature.

Glad to  Mistress Eadegund ? " and slowly
into the pure clear colourless face of the mathematician
uprose a crimson flush.

"Ay. Glad! glad! I tell you. To come
between her happiness and  oh my God ! to
think indeed that it was yours too ! "

For your brother's sake you did this thing ?
For the sake of Otto's love for her ? "

Poor boy, no ! " she cried, with a strange

hard laugh. '' I troubled little enough about
him. It  it was for my own love's sake for
you, Conrad Dasipodius ! " And seizing the
mathematician's hands, she laid them against
her eyes and cheeks and lips, covering them
with wild burning kisses.

Woman ! " he cried, recoiling and shaking
her from him as if she were a loathsome poisonous
thing.

Ay," half said, half sung she, in a tone of
reckless defiance, her tall figure swaying like
some fragile tempest-stricken reed, under the
violence of his gesture, while she turned her
eyes luminous with their passionate love upon
him. '' Woman ! woman !  yes. Or devil was
I ? My own love's sake  my own love  for
that, for you, I have staked all  body and soul
of me, and lost ! lost ! lost ! Woman, you said ?
Are women fiends then ? for that," and her
voice sank to a low monotonous wail, " that was
I. Like a devil incarnate I stole between you
and her  your love, Conrad  your little love,
Sabina. I told her you had no love for her ; and
longed, if only you dared, to throw her by like
some faded flower, whose fragrance had sweetened
your life for a day and then grown loathsome to

you, harmful even. Do you hear me ?  do you
hear, I say ? "

For the face of the dead is not more impenetrable
than his has grown.

"Do you hear me ? "

"And she  believed you ? " he said at last.

"Ay," hurried on Radegund, half jestingly, all
contemptuously. pretty little fragile lily bud.
I crushed her, though ma5be I found my task
harder than I reckoned. Lily she may look, yet
ivy never clung closer to oak, than her love clung
to yours ; but "

Then weak with the feverous blood of her long
consuming passion, and trembling with the weight
of her remorseful shame, a thousandfold more
cruel and bitter that it seemed to her she loved
the stern, marble, man before her, as she had
never loved him yet, she staggered towards him,
and sank on her knees at his feet. " But," she
murmured, "there was that love to cope with,
which was unconquerable. Mine for "

"Ah, hush ! hush ! Tell me. She Sabina "

"Well, listen. Love it was, that grew and grew,
until my womanhood well-nigh forgot itself, and
there was neither shame nor pity left in me ; forgot
itself, and stooped  as it must now  as it
3-18

must now, to lie naked, grovelling in the very
dust at your feet."

"And she ? "

"Ah, she. Yes, she of course  well, what I
could not unwind, because no human power
could  for she clung to you so lovingly  who
would have guessed it of her ? taking her very
life from thought of yours  that I tore  tore
from you, and trampled on, and "

Stamped out," he groaned.

"No, no."

Stamped out, till not one poor tendril was
left. Yes, yes, you were successful, you "

I tell you  no. She loves you still."

But no gleam of credence in her words lighted
the stony agony of his face.

By the life which is leaving me  for I
am dying  the next spring snowdrops will
not find me here  the life I have sinned away
for your "

He turned shudderingly from her.

"By that I swear," and she solemnly lifted
her shadowy white hands. " I think she loves
you now as dearly  ay  at least as dearly as
when first she gave you her plighted troth. I
think "

'you think," he interrupted in hard tuneless
tones. " Seemingly your thoughts are apt to
run wild. You think, you say, but I  I know.
I who loved her so dearly, and once would not
have believed my love was not returned, though
Heaven's own voice had said it  I know."

She lifted her eyes, where she knelt, fixing
them with mute enquiry upon his.

You see, I argue, mistress," he went on,
'from fact, from  herself."

If you did that," returned Radegund more
calmly, "then her face, her whole bearing would
witness for me that what I tell you is true."

Those form no bases for me to draw conclusions
from," he rejoined with such calm intonation
as he might have used to elucidate
some clear but intricate problem from the
University platform. " But if my eyes cannot
see, my hearing is sensitive. Acutely so,
I sometimes flatter myself; and that was wounded
to the quick once out of the twice that we have
met, since you, mistress, so effectually sundered
us. Once "

When, when ? "
When we metal,

by chance ? "

By chance, yes ; on my trial morning in the
Cathedral."

"And she said ? "

*' Oh, words, words, nothing more. So cold,
so empty of love they sounded "

"Ay, perhaps, sounded," sadly smiled the artist.

"Or of hate even, those I could have borne, I
think ; and so few, and yet, few as they were, I
have striven  Heaven knows how I have striven,"
he paused for an instant to wipe away the heavy
drops of agony beading on his face, " night and
day to put them from me. It was well, was it
not, that I could not see her ? At least that
misery was spared me. Could I have looked on
the face from which the light of love I used to
fancy once shone for me, had died out  and lived?
If I had seen her then "

"Ay, if you had," smiled the artist with infinite
scornful pity. "And so  that other time you have
met ?"

Yes, well ; eight days since, in her father's
house. You too where there ? Saw" for yourself
surely, the excellence of your perfect work."

"I tell you "

"x4Ly, say now. Does she not seem all that a
father's heart could desire ? A calm even-minded

treasure of a daughter ? And that decision you
helped her to ? How wise ! is it not ? Think
what her lot might have been but for you, mistress,
you. Think of it. My wife. A blind man's
wife ! Look forward into the years to come, and
strive, if you can, to realize the future of that
woman, whose lot should be linked with mine !
Have you ever done that ? You sigh. I hear
you. Or shudder, which was it ? Nay, nay, if
you weep, dry your tears. I would not have
them wasted upon me."

Oh, Conrad ! oh, my "

'' Hush, hear me. Have you ever done that ?
Have you ever troubled your mind, though indeed
I scarcely know why you should, to gauge
the depths of such suffering men endure afflicted
as I am ? "

If I could bear your pain," she moaned.

Nay," and his voice softened a little, " 1
think you mistake me. The bodily pain is
trifling enough beside the awful mental agony 
the Tantalus misery of having, and having not.
Your art is dear to you, yes "? "

Yes," murmured she.
- "As my science is to me. Think, if such a thing
were possible, as for you blindly to fix those fair

proportions on your canvas  to limn in colouring
glorious almost as Heaven's own dear nature, for
so I know your work is ;  what it would be to
you, for never a line  never a gleam of it, to
gladden the eternal blackness clouding you in ?
Do you know  no, no, no, you cannot. Only
when it is lost, we come to value all the sweetness,
the gladdening joy of looking upon what
our hands have done ? The pleasure, the
pride. Pride ? Such pride it is then as was
Christ's own when He went about doing the
work the Father had set Him. And that can
never be mine again. Once there was a greybeard,
they say, who bartered his soul for his
lost youth. Do you know, mistress, there are
moments  God forgive my heavy sin !  when
my darkened life wrestles with my very soul,
and for one little hour of eyesight, I would
barter away its eternal hope. Had it pleased
Heaven to have afflicted me with aught but this
aught but this  if it had dulled these ears,

maimed these hands "

And as involuntarily he stretched them out,
the artist, scarcely conscious of what she did,
caught them in hers, and when gently but resolutely

he drew them away, they were wet with
her silent tears.

But why should I be saying this to you,
Mistress von Steinbach ? Well, because I would
have you know me as I am  to myself. As she,
poor little one, must have come to know me, had
her life ever been part and parcel of mine. Asa
man often cast down, despondent, impatient of
his burden, groping always in the utter bewilderment
of his dark way ; fretful maybe, strive against
it as my better angel may, and struggling eternally
; failing, times beyond count, that the
shadow of my affection shall not vex and embitter
the existence of those about me. And
what had she done, poor darling, that her pure
sunny young life should ever come to be blighted
so ? Could my love, boundless as it is, atone to
her for it ? Think, Mistress von Steinbach, of
all this, when you think of your sin against her
and me, and find in it what comfort you may."

Comfort ! comfort ! " wailed Eadegund.

Ay, comfort ; that you succeeded in doing
what my selfish erring heart's love for her shrank
and flinched even from dreaming of."

"You are wrong! wrong !" wildly insisted she.
'' She, I tell you she "

Is all that a good little daughter should be.
And I say God bless her. And for the rest, may
He forgive you, Eadegund von Steinbach."

But you ! Oh, Conrad, you will not forgive?"
"Nay. I cannot" And he turned slowly
from her ; but with her encircling arms she stayed
his feet, and laying down her head upon them,
all her dark hair sweeping the ground, she clung
to them, sobbing tearless sobs, which seemed to
be tearing her whole fragile frame. But he
uttered no word ; and wrenching himself free of
her white enchaining arms, left her where she
lay, and descending the dim-lit staircase, passed
out into the night.

********

Somewhere on the stroke of midnight it was
when the drowsy porter roused up to admit Otto.
Seeing the light still burning in his sister's studio,
the young man ran up to bid her good-night.
Scarcely had he opened the door, than he shrank
back, petrified with horror. No picture lay in
its familiar place, but about the empty easel
hung a few shreds of parti-coloured canvas ; the
rest, torn into a hundred strips, lay coiling
serpent-like upon the floor about the form of
Eadegund von Steinbach, stretched motionless

there ; one hand clutching her bosom, the other
gripping the hilt of the Venetian dagger which
had served her for the model of the one in the
murderous queen's hands, deep stains lying still
wet upon its blade gleaming in the dying lamplight.


Rallying courage, the young man rushed forward,
and threw himself beside the prostrate
woman.

Murder ! Help ! " he cried. " Help ! She
has killed herself ! "

But no such foul crime lay to her charge ;
though indeed she had stricken and destroyed
all the last magnificent creation of her own
hands with that weapon, still red with the
deed. And when Bruno Wolkenberg, scarce
more conscious than she, lifted her against his
own bursting agonized heart, and bore her to
her bed, hers still beat faintly.

'' SWEET IS True LOVE, THO' GIVEN IN VAIN,
IN VAIN."

Tj Leven o'clock ; and Burgomaster von Stein-bach
not come home. Somewhere about
sundown it was, he explained that he was going to
sup with Christian Dasipodius to meet a mutual
friend or two, and help drink success to the
Horologe. Therefore he might be home late, he
said.

I have the postern key here," added he,
patting his pocket, "and can let myself in."
Then, like some ungracious pastors do, "who
reck not their own rede," the Burgomaster
strongly exhorted his household to go betimes
to bed, so that next morning they might all
rise fresh as larks, for the impending festivities.

And you, heart's treasure," he had said,
kissing his daughter, " go now, and get as large
a stock of beauty sleep as you can, for  well,

for your old father's sake. That is, if you still
love him a little bit. Yes ? "

'' Dear Yaterle ! " and twining her arms round
his neck, Sabina sealed her promise of obedience
with a kiss.

"And I'll warrant," continued Niklaus, with
that air of elasticity and content which does
possess itself of a man who is going to indulge
in a little harmless dissipation with congenial
souls, " I'll warrant me, my lily flower, fairest
of the fair in that pleasaunce of fair dames weare
to see tomorrow. Nay, never shake your
head, though beshrew me if I can quarrel with
those blushes, that give the one things lacking;.
But hark ! Tell me now. I want to know a
secret, a grand secret."

"A secret, Yaterle?"

Ay, bless my soul ! Yes ! " laughed Niklaus,
in vast enjoyment of Sabina's mystified air.
** How the new dress fits, that was sent home
yesterday, all spick and span, and ready to be
jumped into. Now  well ? "

'a I "

Ha ! ha ! ha ! How many times now has it
been tried on ? Come, tell true, tel true. And
does it fit daintily, ha ? And the passe-menagerie,

is it quite to your ladyship's taste?
Yes?"

"It is magnificent, father dear. Far too
beautiful for me. Fit for a queen."

But have you tried it on ? " insisted Nik-
laus, somewhat mistrusting her enthusiasm.

N  n  not yet, Vaterlele. I am going to do
so presently," she added hurriedly, when he
looked vexed.

Ay," nodded he, swallowing his chagrin.
*' So do. I want you to look perfection in it.
By the mass ! you're a strange girl, Sabina. I
had an idea all young maids rehearsed this sort
of thing before their mirrors, half-a-dozen times
at least."

'soh, Yaterle ! " ejaculated the scandalized
Sabina.

Oh, by my faith, yes. And they do too.
Didn't your mother do it ? Heaven rest her soul.
And after she'd married me too, but you 
you're as steady as old Time. Odds life ! must
I begin to bid you be fly away like other
maidens ? "

' Where should I fly to, from you ? " laughed
she, stroking his face, " you dear ridiculous old
Vaterlele. And if I did fly ever so far, I think

it is to you I should come back again at last,
like some bad heller piece."

Or the dove to the Ark, sweetheart," and
with his equanimity restored, the Burgomaster
took his stick and sallied forth ; first with his
own hand bolting the great gate, and then
locking behind him the little postern, he put
the key in his pocket.

Half-an-hour later, and not a sound is to be
heard in the old house, for the servants, willingly
obedient to the master's behest, are gone to bed,
and snoring the slumbers of comfortably housed,
well-fed dependents. Antinous has gathered up
himself and his finery into a cool nook of the
ivied balustrade. Mitte, careless of those oft-repeated
warnings that some day she will get
sat upon, and not a bit inconvenienced by the
heat, which is vexing the world in general out
of all patience, is curled up on the downy crimson
cushion of the Burgomaster's easy chair.
Preternaturally loud through the intense silence
ticks out the old clock in the dining-hall, dark
and still as Dornroschen's own palace. Only in
one window, giving on to the street, a light still
burns. An exquisitely carven oriel, whose corbel
springs from the enfolded wings of an angel with

clasped hands, almost resting on the broad top
of the wall immediately beneath.

A marvellous careful chatelain Burgomaster
Niklaus, yet no more than ofttimes have proved
since that mythic long ago, when Thetis dipping
her young Achilles into the magical river flood
by the heel, left a vulnerable point, is a fortress
stronger than its weakest part.

That window with its painted glass, where
now the soft light streams through, flecking with
fair colour the twining creepers and the great
spreading apple tree, whose branches kiss its
panes, is quite within reach of moderately expert
climbers, by means of the deep zig-zag ornament
and big stone bosses in the wall ; and so
much achieved, the artificial and natural foliage
of the window itself would have afforded excellent
grip for attaining to the level of its lozenged
casemates aglow with cross and sacred symbol.
But then, did not Argus-eyed Hunx patrol that
street every hour of the night when not otherwise
engaged, that is, in wrestling with the
sleepy god : and even when Morpheus did conquer,
the 111, and the Ehine to boot, would likelier
run dry than that any creature, though he
were bold as Barbarossa, should dream of attempting

any such feat ; for did not that window
light the oratory of Burgomaster von Steinbach's
daughter ? And beyond, on the inner side, lay
her sleeping chamber.

And there, seductively outspread on the bed's
crimson coverlet, lies to-night that wonderful
gala gown. If ever beautiful clothes delighted
heart of woman, then that thing should have
driven Sabina frantic with delight over the
grace and rich simplicity breathing through its
every fold. An adept indeed, with boundless
mastery of the Ars centre Autem, must have
been its cicatrix ; for while it was of the latest
mode, there was a toning down about it of all
stiff and extravagant ruffians and plaiting,
which made it a thing for all time, present,
past, or to come. No incongruity would it have
been amid the gleaming marbles of Diana's own
shrine, yet fitted to sweep the gothic cathedral's
hoary stones, and shine a delight to the eyes,
amid mediaeval carven saints and devil monsters.


Yet the thing brings no light of pleasure into
the girl's eyes, as, her lamp held high aloft, she
stands contemplating it. If outward trappings
should accord with what the heart feels, it seemed

to her that sackcloth would best have been her
festive raiment. Still, no doubt, the gown was
rarely beautiful ; and as she looked, she could
but remember the generous love which took a
pride in giving her the best his wealth could
afford, and with the instinctive feminine desire
to look well, which rarely slumbers long together
in a woman, came the yet stronger ambition todo
so for her father's sake. And she began to
think of trying how the dress fitted, as she had
given her promise to do ; but still so sadly and
listlessly; ten times more sadly for that persistent
memory of how once in the old days, she had
lain nestled in Conrad's arms, conjuring up with
him visions of this day, far off then, tomorrow
now. And she must live it through  alone ?

Setting down her lamp in front of the great
ebony and silver-framed mirror, and doffing the
light summer wrap she wore, Sabina fastened the
gown about her lissome young figure.

Once on, what sort of Eve's daughter would
she have been if she had not stood for some
minutes contemplating her own gracious reflection,
and narrowly criticising the setting of seam
and sleeve, and minutely examining the texture
of the soft ivory white satin damask, with its

cloth of gold bordering worked in real pearls
and sapphire stones of the deep sea's own blue ;
while ruffs of soft Flemish lace were gathered
up about her white throat, and finished the
dainty Artists of the gold-slashed sleeves, caught
down at intervals by narrow jewelled bands ?

It fitted like a glove. No woman, though far
more fastidious than its wearer, could have found
a stitch of fault in it ; Finis coronet opus ; and
turning to a velvet casket on her dressing-table,
Sabina took from it a golden tiara-shaped band,
set T\dth pearls and three large sapphires, her
father's gift that morning, and fastened it among
the rippling coils of her bright hair. For a
moment or two longer, the transient light of
interest and excitement lingered in her eyes,
but with the finishing touch, it faded ; and
her gaze fell to wandering listlessly over the
picture before her ; seeing through the mist
dimming all its glitter, no reflection of herself,
but a tall, slender, slightly bending figure in a
scholar's dark fur-bordered gown, with pale
thoughtful features and luminous dreamy eyes,
which seemed fixed on hers, with a gentle smile
upon the grave lips, all attend, as if to catch
some strain of sweet far-off music. But with
319

the tears she strove to press away, the vision
faded, resolving itself into some semblance indeed
of that gracious figure, but, oh me ! how
changed ! how grievously changed ! There
indeed is all the beauty, all the calm dignity,
but pale and lightness now as sculptured marble ;
and no trace of a smile transfiguring the features
to their old indescribable glory.

With a low wail of agony, the girl strove to
shut out her brain's imagery. Yet no, stern or
gentle, it abides with her still. All the spiritual
being of the man, crushing down self, dominates
and pervades hers. In him alone is her life.
Silently and from afar she has watched day by
day his contest in life's battle, all his endurance,
all his courage. She marks his triumph now,
and rejoices in it; a sad enough, desolate rejoicing,
but still a deep and infinite delight.

Then once more, like stars at dawning, the
gems on her rich gown glimmer out from the
mirror's chiaroscuro, and, like living things, they
begin to grow dear and lovely to her, for the sake
of him in whose honour they are to shine. To
bear witness of what this man is among his fellowmen
it is that tomorrow she will stand attired
in this costly garb, these almost priceless gems, fit

for a bride  ah me ! yes, fit for a bride. Then a
proud flush of pleasure dyes brow and cheek of
the lonely-hearted girl, and fading as quickly as
it came, leaves her face pale as the flower her
father loves to liken her to, but infinitely sweet,
and soft, and steadfast. And so turning from the
mirror to the threshold of her oratory, she crosses
its inlaid marble floor, and falling on her knees
before the little shrine, where the pitying Christ
looks doT\Ti from His tree of suffering, pours out
all her heart there, in the shadows cast by the
tiny lamp hanging from the star-gilded roof.
But such dim light is enough and to spare for
Sabina, who needs no printed book to pray from.
The supplications she has to make are all graven
deep, deep in her heart, and  but shall such
sacred, fast-sealed things be laid open ? What if
that little believer in kind saints, and pitying
angels, and marvellously extravagant miracles,
did pray that there might be brought about some
mending of the cruelly snapped golden thread,
at least all unselfishly, all conditionally she made
her plea. If so be that it was well for him. Not
else  oh Heaven ! no, not else. And if it were
not for his best happiness, why then, only God
bless him, and keep him, and lighten for him

that sad, sad, darkened life, as He alone might
do, and shed on him all her own allotted measure
of love and of worldly content, every life's good
which should have been hers. Here to the Blessed
Christ's own dear feet she brought her willing
sacrifice, holding her affection for this man to be
no idolatrous one, but full of sad, deep gladness
in the priceless love she felt.

It seemed to her then, as many a time it had
before, what happiness hers would have been, if
she might have been let lay down her ]e for
him, if she might suffer for his sake some great,
sharp terrible pain, so that in the years to come,
when she lay cold and world-forgotten, he might
now and again spare her a thought, and say in
that voice of his, than which in her ears .no music
was half so sweet: "I think the child loved me !"

Yet how could such a lot be hers ? Father to
the end what could it be, but one of mute endurance
? The life-long, weary, humdrum striving
to be just one more respectable, even natured
feminine creature, with whom life rumbles on,
more or less smoothly or uncomfortably, as the
ruts on the road to the churchyard admit of ?
Well then, one day at least the slow torture would
reach its ending. Sooner or later, the time must

come. One day  and so at last the silent tears
well up to overflowing, and trickle down upon
the rich, velvet bound, illuminated book of Hours
beneath her convulsively clasped hands. The
brave heart, ready to endure to the end, as
hitherto it had unmurmuringly borne, was yet
very, very human ; and in the solitude and
silence of those night hours would pause and
turn to dwell on what had been  and  perhaps 
in Heaven  who could tell ?  might be again.
Perhaps

"Sabina!"

 Some one whispered her name ? Nay,
how foolish ! What was it but the rustling of
the leaves against the open casement panes ?
Pray Heaven this threatening storm "

Sabina von Steinbach ! "

Hush ! a voice, and unmistakably a human
one ; a woman's whispering voice ! The girl's
heart stood still, and lifting her head from her
pillowing arms, she listened.

*' Sabina ! child, speak. Are you there ? "

Chilled with terror, Sabina rose to her feet.
The quick, impatient utterance so vividly recalled
to her that other summons which had dispelled
her brief dream of love. And as once again this
one is repeated, through the open window there
fell upon the trailing skirts of her dress a
little shower of pebbles and dry leaves, and

then a face, with tangled hair and gleaming,
eager eyes, stared in upon her through the parted
tendrils.

A sigh of relief escaped the startled girl. Not
this time the dusky tresses and great dark eyes
of Cousin Eadegund, but the red locks and pale,
half-scared glances of Syndic Hackernagel's
daughter !

Gretchen ! " cried Sabina, flying to the
window, and affrighted grasping the wrists of
the two slender hands clutching at the sill, " for
Heaven's sake  you'll fall ! "

Nay," hurriedly answered the girl, '' my feet
touch firmly enough on the coping here."

Wait an instant," returned the amazed Sabina,
still retaining a tight grip with one hand
on one of her strange visitor's, while with the
other she reached up to unclasp the oriel's entire
division, " and I will help you to pull yourself
in."

** Have you the courage," challenged the other
with a low hysterical laugh, " to pull yourself
out ? "

Nay now, for shame," rebuked the mistress
of the house, unconsciously relaxing her hold.
"Are you mad ? why should I do such a thing ? "

Well," gaspingly returned Gretchen, tightening
her grip, " as you will. Only, if you love
him, as I think "

"Him?"

'' Ay, Conrad Dasipodius."

Gretchen ? "

Do you love him ? Do you indeed ? " and
keenly and scrutinizingly Gretchen's eyes peered
up into those gazing down all bewildered into
hers. " Swear it. Ay ? "

'heaven knows I do."

"As I know now, Sabina dear," returned Gretchen,
with a smile and a sigh of deep, unalloyed
content, as though the result of her scrutiny had
brought her all, or even more than she sought.
So, listen then : there is mischief hatching
against him. Do you understand ? " she panted
on ; " mischief  murder  I know not what."

Murder 1 " gasped the girl.

"Ay, perhaps. Some foul play in any case.
And he  my father  oh Sabina ! "

Your father ? "

Hush  sh ! If he knew I was here now, he'd
kill me. Child  hush  I dare not stay ; I must

get home  home before he comes, to find out

Listen, he, this man," she hurried on in hoarse

rapid whispers, "has  stolen  from Prudentius
the sacristan, the key  of the  Saint Thomas
Chapel. I saw him do it  Hush then  to do
what ? I don't know. Only for some treachery
it must be, and  can let himself  don't you
understand ?  let himself in by the postern 
just whenever it suits him. And so, too, can I.
See here, my  my girl  so can I ! See here ! "

And with a low stifled sob of laughter, clinging
on by elbows and left hand to the ledge, she
contrived to pluck from her bosom a small brass
key, and flung it at Sabina's feet ; " and so may
you. That opens it too. A duplicate key."

But  " began the amazed Sabina, picking it
up.

"Ah ! does it matter how I've come by it.
Honestly though, let me tell you, honestly. Take
it, child  take it, and  use it, as  you will. I 
I thought I would rather have died than parted
with it ; but your need  and  and his, it is so
great. And Sabina  child  you have been good
to me ; and  ah Heaven ! the lightning !  and
your heart is true, I  I think ; and there is not
an instant  not one, to lose. Heaven help you 
I  I can  do no more."

The bleeding fingers relax, leaving, as they

slip away, an ugly smear on the stone ledge. A
destructive creaking and crashing among the vine
trails, a crunching rattle of loosened mortar, a
brief silence, then a thud on the path below, a
broken bough or two, a dark, shadowy figure
rushing with noiseless, stumbling haste along the
silent street, a long low thunder-growl, and then
is all as still as becomes the Burgomaster's excellently
guarded habitation.

Only the brazen key in Sabina's hand, only the
blood marks of the hand upon the window-sill,
left to tell her the whole thing is not a delusion
of her brain ; nothing besides, save the remembrance
of the earnestness of that white, scared
face.

Not an instant to lose ! oh. Heaven ! Dear
father ! and you not here  not here to help) me ! "
cried the girl, wringing her hands. " Not an
instant to lose if  now," and flinging herself
on her knees upon the Prie-Dieu ; " God help
me then, and He alone, for I go ! "

Not staying to lay aside her rich dress, never
a thought of her sparkling head gear, one instant
for dragging down a large fur-lined, cloth mantle,
a comfortable providing of Niklaus for her against
rainy days, and carefully letting it fall from the

window on to the wall below ; then springing
lightly to the broad window seat, she gathered
her trailing skirts close round her, and prepared
to descend.

In after days people would gaze curiously up
at that window ; and the angle of the wall it
overhung was for many a generation after called
Lady's Leap Corner ". It was held to be a
miracle how Sabina came, as she did, with never
so much as a bruise to the ground. Gretchen
Hackernagel, who did the feat before her, halted,
poor thing, like a lame hen for weeks after ; but
the slender fragile lily came off scatheless. Some
romantic folks were fond of saying that it was
because love, who laughs at locksmiths, lent
her feet wings ; but natural evolutionary law
was less outraged than may at first sight
appear, inasmuch as Sabina was acquainted
with every corner and curve of her beautiful
window ; and times out of number, when little,
naughty daughter of Eve that she was, she had
slipped down on to the wall after the rosy
apples bobbing so seductively almost within
arm's length. Here it was that poor Gretchen
had come to grief ; but Sabina boldly trusting
herself to the old apple tree's firm friendly

arms, comes safely up on the topmost zig-zag of
the wall's cornice, and so to the broader one below;
now only one more, and she is landed firm between
the tall prick ears of the great stone
lion's head glaring out of his circular niche, barely
four feet from the ground. Letting the faithful
apple branches fly upward now, and gripping
with both hands the leonine ears, she swings
down to terra firma. Now for the cloak  ay,
wrap it well round, child, gather close under it
the sheeny dress, for the perils of the way are but
beginning !

With ears strung to catching the echo of a fly's
footsteps she stands to listen.

Not a sound. Strassburg, for its silence, might
be a city of the dead. Holy Virgin ! What
lightning flashes ! Think of the storm that must
be rending the mountains now ; and the thunder
so near ; kind angels, so near it must be  hush !
all still again, and dark. Now. And fleet and
light as a doe she speeds down the street.

What about Hunx ? Grandly the lofty silhouette
of the cathedral's facade rises before her
through the shadows cast by the huge lanterns
swinging in mid street from their ropes. How
near and yet so far lies her goal ; and involuntarily

her hold fastens tighter and tighter about
the precious key as she nears Hunx's hateful
watchdog ; and what a joy to catch, when still
she is some yards from it, the rhythmical proclamation
of his profound somnolency !

With cat-like tread she prepares to steal past,
but hark ! hark ! Voices ! Gracious powers
protect her ! Her very heart throbs loud enough
to betray her. Like a creature at bay, she turns,
seeking refuge, and there is none, save only
the shelter of the space between the wall and
Hunx's watchdog. Almost better face the worst
than such a perilous sanctuary ! but danger
threatens yonder for the man she loves ; and
and " there is not an instant to lose ". Not
an instant  hush  help her now, thou dear, dear
Heaven ! Thou  Clit-clat over the stones, and
her father's cheery voice, harmonising its deep
basso with the clear gentle accents of Bruno
Wolkenberg.

Friends ! Friends if ever friends were, and
her first impulse is to spring forward, but
the second chains her fast ; for a confusion
of footsteps tells her they are not alone ; and to
blazon out the secret of her mission so might be
death to the man she is flying to save. In a

minute they will all be past ; and with stifled
breath she crouches shrinking in her hiding-place.


"And for my part," Niklaus is saying, as foremost
of the little group he nears the street corner,
'' for my part  Bless my soul ! what sort of a
guardian now of the city's safety do you call
that ? " he demands, veering sharp round, half-vexed,
half good-humouredly, and pointing with
his stick at the slumbering Hunx. " Before
he'd waken we might all be burned in our beds !
Well, well ; but as I was saying, Dr. Bruno, I
can't say I see anything so surprising in it myself.
Such a rare willing horse as Dasipodius is,
you know. He's done up. That's the long and
short of it. He'll be better tomorrow after a
night's rest. And he didn't downright complain
of anything, did he ? "

I suppose he'd die before he'd ever do that'"
answered Wolkenberg.

*' It's the last straw that breaks the camel's
back," growled the voice of Isaac Habrecht.

"Yes," said the Burgomaster, "and that confounded
Horologe "

I cannot think it had anything to do with
the Horologe," said Bruno in musing tones.

*' Don't you know not half-an-hour before he
had been saying so cheerily that the thing was
ready as a bride on her marriage morning ; and
that there was nothing to do now but to step in
first thing just before the doors were opened
tomorrow, and set it ready for going."

"Ay, truly. So he did," said a voice which
was strange to Sabina. " And we were all as
comfortable as could be, weren't we, till "  the
speaker hemmed and hesitated  " till "

Till  out with it, man. Don't mind me,"
said Niklaus, " till that kill-joy niece of mine
spoiled the sport with her messages. What the
mischief could she be wanting with him at such
an unconscionable time ? Never look to Mistress
Eadegund von Steinbach for teaching the proprieties.
Oh, no offence. Dr. Bruno ; not a bit
of it. Only women are such deucedly queer
creatures. Aren't they ? Such odd contrasts,
as one may say. When I think now of that
little o;irl of mine, safe and snug;  God bless
her  in her bed, hours upon hours ago, and
then  By Jove ! how his face haunts me ! I
can't get it out of my mind. Like a ghost's,
wasn't it ? "

So pale and weary," sighed Kaspar 's

clear young voice. " Bidding us goodnight
like a man in a dream."

I never saw him so strangely moved,"
murmured Bruno.

Ay, once he was near to it," said Isaac.
Don't you remember, Dr. Wolkenberg, when
they wanted to steal his plans, after that piece
of devilry  Hark ! Some one is calling."

Otto von Steinbach ! " cried Bruno in a
startled voice, and the group turned inquiringly
on the wild hatless figure flying towards them.

Bruno ! dear Bruno ! " gasped he. "Quick !
quick ! for God's sake ! Eadegund, my sister "

What now ? " irascibly demanded the Burgomaster,
bringing his stick down heavily on the
stones. "What now?"

Oh ! I don't know ! I don't know ! " distractedly
sobbed the young man. " We have
just found her stretched like dead!"

Dead ! "

No  no, God forbid ! She is breathing.
Oh, Bruno "

But already Bruno Wolkenberg is disappearing
through the wide open flung door of the artist's
house,' where lights are flitting to and fro, and
signs of sudden confusion are manifesting.

Positively ! " ejaculated the Burgomaster,
gazing after his nephew, who has followed
close on Bruno's wake. " And past eleven
o'clock ! What the hangman does she mean
by it? Ill is she ? If she'd gone to bed and got
her rest like other decent maidens, it wouldn't have
happened, I suppose." And bidding the others
good-night, Niklaus turned, and at a more leisurely
pace crossed the Platz to learn how it fared
with his niece.

320

A VIGIL.

rpHE last chitchat of the Burgomaster's stick
on the threshold of the artist's house, left
the Platz once more in silence ; but Sabina's
heart sank within her, for the scene, which had
taken place under the watchman's very nose
had disturbed his slumbers, and he stirred and
grunted, but it was only with a view to settling
himself more comfortably ; and after a few
seconds  or was it an eternity ?  the snoring recommences
with at least undiminished vigour,
and Sabina ventures to peer forth from her
refuge.

By the almost unceasing lightning flashes, she
can clearly discern the little door of the Saint
Thomas' Chapel. Once across the open space
before her, and it will be gained.

In the next interval of darkness the courage
of desperation seizes her, and darting from her

hiding-place, she speeds like the wind across the
Platz. Then on, round under the south-western
wall, till, like some hunted creature in sanctuary
at last, she finds herself in the deep sheltering
arch of the chapel door. With hands which, for
all they tremble like storm-shaken aspen striplings,
are still sure and apt, she fits the key into
its lock. Easily and noiselessly the thing does
its work, and stepping across the threshold, she
carefully closes the door behind her, and stands
in the Cathedral  alone.

Alone ! So her wordless prayer was that she
might be. And set at the thought a mortal
terror thrilled her. The world is so wise
now-a-days, so scientific, so intellectual, so
reasonable, so positive in the classifying and
labelling of nature's every secret, that nobody
worth the name of anybody would ever fall into
the mistake of trembling and turning pale if
chance did bring them into such a situation ;
but with Sabina, whose mind was a clear page
in regard to every ology, but brimful of saints
and angels, and spirits good and evil, and will
attuned with that of the princely student's, who
said : " There are more things in Heaven and
earth than are dreamed of in our philosophy," 

with her it was a vastly different thing. Standing
there, in the pitchy darkness, for she had
neither thought, nor would have dared to bring
a light, only the fitful moonbeams to guide her,
and the forked steel-blue lio;htnino illumining;
the vast edifice from end to end, and from
roof to the marble monuments, where many
an effigy lay stretched grim and rigid above
the corpses resting below.

Not recklessly, not fearlessly the girl had come
there. For her mind, the supernatural with
its awfulness, its alluring sweetness, was as
real  more real than the palpable conditions of
her daily life. Had it been foretold to her that
she should ever do this that she was doing now,
she would have shudderingly declared death to
have been preferable ; but there was that ruling
her  ruling all her strength, all her weakness,
which made her whole being subserve its will,
and clad her heart in panoply strong as steel.

Brainsick and giddy, her limbs half paralysed
with terror, Sabina groped her way to the Horologe,
and grasping its fluted columns, stood and
listened.

No sound but her own panting breaths  Ah !
what long low rumbling is that beneath her feet,

shaking the Horologe to its base? Twelve! The
first stroke of midnight booming out from the
belfry overhead. Midnight and alone. Midnight
and the strange weird deeds beginnings
within those walls ! In her mind's eye,
but there only, for the temporary gold and
crimson arras draping the arch of the Saint
Thomas Chapel hid the tomb, which otherwise
would have been visible from where she stood,
in her imagination, Sabina could see the awesome
effigy of her namesake, the sculptures Sabina
von Steinbach, rising from her marble couch, and,
with white waving arms, and sad distraught eyes,
pass gliding amid the aisles of the mighty church.
But was the figure there ? After all that was
a question. Only the day previously. Doctor
Wolkenberg, looking in at the Burgomaster's,
had happened to remark that Master Eudel had
grumbled loudly at being hurried over his work of
renovation, and said the fault would not lie at his
door if it was made a bungle of in consequence ;
and that if it was not for the sake of Professor Dasi-
potius, he would not attempt it. This jeremiad
reaching the Professor Dasipodius' ears, he had
begged the sculptor on no account to vex himself
by hurrying over it, for a thing not thoroughly

done was infinitely worse than not done at all ;
and Sabina, whose mind was a storehouse of
every syllable that people ever said the
Professor Dasipodius had said, naturally recalled
this little circumstance ; and so, after
all, was the figure there ?

At intervals, which each time grow longer,
and fainter and still fainter, the moonbeams
stream in through the windows far overhead
on to the Horologe ; and Sabina's eyes, lifted
in trembling curiosity, can see now Kaspar 's
exquisite carved work crowning its lofty
central apex, now the brilliant colouring of Rade-gun's
pictures round the cornice, fair and soft
in the silvery shimmering haze. Poor girl, what
ailed her to-night ? But only a passing thought
for Radegund now. Sabina's very terrors hushed
at the sight of the gigantic wondrous thing. She
was striving to realize that it was indeed, as her
touch left no room to doubt, the solid structure,
and not the mere baseless fabric of those sad
dreams for ever haunting her, sleeping and waking,
when Dasipodius had thrust her from him ;
and she had staggered, blinded with misery and
tears, against its panels, and the lustre of her love
had all faded out.

Almost on that spot itself, but a little to
leftwards of it, she stood now, gathering, as
the moments passed, calmness to reflect over
what she has done  is doing, and asking herself,
if in absolute truth and fact she is
standing alone in that vast silent Cathedral at
dead of night. All dark, utterly dark, but for
the one gleam of light shining like a star in
extremest distance yonder before the high altar.
If that symbol of the Abiding Presence had always
been a joy to her in broad daylight, amid
the stir of human life around, what was its
companionship now in this fearsome loneliness,
when though outside the earth might be fainting
and groaning for heat, here all was still as the
very grave ; and shiveringly she drew her long
cloak closer about her and listened. Not a sound
besides the ever-rolling thunder, and presently
the rain falling heavily against the windows.
The rush of it was welcome to her, coming like
some old familiar acquaintance out of the ordinary
work-a-day world, and nerving her to
stand up on her feet, and advance to the arras.
If those were but lifted  and with a desperate
courage she laid hands on them  why then,
yonder tomb  One ! The low, solemn clang arrested

her hand ; and long after its last wave of
sound had died away among the arches of the
choir, she still stood with the arras in her hands,
not daring to stir.

Flash after flash of lurid light break over
her, sheeting clear as day defended window and
lofty pillar. Thunderous peal upon peal burst,
as though the crack of doom were falling ; but
the awe she was wont to feel at such scornful
terrors plays a mere secondary part to that
nameless dread possessing her, of the dead
sculptures's monumental tomb. Supposing that
there in some way the hidden danger she has
come to grapple with should lie, and she  oh,
coward little heart !  hangs trembling on these
curtains !

With a desperate courage she lifted them, and
forced her scared eyes to confront the dreaded
thing as the next lightning flash fell.

Not there ! Only the bare shining surface
with its crimson cushion at the upper end, of
cunningly simulated crimson broidered velvet,
just as she had been used to see it all for these
weeks past. And now in the soul, where many
and many a gentle tourney had been tilted between
Imagination and Reason, rose up) a sore

conflict touching the whereabouts of that stately
marble lady with her lovely still face, whose faint
tints on eyelids and lips did always but render
its corpselike aspect the more real ; and her
dress all gem-bordered  painted gems indeed,
yet faceted and polished so craftily, that they
looked as real as those upon her own gown.
How strangely, the little woman thought, with
the feminine instinct faithful to her at even
such a time, fashion does repeat itself ! To
think that the dead Sabina von Steinbach,
dead two long hundred years, had worn such
garments as would pass muster in the fashionable
world now ! A little difference in detail
possibly, a degree less exuberance of ruff" and
furbelow, a trifle less stiffness, a shade more of
graciousness ; but the girl, with her abhorrence of
modish extremes, always ordered all such ugliness
to be toned down in her own dress, as far
as the code permitted, and the result was that
the mediaeval Sabina might have stood beside
the Sabina of the new era, and seemed no anachronism.


But what an appalling conclusion ! Holy
Virgin ! It chilled her almost to the petrifaction
of the stone she had schooled herself to

approach and look upon. Almost she feels the
dead woman's hand upon her shoulder ; and,
overpowered by her terror, she sinks down on
the tomb's broad steps, sobbing and shrieking
aloud, till the place echoes with her hysterical
cries. But no human help or harm comes to
bid her cease. All silent still, when at last the
paroxysm subsides. It has brought her overcharged
spirit relief, saved her perhaps from
losing sanity itself; and rising from her lowly
seat, she dares to stand leaning against the
tomb's alabaster cornice. How stiflingly hot
it has grown ! So it seems to her, out of the
fevered heat supervening upon those chill damps
of an hour ago ; and she gaspingly unclasps
the cloak from about her neck ! Ah ! what
an idiot to cry and shriek out so ; as if somebody
 something had  oh, for shame  for
shame ! Fine courage that ! A little chill put
to bed in the dark would not have been so
foolish ! What was there to be afraid of ? Herein
a church, a sweet, lovely, beautiful church of
churches, protected, too, by God's own dear
Mother ! Shame to dream of being afraid !
How many and many a time had good Bishop
John, standing in the pulpit yonder, told how

this was none other than the house of God,
where day and night holy angels kept guard.
Could she look yonder, where the perpetual light
gleamed, and be afraid, though all the sheeted
dead around her rose from their graves ? Why,
think of it only ! Outside in the dark world, how
the storm was raging, and hearts were quailing
at its fury. Hark how the rain deluged and
drove, and the deafening thunder rolled, yet
here, against God's house, how calm and still !
How impotently the rage of the elements spends
itself ! The very Ark, resting calm amid the

seething waters, is this old Cathedral, and

Two!

Night wearing away, and with it the storm.
Each lightning flash less vivid, and the thunder
sulkily rolling farther and farther in distance.
A little while, and the rain ceases, and bright
through the clerestory windows a star or two
shines down from the deep cleared sky, and
still, her vigil undisturbed ! but never for one
instant the thought of Gretchen's warning
sleeps. Like the burden of some antique
song, she murmurs again and again ! Danger
to him  to the Horoloo;e ! Danger ! that is her
watchword  Danger !

Three !

And now at last is the time at hand ? Is it
the storm which has delayed, or perhaps destroyed,
this that was to have happened ? Soon
it will be daybreak. Two hours more, and the
whole city must be astir, and then  Listen !
No ! not a sound ; and though dawn is so near
at hand, all black as midnight still. No ghastly
lightning even to guide her now! and not daring
to stir, half sitting, drooping with her weary vigil,
she waits on, eagerly watching for the first ray of
dawn which shall help her to some pillar, some
refuge where she can hide and watch. Would
the arras be safe? or below here, upon the tomb's
broad foot paces, hidden under her cloak's ample
folds, or perhaps the shadows of the Horologe
itself, the Horologe, the Hero Four I

saved!

Tout never a stroke heard she. Gently and
- tenderly dawn's first streak looked down
through the shadows upon the figure of the
girl, sleeping restful as if her head were pillowed
on the downy pillow of her own bed,
instead of on that hard, unyielding cushion of
stone ; and the pure light, which is like none
other on sea or shore, kissed the closed eyelids,
and flushed with rare loveliness the cheeks and
brow pale as whitest alabaster, and streaked with
soft prismatic hues the sheeny folds of her white
dress, with its sparkling border of precious stones.
Sculptor Eudel coming in now would have torn
his hair with envy at the sight of so rare a substitute
provided for that vacant spot. Adept in
his craft though he might be, never had he come
near to conceiving a pose at once so full of exquisite
grace and so unconventional. Not in

deathlike prostration, but her figure slightly
turned her jewel-crowned head resting on the
rounded left arm, whose little hand touched
the carved cornice of the tomb, while the other
lay outspread upon her bosom, as though protecting
some treasure hidden there.

Fours hours she had watched and waited, and
then sleep had stolen its march upon her. The
Good Shepherd, Who once lay sleeping upon a
pillow when the tempest raged, had sent His
lamb a brief respite ; but it was no more. Justa
mere physical relaxing of overstrained power,
no restful deep repose of mind and body, for all
she lay still as her marble namesake would have
lain. The muscular tension of her tired-out,
aching limbs had succumbed, and the place's
profoundest silence had lulled her brain to
something of quiescence, but not for an instant
to unconsciousness. The will had rather rebelled
than taken part in it ; and when barely half-an-hour
later she stirred, and that first perplexity
which comes between sleeping and waking had
faded away, she was terror-stricken to think
what a sorry trick that brief dog's sleep might
have played her, lying stretched there in the
full sight of  Listen ! No, no. Thank God !

all silent ; and she stirred. All quite silent and
light enough now, and to spare, though still the
filmy shadows lingered. Hush ! what was that ?

Stricken motionless, daring not so much as to
lift a finger, she lies, listening, heart and soul of
her, to a strange burning sound proceeding from
the rear of the Horologe  so low, so stealthy,
that it may be some mere spontaneous electrical
stir of the thing's organism, or the dry sitter of
insect wings upon the walls ; but the sharp unmistakeable
click immediately following proclaims
that some one is tampering With the
chapel's postern lock. An enemy ; for would
not a friend boldly turn the key and enter
without more ado ? But that ? a crafty, cowardly
sound ! and paralysed in the very act of
stirring, Sabina sank back, her eyes wildly fixed
in the direction of the sounds, like some 
creature.

Two paces can bring this intruder where he
can plainly see her ; for the arras, which intercepted
her own view of this spot where she
now lies, hang thrust back as she has left them.

If she can but fly to their thick and ample
folds. Impossible ! for already the shadow of a
man, cast by some light he carries, crosses the

angle of the Horologe aDcI steals on ; a short
cloaked figure, with a hat whose broad brim
entirely conceals his features. In his left hand
swings a dark lantern, and his right clutches 
Great Heaven !  a knife ! whose bright steel
gleams and flashes with the action of throwing
back his heavy cloak.

Creeping on, with stealthy cat-like tread, he
comes, until, gaining the front of the Horologe,
he pauses, and lifting his lantern as high as his
mean stature allows, turns its rays in every
direction across the nave of the buildings. Then
satisfied apparently with the result of his survey,
he lowers it again.

As he does so, a chance gleam catches the
dead sculptures's tomb. With a scared, startled
look, he turns, and again hurriedly lifting his
lantern, jerks its full rays across the recumbent
figure there. Drawing back a step to obtain a
fuller view, he stands staring long and fixedly at
the stone-cold, breathless seeming of a woman.

After all, then," he mutters at last, setting
down his lantern, and dragging a handkerchief
from his pocket and pushing back his hat, he
proceeds to wipe and mop his face and brow ;
*' after all you're there, are you ? Done and

fixed up. Ten thousand plagues on you, and
him who made you, for giving me such a start ! "
and the speaker bestowed another mopping on
his face.

The face of Tobias Hackernagel. She saw it
distinctly, daring to steal one swift glance at
him, as he turned himself about ; and even had
the uncertain light deceived her, it would not
have been possible to mistake his harsh, rasping
utterance.

If Strassburor," he went on. setting his teeth
like some irritated hyena  ''if Strassburg was
what she was ten years ago, and not the beast
returned to her mire, wallowing: that she is now,
you'd never have been put back at all ; painted
clay lump that you are ! " and brandishing his
knife and stepping forward a pace or two, he
scowled savagely at the obnoxious figure, " with
your wicked wanton arms, that might be flesh
itself, for their lustful whiteness ; and your face
where were their brains, that they didn't give
it a touch of vermilion ? Ho ! ho ! fire and faggot
are the stuff" I'd like to touch you up with,
or this," and the Syndic lifted his knife and
aimed its point at the marble still figure  " or

this, Mistress Sabina von Steinbach, this pretty
321

little thing here would chip you out of all knowledge.
But," and then Tobias chuckles savagely,
just to-night I haven't leisure ; we've got as
much as we can do. We're going to begin with
the Horologe, don't you see ; and put the Professor
Dasipodius' pipe out for him. I'll warrant
he won't hold his head up quite so high again
after that for many a long day to come. Curse
him ! Oh yes, we're going to begin with the
Horologe. We're going  to  begin  with  the
Horologe."

Twirling round on his heel, Hackernagel proceeded
to take a survey of the Clock's facade.
Oh ho, friend ! " he snarled with another spiteful
chuckle, " you look bravely now, don't you ?
A fine thing you for a Christian temple, with
your gilded gewgaw mankind. But trust me,
I'll stop their strutting and their antics before
they're ten minutes older. And you," and he
glared up at Kaspar's chef dJceuvre, " have you
screeched your first yet ? May it choke me then
if it be not your last. Painted abomination !
but for you, would Tobias Hackernagel have
fallen fallen  fallen like this ? " and his teeth
gnash with maniacal fury. " Driven to beg his
pardon ! Think of it. His ! forsooth. Sorcerer

Elias  blind devil in human shape whom
men fall down and worship ! This fellow, fit
only to be broken on the wheel for the magic-longer
he is, and sent to burning flames, Awhile
I  1 on whose lightest word the people once
hung breathless  am scorned, and pointed after,
and defiled with rotten filth a dog would turn
at! And they grin  oh, righteous Judge, have I
not caught them at it ?  grin ! Tobias Hacker-navel
grinned at ! oh, ha ! ha ! ha ! "

The low hysterical shriek of savage laughter
stopped his utterance, wakening the echoes of
the place, until it seemed as if a legion of fiends
were shouting sympathy. " Ha ! ha ! Triumph !
he ! he ! Triumph ! It's not much of that, I
take it, you'll be having tomorrow morning,
friend clockmaker ! you and your crew Triumph
! oh ho ! he ! he ! he ! Triumph ! we'll
see about that  we'll see  about " Five !

So late ? Then indeed not an instant to be
lost. Thrusting the knife into his belt, Hacker-navel
flung ofi" his hat and cloak, and unbuttoning
the wrists of his close-fitting doublet, turned
them carefully back. Then taking up his lantern,
he crept round by the Horologe panels,
casting, as he went, more than one glance over

his shoulder, with eyes staring and rolling in
their sockets, like those of a man stealing on to
strike a deathblow.

Ay  death  death to the Horologe ! The
woman lying there divines all his purpose now.
Distinctly the loud hoarse whisper of it reaches
her from his writhing, hissing lips ; and the
lantern's sickly gleam, mingling with the noted
sunlit haze now streaming in from the window
above, casts a ghastly glare upon the evil face ashe
disappears round the back of the wooden case.
Death to the Horologe ! Death !

She can hear the low chuckle escaping him,
as he flings open the little door in the panelling
closing in the whole mechanism. At last the
game is all in his own hands. One sharp, well-aimed
stroke, and the thing is done. Who can
step in between him and his foul intent 1 Who ?

Yonder monument is tenantless now. She
who lay there stands hidden in the arras, so near
that not a twitch of the coward face, not a movement
of the eager hands escapes her. Steady,
steady with the lantern. Make no blunders.
Many a chain, many a wire coils itself about the
one spot, where only, like Siegfried's cross, the
wound can be mortal. No blundering. Steady.

Ay, there  safe in its cunningly devised little
chamber. Cut that slender wire, scarce thicker
than a hair, and  has not Dasipodius said it ? 
the whole organism will thrill and shiver to its
extremities in one ag-onisino death-throe.

There it lies. Strong in its weakness, weak in
its strength, delicate, fragile, true as the heart of
her who stands watching. Steady  hush! Someone
trying the door ? Fool ! who could be doing
that ? Prudentius belike ? Oh ! ho ! he ! he !
No, not exactly  not  Voices ? Psha ! Steady
now. Steady. Just here, no botching. Just
here  and obliquely the weapon's keen edge lies
fixed across the wire spring for one half instant,
the next it is pointing impotently up in air, and
with a loud screech of rao;eful terror, Hackernagel
staggers back, powerless, pinioned by the two
elbows in a vice-like grip cutting like ropes into
his flesh. Frenziedly the baffled, wretch wrenches
round his neck to discover his assailant. At sight
of her a ghastly pallor supplants all the purple-red
hues of his face, and his whole frame shakes
with abject terror. No living woman his coward
conscience sees, but the dead raised up to avenge
his premeditated crime ! Not the supernatural
tenacity of a despairing woman's clutch he feels,

but the awful strong grip of a corpse risen from
the grave ! There, in her white-jewelled dress,
she stands, her dead pale face rigid in its accusing
horror.

Sabina von Steinbach ! " breaks at last from
his clammy lips.

Ay," she gasps brokenly, " what  foul 
deed "

At the sound of her voice the man's whole
aspect changes, and he laughs aloud. No ghost
then, this ! Just a woman. Devil seize her claws
scratching and pinching at his bared flesh. Justa
woman, a weak woman, about as strong as the
fragile flower people likened her to, and whom
one blow of his hands  always supposing them
free  could crush. This weak, weaponless child.
Ugh! Were her fingers tigress taloned? "Ugh 1
leave hold ! " yelled he, writhing and smarting
with pain. '' Curse you ! Leave hold. Dost
hear ? "

Perhaps, or perhaps not. She made no sign.
Every sense, every nerve gathered up and concentrated
in the grip of her little hands.

Leave hold, I say ! " and bending his head,
he fixed his jagged ogre teeth in her wrist. The
muscles relaxed, and, as her hand fell off powerless,

a sharp wail of pain escaped her ; but though
the savage act left fearsome marks, it was a cry-more
of mental than of physical pain ; for
Hackernagel's right hand was free now. One
slight effort on his part to shake her off, and
he could return to his interrupted crime.

Pain and terror daze her brain, until her
eyes see nothing but a whirling chaotic mass.
Dark  darker  and shriek upon shriek break
from her pale lips. " The Horologe ! Help !
The Horologe ! "

"Hold thy cursed tongue !" he yells, as with
a violence that sends her staoaerin ag-ain't the
curtained walls, he wrenches himself free, and
turns upon her, murderous fury glaring in his
dilated and terrified eyes. " Screeching devil ! "
But, entangled and clinging among the arras folds,
she contrives to elude his grasp, stumbling
forward until she has gained the front anne
of the clock. "The Horologe !" shrieks she with
one supreme concentration of her fast-waning
strength.

Will you ? " he shouts, rushing upon her ;
and seizing her by both arms, drags her to her
knees at his feet, " will you have me wring your
accursed throat, you "

The words die on his lips. He has stumbled
with his prey into a group of men ; and with his
cruel clutch upon her neck, finds himself face to
face with Conrad Dasipodius.

Foiled, baffled, a hideous mingling of fear and
rage distorting his features, and the laugh of a
demon on his foaming livid lips, Hackernagel,
loosening his hold upon his victim, turns with
uplifted knife on the blind man.

Conrad ! Love ! "

Whose blood is this streaming over the white
neck of her whom Dasipodius, standing unscathed,
but an awful mazed horror upon his
face, holds strained to his heart ? Does he know
whose are the brave arms which thrust aside the
murderous aim ? whose breast has shielded his,
warm now with the stream flowing from the
terrible gaping wound in that white flesh ? Ay,
truly, her yearning cry as she threw herself upon
him told him. Truly he knows.

'' Sabina ! "

Only her name. So dear, that even his own
lips had for so long dared not to utter it.

Sabina ! " he murmured in his perplexed
agony, bending his face over hers upturned,
death-white, on his sightless eyes.

"Ay," sighed she, a smile of infinite content
breaking over the pain-wrung lips, and a rare
gladness dawning upon her pallid brow.

Darling ! speak," he implored ; " speak tome."


"Ay  yes. Not  hurt are you  Conrad ? "

Oh God ! for the warm wet life-blood trickling
over his hands clasping her about ! He struggled
for speech, and failed for the awful throe convulsing
his heart. And yet she must have read
in his facesome answer contenting her, for again
she strove to speak.

"That is  well," she murmured, and a transient
flush glorified the gray gathering shadows
of her face ; "I do  think  I saved you 
from "

A convulsive shudder stayed her, the arms
flung protecting about his neck relaxed and
fell heavily, and the pale eyelids drooped. Yet
for one instant only, then they where lifted again,
and the dim eyes entreatingly rested upon his.

"And  will you  Conrad, just once  again,
will you  kiss me  love  just once ? "

Again that rare faint flush overspread the
face, white indeed, but not deathlike white than
his, as his lips touched hers ; and then her head

drooped upon his breast and pillowed there ;
and there came over her weary face a light
so radiant, so full of utter content, that it
seemed as if the joy of the old days washers
once more.

"VrOT a cloud as big as a man's hand dimmed the
 glory of that blue sky shining over the old
city on Saint Laurence's day. The storm of the
past night had cleared the air of all the foul
vapours and heaviness loading it for weeks past ;
and a light cool breeze fluttered the flags, and
toyed with the garlands festooned about window,
and sign, and balcony of the Platz, until their
wet leaves glistened again in the morning sunbeams.


In and out about the Cathedral's rugged walls
the birds darted merrily, corrupting in the
highest spirits, and perking and pluming with
uncommon care, as though they fully recognized
the duty incumbent on them, as part and parcel
of the place, to be spick and span on this notable
occasion. Citizens and citizenesses, maids and
matrons, gallants and prentices, all pranked in

their best, thronged the streets ; while farmers
and rich peasantry, from many a Vosges village
and hamlet, kept flocking in towards the centre
of attraction, and were packed in the Cathedral
aisles, until there was not room left for a pin to
drop between them. Veritably it seemed, as
they said, as if the good God had answered the
prayer of many an expectant heart, and made a
day on purpose, so bright and fair it was.

Yet one thing lacked. What was it ?
Strangers had not set foot five minutes within
the city gates, before they asked themselves this
question, vaguely conscious that in some strange
manner all the spirit and life of a great general
holiday were wanting. First and foremost, what
had become of the music ? Not so much as a
drum-beat's echo, or the faintest squeak of a
fife ! Feast, holiday, forsooth ! Better have
stopped at home and listened to the cat purring 1
And then those knots of folks, with mazed, awestricken
faces, interchanging low hurried words,
more for all the world as if everybody had come
together for a funeral than for a merry-making.
Hush ! hush ! Yes, death, indeed, hovers low
over Burgomaster von Steinbach's roof-tree,
stretching out his hand for the Lily, where

she lies broken and bleeding, with only a faint
fluttering pulsation at her brave heart to tell
that life is still there.

And then from mouth to mouth flies the
strange story, until by eight o'clock every
mother s son and daughter has at fingers' ends,
with all the ad libitum variations of each individual
fancy, how Syndic Tobias Hackernagel,
miserable villainous wolf in the dark that he was,
broke last night into the Cathedral to destroy the
Horologe ; and how  there is the marvellous
part of it  how little Mistress Sabina von Stein-bach,
Burgomaster Niklaus' daughter, was beforehand
with him and saved it ; and how it chanced
she had saved Master Dasipodius too, when the
wretched scoundrel would have murdered him,
and the knife struck her instead, somewhere in
the shoulder, for she threw herself upon the blind
man and hung there like a shield ; and there she
lies  a-dying ? Ah Heaven ! canst thou be so
bitter cruel as that ? And then for the woe that
has stricken their good honest Burgomaster, not
alone women's tears fall fast, but men's eyes
glisten, now sad, now ragefuUy ; and with low
passionate clamouring, they demand if the prison
walls hold fast that would-be assassin ?

Ay, ay, safe enough, safe enough, so much is
certain. They had him down and bound in an
eye's twinkling ; but for the rest, all is a riddle,
and threatens to remain so for some time to
come ; since from the moment of his arrest,
Hackernagel, man of law that he is, has not
uttered a syllable, saving all his eloquence for
the defence he is no doubt busy concocting, and
Tobias is as dumb as lead.

Inside the Cathedral, things are terribly at
sixes and sevens. There seems to be not a creature
about to marshal the crowd, or to tell
people their assigned places. Barriers are disregarded,
and individuals squeeze into nooks where
they have no more business than bulls have in
china shops. City magnates puis and purple
with indignation ; while fine ladies, who have
fondly looked to being the observed of all observers,
are shunted and hustled every bit as
much as the commonest clay there. Disgusting !
and tomorrow the managing: committee shall
know what they think about it. Where, in the
name of decency and order, is Prudentius the
sacristan, that he permits all this lamentable
confusion ?

Prudentius the sacristan, with a racking headache,

and excruciating pains in his limbs, and a
conscience sorer than all, lies in durance vile,
some few hundred yards off, safe in his own bed,
whither he has been transported from a spot not
far outside outside the city gates, where he was
found lying in the morning's small hours, drenched
through and through, and altogether incapable of
standing upon his legs, or of lucidly accounting
for his deplorable plight. The burden of certain
feeble and disjointed wanderings which escaped
him, touching some woman  "Yes, a woman, I
tell you, a woman," in no way influenced my
Lord Bishop to regard the unfortunate lay-brother's
misdemeanour in a more favourable
light ; but at present Bishop John has little
leisure to bestow on the sinner and his enigmatical
falling away. A whirl of thoughts is
perplexing his brain. Like some great actor,
distracted from his role by the painful realities
of his actual life, the Bishop wonders how he is
to go through with his very prominent part in
the ecclesiastical pageant which, shorn indeed of
many of its most imposing adjuncts, is still ordained
to take place.

The very bells which were to have rung out
such a merry peal, are silent lest they should

disturb the unconscious girl ; and it is certain
that more than one gap will be left upon yonder
crimson dais.

Burgomaster von Steinbach's genial face must
assuredly be missing ; as also, from circumstances
over which he has no control, the countenance of
Syndic Hackernagel will be conspicuously absent.
In yonder gallery of fair dames, the sweetest
flower among them all will not be seen. And
concerning Mistress Eadegund, whose beauty
some reckon more peerless than even her
cousin's just as some care more for roses than
for lilies  much speculation is rife, whether or
no she will grace the little band of geologists
on the dais. Whether, circumstances considered,
she will hold it becoming  but there, it is worse
than idle to be hazarding conclusions over what
Eadegund will elect to regard as becoming or unbecoming.
And it must be conceded that there
are two sides to this case in point ; and stop away
or come, she will inevitably shock some one's
sense of the proprieties, according to the respective
ratios at which they fix private and professional
claims. Only on one point all are assured, that
Mistress von Steinbach will do as she chooses,
utterly uninfluenced by any second opinion.

Soon the question settles itself; she is there.
If that woman on the Zoologist's dais in the
magnificent robe of purple velvet, slashed with
cloth of gold, be indeed Eadegund von Stein-bach
? If those stern-set features and hollow
eyes, encircled with dark rings, making her look
more like a galvanized corpse than living woman,
can be the brilliant artist. No glimmer of a smile
relaxed the drawn pale lips, as she turned to acknowledge
the murmur of applause greeting her
appearance ; and not a word has she for those
about her. With a glance, half careless, half
curious, she looks round. In search perhaps
of Bruno Wolkenberg. But Bruno is not there.
This moment of Eadegund's triumph his soul
has so long thirsted for, has come, and does not
find him there to see ; for Doctor Wolkenberg
is busy, duty has called him elsewhere, and he
sits watching in that darkened chamber in the
Munster-grasse. Yet he has found time to implore
Eadegund to renounce her intention of
going to the Cathedral. " Will my not going
give the child back her life ? " she said hardly.
"Is the world to come to an end because she "

"Nay," interrupted Bruno, jarred in spite of
himself by her tones. " If not for that, then for

322

your own life's sake." And then, with all the
eloquence his wrung heart could muster, he
pleaded the consequences of such a heavy tax on
her own frame, weakened by the previous night's
cruel attack upon it ; that sickness to which the
skilful master of cause and effect could find no
clue, or if he did, shrank from following up.
You need rest ; absolute rest."

"Ay," fiercely assented she. "Yes ; and that
one finds best in the grave."

Eadegund  why," he said brokenly, " why
will you speak like this to me  to me 
Eadegund ? "

Because  psha ! Bruno, tell me now, am not
I indeed fit, as you call it, to go ? Will you
really not answer for my life if I go ? "

He turned from her with a moaning sigh.

"Answer me, Bruno. Why, come now. Come,
Doctor Bruno Wolkenberg ! Am I a patient to
be fooled and put off" with some puling lie ? Tell
me true  Bruno, dear Bruno, then, dear kind
friend  Bruno," and the hot hands sought his.
"Tell me, is my life come indeed to be so weak
a thing, that I might forfeit it just by only
crossing over into yonder church ? "

I tell you  yes," he said.

"Then it is hardly worth trying to keep," she returned
contemptuously. "One had better break
than bend, I take it. Now go  where they want
you, Doctor AYolkenberg." And with the abrupt
dismissal, she rose and left him ; and summoning
her servant, she, with many a pause for battling
with the deadly faintness oppressing her, stood
dressed at last, and refusing all aid but Otto's
arm, found herself in the seat reserved for heron
the Professor Dasipodius' right hand.

The hem of her rich raiment straying across
his footstool, first tells him of her presence ; but
sparing her no syllable of greeting, he turns to
exchange a word or two with Isaac Habrecht on
his left. From the building's furthermost recesses
the mathematician s appearance has been
greeted with applause, prolonged and deep, but
not loud. The enthusiasm which the sacredness
of the place would hardly have restrained, was
ch-hastened down into something of awe at the
aspect of the blind man, on whom every eye was
fixed. There were few in that vast concourse
unacquainted in more or less garbled fashion
with the events of the past night, and few
consequently who were not able in some degree
to participate in the feelings which must be ruling

him at that moment ; and sympathy with these
increased tenfold, when all notwithstanding, the
people found he had kept faith with them, and
the acclamations they would fain have offered
him, spent themselves in a hushed respectful
murmur.

One of rumour's tongues said Dasipodius had
been wounded ; others said no such thing ; but
all could see in his face that some mental wound,
sharper than keenest sword thrust, agonized him;
that he had passed, nay, was passing through
some ordeal too terrible for words. Eadegund
von Steinbach, looking upon him now, was not
the only one recalling more strongly than ever
the picture over yonder in the Saint Laurence
Chapel. A solemn, mysterious beauty rested
upon the features composed into such stern
endurance, lending them a softness which rendered
them not all stern ; and about the
temples, grown somewhat worn and shadowy,
and over the resolute mouth, shone a tender
light, repressed and dimmed for many a month
past, but now infinitely sweet in its sadness.
Standing there, in the presence of that vast
crowd, the observed of all, seeing no ray of
earth's light, his spiritual beauty spoke silently

eloquent, drawing, as it ever did, men, women,
and little children, and all God's creatures to
love and trust him.

Master Dachstein's music is gloriously beautiful
; as it peals forth its paean, the long
train of richly-vested ecclesiastics and white-robed
choristers winds with cross and banner,
gleaming amid fragrant incense clouds, towards
the high altar, bathed in the sunlight streaming
down through the painted choir windows.

A few years more and the old Faith is to lie
trampled to the dust within those walls, crying :
Chabot ! Chabot ! but to-day the glory of her
glows out unshadowed by any threatening darkness
of desolation ; grand in her ceremonial as
ever she has been, since the days when good
King Pepin set the corner-stone of the venerable
shrine. And yet, the rich colour, the sweet
triumph song, seem to jar upon the senses. The
very Horologe itself, the fulcrum and motor of
all this concourse of humanity, is being regarded
with something very near to a secondary interest.
Only at last, when Bishop John bestows with
uplifted hand his benediction on the all sorts
and conditions of assembled Christians, and from
the lips, which for the nonce have laid aside their

differences, responds one deep) Amen, and midday
is upon the stroke, attention undivided and
absorbed is devoted to the Horologe, while the
eyes of him who, yet seeing nothing, has been
the work's creator, are fixed attend, till the first
burr, and a succession of clicks and snapping
and whirr, proclaim all to be in motion. Then
breaks forth from thousands of lips a rapturous
murmur, and upon those upturned faces one
simultaneous grin of delight, as one after the
other of the automata go thrush their evolutions
in just the very self-same, confident,
dogged, wooden way that they do now.

To descant upon the satisfaction of that
moment is, however, a superfluity, since who
that runs may not still read ? " The famous
clock remains uninjured," reported the war correspondents,
when bullets and cannon balls were
riddling the brave old city not so many years ago.
Uninjured in spite of all ! And tourist pilgrims
may still enjoy for themselves any day of the
week the wonderful clock's performance ; for,
guide-book in hand, before Master Dasipodius'
Horologe, still gathers daily a motley group,
native and alien, and if no cruel wars come,
are likely to do for as long as any youth lingers

in this old planet. Providence be praised,
it is not all beaten out of her yet ; and royal
princes, gartered bishops, gaping country folks,
dreamy poets, beauty, intellect, aristocrats,
socialists, Philistines, philosophers, old men
and maidens, and matrons, make a point of
seeing the Horologe in all its glory of full
working power when they pass through Strasbourg
city. Of course, with human ingratitude
they smile when the performance is over, and
pooh-pooh the Horologe for a clumsy piece of
absurdity ; but the real test is the rapt attention
it earns while it is in motion. And like a clever
actor, only wider fame accrues to it by criticism.

Now too, as then, the crowing cock wins special
appreciation. "And his wings, Kaspar ? " asks
the mathematician, laying his hand on the boy's
shoulder, with a faint enquiring smile, as the
wooden chanticleer's whoop screech strikes his
ear. " They flap well  yes ? "

Perfectly, master," answers the young wood-carver,
a transient smile of pleasure lighting up
the face which has hitherto mirrored the sadness
of Dasipodius. And he flushes with pride, for
does he not hear his name whispered from mouth
to mouth in the crowd below ?

Splendidly ! " ejaculates Otto von Steinbach,
sinking down with a gasp of satisfaction, whose
intensity is only known to himself. " Perfectly,
by Jove ! and never a jerk. Scoundrel ! " but
though his eyes are fixed fiercely on the wooden
lord of the farm-yard, his animadversion is not
addressed to it, but at some absent object, vividly
evolving in his imagination.

The ex-chief zoologist does not share prominently
in the day's proceedings ; does not desire
to do so, perhaps, but modestly remains as much
as possible in the background, and that even when
his name is signalized with those of his brother
geologists.

Nevertheless Otto has his consolations.

So for the first time the Horologe jDlays its
part, and a brilliant success it is.

And the price of it ?

THERE COULD NOT BE GREATER LOVE THAN THIS."

TT is towards evening. Such poor show of
merrymaking as lias been attempted throughout
the day has dwindled into silence. There is
to be no banqueting, no dancing, no fireworks.
With one consent all such junketings have been
set aside. People wending homewards through
the Munster-grasse step softly, casting, as they
go, mute enquiring glances up at the windows of
Burgomaster Niklaus' house, fearfully asking
each other what news ? and go their ways with
the scanty consolation that it is only not the
worst.

Consciousness, but not speech, has returned ;
and for days to come life and death must hans:
in the balance. Such is Surgeon Wolkenberg's
bulletin ; and to those who hold her life dearer
than their own, he can osier no more comfort
than that the knife has not touched a vital part.

The wound is a flesh wound only ; but the end
of all its supervening fever and weakness " who
can foretell ? " says the truthful Bruno, feeling
that any false gloss would be worse than mockery.
Then having said his worst, he speaks of the hope
that lies in her healthy young life.

In across the old dining-hall the setting sun
casts long shadows, firing to dazzling red the
needleful of golden thread Sabina left half-stitched
into her tapestry work last night. A score of
suchlike trifles speak of her. The open virginal,
the hooded scarf thrown across a chair back, the
smart ribbon round Mitte's neck, tied on last
night in anticipation of this day. A little bedraggled
and out of gear is that ribbon now,
with the 23oor creature's wanderings to and fro in
search of her lost mistress ; and her dismal mewing
and the clock ticking up in its dark corner
are the only sounds which have broken the silence
for hours past. Their ceaseless monotony has
grown unendurable to the Burgomaster, where
like one gradually wakening from some fearful
dream he sits waiting ; and with a sudden impetuous
start he rises from his chair, and, crossing
the floor, lifts his arms to arrest the hands of
the clock. But some sudden thought, call it a

memory rather, checks him ; a memory of how,
so many a time, when she was no more than a
toddling baby, he had lifted her up in his arms
to see the great, quaint, friendly eyes goggling
in their sockets, and how proud he always was
to think she was not afraid, but delighted hugely
in the broad, round, brazen face ; and so the
thing had come to be a sort of companion to
her young life's many lonely hours. 'wait-tic,
wait-tac,' it always says, Vaterlele, when you are
away you know ; " she would often say ; "it
preaches one patience better than fifty sermons.
Dear old thing ! do you hear it ?  * Wait-tic,
wait-tac,' ever so plain ! '

Of all inanimate things, if inanimate it could
be called, Sabina best loved that clock.

And to stay it now would be like sacrilege.
Moreover, some vague superstitious dread of
doing so comes flashing across Niklaus* mind,
and the respited clock burrs on  Wait-tic, wait-tac.


The despotic Bruno has banished Niklaus
from the sick chamber, where he has so piteously
pleaded for leave to remain. It is best, the surgeon
says, since any excitement of recognition
which would come with restored consciousness

might prove fatal ; and Niklaus, sadly acquiescing,
thinks of the girl's dead mother, and how only
hired women servants tend his darling now.
Well, well, hired though they be, could mother or
sisters more entirely love the little housemistress
than they do ? And when his sister Ottilie, for
whom a messenger has been sent in hot haste,
arrives from her Freiburg convent, it is only
because the good nun's nursing skill is perfection
itself that she can be preferred to those already
watching.

Niklaus' banishment increases his anguish
tenfold ; but the terrible time is not passed
solitarily. Hours ago there came to his gates
one with the agony of living death upon his face
craving a moment's speech with Dr. Wolkenberg ;
and Niklaus, hearing his voice, has gone out,
and, silently taking the speaker by the hand, has
led him into the house, and there, falling upon
his breast, has wept out tears which, till that
moment, had seemed ice-bound ; but no tears
come to relieve the mortal sufferings of the blind
man ; and Dasipoclius' clear, calm tones are
barely recognisable in that hollow, broken voice,
when at last he essays to speak.

I would have given my life for her," he says.

' Ay, ay," sobs the Burgomaster ; "do I not
know it *? "

And she  she "  but utterance fails him, and
for a while there is silence, save for the convulsive
sobbing of the old man. At last, gently
raising Niklaus' head, Dasipodius disengages himself
from him. " The sight of me must be hateful
to you," he says, and turns to go ; but the
other, looking up, bids him stay.

She loves you so well," he said wistfully.

God forgive me," groaned Dasipodius ; '* that
I did not "

Ay, I know ; you need not tell me. There
has been some mistake  yes ? "

''No mistake, Burgomaster," sternly replied
Dasipodius.

No ? " said Niklaus, gazing with dreamy intentness
at his companion. " Good then. That
is well. At least that is well. Because she must
love you so truly, must she not ? There could
not be greater love than this that my little child
has shown for you. Such sort it was as our
Lord Christ's love for us all. Ay, sure I am
now that she must love you very dearly, Conrad
Dasipodius."

A tearless sob is the blind man's only response.

Surely lie does," meditatively continues

Niklaus, " though I  she See, now then,

for her sake you will stay. Will you stay, Master
Dasipodius 1 "

And Dasipodius stayed. It seemed to Bruno
Wolkenberg, when first he came upon them thus
together, a strange thing that Niklaus appeared
to be finding some sort of comfort in the silent
companionship of the very man who, however
innocently, was the source of his unspeakable
misery ; but in a vague way he understood it all,
and from the depths of his desolate heart he
envied them.

A long interval passed before either spoke
again ; but at last Niklaus, lifting his face from
where it lay buried in his arms, suddenly besought
of Dasipodius some elucidation of the
events they had that morning lived through.
"Tell me," he said; "I think I could understand
now. I think I might bear it better if I
might understand."

But it was little Dasipodius was able to tell.
He knew scarcely more than those who were
hazarding all sort of conjecture outside in the
streets. The only two dio were apparently
capable of shedding any light upon the matter

were the wretched culprit and his victim, one of
whom lay bereft of speech, while the other seemingly
could only be brought to display any remnant
of his marvellous faculty under the persuasive
influence of boot or thumbscrew.

The mathematician could tell no more than
that some time between four or five o'clock in
the morning, and soon after the rain had quite
ceased, he had risen with the intention of stepping
across to the cathedral, in order to assure
himself that everything about the Horologe was
in perfect train, and to apply a touch of oil to the
lower dial, which, he fancied, did not work quite
smoothly.

He had started with the intention of going
round to get the key of the St. Thomas' Chapel
from the Sacristan's apartments ; but reflecting
that Prudentius would, in every probability, be
already astir over his finishing touches inside the
cathedral, had concluded that to do so would be
unnecessary, and had therefore made straight
for the St. Thomas' Chapel, expecting to find its
postern open, or, at all events, unlocked. Close
by the chapel's threshold, Dasipodius had come
upon the two Habrechts, who were on their way
to his house, thinking that he mio;ht be wantons

their assistance. Having tried the door and
found it locked, the mathematician's quick ear
caught a slight sound within ; and although his
two companions, also listening, declared he must
mistake, he had insisted that he did not ; and
that Prudentius and his assistants must therefore
be already at their work, having entered
probably by the western door. Passing round
to the main entrance, they had come upon
Burgomaster von Steinbach returning home
from his niece's house, where he had been
detained, first by anxiety on her account, and
subsequently by the fury of the storm. The
Burgomaster had strolled the few steps back
with them, and the little party, on reaching the
door, had come up with Bishop John and his
chaplain. Master Gottlieb, and an attendant or
two, my lord being in the very act of entering to
ascertain whether Prudentius was yet stirring
there ; and, if not, as he had a little anxiously
remarked to Gottlieb, '' why not ? "

No sooner were the heavy doors open than
those piercing cries, mingled with imprecations,
appalled their ears, and in a body all had hurried
up the nave in the direction of the Horologe,
whence the sounds seemed to proceed. " And

the rest," concluded Dasipodius, " you know,
saw. My God, which was crueller ? To see, or
to be as I was then, knotting all, and helpless 
helpless as a child ; though her life's blood was
ebbing away."

Do you know, Bruno Wolkenberg," shivered
Niklaus, " that that gown your scissors have cut
striD by strip from my darling is the gala one
she should have worn this morning ? That seems
to me so strange ! "

'' Strange indeed," sadly acquiesced the surgeon.
" I too have wondered at it. How she
should  that is, what  what freak, so to say "

Freak ! " exclaimed Niklaus, with a touch
of his wonted fire. " Do you dare breathe suspicion
of m} child ? "

Great heavens ! " returned Bruno. " Who
talked of it ? I meant no such thing."

Then choose your words better, Bruno Wittenberg,"
said Dasipodius.

If I knew how," stammered the unfortunate
surgeon. " I only meant to say that since women
do  take such  such  extraordinary ideas

Some women," frowned Niklaus. '* If my
niece, Radegund, now had been found 


racing No, no ; I don't mean that precisely
"

I trust not, Burgomaster von Steinbach,"
interrupted the surgeon, flushing crimson. 'there
are some to whom Mistress Radegund's honouris
very dear."

I think my brain is going," sobbingly broke
forth Mklaus. "Did I say something  something
? Ask him to forgive me, Conrad."

But Bruno gently laid his hand on the old
man's shoulder as he passed out to return to his
watch. Nevertheless those few speculative words
he had let slip did but express the thoughts of
the two men keeping their silent companionship
together. It could only be so. How came she
there ? How came she there ? could but be the
refrain of their sad musings. What concurrence
of circumstance had brought her face to face,
alone, at early dawning with Tobias Hackernagel ?
Such a possibility, however remote, might still
be conceivable of any woman in the city save
and excepting this one  this girl, who always
shrank instinctively at the bare mention of his
very name. Yet speculation could but be utter
mockery ; and in all the city there did not
appear to be a creature able to afford the faintest

clue to the mystery. So with never an answer
to their heart's unspoken appeal, daylight had
faded, and the shadows were falling apace ; and
it must have been towards eight in the evening
when a message was brought the Burgomaster that
Gretchen Hackernagel desired to speak with him.

Niklaus looked up frowningly at the sound of
the name grown so hateful to him, and was about
emphatically to deny himself to her. " She
comes," he said, " with some whining plea about
that loathsome reptile she calls father. Her
time is ill-chosen," he added, after a pause, spent
in curbing down some violent emotion  " ill-chosen,
tell her."

"Mistress Hackernagel," continued the servant,
with timorous pertinacity, " further enquired
whether the Professor Dasipodius were still with
you. Burgomaster ? "

Now," sharply demanded Niklaus, " does she
imagine he is likely to push her suit for her ?
Bid her pack and begone, for the devil's baggage
she is."

Nay," interposed the mathematician, " you
are wrong. Burgomaster, Gretchen Hackernagel
is a good woman. Many a time I have heard
my poor girl say that of her."

Wholesome fruit of a poisonous branch ! "
harshly returned the Burgomaster. " No, no, we
don't have miracles now-a-days."

*' At least her trouble is bitter."

Can it be like mine  yours ? "

Ay, worse."

Niklaus lifted his heavy, tear-dimmed eyes,
fixing them with puzzled inquiry on Dasipodius,
and as he did so, all their angry glitter died out.
Bid her come in," he said. " Now, Mistress,"
he continued, when Gretchen, with pale, scared
face, entered, but halting just within the threshold,
not daring to advance, and casting shrinking
glances from one to the other of the two
men. *' Come, your errand."

' Will you prefer to be alone. Mistress ? "
asked Dasipodius, who had risen on her entrance.

'' As you will. Master Dasipodius," replied
she, gathering a little courage from the gentleness
of his tones ; " what I have to say is
something;  touching her. You best know how
far that concerns you ;" and she bent a keen,
scrutinising look on the blind man. The faint
flush suffusing his wan cheek appeared to afford
her satisfaction and the encouragement to proceed
which she had vainly sought in Niklaus' face.

The characteristics of the two seemed absolutely
to have interchanged : all the Burgomaster s
natural geniality had chilled down under the
weight of his calamity into a stern, sullen gloom,
while the calm, even dignity of the mathematician
had acquired a certain softness, dispelling
the sense of awe which, her admiration of him
notwithstanding, Gretchen generally could not
help feeling iu his presence. At a less agitated
moment Gretchen's penetration might have accounted
for the anomaly by calling to mind
how by one fell blow Niklaus had been driven
and stunned out of all his life's sunshine ; while
in the very valley of the Shadow of Death
Dasipodius had come again upon the treasure
which he had believed neither this life nor any
future one could restore to him ; and amid all
the day's torture, that one sweet, bright assurance
had spread itself out in his heart, blessedly
as warm sunshine upon frozen deeps, and softening
it to compassion, and even sympathy, for
such sort of suffering as the miserable Gretchen's.
And so gathering courage, simply and clearly as
tears would let her, she told her story, taking
to herself neither blame nor credit for the part
she had borne in it. Once only she was interrupted

by Dasipoclius demanding why, instead
of secretly warning one poor weak woman, she
had not given alarm to the authorities. " What
alarm ? " she asked. " What should I have
said ? What did I know ? Think if I had
done that, and after all he  he "

Your father ? "

She nodded and shivered. "After all he had
intended no harm ? "

*'A man does not steal keys for good," said
Niklaus.

"And  was he not  my father ?" she faltered.

Du Herriot, Du ! Listen to her. Well
placed sentiment that, truly ! " scoffed Niklaus.
Because he is the author of Mistress Gretchen
Hackernagel's being, his devil's deeds are to be
condoned ! "

Nay, Burgomaster," expostulated Dasipodius.

Hush ! " said Gretchen, turning grateful eyes
on him. "Let him misconstrue me  if he pleases.
Master Dasipodius. Perhaps it is more seemly
that he should."

'' Untruth can never be seemly, Mistress Hac-kernel,"
returned the mathematician. " Be
frank."

"If your father's child can be," frowned Niklaus.

Oh ! if I had never been born ! If I had
never been born ! " wailed she.

' Speak ! Your reasons ! " thundered the Burgomaster.
" Can you not speak ? "

Because I feared him then. From my soul
I feared him' she cried, wringing her hands.
Because if he had come to know how I stole
out last night and watched him, he would have
murdered me where I stood. Would to God he
had ! Oh, would that he had ! What is my life
to me ? Who cares ? Oh ! would to God I lay
where she does now. Where she does now ! "
and in an agony of grief the girl fell prone at
Niklaus' feet. He turned stonily away.

Will you go home ? " said Dasipodius, approaching
and gently raising her.

Home ? " echoed she, wildly pressing her
trembling fingers against her dazed eyes. " Is
that what you call home ? Home, where Otto,
he who was mine once, said he would never enter
again ? Home," and bursting into a fit of hysterical
laughter, she started to her feet. " Oh,
but I know a better ! An ever so much better
one ! The green grass waves there, and it shines
clear, and soft, and beautiful, and bright. Oh,
yes, yes. Water is cold." And she stared down

sliudderingly at the stained and bedraggled
garments she still wore. '* Cruel cold ! death
cold. But once  long ago  or was it the other
day ? No; long ago  years it must have been 
he spoke so kindly to me there. ' You're a good
girl, Gretchen,' he said; and if  if  Ah! home!
Yes, yes, let me go  home. Master Dasipodius ! "

But Dasipodius held her fast by the wrists,
and after a faint, ineffectual resistance, she let
them fall nervelessly. 'rand it was of her he
talked," she went on in rapid tones, " and how
she  yes, I would have died to do her ever so
little a service, I thought, and I  Oh, G-od !
See what's come of it ! See what's come of it !
If they break me on the wheel, 'twill be too good
for the wretch I am ! " And she sank upon her
knees. "And yet  oh, let me speak. Conrad
Dasipodius  Burgomaster, if your hearts have
any grain of pity, let me  if I  if I  Do you
know why I have come here ? " she cried, clutching
Dasipodius by the arm. " Do you know
what mad thought brings me ? Do you know ? "

Have you not said ? "

No, no. Not that. Not that. It was because
 because  Listen what a mad, mad
hope it was. I thought they might let me be

with her. Do you understand ? I would dress
and tend that cruel wound so skilfully. Oh, but
I could. Ask Dr. Bruno if I could not. Dr.
Bruno knows what I can do. Many a time he
has praised my skill at the KrauJcen-haus, where
they brought the wounded soldiers last year, and
said my hands put his to shame. Master Dasipo-
dies, she should not die, if I might be with her.
I would not let her. Do you hear what I say?
I would not let her die."

And with clasped hands, she turned from one
to the other ; but Niklaus stood as though he
neither heard nor saw her; and Dasipodius shook
his head, and said : " My poor child, it cannot
be".

She turned from him despairing, and dragged
herself to the Burgomaster's side, pleading there,
as if she were pleading for her own doom's respite,
but he shook her coldly off. " Go, go," he said.
The very sight of you is poison."

They told me," said Bruno Wolkenberg,
putting his head in at the door, " that Gretchen
Hackernagel was here."

"Ay, ay," cried she, starting up, a ray of hope
breaking across her face.

"Who wants her ?" sternly demanded Niklaus.

Your daughter, Master von Steinbach."

Great Heaven ! " groaned the Burgomaster.
If only this awful delirium might cease ! If
only she might be conscious."

She is so, Burgomaster," said the Surgeon
cheerily. " Has been in her right mind this
half-hour past. And ' Where's Gretchen ? Gretchen
? How long will Gretchen be ? ' she keeps
asking unceasingly."

Will you go to my little girl, Gretchen
Hackernagel ? " pleaded the Burgomaster.

DE Profundity.

TX7ITH that returning consciousness, hope
' glimmered for the watchers, and as each
day passed, grew high. True that Hackernagel's
weapon had driven cruelly, so that her white
flesh would bear an ugly seamy mark to her life's
end ; but it had struck with a sideways random
clumsiness, inflicting a gaping terrible surface
wound, yet not hopelessly dangerous, provided
it were treated with care and patience, and these
were never less wanting.

And so the shadow of the dread Reaper's
scythe was lifted from the Lily flower, and never
had life been so fair and sweet to her as now in
this time of weakness and of pain, which all
Surgeon Wolkenbere's skill and Gretchen 
tender nursing could do no more
than lighten.

At the wounded girl's own faintly whispered

wish, eloquently endorsed by lier eyes, Gretchen
Hackernagel had remained beside her ; and Aunt
Ottilie, with her gentle-hearted common-sense
view of the case, had taken no umbrage at
Sabina's preference, but on the contrary had
made it her special mission to bring over the
demurring Niklaus. "Nun I may be, brother,
but woman I am too, and I know; and trust me,
you mustn't interfere. They understand each
other, these two young things ; and though it is
truer than true, as you are always saying, that
the parent tree is a baneful one, the dear God's
providence has let the antidote grow upon its
branches ; and it is not for you to grumble, but
to thank Heaven on your bended knees, that so
much good can come out of evil ; for good that
Gretchen Hackernagel is to the core, Anabaptist
castaway though the poor thing was brought
into the world, and understands sick folks as
well as I do myself."

And Niklaus after that held his peace.

Yes, never so fair  not in the earliest morning
tide of her wooing had life been for Sabina as
now. To the bruised and broken Lily, slowly
lifting her pale head once more, all the past was
like some hideous dream ; out from the tangle

and the darkness she seemed to have wakened
in some fair garden, where the rushing of turbid
waters had stilled into a clear streamlet, giintino-
in the gentle shadows of green whispering boughs,
and catching the sheen of the fleecy sun-gilded
cloudlets in the azure far overhead. Shadows
indeed there were still ; and shadows to the
end there must be for her. Heaviest of all the
one which dimmed her eyes when they rested
on her lover's face, and she strove to realise
something of what the deprivation of his lost
sight must be. Tears would brim then to overflowing
in her own eyes, and his quick ear,
catching the quiver of her breath, would bring
his hands stealing to the cheeks, gathering each
day something of their old roundness and bloom,
and insist on the meaning of such telltale drops
being explained to him.

What is it, dear one ? " he would ask, bending
over her, and oh, Mother Mary ! the sweetness
of those moments to kiss them away. " Is
your wound paining you ? "

The one in my heart is," she would confess,
drawing down the hand with her own unhurt
one, and stroking it tenderly.

*' In your heart ?"

"Ay  when I think how night-dark everything
is for you. Oh, Conrad  Love."

Child, no," he answers her, an infinite tenderness
welling up into the sightless eyes' calm
mysterious depths. " Sometimes the light grows
too great for me. It seems like Heaven's own
endless day."

And so with thoughts too many and too blessed
for words, he sits beside her, where in the broad
window seat she lies couched and softly pillowed,
with Mitte curled snugly ups on the coverlet,
purring her song of supreme content to the
measure of the sun-god's " wait-tic, wait-tac,"
whose eyes goggle and roll through the gathering
gray with a world of intelligence, and one by one
in the gloaming the stars twinkle out, and presently
comes in Burgomaster von Steinbach, and
balancing on the couch's outermost edge  for has
he not the fear of damage to Mitte before his
eyes if he should trespass further ?  he falls to
contemplating his girl's bright face, and speculating
how many days before Dr. Bruno will be
letting her take house-mistress's place again at
table yonder ; and Dr. Bruno, looking in as he
goes home, promises great things, if only she is
careful, and takes no undue liberties.

''She wont do that," laughingly says the
Burgomaster, looking up from the hearth, whither
he is gone to set light to the logs, for the evenings
are beginning to grow chilly again, and a blaze
looks comfortable. " I'll warrant you she won't
be let do that, with Gretchen standing over her.
Gretchen's a gorgon ! "

Gretchen s a jewel ! " says Bruno.

"And deserves the best husband Elsass has to
give," says Niklaus. "Though by the Mass, I
believe she means to stick to that nephew of
mine."

Of course she does," says Sabina.

"It looks like it," smiles the doctor; "I nearly
tumbled over them as I came up the steps there,
just now."

"Well, well. There is never any accounting
for what womenkind take into their heads, is
there. Professor ? Foot-rule nor plumb-line can't
make head or tail of it, eh ? "

And while the Professor smiles a grave, assenting
smile, Sabina, with a slight access of colour,
changes the conversation, and asks how cousin
Radegund is ?

"Much the same. Mistress Sabina," answers
Bruno, the transient cheerfulness of his face all

fading into the sad hopeless look it always wears
now.

I wish she was well," sighs Sabina, " if only
for my own selfish sake, so that she might come
and see me."

No, no," and the hand hers lies nestling in
grips it with almost convulsive force. " That
must not  cannot be."

** I know it can't," she quietly rejoins. " I
must wait patiently till I can go to her, poor girl.
Though she refuses herself to everybody, she
would see me. Don't you think she would. Dr.
Bruno ? " pleadingly urges Sabina. '' She would
not refuse me," she adds in a lower tone.

She could refuse you nothing, I think,"
answers the surgeon in a voice yet lower.

For Bruno Wolkenberg knew all now  knew
it by Eadegund's own confession to him. That
Saint Laurence's day, at the close of the brief
ceremonial, the artist had tottered homeward,
and had thrown herself half dead with fatigue,
upon the couch in her studio, where she had lain
almost ever since, fiercely battling with her mortal
weakness.

The distracted Bruno, called upon by Bishop
John to give a name to the mysterious disease,

which, with rare misgivings, the gentle-hearted
priest saw had taken such hold upon Eadegund,
spoke of overwork, and falteringly admitted that
the symptoms were of a consumptive tendency ;
but the bishop, receiving the confession which,
with a meekness sitting strangely on the proud
Eadegund, she had desired to make to him, passed
out from her presence, with a startled, saddened
preoccupation in his ordinarily calm and serene
face, and apprehended that there might be a consuming
of heart and soul, beside which that of
the body would be but a slight thing.

Such restitution as the conditions of her priestly
absolving had imposed on her, Eadegund had,
as far as lay in her power, already made ; but the
penance had still to come, and that Bishop John
uncompromisingly demanded should lie in a full
confession of all to the man who so devotedly
loved her. He would have nothing short of this,
perceiving as he did that justice to all concerned
was only so to be attained.

To which of those two hapless hearts the
ordeal was the more cruel, who can say ? Sword
sharp as the pang of shame to her, it was hardly
keener than the humiliation of him who had
given this woman his best treasure, and found
324

himself driven at last to face the truth that she
valued it at less than nothing. For that poor
substitute she had always declared to be his was,
to his passionate devotion, worse than her hate.
And yet, under the scathing test of all this
wretchedness, the gold of the man's humble and
unselfish nature shone out pure ; and when, all
being told, she waited to see him turn sparingly
from her, he said no more than that Dasipodius
was a man worthy of such love as she had to give,
and such indignation as could force itself into his
breaking heart, at that overwhelming moment,
was all concentred round a vague mazed astonishment
that the mathematician could have so misprized
the rich gift she had laid at his feet.

But misery too completely overmastered the
surgeon to leave him space to think, and utterly
prostrated, he would sit for hours in his dreary
laboratory, gazing at the poisonous simples there,
and yearning for the oblivion they could give.

He might have yielded to the temptation of
them, but for the saving grace of his calling, which
whispered that if indeed no power could ever
quicken his own perished happiness, his life could
still be useful to bis fellow mortals, and so Surgeon
Wolkenbero continued to do the work nearest to

him ; only now, as he went to and fro on his
merciful missions, people would silently mark
how fast those locks were silvering, which but a
little while since were golden as a Norse god's.

Against Bruno, the lot of Conrad Dasipodius
promised a sharp contrast. Sweet and fair
beyond all dreaming his future lay before him.
His affliction, which he knew was a hopelessly
incurable one, was indeed as grievous to him now
as when the dense darkness of it first set in; and
so it would be for him to the end. He put no
gloss upon this truth, assumed no meretricious
cheerfulness, but simply nerved himself as best
he could to endure. Many a quest and venture
into the science world his genius had aspired to
follow was impossible for him now that he was
at the mercy of others' eyesight. Marvellous as
was the atonement of his acquired delicacy of
touch, and of his natural powers of mental perception,
there remained practical difficulties, more
or less like those which had beset him in the
course of the Horologe's production, which must
for ever be hindering him, marring his loftiest
efforts, and denying his noblest ambitions ; but
that saddening conviction that his intellectual
life could at best be such a maimed and circumscribed

one was not the haunting, oppressive
misery it had been in the time of his loneliness
and heart desolation. Heaven had seen fit to
take away, but then what had it not given !
And then the high-souled, lofty spirited scientist
bowed his head in thankfulness, and felt he
would not have bartered his lot for the combined
faculties, mental and physical, of all the mathematicians
of Heathendom and Christendom,
when he felt the gentle touch and the warm
breath of that woman, who had counted her life
at less than a pin's fee beside her love for him.

Only as time went over, bringing with it old
routine and daily habits once more, he was able
calmly to set himself to try and gauge something
of that love's breadth and depth ; and then the
great mathematician failed utterly, finding it as
boundless and immeasurable as that fair world,
which one winter's night he had told his little
betrothed wife a certain legendary mouse suddenly
found himself in. And Dasipodius was content
to accept his problem, as a divine inestimable
gift, and to hold it in his heart a thing apart,
yet mysteriously hallowing the meanest as entirely
as the highest conditions of existence, and making
light its darkest crevices.

Equally when time brought healing, and he
dared speak unreservedly with Sabina, and there
were no longer any restrictions laid by Dr. Bruno
on references to that terrible day, the words
that passed between them concerning it were
comparatively few. Sabina did not need their
poor eloquence to tell her that the life she had
nearly paid her own for, would have been too
hateful a possession had hers been sacrificed ;
while the future now spared her to share with
him was too holy and precious to be much spoken
of, even by each to each. Tongue could tell butin
a poor halting sort of way, how gladly, if the
decree had been reversed, and it had chanced to
have been his life whose risking had been
demanded for her, he would have done it. All
that the silent eloquence of the daily intercourse
of the years they trusted were to be theirs, could
alone realise for them.

SYNDIC HACKERNAGEL RETIRES FROM PUBLIC LIFE.

"Burgomaster vox STEINBACH's one
 fearsome terror dispelled, his next greatest
consolation lay in the reflection that Tobias
Hackernagel was safe in the city prison ;
there, with no chance of ever getting his
liberty again. For Kiklaus, the man, ever
since he had borne official capacity, had been
a more or less sharp thorn in the flesh. The
Syndic's harsh polemics and acid nature had
always made him a dangerous creature to be
about in the city, torn as it was by political and
religious dissension,  a pestilent brand to all
yearning for a lull in the strife of tongues.

But now an extinguisher had fallen upon his
machinations, and death itself was not more silent
than that once busy wagging tongue.

There only remained now the problem of how
to dispose of him for the rest of his natural life,

and the mode of turning him to the one advantageous
purpose he could serve, of an ensample
to evil-doers generally. That the question
reached to any consideration of his natural life
at all, Tobias possibly owed to those he had most
deeply sinned against. Those were not days when
the crime of murder was the only one punishable
with death; and the general conviction prevailed
that Tobias Hackernagel would leave the ,
whither he was quickly to be summoned
on trial, a man whose life was forfeited.
There was, moreover, a general incitement to
summary treatment of Hackernagel, fortunately
enough doubtless from the criminal's own point
of view, for death and life still hovered disputing
over Sabina von Steinbach's pillow, when his trial
morning damned ; and though her body lay too
fragile and weak to lift a finger, her sense was
active with a preternatural keenness. Instinctively
she guessed at what must be taking place
in regard to the miserable man ; and all the
well intentioned endeavours to keep the course
of events from her only aggravated the feverous
state her brain was reaching, until it grew obvious
that truth, and nothing but truth, must be told
her. Then her anguish at the awful doom of

the man grew into semi-madness, as she looked
at the mute, despairing shame of Gretchen ; and
Dasipodius, agonised by her agony, made his
way into the presence of the dread assembly,
and pleaded for the would-be murderer's miserable
breath to be spared him ; and, for the sake
of the pure innocent life hanging by a hair, Justice
laid aside her heaviest claim.

Their positions were strangely reversed now ;
and when the terrified wretch's scared eyes turned
on the form of the blind man, advancing up the
hall, his ashen face grew sickly green. How
could this man he had pursued with his petty
malignities, till they had culminated in a passion
for his blood itself, come there but as a damning
witness against him ? And he uttered a loud
screech of joy when it dawned upon him that
Dasipodius' mission was a merciful one. Technically
regarded, never was such a curiously illogical
mass of eloquent special pleading as the professor's
intercession; nevertheless the judges, looking
through their tear-dimmed eyes at his sightless
ones, accepted it for consideration, deferring their
verdict till next morning; and Dasipodius, knowing
this meant a reprieve from the law's extremest
penalty, carried the news to his poor girl, who

sobbed out a shower of blessed refreshing tears
upon his breast, and fell into a calm slumber,
which brought with it more healing; than all the
anodynes of Dr. Bruno's pharmacopoeia.

And so the headsman sharpened his axe to no
purpose. The Damocles' sword demanding "blood
for blood" did not fall. Tobias, as his legal defender
pleaded, had not absolutely consummated
the death of his victim; neither had he possessed
himself of the weapon found upon him with intent
to murder. By his own confession, wrung from
him by one or two dexterously driven strokes of
the wedge his executioners fitted on to his leg,
he had forced his way into the Cathedral, with
the sole end and aim of destroying the Horologe.
That's all  good friends ! " shrieked he, as the
hammer was lifted for one more frightful stroke.
On my honour  only that."

'rand what of that oath ? " sternly demanded
one of his inquisitors.

Oath? what oath ?" broke forth the tortured,
half-senseless wretch, opening his eyes.

What oath ? The one the witness Otto von
Steinbach declares you to have sworn upon his
crucifix, that you would not injure the Horologe."

Oath ! You call that an oath ! "

"Ay, miserable, perjured man ! Oath indeed !
Sworn upon "

Upon a damnable dross idol ! "

Great Heaven ! " ejaculated the surgeon,
standing by to certify to how much more
pain the writhing creature could bear. "You
counted it for nothing; ? "

For less than nothing ! " and a leer of malicious
triumph broke upon the white contorted
lips.

Cursed be he who perjured his word," murmured
a solemn voice out of the dungeon's gloom.

"And," furiously hissed forth the Anabaptist,
"thrice blessed, thou foul-mouthed priest of Baal!
thrice blessed he who maketh a mock and a byword
of idols, and setteth them at naught, as
I did then ! For that one poor testimony of
mine "  and a gleam of fierce triumph glittered
in the fanatic's livid features  " you and all
your tribe shall one day see me, from lowermost
pitch, where you lie howling, sitting white-robed
among the Saints. And if I have sinned  for
verily Satan toilet to deceive the very Elect 
for that witness of mine unto the Truth, I  I "

A yell of agony, forced from him by the hammer's
valedictory stroke, cut short the last flow

of rhetoric which ever fell from the lips of Tobias
Haekernagel ; aud the unconscious wretch was
borne back to the cell whence he had been brought,
Only, however, until his bruised limbs where
sufficiently recovered, to allow of his removal
to the prison of Freiburg, where it was recommended
that the rest of his sentence should be
carried out, instead of at Strassburg ; since the
first of that series of appearances he was doomed
to make there in the pillory, was greeted with
such a storm of execration and savagery, that
even his flinty hearted jailors took upon themselves
to curtail the length of time it had been
arranged for him to remain at public disposal.

In the gloomiest corner of gloomy Freiburg
prison, Tol)ias Haekernagel spent the remainder
of his days, beguiling their tedium by inditing,
for the edification of his sympathisers and admirers,
a voluminous outpouring of abuse upon a
curious body of persons, calling themselves Christians,
which had recently sprung up, advocating
the monstrous creed that the Divine Suffering
had been borne for all men, but that only those
who merited it by repentance and good works
could be saved.

All circumstances  not forgetting the pillory

conditions, which were fulfilled otherwhere with
somewhat modified demonstration  considered,
the Anabaptist gained by his translation to Freiburg
; and he was not slow to acknowledge,
through his turnkey, his recognition to the
authorities of their consideration for his health
and comfort which the change implied.

It seems doubtful how far this view of his
case actually weighed with those in power ; but
it is certain that their chief motive for dispensing
with Hackernagel's hidden presence in Strassburg
arose out of certain arguments propounded by the
Professor Conrad Dasipodius. To him it appeared
an inexpressibly painful idea that the culprit's
innocent daughters should be bowed to the
ground with a degrading sense of his ever-abiding
neighbourhood. If this feeling could
be lightened, though ever so little, by his
removal, Dasipodius felt it should be done ;
and he confided his speculations on the matter
to Burgomaster von Steinbach, who promptly
brought it before the Council. Not a dissentient
voice was raised. " I expect," cheerfully commented
Councillor Job Klausewitz at the close of
that day's proceedings, " that there's not a
daughter hole in all Germany than Freiburg

Castle on a winter's night. I happened to becoming
under the keep there one day last
February, and the wind was enough to blow
your head off. By Jove, Burgomaster, it gave
me the worst cold I ever had in all my life,
excepting that one I caught at Master Dasi-
potius' little enquiry."

If Hackernagel's extinction was a general relief,
nobody felt it so entirely consoling as Otto von
Steinbach. A trial almost, and yet not quite too
sharp for his constancy to Gretchen, these recent
events had proved. Once nerved by Sabina to
maintain his honour at the sticking point, he had
striven with a perseverance astonishing his best
friends, most of all himself, to be true to her
through all the evil report and shame which
inevitably fell upon his sweetheart and her
sisters.

She'll make a good wife. Otto, dear," Eadem
said one day, thoughtfully letting her
wasted fingers stray among his curly locks ;
and you must not wince if there is a little
prejudice about."

Prejudice be hanged, and favour too,"
stoutly returned Otto. " I'm going to stick to
my bargain, Eadegund ; never you fear, and

directly you're well again  Now don't sigh like
that, Eadegund. It's awfully worrying to the
nerves ; especially when they've been so confoundedly
upset, as mine have lately. As soon
as ever you're well again, I say, we're going to
be married. And I say, Eadegund, here's a bit
of news for you, my dear : Bishop John's going
to do us himself."

'' Do you ? "

"Marry us. He's promised. I asked him."

You should have done no such thing then,"
said Eadegund vexedly. " He'll never hear the
last of it from the chapter for giving into such a
whim."

Whim ! whim ! Oh, come ! I like that !
Whim, indeed ! Call marrying "

"A heretic, my dear ; a double-dyed one too ;
an Anabaptist."

She's nothing: of the sort. She's as orthodox
as  as you are."

''So ! " said Eadegund, with a languid smile.

"At least," amended he, "she's going to be ;
and that's just as good. She's grown sick and
tired of the Christianity she was brought up in."

Eeally ! "

"And she's going to be a proper Christian, as

soon as ever Prudentius can stand upon his legs
again."

A multiplicity of trifles of the sort depended
on Prudentius' legs. Everything had gone cross,
since they had lain disabled and aching rlieuma-
totally, with the practical ordering of the Cathedral
arrangements. To the fact that he was
indispensable about the place, the little sacristan,
in all probability, mainly owed the lightness of
the penance he paid for that egregious falling
away of his down at the Three Eavens. His
absence proved his value ; and the consideration
of his twenty years' honest and faithful service,
recommended him to more mercy than he had
dared to hope for. To the end of his days
Prudentius did penance for his dereliction, in
coarsest mental sackcloth and gritsomest of
imaginary ashes, but practically he was let off
with mild punishment.

So obviously, it was represented in his behalf,
had he been the Syndic's tool and caspar, that
not the sternest of his judges felt disposed to do
more than administer a severe rebuke, and hand
him over to the mildest form of chastisement
ordained for a brother found drunk and incapable.
The corporeal conditions of his degradation the

little man endured stoically, counting it all as
small beside that one which deprived him of his
keys and other prerogatives of office ; but these
were but formally taken from him to be restored
after a brief term, during which chaos and dust
reigned in the Cathedral ; and my lord, finding
his sacristan's punishment recoiling cruelly on
his own head, was fain to curtail the interdict ;
and a veil being drawn over the past, Prudentius
lived happy ever after ; but the bare mention of
Niersteiner  much more the scantiest drain of it
never passed his lips, for Niersteiner had come
to be an abomination unto him.

Rich Have GELEBT, And GELIEBET."

fTHE wintry sun's last rays fall lingeringly ath-
 wart the little graveyard of Saint Thomas,
illumining to transparent golden its scant russet
garb of autumn leaves, streaked to-day for the
first time with folds of glistening snow ; for
Yule-tide month is at hand again, bringing with
it many memories to the Professor Conrad Dasi-
potius, as he wends his way along the narrow
by-path leading to the fair marble cross marking
the grave of Chretei Herlin.

A year ago to-day it is that they laid the old
man to his rest ; and it has been a frequent
custom of the mathematician's to make this little
pilgrimage to his old master's grave, and one
which in these brighter days of his he has in nowise
forsworn, only that oftener now than not
he does not perform it alone. And a mighty
strange spot too, say the gossips, watching from
325

afar the gracious figures of the blind mathematician,
and his betrothed, with his hand linking
down trustfully into her helpful arm, a marvellous
strange spot for a lover to go taking his
sweetheart to, poor thing !

But Sabina by no means holds herself an
object for commiseration ; and that is not the
first time by scores that the world, in attempting
to dive between the wills and ways of lovers, has
come with its head against a post. Wondrous
wise, of course, it is in this case, and has at
fingers' ends a dozen garbled versions of the
eventful loves of these two ; but it will never
know, as Sabina has come to know now, how
the courses of Conrad's life and of her own
swirled into such fateful channels here, to-day a
year ago. Neither can it grasp, what even she
must be content to apprehend only in part, aught
of the attraction which draws him to the solemn
spot ; and how here, as nowhere besides so entirely,
the intellect, still " chained to time," communes
with the disembodied spirit hovering
there.

For Dasipodius, the old man's grave is a
shrine of consolation, a cheering refuge from
the world's turmoil ; and what it is for him,

that and no other can it be for his promised
wife. To-day, however, he is alone, perhaps
because some inference of her unselfish devotion
has prompted the fancy that solitude and
silence will be more prized by him, just for a
while, than even her presence ; or possibly for
no more occult reason than that the wreath of
flowers, sweet and fair as herself, which she is
weaving for the old monk's grave, lacks a few
finishing touches.

For an instant Dasipodius, unconscious of the
task she was so absorbed in, had stood hesitating
and disturbed by her refusal to come with him,
lest one of those attacks of weakness and pain,
still lingering on the track of the ordeal she had
passed through, had seized her now; but she had
earnestly assured him that she was "only busy 
very busy". "And with that you'll have to be
content. Professor," Burgomaster Mklaus had
said laughingly, " and go your ways, asking no
questions. The sooner you clearly understand
that Mistress Sabina von Steinbach is the most
unbending despot on the fiice of this earth, the
better for your peace and quietness."

Till we meet again then, dear heart," smiled
Dasipodius. And so he had come up alone.

Probably this enhances the vividness of his
associations with that day whose anniversary this
is. Alone ! now as then, a then which seems
but yesterday, and yet an age ago. Only one
short year, yet so long !

Nature, who is no precisian, and assumes to
herself in such matters a certain law of liberty,
had last year donned her full suit of snow two
weeks earlier; and that scene of utter, unrelieved
whiteness, upon which the black curtain of his
affliction had fallen, and made the fair world a
blank for evermore, rose a strange, contrasting
picture in his memory, as he paused for an instant
before turning along the little winding pathway,
leading to Herlin's grave, passing on, with a step
so firm and sure, as utterly to falsify that little
fiction of Sabina's, he so unblushingly lent himself
to, that her eyes were absolutely necessary
for his goings to and fro upon the earth.

The clocks have already chimed four ; and as
the mathematician stands leaning on his stick,
beside the smooth grass-grown mound, the last
faint sundays fade, and leave him in the twilight
greyness, and the silence, broken only by the
low soft twittering of a redbreast among the
cypresses. Hush ! Not all silent ; and the

little bird, with quicker sense even than the
blind man's, has caught that strain of sweet
music, and lifts his voice in gentle response to
the prayer of the brethren, where, in the dimly-lighted
chapel yonder, they are gathered to chant
the memorial requiem for the soul of the beloved
brother departed. " Requiem eternal dona reis
Domine, et Lux perpetua dona reis."

A strange thrill seizes Dasipodius, as those
slow, solemn cadences fall upon his ear. It
wanted but their well-remembered sounds to
complete the illusion, and transport him a year
back along the troubled stream of time, to that
gloomiest moment, save one, of all his darkened
existence. To that moment when, in his great
agony, his voice had gone up against the high
God's ruling, and he had begged for death. " Is
there no mercy  no pity left in Heaven ? Let
me die now  Father Chretei ! Father Chretei !
My God ! to think that it must come ! "

And now in humble recognition of the infinite
Power which had let this supplication fall unheeded,
Dasipodius bowed his head ; but if something
of humiliation at his own finite conception
of the supreme goodness troubled him then, it all
faded in the abiding sense of thankfulness and

trustful content, which death nor life could ever
steal from him ; and out of his soul's deepest
depths, he murmured: "Peace  peace. Amen."

Very hard it may be for the wretched to realise
that there is joy still left in the world ; but
almost harder still it is for men whose failing cup
of happiness has been suddenly and richly replenished
to conceive that things have not grown
universally cheerier. The mathematician's gentle
soul would have had the whole world of quick
ay, and of dead too  share in the blessedness
which had come to shine upon him. Truly it
seemed to him that fuller than ever it had been
before, that coming Yule-tide would be of " Peace
and goodwill towards men ".

Requiem eternal dona eis, et Lux perpetua
luceat reis."

"Amen. Amen."

Conrad Dasipodius ! "

That voice ! Dasipodius started from his
reverie with some strange pang of self-accusing ;
for the accents told him, as no sound besides,
human or superhuman, that there were flaws in
his cup of charity. Only not her! The deepest-dyed
criminal who had ever sued for mercy would
have found it this calm, sweet twilight of a waning

year, had Dasipodius been his judge. Had
he not pleaded for Tobias Hackernagel ?  but
that voice he shrank from, with a horror so
unspeakable that it deadened his sense, and for
the moment struck him speechless. If the associations
of the spot had been already so powerful,
what were they now ? Those self-same tones !
Oh, Heaven ! was all indeed a dream then ? and
was he wakening to the bitter reality once more ?
Those self-same tones ! And yet how changed !
There was music in them yet, but how hollow
and low, broken, and catching so painfully for
breath, though only his name had passed the
parched and trembling lips.

"Mistress von Steinbach," he said at last.

Ay," she hoarsely whispered. " Yes  we
meet again, at  the old trysting-place, Conrad."

He recoiled, for she had neared him by another
pace.

'' Nay," continued she, with a low hollow
laugh, and laying on his chilled hands fingers
that burned into them like fire, " but it is for
the last time."

When last we met," he replied in hard,
metallic tones, as he shook himself free, " would
have been our fittest leave-taking."

The light force he used sent her staggering
against the cross ; and stretching out her shadowy
arms, all shrunken from their once perfect contours,
she clung to it, a veritable Magdalene, with
her dishevelled hair hanging about her shoulders,
and a wild unearthly brilliancy burning in her
dark eyes, fixed passionately as of old on him.
Say you so ? " she gasped.

Ay, that do I, by my faith," he answered.

By your faith," she echoed, a mocking smile
quivering to her lips  " that tells no sinner
may die unshriven. And, Conrad Dasipodius,
I am here to seek my dying shrift of you."

'ram I your priest confessor ? " he demanded.
God be thanked, mistress, no ; for I must have
perished by a thousand tortures, before I could
have given shrift to you." And again he strove
to pass on ; but she, leaving her hold upon the
cross, glided to her knees at his feet. " Trample
on me," she said, " if you will. My poor breath
would soon be spent, and death from you would
be sweet ; but go you shall not, till "

What will you have of me ? "

"Pardon."

"Ask your priest, I say, for that, in God's
name ; but do not ask it of me. Leave hold,

mistress  your very touch is loathsome to me.
Let me pass on."

But her clutch upon him grew tighter.
Pardon, ere I die. Pardon."

He shook his head ; a marble face would have
looked softer than his.

Ere I die, did I say ? " she went on. " It is
that I may die. I cannot, till you  Oh, many
and many a time, they have thought me dead,
for the rigidness of death that has seized my
limbs ; but that was because all hell's fiends
clawed me so fast down, gibbering and howling
in my ears that your heart could know  no 
pardon for me." For an instant her voice failed
her, then rallied ao;ain with the strength of despair.
" Give them the lie to that  give  them
the lie to it, by that mercy you will one day
need. Ah, Heaven ! your face grows human 
at last. Your sweet, sweet face, I bartered my
soul's health for, and would again, would 
again "

Hush, mistress. This is the delirium of
sickness. You should be in your bed. How
came you here ? "

Do I know ? " she said, dropping her voice
and glancing round with a strange cunning defiance

in lier eyes. " They  who were watching
beside me, left me  for a little  thinking I slept.
Ha ! ha !  slept ! How long is it, I wonder,
since the blessed sleep, and  and I parted company
? Then I stole out  before  she could fall
upon me that woman  with her murderous
fingers, to claw me down  down with her. Oh,
yes, she was there, I tell you. She was there,
frightfully among them all, with her cruel
beautiful face, though these hands tore it shred
by shred, that  that night when  Oh, yes, did
I not hear her ? She wolf  screeching in my
ears as I fled : ' Come ! come ! for thou too hast
marred two loves two lives  as I did. Come!'
But"  and a piercing discordant shriek of laughter
broke from her  " but, Conrad Dasipodius,
I  I turned on her, and   *' Xo, no  there is
time  time yet,' I cried, ' and he is angel good,
and pitiful. He will forgive forgive.' Ah, God!
you shake your head ! "

"Gro home, mistress," was all he said. "Death
lurks for you here in this cold."

"Ay ; cold, cold," she shivered, cowering to
the ground, and gathering her scanty covering
closer about her. " And yet I burn. Mercy !
hark ! Do you hear how they sing yonder ?

Eest  rest  eternal rest, for that good brother,
him thy soul loved so well, Conrad. I knew" 
and a tender wistfulness moistened the arid glitter
of her eyes  " I was sure you would be here tonight.
Ah ! " And as the requiem hymn broke
again upon her ears, she clasped her hands over
them as if she would have shut out the sounds.
Eest ! rest ! What prayers can ever avail forme,"
she moaned, '' if you rise up and bid them
hush ? "

God forbid I should do that, woman," he
said.

What can they do for me, if you deny,"
persisted she, " Conrad Dasipodius, as here I
hang upon you now, so my tortured sou]
shall one day stay your feet at  Heaven's
Golden Gate, till it wrings from you my
pardon  pardon. Ah ! is your heart turned
steel that you can look like that ? Conrad,
by all my life's unloved loneliness "

"Unloved!"

"Ay," she said, with a terrible echo of her old
disdainful laugh, " unloved. By my forgotten
grave, which dank and rotting weeds shall hide 
for who will remember Eadegund von Stein bach?
A beggar or two  a dog, mayhap  Bruno for a

little month even  Bruno Wolkenberg, until
some gentle maiden, out of his dream-stories,
comforts him. Oh, Conrad, mercy, pity  by all
your love for  her."

'' By that it is," he said solemnly, " I look
into my soul, and find there no pity for you.
Did you spare her "

' He that is without sin among you," said a
voice that was not Kadegund's, " let him first casta
stone."

 I cast it not, my lord," answered Dasipodius,
turning to face the Bishop. " As there is a
Heaven above us, Mistress," he continued, " I
swear I think I have never nursed anger against
you, for myself s sake. But she  when her lifeblood
 Oh, God ! I feel it now, upon these
hands, throughthrough to my heart. This cold,
miserable, miserable heart that had dared to
doubt her. And you, will you have me lie,
mistress ? I do not pardon you. Go home."

Alas ! for the eyes that could not see the
agony of the fast-glazing ones upturned to his !
nor the despair of the grey face damp with
mortal dews. Did he know that death's
agonies wrung the hands clasped about his
feet ? Could he see, as others saw, that already

her sense was dead to the presence of
those who had sorrowing sought her, and
found her thus ? That she knew not how he
who had thrown himself beside her now, and
with hands trembling in his soul's supreme
anguish, yet strong for his great passionate
love's sake, was he who felt her shame to be
his, and her death the severing of all that made
life worth living for him, Bruno Wolkenberg ?

There is joy in Heaven," pleaded Bishop
John once again, " over one sinner that
repented "

In Heaven, surely, my lord," returned Dasi-
potius with cold reverence. " Let her seek
there for what I have not to give."

She is dying  here at your feet," brokenly
said the Bishop.

Even so, my lord," said Dasipodius, paling
to ashen whiteness.

Can this rigid, pitiless face indeed be the face
of him whom men and  God help them!  women
so love for its infinite tenderness ? 

"The throes of death convulse her now  while
I speak," implored the Bishop, in a voice broken
with sobs of grief and indignation. " They rend
her "

Can they be as cruel as those my darling
suffered, when that villain's knife "

Conrad ! " burst forth Bruno, " are you
human still ? "

The dying woman's lips moved, and she turned
on her lover a look that to his life's own last breath
he cherished with a joy no earthly thing ever gave
him more.

Ay, Bruno," sighed Dasipodius, starting
slightly at the sound of his voice, " human
indeed. And not even for your sake can I do
this."

The burden in Bruno's arms is growing heavy
with death. Each gasp as it struggles to her
lips, bears with it another wave of the ebbing
life ; and the awful intensity gleaming through
the fast-gathering film in the cavernous eyes
fixed on Dasipodius, alone tells that life and
consciousness linger.

The sun has set, shadows are stealing swiftly
over the graves. Yonder in the Monastery chapel
the music is hushed. Not the faintest breeze stirs
the sombre branches, only the fearsome struggling
for breath of the dying artist breaks the utter
silence, and the low rustle of withered leaves
under Dasipodius' foot, as he turns to leave the

spot ; but a hand stays him, with a touch.
Heavens and earth ! how firm and gentle and
persistent! "You here, Sabina "? " he demands
in stern surprise.

"Ay, Conrad." xlnd she leads him, before he is
well aware, back to Chretei's grave. " Bid her
die in peace."

Child, I cannot."

"Oh, love, love ! Think of her misery. Think
what is all the rest now ?  of Bruno, for his
sake, Conrad." And her tears rain fast upon
his two hands she has gathered up in hers. Yet
no sign of relenting softens his face, scarcely more
lifelike than the dying woman's. "Conrad !" wails
the distracted girl, "if your eyes could see what
mine do now. Must my heart break too ? Conrad,
by all her love for you "

My God, no ! " he cries shiveringly. " Come
away, child ; here is no place for you." And he
strives to lead her from the spot, but she clings
heavily to him.

"Speak to her  sneak  for Christ's sake!
Mercy ! mercy ! before it is too late ! For my
sake oh, love ! love "

Some emotion he vainly struggles to stifle do\Ti
flushes all his face, glorifying it back to life, as she,

lifting the hands hers hold, lays them against her
bosom. " Love," she murmurs, " by that pain I
bore for you."

And slowly he turned to the woman at his feet,
Die in peace," he said, " if my pardon can win
it you. Eadegund, with all my heart, which is
hers, as I hope to be forgiven, I forgive you now."

Conrad -"

So the artist's soul went forth ; and over the
passion-wrung face, like some pure veil, spread
the infinite calm of death ; and in her eyes, fixed
on him, lingered like the summer afterglow upon
still waters, the sudden radiance which lit them,
as he spoke the words her weary remorseful spirit
thirsted for. With his name upon her lips she
had gone hence. And he in whose arms she
had died, Bruno, unremembered in that supreme
moment, laid her down with the tender reverential
gentleness of a mother laying her sleeping
babe to rest; and carefully, so carefully, as though
presently she would waken again, he pillowed the
beautiful head upon the soft low snow-covered
hillock of the monk's grave, and  for does it
not grow cold and chill, and in the light of the
moon rising clear and round over the chapel belfry,
snowflakes are sparkling down a crown of

diamonds aud pearls upon her dark hair  he
draws the mantle protecting about her wasted
form.

And so, silent, tearless, unconscious seemingly
of human presence there, Bruno Wolkenberg
tended his dead love. Only when Sabina,
stepping to her side, knelt, and softly kissing
the marble cheek, reverently laid on her bosom
the wreath of snow-white Howlers she had brought
for Father Chretei, some dim wistful memory of
his old sweet smile flitted across his agony-stricken
face.

Noiseless but swiftly now the snow is falling ;
darker and darker the shadows creep on apace ;
the bird's lullaby song in the cypress is hushed,
and silence falls, the veritable silence of the grave.
Yet hark !  where from the storied panes the
tapers' golden light gleams forth to mingle
with the silver mondays' radiance  still goes up
the prayer for the repose of the dead.

*' Requiem eternal dona eis, et Lux perpetua
luceat reis."

And so they go down to the great city again,
and leave Bruno alone with his love.

326

TTTOYEN now, and waiting to be loosed from
' the loom, stands the web of the old Cathedral
Clock's story ; and yet before the facings
that hold it be severed for good, the weaver
would crave a few minutes' grace for scanning
it, to see no threads of it hang obtrusively
fraying. Nay, let that be, that harsh, coarse-grained
fibre, bursting through its thin pinchbeck
veneer. Never vex finger with it again. Leave
it zig-lagging there, in its place, and be thankful
that Tobias Hackernagel is disposed of. Lift
rather but gently this light, parti-coloured, somewhat
slippery silken thread  which in the flesh
is Otto von Steinbach  and knot it down firm
and secure with the honest unbreakable stuff
which makes up the nature of Gretchen
Hackernagel.

Out of sore tribulation long refusing to be

comforted, Otto von Steinbach is happy again
Not carelessly happy, as in that long ago, ere
the Horologe was born or thought of ; for dear
as is the wife he has taken to himself has come
to be to him, not even she can fill the void which
broke into his life when Eadegund died. Eadem
than whom no mother could have been so
sweet and pitiful, when life's weariness and
vexations bruised his shallower nature too
roughly.

It is hard to say what mischief in the earliest
days of his loss, the young man, wandering half-distraught
up and down his great lonely house,
would not have done himself ; but its first
violence spent, he found distraction in the fuss
and excitement which his marriage preparations
brought, modest and quiet, as reasons many made
them ; and long before he was a forefather, Otto
was himself again. Till that auspicious event befell,
he kept his dead sister's painting-room religiously
closed, allowing none excepting himself
ever to cross its threshold. His children's voices,
however, wakened in him cheerier memories of
Eadegund, and he came to think that the spirit
of her, whose pride always melted like snow in
sunshine, in the presence of little children, and

all innocent helpless creatures would, if indeed it
hovered there  as so it seemed to him it did 
be in no wise troubled, but rejoice at the pranks
of those curly-locked youngsters whom Mistress
Gretchen von Steinbach declared had no match
for loveliness in all Strassburg, and growing more
and more like their father each hour they lived.
A postulate which Otto swears to be all favour
and prejudice, as he bestows a sounding kiss on
their mother's smiling lips, and a pinch on the
cheek which is fuller and rounder than ever was
Gretchen Hackernagel's.

And so it came to pass that the old studio
was turned into a nursery ; and the carven
deities who once looked down with their unchanging
eyes on the tragedy of the artist's
life, witnessed now the merry pantomime of
childhood's antics and oddities. tempore !
Mores !

Gretchen 's three sisters lived and died in
that condition of single blessedness, which
they always enthusiastically advocated as the
only tolerable one in this wicked world. Their
wants were duly provided for by the State, to
which their sire's goods and chattels were made
over, but it was at no great pains to oppress them

with superfluous luxury. For any of life's little
sweets, they were beholden to the thoughtfulness
of their sister, whose lot they never ceased to
compassionate. '' Poor Gretchen ! " these ladies
would sigh to their gossips. " Well, well, but
after all, what a providence, my dear, that a man
can always find some woman to love him !"

And now what of this piece of tough, strong 
Thunder weather ! leave metaphor alone, for
Isaac Habrecht steps to the fore. And what
is to be said of the stout zoologist, more than
that he lived and died in harness, unless indeed
that one fine morning Master Habrecht said he
was going Schaffhausen way  on a little business
matter  and should be back in three days at
midday. And so he was, on the stroke of it, but
not alone ; and with a blush on his brown face,
as deep, if not as dainty, as those chasing each
other on the comely cheeks of his companion,
and whom he introduced to his friends and
acquaintance as his wife.

''And a good sort of one I reckon she'll turnout,"
he remarked confidentially to Dasipodius,
as he took up his file and began to scrape. " I
put my question to her ten years and five months
ago this very day. And a real good thing," he

added, a little apologetically, "is always a real
good thing."

Quite true," smiled Dasipodius. 'rand God
bless you both, Isaac. And what," he added,
laying his hand with the old gentle pressure on
Kaspar's shoulder, ''what is to become of our
Truer Camera here ? Does the good wife
take him under her wing ? "

'ray, surely, with all his chips and rattletraps,
or she'd never have been wife of mine. That
was a bargain. The lad and I are not going to
be parted, because a petticoat's come to whisk
about the Wheel."

Some of these fine days," merrily laughed a
gentle voice at the professor's elbow, "if you
don't look well after him, Master Habrecht, there
may come another petticoat to whisk him away."

Time enough for that. Mistress Dasipodius,"
grunted the ungallant husband with a grim smile.
Time enough to let himself be made a fool of
a dozen years hence."

And so, while healthfully as ever the old
science life at the Silver Dial still throbs on, it
is cheered and spiritualized now by love's sweet
presence. There was a passing difficulty between
Burgomaster von Steinbach and the

Professor Dasipodius when the time drew near
for the transplanting of the Lily from the
Munster-grasse. " What could be easier," Mk-
laus demanded, *than for Conrad to give up his
house and all its contents, sentient and inanimate
alike, to become part and parcel of his own great
house, where there was room enough to quarter a
garrison ? But Christian would no more give up
his old home, than he would have given up Strasbourg
to France, and Dasipodius gently but firmly
stood by his father's wish, until Niklaus declared
that of all proud, obstinate, 
fellows, commend him to a mathematician.
And as to Christian, when the Fleur-de-lis floated
from the Cathedral tower top, he'd first begin to
know what was really good for him." And though
a truce was speedily established over the Marco-runner,
Niklaus to the end of his days would
find his opportunities for saying : *' Never was
such a thief as you, professor ; carrying ofi* my
lily-flower to bloom in your garden ! "

Nay "  for so Time, as he flew, furnished
the mathematician with a rejoinder  "but the
buds, Burgomaster ? "

Wel, well." And the mollified Niklaus would
smile and say no more ; for very dear to the grandfather's

heart were those same young blossoms ;
and no sound was so sweet to him as the light
patter of the little feet about the great fountain
in his courtyard, and their pealing laughter as
they pranked with the beauteous Antinous.

Mitte of course went with her mistress to her
new home. Le llevo il incommode is the wise
Italian phrase ; and while incontestably a more
charming creature than Mitte did not exist, the
Burgomaster found compensation for the void
caused by her departure, in the comfortable sense
of being able to sit down in his own easy chair,
without that ejectment therefrom which had so
frequently laid him open to the charge of inhumanity.


The cession question between Christian and
Burgomaster Niklaus remained open to the end ;
although each renewed discussion gathered inanimation
as years flowed on, and the little
cloud both politicians fancied they had long
discerned, showed unmistakeably in the reddening
horizon. Christian's forebodings, however,
that Strassburg will throw off her homely Teutonic
garb, and find herself a lily-garlanded helle-dame,
will not be realized till he and his gossip
have long lain sleeping their last sleep. That

notion of this is the one sole disturber of his
latter years. Far behind now, all his griefs lie,
in memory's dimming distance ; while across the
Bourne, whither he is gently wending, the fair
form of her who went so long before, beckons
him a welcome that will rob death when it comes
of all its bitterness. The blow which sent him
staggering, when first the knowledge of his son's
affliction burst upon him, is now but an abiding
pain he can bravely endure. Can he do otherwise,
when the blind man himself makes so light
of it ? Never the faintest suspicion has Christian
that his frank, truth-loving son can so artfully
play the hypocrite, and assume in his father's
presence a lightheartedness he does not always
feel.

When Bishop John was called to his rest, if
there were many who rejoiced, out of hope that,
his mild rule removed. Protestantism would find
more breathing room in that divided city, there
were many who sorrowed deeply for his loss.
Under a stately marble tomb they reverently
laid all of him that was mortal, " and his works
do follow him ". One more star faded from about
Bruno Wolkenberg's shadowy path, when death
took this man who had understood and so highly

prized the genius of his dead love. To him he
had dared recall her memory ; with him he had
taken counsel how best to expend that wealth
the artist had left in his stewardship for the
good of her native city. There had been no
home claims upon her generosity; for besides
Otto's modest entail, it had happened that the
ancient aunt, on whose obliging departure from
this world he had for some time counted, died,
and placed at his disposal all her vast possessions
; and if Otto had his faults, greed was not
one of them ; and he was content, and proud to
see the riches his sister's toil had garnered in goto
bringing back sunshine to poverty, and helping
poor student artists to start fair on the road to
fame.

But the goodliest memorial of her was of
Surgeon Wolkenberg's creating out of his own
crushed hopes. He wandered through his desolate
chambers, conjuring up visions of sweet impossible
joys, until reason well-nigh forsaking him, he sat
down beside their cheerless hearth places, seeing
there the pale ashes of his ill-starred love. The
terrible silence was eloquent of those low earnest
tones  sweeter to him than sweetest music, which
never again in this world would gladden his soul.

Not to drown those echoes  ah ! Heaven !  no !
How rather to hold them there for ever. How
to make memory a consoling angel instead of
the haunting tient it was. And, tested to the
quick, there gleamed out the true metal of
Bruno's heart. Misery's verjuice could not
corrode its generosity, and dull out all sense
of this world's suffering except his own. It
rather quickened within him a project he had
long nursed, of transforming his goodly house
into a home for those who had none, and a
refuge for the sick poor of the great city. A
modest institution. Doctor Wolkenberg's hospital,
commemorated by any foundation formulae,
dedicated in no canonized saint's name, but only
to the memory of an erring woman he loved.

That haven in the storm to many a shipwrecked
soul and battered body, the tide of change swept
away generations ago, but in its day it bravely
achieved its manifold mission of healing ; and
from his shadowy laboratory Bruno ruled his
little colony, toiling from dawn to midnight  ay,
and often from midnight to dawn  onward,
patiently till the end might come, with a light
in his face, which only grew the sweeter as the
years gathered.

Many a woman's heart would turn from the
gallants gentleman's wooing, to yield homage
to this man with the grizzled locks and caroline
lips and brow ; but Bruno heeded no such
tender lures. Alone he bided his Master's bidding,
come when it should. No visits, save to
sick folks' houses, the doctor ever paid  always
excepting indeed one house, where, in a quiet
shadowy corner of the professor's sitting-room, is
a nook family tradition calls ' Doctor Bruno's
corner ". In the brief intervals of leisure he
sometimes allows himself towards evening, Doctor
Bruno will come and take up his place in the
happy circle. It is hard to say which of the three
generations it embraces, loves best to hear the
surgeon's step upon the threshold ; not excepting
Grandfather Niklaus, who will romp
with you as merrily as heart can desire, nor
Grandfather Christian, who will take you where
sweetest violets grow, and find the biggest nuts
anybody ever saw, is more dearly loved than
Doctor Bruno, with his store of strange beautiful
stories. Glorious they are ;  such as never
the like were heard of. Giants and pygmies,
knights and ladies, demons and dragons, kelpies
and castles, all spring into being at this mighty

magician's bidding. His store is utterly inexhaustible.
To pronounce any preference where
all is so enchanting would be almost impossible.
And yet  one sweet, sweet story there is.
"That one of the brave Crusader Knight, you
know, Yaterle," says a little wistful voice.

Eitter Toggenburg," says the Professor, who
has just come in from his University lecture,
and has seated himself beside the house-mother,
with her crown of golden hair, and the sleeping
babe nestled to her bosom, a picture as fair if,
alas ! the sightless eyes could recall the old comparison
 as the gentle Madonna in the Cathedral
choir. "It is Eitter Toggenburg he means, isn't
it, Miitterle ? " smiles Conrad, lifting the youngster
on to his knee.

No, no, father ; not Eitter Toggenburg. This
knight I mean had a horse."

Surely. Du hunger, Keel, Du," laughs
Burgomaster Niklaus, pinching the boy's ear.
"As all brave knights should have, shouldn't
they  "

"And a lady love," adds Christian.

"Perhaps," carelessly assents the eager little
voice ; " but the horse  the dear, good, faithful
orse-

h 

"Ay," says Sabina. " Now I know what he
means. It is the brave knight, Conrad, who
rode on, and on, and on "

Yes, yes," cries the boy, clapping his hands.

All alone, through a great wide wilderness
"

Yes, until, you know, he came to a fair
chapel, mother dear."

"And there he got down, for his heart was
sad and sore ; and he wanted to pray, and "

But tell it in the verses, Miitterle."

Nay. I cannot remember them. Can you,
father, dear '? " asks Sabina.

And the great mathematical professor cudgels
his brain, but flounders and bungles so deeply
over it, that at last Mistress Dasipodius bids him
give over.

Your stories," she says, " never did have anymore
head nor tail to them than "

"A circle," suggests the unabashed Conrad.

"And your poetry is fifty times worse than even
your prose ; when it's a question of fairy tales."

* He doesn't describe such whimsies so neatly
as he does his parallelograms, eh ? " laughs Nik-
laus. "And we shall have to wait till the doctor
comes after all."

"And lie, presto !  here he is," says the
blind man, whose quick ear has first caught
Bruno's footstep. " Our Necromancer-inches.
Come now, Sir Paladin, sit you down and square
our difficulty for us. Our rhymes want your
surgery :

Count Turned, after a toilsome ride,
By night in a chapel desired to bide."

How does it go ? "

The chapel stood in a greenwood deep 
Yes, here,' thought the Count, ' I may safely sleep.'

The Count he sprang from his horse on the plain 
Graze here,' he said, ' till ' "

' Till I come again,' "

prompted the doctor.

Yes  that's it ! " cried the child, clapping
his hands  'still I come again'. Go on, dear
Uncle Bruno. Quick."

The portal open with a unerring sound ;
Deep stillness reigned in the vault around,"

goes on Bruno, thus adjured.

* Here by the Dead may the Living be borne ;
I will rest me here till the break of morn.'

The sun came over the mountains red ;
The Count came never  the Count was dead.

Three hundred years have rolled, and more ;
Still tarries the steed before the door.

The chapel is hasting to swift decay,
The steed grazes yet in the moon's blue ray,"

concludes Bruno, standing in their midst, the
waning golden of the sunset transfiguring his
face with a mysterious beauty.

True to the end," dreamily murmurs the
little voice. *' True to the end, wasn't he,
father ? "

Ay, lad," says the blind man, as his hand
seeks Bruno's, and clasps it with a gentle pressure.
'true to the End."

FINIS.

m
