CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

Recollections of the Life of Joseph
heywood, and some of his thoughts
ABOUT Music . . . i

Judith . . . . 8i

When I am Dead . . . 235

LIFE OF JOSEPH Heywood,

AND SOME OF HIS THOUGHTS ABOUT
-MUSIC

VOL. II.

5

Whenever in the heat of musical argument I
have allowed myself to give way to those
common expressions of discontented old age,
Nowadays " and " In my time," a visitation
of doubting and profound humility succeeds, in
which I am tempted to set down half my
opinions to the intolerance of my advancing
years, so naturally averse to change  alas ! even
averse to improvement that includes change.

After all, what does that contemptuous "Nowadays
" mean } or that '' In inj/ time," pronounced
with such regretful pride } For the
most part, only that the clouds are emptied of
their light, that the little rose-coloured islands

have become mere violet blots upon a grey sky,
that the sun has gone down ; and I endeavour
to become resigned to the idea that possibly it
is only my own sere and yellow leaf that is at
fault, and which makes it a matter of impossibility
with me to digest food that the rest
of the world finds both palatable and sufficient
for nourishment. I then endeavour to console
myself with the heroic but uncheerful consideration,
that it is doubtless better that I should bea
fastidious and cantankerous old man than that
the musical taste of my country should be going
to the dogs altogether ; and that, provided the
sacred fire still burns in many breasts, it matters
comparatively but little that upon one small
altar a heap of cold white ashes should be lying.
A short stay in London, from which I had
come away in a state of grievous discouragement
with regard to the cultivation of musical taste in
England, had thrown me by turns into these
- different phases of melancholy, until a day or

two ago, when I went up to the Court to dine
with my friend Lord Winterton. In the evening,
his niece. Miss Jane Trevor, played to
perfection some of old Sebastian Bach's enchanting
dance-music  full of smiles and good
faith, of gentle humour and tender fancy. I
could have cried for joy, first over the exquisite
grace and charm of the things, and then again
for joy at finding that I was not the corpse I
fancied I had become  that real beauty had the
power to stir my depths as much as ever it had
done in the ardent years of youthful enthusiasm,
and that it was, as I knew it was, the utter want
of the divine imaginative quality which belongs
to all the really great masters, that had made
me rebel against that vulgar noise which seems
so entirely to have taken the place of better
things in the fashionable world of music.

Of the gradual decadence in vocal art within
the last thirty years, I had tangible proof the
same evening ; for in looking through Lady

Jane Trevor's collection of Bellini's music, I
found it full of passages which the tenor singers
now in vogue would find it next to impossible to
master ; and going further back still, and taking
up Rossini's opera of " Ricardo e Moraine," I
discovered that it contained no less than three
great tenor parts, the least important of which
would be beyond the strength of most of the
tenors of the present day, whose powers of
vocalization are so limited, that the orchestral
accompaniment is generally made to play in
unison with the voice every passage at all
difficult of execution, so that the noise of the
instruments effectually drowns any possible
defect on the part of the singer.

These revolutions take place almost imperceptibly
to those who remain stationary, and
around whom they are working gradually day
by day : as for me, I had ample power of comparing
the present and the past, for I had been
away for a lapse of years, and had heard no

music in the interval ; there had been nothing
to soften the lines of change, nothing with which
to bridge over the gulf between what was and is,
and I can hardly describe the shock it was to
my feelings on my return to Europe to find
the true gods overthrown, and horrible idols 
creatures of wood and stone  set up in their
places. I had left England some five and twenty
years ago, as tutor to a family who were going
abroad. I was then about twenty-five years old
myself, and a passionate lover of music. My
father, who was a very poor country curate, with
a large number of children, had also a violin ;
and I think this instrument, upon which he
played very beautifully, was almost as dear to
him as any of his children. Certainly, he owed
it some gratitude, for it was the one prettiness
of a life painted too much in greys ; the only
solace of an over-worked, over-burdened existence
; the only consolation he had to fall back
upon in the midst of the daily increasing troubles

of a large family, and the difficulties of educating
and providing for us all. My poor mother, who
was of a nervous, excitable temperament, when
we came in with our best  oftener our only suit
of clothes, tattered and soiled, to be repaired as
best they might, by those indefatigable fingers
of hers ; or when three or four of us were saying
our lessons to her, and the baby (the baby
seemed a permanent institution at the parsonage)
roaring all the while in her arms  would sometimes
go almost wild with irritation at hearing
the long-drawn-out notes of the violin proceeding
placidly by the hour together from my
father's little study. " And there he is, whining
again ! " she would sometimes exclaim, but she
never asked him to stop, though she had to cast
every sum up three or four times over, whenever
the arithmetic and the violin went on together.

Little Mary and myself are the only members
of the family who have inherited my father's
fondness for music ; and our great delight was

to creep unperceived into the study, and lie
hidden in the recess underneath his writing-table,
while he stood up playing by the casement
that opened upon our little garden  his pale
face growing dark and sharp against the twilight,
and the carnations giving out all their odour in
the quiet evening air. I can never smell a carnation
now without hearing my dear father's
Bid me Discourse," or " Sally in our Alley,"
and those tunes will smell of carnations and feel
of evening dew to me, to the last days of my
life. The next music which I heard, was when
I was sent up to London as a lad of sixteen to
complete my education. I was quartered upon
Philip Wardee, an old friend and schoolfellow of
my father's, and attended Westminster School
daily.

Philip Wardee had a splendid mansion (or at
least what seemed so to me after our tiny parsonage)
in Bloomsbury Square. He was a well-to-do
lawyer, with six children  three boys and

three girls. When I lived there, the eldest boy,
Bill, was clerk in a respectable banking-house in
the city ; the eldest girl, Susannahh, was nineteen
 a fair likeness of her father, with the
same sweet smile, and the same lovely, moral
countenance. Emily was sixteen, and little
Ursula fourteen. Then came the two small
boys. Bob and Harry, who were a good deal
younger, and at school away down in the
country.

In this house my musical taste was continually
fostered and ministered to. Philip Wardee, who
was a remarkably handsome man of about five
and forty, had not only the most winning speaking
voice in the world, but also one of the finest
basses it was possible to hear. He was altogether
a delightful creature  handsome, happy,
and good. He had married upon nothing when
he was very young, and his plain little wife, who
had cheered and supported him through all the
troubles and struggles of their early life, loved

him still in mature age with that sort of passionate
adoration that seems generally only to
belong to the fervent season of one's youth.
They were both blessed with that greatest of all
blessings  excellent animal spirits. What jolly
Christmas parties we used to have to be sure,
when Philip led off " Money-musk " with Mrs.
Wardee, and we pounded away at " Sir Roger de
Coverley " till three in the morning ! All that is
gone out now, and it is considered the right
thing to shuffle about all out of time, as if one
could not hear the music, and as if one did not
know how to dance, and could not bear it. Butin
those days, a thing to see were Philip's handsome
legs, in tights fitting close to the shape
all the way down to the ankle, doing such
intricate steps, footing it so daintily to the
measure, and every now and then cutting the
most lovely capers to excite the admiration of
us youngsters. When the clock struck twelve
we used to go down to supper  such negus !

such calves foot jelly ! such tipsy-cake ! I used
to think there was nothing like it ! Indeed it
would have been difficult to find anywhere a
happier family circle.

Glee-singing was the music most successfully
cultivated in this house : Bill sang tenor, with
capital lungs of his own ; sweet Susannahh Wardee
was soprano, Emily took the alto, and Philip's
deep voice came growling tunefully in, in the
depths below, like a magnificent organ. All
Alcott's and Horsey's charming glees they
used to sing  and quaint old madrigals of another
day, that rippled away sunnily like intermingling
streams of clearest water : the long
habit of singing together, and the kindred quality
of the voices, made their execution of this kind
of music absolute perfection. Then on Sundays
Handel used to be the order of the day. Philip
would sing, " Shall I, in Maire's fertile plain,"
and sweet Susannahh Wardee would give us,
What though I trace," and then we always

wound up with, " O ruddier than the cherry,"
which was Philip's great song, of which his wife
was justly proud, and which she always would
ask for, saying that though it was not sacred
it was Handel, which meant nearly the same
thing.

Ah, dear old time ! Ah, gentle people ! The
dark years have divided us, but you are not
forgotten.

In Lent, Philip Wardee would often take me
to the oratorios that used to be given at the
great theatres on the Wednesdays and Fridays,
which during that season were devoted entirely
to musical performances.

My first oratorio was a memorable event in
my life : I thought it so then, with life before
me  I think it so still, looking back upon it now
that I have lived. We were to have the " Israel
in Egypt." In general Mr. Wardee was punctuality
itself, but on this occasion he had been
detained by unexpected business, and dinner

was a whole hour later than usual, instead of
half an hour earlier, as it was to have been. At
every ring of the bell, I, and the girls in their
white frocks and blue sashes, dashed out upon
the stairs to see if it was the master come home,
and at each fresh disappointment I felt almost
ready to cry with impatience. I kept looking
at the bill, and felt sure that every piece of
music I most wished to hear would be over
by the time we got there ; and indeed it was
very late when we reached the theatre, and the
performance had long been begun. We flew
along the lobby, and hastily taking our places
in the dress circle, came in for the concluding
bars of a magnificent chorus. After which a
little thick-set man, with a light brown wig allover
his eyes, a generally common appearance,
and most unmistakably Jewish aspect, got up to
sing one single line of recitative. He stood
with his head well on one side, held his music
also on one side, and far out before him, gave a

funny little stamp with his foot, and then proceeded
to lay in his provision of breath with
such a tremendous shrug of his shoulders and
swelling of his chest, that I very nearly burst
out laughing.

He said  " But the children of Israel went on
dry land "  and then he paused ; and every
sound was hushed throughout that great space ;
and then, as if carved out upon the solid stillness,
came those three little words, " Through the
sea ! " And our breath failed, and our pulses
ceased to beat, and we bent our heads, as all
the wonder of the miracle seemed to pass over
us with those accents  awful, radiant, resonant,
triumphant ! He sat down while the whole
house thundered its applause. I turned to
Philip Wardee in speechless agitation. "Abraham ! "
said he, wiping his eyes.

I often afterwards heard this greatest singer of
our country, who was, doubtless, among the
greatest of any age or country ; but although the

stamp of genius was on everything that he did,
strangely mixed up with it was a love of gallery
popularity, which led him continually into faults
of taste. What could exceed the profound pathos
of his " Deeper and deeper still " ? His " Lash
me into madness " still rings through all my
fibres : but then again, just at the end of " Waft
her, angels," with which he had seemed to lift
one into paradise, he must needs roar out an
interminable cadence, hideous and vulgar, for
which the gods cheered him, but for which in
sober truth he deserved to be hissed.

Little Bob and Harry used to find the first
parts of these entertainments rather dry work,
but would wake up for the third part, which
was always miscellaneous, and which I hated : I
always used to come down from the sublime
altitudes of old Handel upon the dull earth again
with a sort of bump ; but they delighted in the
lighter music ; and indeed Mr. Abraham's singing
of such songs as, "When the Lads of the Village,"

" Let us go to Kelvin Grove," "March,
march, Ettrick and Teviotdale," and the " Bay of
Biscay," was every bit as spirited and fine, as
perfect in its accent and expression, as his pathos
and dramatic genius were unsurpassed in the
greater things he did.

The only friendship I made at Westminster
was with little Lord Winterton. He was a sickly
little lad of about fourteen, with continual headaches
; and our intimacy grew, first, out of my
preventing his being bullied because he could not
play much and rough it as the others did,  and
then, out of my looking after him, and lending
him books when his family were abroad and he
broke his arm out sliding and was laid up and
lonely.

He had several sisters, of whom he used occasionally
to make mention when we had become
chums, and who sang most beautifully, according
to his account. I used to tell him of our music
in Bloomsbury Square, and then he would say

VOL. II. 16

with the most provoking coolness : " Ah, you
should hear Lady Jane sing ! " This was his
favourite sister, and he often spoke of her when
he was ill and I came to sit with him. Once or
twice we nearly quarrelled when I was vaunting
Miss Wardee's singing, and he only remarked with
a languid superiority, and as if he had heard
all the world, " Ah, you haven't heard Lady
Jane!"

The fact was, that about this time I was fast
growing out of the mere schoolboy into the
sentimental phase of hobbledehoyhood, and
Susannahh Wardee was the first woman whom I
was beginning to look upon as a woman.

I had often heard her say, after we had been
talking of my dear old father and the life at
home, that she thought the perfection of happiness
must be to live in a dear little cottage
all honeysuckles and carnations, with a gentle-hearted,
hard-working country curate for a husband
: and forgetful of the years that lay between

us, and fired with a new tumult of almost unacknowledged
hopes, I bent all my thoughts
towards the church, and implored my father
to send me to Oxford. Poor man ! He could
ill afford to spare the necessary sum of money
for this fresh expense, and I fretted myself and
my mother nearly into a fever with my anxiety
and impatient restlessness. Luckily  I did not
think so then  they were not called upon to
make the sacrifices they were prepared to make
for the fulfilment of my desire.

Just at this time, Susannahh went to pay a
visit of a month to a married friend of hers who
lived at Woolwich; and when next I heard from
the Warden (I was at home at the parsonage
then), it was to tell me that she was going to be
married to a Captain Knocked Garth. It was
not a good marriage in a worldly sense, but they
were not worldly people. Philip Wardee, who
doted on his daughter, was greatly overset when
he first heard of the engagement, and rather

inclined to oppose it ; but the mother remembered
her own early days, and made her husband
remember them, and their own true young
love ; and so finally his objections were overruled,
and Captain Garth became an accepted
lover.

As there was some probability of his regiment
being soon ordered upon foreign service, a very
few weeks only intervened between the engagement
and the marriage. They were very
wretched weeks to me, and I shame to say it,
in my selfish, jealous passion, I made them so
to all around me. I was bitter against the
whole world, and sore about everything.

Sometimes I thought with contempt and
almost hatred of her for having, as I chose to
represent it to myself, sacrificed a true love to
the false glitter of position ; while the facts were,
that Captain Garth was as poor as a church
mouse, and that she had never felt anything forme
but the sort of sisterly regard a kind-hearted

young woman of her age, and with brothers of
her own, was almost sure to experience for an
awkward friendless schoolboy, living in the
same house. But this, the true aspect of the
matter, was too mortifying to my pride and
vanity to be entertained for a single instant, and
I preferred thinking myself the victim of a
woman's fickleness and treachery : it invested
me, in my own eyes at least, with a dignity and
importance which were more flattering to my
feelings. Sometimes I used to wonder whether
she would dare  I actually put it so to myself,
 whether Susannahh would dare to bid to
her wedding the man she had so deeply wronged.
Then as the time grew near and nearer, and no
sign came from any of them, I had fits of
absolute rage against them all, that in their
idiotic delight at what I was pleased to call this
new thing, I, their old dear friend, was laid by
and unremembered. And then my rage all
went out suddenly like a spent flame, and I

would lie for hours far away in the fields, crying
my heart out for the intolerable aching desolateness,
the grievous grievous pain of their having
forgotten me. At this time my poor mother,
too, became a source of the greatest annoyance
to me. My father was a good deal away from
the house, and always very absent and preoccupied
when he was in it ; but my mother saw
well enough that something was going badly
with me, I dare say she had even made half a
guess at the truth, for in matters of the heart
all women  the very dullest  become sharp,
and I noticed that she never once mentioned
Susannahh's name to me. Her tender pity would
flow out to me in a thousand little acts of watchful
affection ; but any unusual demonstration of
this kind only made me imagine that I was
looked upon as an object of compassion, and
this I resented bitterly, beyond all measure.
Then when I had met her warmth with coldness,
scaring her into silence either with sullen sarcasm

or savage irritability, and she no longer ventured
to take me in her arms and question me, or
make troubled remarks upon my white face and
feverish hands, she would follow me with tearful
looks wherever I moved about the room, until I
used to rush from the house in a state of perfect
frenzy, that I might escape from the unceasing
importunity of those wistful mother's eyes. I
was very mad, and very bad, and  God forgive
me for it !  I still thought that before the end 
the end of all  was consummated, some one
must surely take some notice of me. But no !
One by one the days passed, and no letter
arrived. Then a dreadful day  the date of
which I well knew  came too, and rolled heavily
away, and still no sign !

Two mornings afterwards a packet was brought
to me ; it contained a white favour, and a large
piece of wedding-cake, and a letter from Mrs.
Wardee. I tied the favour on our tomcat, and
gave the cake to the children ; but the letter was

so kind and tender that I could not bring myself
to tear it up. It was as follows : 

Dear Joe,

The marriage is over, and our dear girl
has left us. And now that I sit down with her
empty chair beside me  that chair where she has
sat, our pride and our joy, for so many years 
my eyes and my heart are full of tears, and I
can't help thinking of you, dear Joe, and writing
to you, for I think you will want to hear from
some of us to-day ; and as the young ones are
all too much excited just at present to settle
down quietly to pen and paper, you must put up
with my account of matters, though I fear I shall
not be able to write quite as cheerfully as I
ought. Captain Garth is about thirty-five  just
thirteen years older than Susie ; but this I think
quite a fault on the right side, especially where
the life is likely to be so full of ups and downs
and changes and movement. She isn't used to

roughing it much, poor dear ! [here a great
drop blots the paper] and will want some one
who knows how to take care of her as well as to
love her.

Captain Garth has a loud, firm voice, and
seems, I think, to have a very decided character ;
but this is certainly quite an advantage, and
probably, after all, only his military way, to
which I am not yet used. They are gone to
Scarborough for a fortnight, his leave, at present,
not extending beyond that time, and then
they are to join the regiment, which is stationed
at York.

The breakfast went off capitally. There
were a number of toasts and speeches : Philip
spoke quite beautifully, as he always does ; at
least he began beautifully  saying what an
honour he thought it for his daughter to be the
wife of a brave man ; but when, as he went on,
he touched upon all the vicissitudes of a soldier's
life, the hardships and the dangers, and often

the long years of exile in distant lands, a
thought of all our poor Susie might be exposed
to  she who had been so petted and fostered,
and kept in cotton all her life  came across him,
and he suddenly got as white as a sheet, and
could not go on ; and poor Susie, who had kept
up wonderfully till then, burst into tears, and
jumped up from table, and ran into his arms.
I was afraid Captain Garth might be hurt, for
he coloured scarlet, and said not a single word.
However, uncle James was there, and saved us
all ; for he got up and made a first-rate speech,
full of puns, which set all the girls laughing,
and so we ended better than we began.

You were not forgotten at the breakfast, dear
Joe. "Absent friends" were drunk, and then
Susie put another drop of wine into her glass,
and added, " And here's dear Joe, and God bless
him ! " My dear boy, I hope that by-and-by it
may be a pleasure and comfort to you to remember
this little word. Philip and Susie were

both very anxious to have you up for the
wedding ; but I thought that perhaps you would
not care to come to us just then, and said I
thought your own people must be wanting you
themselves after having been so long without
you. I hope you have not been vexed at not
hearing from us before, but I thought it better
not to write till all was over.

Your truly attached friend,

Sarah Wardee.

And so I burned the white rose she had stuck
into my button-hole one day when we had gone
to a picnic in Greenwich Park, and the bit of
mistletoe under which I had kissed her last
Christmas, when we both blushed for the first
time, and I felt with a rush of blood to my heart

that she had suddenly  all in a single instant

become Eve to me. And I went to my father
and told him I had finally made up my mind to
give up the church and take to tutoring ; which

would at once relieve him of much anxiety on
my account, and for which on the whole I felt
myself a great deal better fitted. The fact was,
with the loss of Susannahh, all ambition was gone
out of me ; I had come to my senses, and with
them also to the conclusion that the less trouble
I gave now in any way the better.

I first got a very satisfactory situation in
Cornwall, where I remained for about two years,
and then spent the next three years in the
family of an Irish gentleman who lived not far
from the lovely lake of Killarney. After which
I heard of what seemed likely to prove a very
good thing if I did not mind India ; and
feeling that an entire change was the only
thing likely to shake me out of a state of
despondency and discouragement that was becoming
too habitual with me, I made up my
mind to close with the offer which had been
made me.

It was a great shock to the people at the

parsonage when I announced my intention to
them. But, after all, I had already been away
three years in Ireland without ever coming
home ; this was to be an absence of only five
or six (alas ! it became one of five and twenty ;
but at the moment of our decision this was
little anticipated), and the remuneration, which
was most liberal and to be increased with time,
would allow of my sending home annually a
considerable sum of money to be devoted to the
education of my brothers.

My favourite sister, ]diary, was at this time
about to become a governess : she was admirably
gifted for this career, and had been brought
up with a view to it. She knew French
fundamentally, though of course she could not
speak it : she was, thanks to my father, a very
good Latin scholar ; and thanks to her own
industry and passion for music, a fair performer
on the pianoforte. Our instrument was
but a poor one, having belonged to my mother

when she was a girl  she brought it with her to
the parsonage when she married my father, and
with it her old music-books, a few odd volumes
of Beethoven, Haydn, and Mozart  it was all
old-fashioned together, but we owed to it some
of the happiest moments of our lives.

After failing in one or two attempts to
procure a situation for her, one now offered
which seemed to promise very favourably ; but
the money for her outfit, slender as that was,
was not forthcoming just when it was wanted, and
could only be got together by keeping the boys
at home and on my mother's hands for another
year. Now, they had long been of an age to goto
school ; but though very good-hearted boys,
it was not in the nature of their youth and
vigorous temperament not to be somewhat unruly
and noisy, and my poor mother, who at her
best had never been very strong, had broken
down a great deal in the last years, and stood
much in need of a rest and quiet that she seemed

but little likely in this life to obtain. My
Indian project turning up just at this juncture,
solved many of these difficulties in an unlooked-for
way, and reconciled us all more or less to
the pang of parting.

One day, not long before my departure, as I
was running along Bond Street in quest of
portmanteaus and hat-boxes, I ran up against a
fine, tall, stout young fellow, who, taking hold
of me by both shoulders, called out, "Why,
halloa, old fellow, where are you cutting to in
such a hurry ? " It was little Winterton grown
out of all his illnesses and ailments into
this magnificent specimen of a man. He was
going home to luncheon, and insisted on
carrying me along with him to Portman Square.
We found his mother at table with a bevy of
charming young ladies, to whom I was in turn
presented. There was Lady Mary, with her
silvery voice and delicate skin ; and Lady
Caroline, straight and tall, and with something

of a will of her own or I am much mistaken.
But indeed I could hardly look at anybody fora
vision of loveliness that seemed to brighten
the whole room, and that came up to me with a
sweet graciousness and a sunny face all dimpling
with tender smiles, and holding out both
her little hands, said, " How good you were to
George ! I'm sure he must have talked to you
about me  I'm Jane."

Sitting at table with them, drinking porter
and eating voraciously, was a stout elderly
foreign gentleman with a smooth face and great
animation of manner. This was Signor Donzelli,
a very famous Italian tenor singer, who had
formerly given lessons to the young ladies, and
who was only for a few days in England. After
luncheon we went upstairs, and Lady Jane and
Caroline dragged him to the-piano and insisted
on his singing. After many entreaties and
protestations on one side and the other, he
began his most celebrated air out of Rossini's

Othello," "Ah si pervoi gia sent," but he broke
down in the middle, burst out laughing, and
seizing them by the hand, exclaimed, " C'est impossible
! vous eyes deux charmantes filles, mais
je ne puis pas chanter  je suis trop plein ! "

He appeared to have little or no execution,
but it was one of the noblest voices I ever
heard : a manly, robust, sonorous, low tenor,
more like the very high britons of the present
day than anything else. He afterwards sang
two or three bits of recitative, which were much
finer than the song, which had a little wanted
finish, and was rather too uniformly loud to my
thinking. The best of all was one that began
with the words, " Svanir le voce," and which they
told me was out of an opera called "Norma,"
by Bellini. It was a grand piece of declamation
: I never heard so perfect an enunciation ;
not a word was lost, and the separate syllables
beat singly on the ear like so many distinct
musical blows.
VOL. II. 17

When I took my leave, they told me they
were going to have some music in the evening,
and begged me to come and hear it. I inquired
if Signor Donzelli was to sing. *' Oh no," said
Lady Jane. " Ours is only an amateur performance,
and Mr. Rivers don't like his singing ;
he says he bawls too much, and that it is insufferable
in a room. You weill hear ]mr. Rivers
to-night. We have no less than four tenors, all
so jealous of one another !  Mr. Endersleigh,
Mr. Frank Rivers, Mr. Cholmondely, and Lord
Manvers ; but Mr. Rivers is the best, and weare
going to sing a quantity of things he has
brought with him from Italy."

As the clock struck ten, I presented myself
in Portman Square, and found myself the only
man among the ladies, for the guests had not
yet begun to arrive, and the gentlemen had not
left the dinner-table. The ladies received me
very kindly, but I never was more uncomfortable
in my life ; I felt so thoroughly in the way.

and a fish out of water. There were no subjects
of common interest between us  how should
there be ? Of their habits I knew nothing, and
what experience could they possibly have of a
life hidden away in the shade like mine ? We
had exhausted George's health at luncheon, and
upon the only topic upon which we could converse
music  I soon found that we did not agree ;
my early taste had been formed upon the masters
almost exclusively cultivated in my own home 
Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, and old Corelli,  but
with these I found my new friends but little
acquainted, although they unhesitatingly pronounced
them to be dull and tiresome. I then
thought I would try a lighter style, and spoke
of Purcell and Dr. Arne, but here I was hardly
more successful. Of these composers they were
entirely ignorant. I, in my turn, knew nothing
whatever of Rossini and the Italian music they
delighted in, and so conversation very soon
began to flag, and to be filled with a gradually

rising tide of awkward pauses. What made me
feel still more embarrassed was the presence
of a lady with whom I was not acquainted.
I never saw anything more striking than this
lady's appearance. She was a beautiful woman
of apparently about six or seven and twenty, tall \
and slight, and with a handsome figure. She
had a remarkably small, well-shaped head, with
dark hair, eyes, and a wonderful white complexion,
with just the very faintest tinge of colour
exactly in the right place. I remarked this with
admiration to Lady Mary, who replied in her
sugary voice and with an odd little laugh, " Yes ;
she always puts it in the right place, don't she V'
Her dress was very peculiar, and added to the
picturesqueness and brilliancy of her appearance.
She wore a scarlet velvet gown, and a magnificent
white rose in her bosom.

This person, my dear Lady Jane told me,
was one of her cousins. Lady Charlotte Malcolm,
or I never could have believed they

could have belonged to the same family, she
looked so dreadfully hard and bold ; and she
certainly had none of their good breeding or
good nature, for having, when I came in first,
asked, in so loud a whisper that I couldn't
but hear her, who I was, and then remarked
that I was a good-looking beast, she declined
having me presented to her, and took no further
notice of me whatever, beyond putting
up her horrid eyeglass at me and giggling
upon every observation I addressed to other
people ; each time she did so, making me grow
as red as the colour of her own gown. Before
the people came, I was taken through the
rooms by Lady Caroline and Lady Jane. I
think they were rather ashamed of their cousin's
bad manners, and very good-naturedly made
this an excuse for getting me out of her reach.

This evening in Portman Square was altogether
a revelation to me. In the first place
I had never seen any house at all like it. I

had been living exiled in a very desolate sort
of barracks ruin in Ireland for the last iQ,\v
years, and almost the only civilized social recollections
I had were of the dear old house
in Bloom bury ; but this was a very different
matter in every respect.

In Bloomsbury we had one good-sized ,
opening with long narrow yellow
folding-doors into a back room a good deal
smaller. The variety of arrangement, and the
quantity of furniture in Portman Square, made
it a matter of some anxiety to steer one's way
clear on any side. In Bloomsbury we used
to have no difficulties of this sort to struggle
with : the pianoforte stood against the wall
in one room, and a hard little sofa, with a
shaped back and scroll end, against the wall
in the other : there were only two arm-chairs
in each room, and these stood symmetrically
on either side the fire-place. In the centre of
both rooms was a round table : that in the

front drawing-room had a cloth cover of light
green stamped with black upon it ; the table
in the back room had no cloth : it was of
dark mahogany, and overspread with pretty
little knick-knacks in Bohemian glass and Tunbridge
ware. In this room the paper was a
rich buff flock ; but the paper in the front
room was the one I used to admire the most :
it had a bright pink ground, with a pattern
something between a cathedral window and a
gridiron done in gold all over it. How well
I recollect the day it was put up, and how
splendid I thought it looked when the great
glass chandelier was lighted, to try the effect !
Miss Bird, the governess, was sent for, with
little Ursula, from the school-room, to come
and see it ; and I remember as if it were
yesterday, how she stood before it in her plum-coloured
gown, with her red mufifettees and
her villainy hands clasped, exclaiming rapturously
over and over again, " And such a

lovely idea, isn't it ? " as if that was a charm
entirely separate from the paper, and the one
she chiefly appreciated.

There were four drawing-rooms in Portman
Square  two immense middle ones of grand
proportions, with white and gold walls and
gorgeous crimson curtains. These were brilliantly
lit all round with wax candles, and the
pianoforte stood quite out at the end of the
largest room of the two. Leading out of this
apartment, behind the head of the piano, was
what was called the young ladies' study. This
was hung with pale sea-green satin of an exquisitely
delicate shade. It would be impossible
for me to describe it in detail ; but I
remember that the sofas and chairs  which
were of all shapes and sizes, some Lilliputian,
some Brobdingnagian  were covered with garlands
of roses in soft old tapestry-work, which
had preserved the liveliest and freshest tints.
Against the walls were two cabinets of ebony

inlaid with ivory, and over these hung two
noble Sir Joshua, portraits of ladies of the
family. There were also three or four beautiful
drawings of Lawrence's, and some charming
water-colours by Copley Fielding, and De
Went. The room that was at the other end of
the suite, was of circular form, hung with silver
grey velvet, and contained about half a dozen
first-rate Vandyke. The curtains here were
of a deep violet colour, and the furniture,
which I admired very much, they told me was
old French. There were beautiful inlaid secretaires,
costly bureaus of quaint shape, and atone
end a gorgeous old French writing-table,
and everywhere, by each luxurious sofa or
inviting arm-chair, little inlaid tables of green
and brown woods, of the most exquisite forms
and workmanship. It was altogether quite
different from Bloomsbury, and on the whole,
certainly much prettier.

When once the guests began to arrive, they

continued pouring in very quickly, and the rooms
were soon filled to suffocation. I was very
curious to see Mr. Rivers, whose name was
mentioned among them every five minutes 
his opinions quoted, and his authority appealed
to. It was evident he must be a very important
and fashionable person, and I thought he must
be some great lord's son at least ; but I found to
my surprise that, although he was connected
with almost all the noble families of England,
he held no rank whatever himself ; he was not
even an Honourable. I felt sure I should know
him at once, either by his supremely dandified
appearance, or by his superior good looks,
although how he was to be handsomer than
the men already there it was difficult to imagine.
For I do not think I ever was so struck with
anything as I was with the general beauty of
this assembly  both men and women seemed
like creatures of another world to me. Now we
had only one other pretty girl besides Susannahh

H-O

Wardee in Bloomsbury  Georgia Battery, her
great friend,  and I could not help thinking how
dowdy and insignificant she would have looked
among these people.

There was one whole family of three sisters
and two brothers, who, when they came in,
quite took away my breath with the splendour
of their appearance. Mrs. Wentworth, with her
classical head and straight nose, made one think
of " The Isles of Greece, the Isles of Greece,
where burning Sappho loved and sung." Indeed
she might have been Sappho herself, for
they told me she was a genius as well as a
beauty. Her youngest brother, who was not
more than nineteen or twenty years old, was without
exception the most radiant human creature
I ever beheld. Without being at all unmanly
or effeminate, he was as lovely as a woman,
and had the voice and smile of an angel : one
wondered what this glorious young Greek god
was doing, so far away from Olympus.

Then there was cream-coloured Mrs. Henry
Wharton, beautiful from " her melancholy eyes
divine, the home of woe without a tear," down
to the sole of her foot. I never saw anything
to equal the shape and colour of her hands,
arms, and bust ; but I felt nervously ashamed
of looking much her way, her clothing having
for the most part resumed itself into a bunch
of violets. I mention these merely as some of
the most remarkable persons that I saw, for
I stood near the door, and I declare that almost
every one who came in was handsome, or at
least well-looking : all were well grown and had
fine skins.

My dears, hadn't you better begin } " said
Lady Winterton, coming up to where I was
sitting with her daughters.

Mr. Rivers isn't come yet, mamma, and we
want him for ' Ciel il mio labbro,' " answered
Lady Jane.

"Never mind, my dears. It's past eleven

o'clock, and you had better begin with something
else," returned her mother.

Oh, we can't indeed, mamma," said Lady
Jane anxiously, adding suddenly, '' Oh ! there
he is  I see him ! " as a tall, fair man, with
light hair and auburn whiskers, perfectly simply
dressed, and carrying a heap of music in his
arms, fought his way vigorously up the stairs.
He was certainly very good-looking, but that
was not what struck me most about him. It
was his bright countenance, his air of distinction,
and when he spoke the pleasant voice and
charm of entire unexpectedness that were so
winning.

Did you ever see such a crowd ? " said
Lady Winterton, as he wished her good
evening.

"Yes, and all standing about, so as to prevent
one's being able to stir ; so English that is !
My dear Lady Winterton, half of it is your
fault, because you always will stick tables before

your sofas. Just look at that row of people all
standing with their backs to the table, instead
of getting in and being quiet, and making room
for others. It really must be moved  you lose
more than half your space that way. Would

you mind ? " he said, looking at me, and in

two minutes we had got the obnoxious piece of
furniture out of the way against a wall, and
four ladies were instantly seated on the hitherto
untenanted sofa. Mr. Rivers was so pleased
with this result, that he made me go round with
him and remove all the other tables. It really
was an immense improvement, although I must
own I felt rather nervous as we approached one
at which three or four elderly ladies and gentlemen
were seated, looking over some political
caricatures and reviews.

I'm afraid," said I, hesitatingly, to Mr.
Rivers, " we shan't be able " But 

We're going to push that table up into the
corner, if you don't mind," said he, briskly,

lifting the lamp and making off with it as he
spoke, leaving the people he addressed in
benighted amazement.

It'll be much better there, won't it ? " he
said with a smile, as he came back for the
table.

One cross-looking old woman, who was not
at all inclined to be pleased, waggled her head
angrily at him, and said, "I was reading, and
I don't think so."

"Oh yes, you do," he replied, with that
delightful smile of his. " Besides, you don't
want your book now, you know ; you're going
to listen to us." And he rolled the table away
as he spoke.

Our programme consisted of the following
pieces, with none of which I was acquainted : 

Ciel il mio labbro "  a quarter from
Rossini's " Bianca e Falter," pompous, splendid,
and well sung. " Tu vedrai la sventurata "  an
air from the '' Pirata," by Bellini. This was

sung by Mr. Endersleigh very carefully, but
rather through his nose : it was of those good
things that do not give one much pleasure.
Then came a duet from the same opera, sung by
Mr. Rivers and Lady Caroline. They both had
very fine voices  he, a brilliant high tenor, and
she soprano,  and a degree of cultivation that
was quite remarkable.

Mr. Rivers was very nervous and fidgety at
first ; the person who was to have accompanied
the duet, for some reason that I could not catch,
did not please him, and he declared he would
not sing unless some one else could be got to
play. This alteration was with a little difficulty
at last effected.

Do, for heaven's sake, let us begin : these
pauses ruin a concert," he said, exactly as if the
delay had been caused by some one else instead
of himself " I never saw such a horrid public in
all my life  all women ! It's quite killing to
have to sing to people who won't ever express

anything. Do applaud, there's a dear goodman
" (this to me). " I give you my word my
mouth's exactly like a clothes-brush ! Mind you
play my notes," was his parting injunction to the
accompanied, and they started. But he suddenly
caught sight of Lady Charlotte Malcolm, who
was talking and laughing loud in the front row ;
and leaving Lady Caroline with her mouth wide
open, singing her solo, he exclaimed, 'rit's quite
impossible to do anything serious with that
dreadful giggling going on just opposite one ; "
with which observation he went straight across
to her, and an animated little interview took
place between them, in which I could just catch
the words, "Want to converse  boudoir  disturb
other people." She would not move, but
she held her tongue afterwards, at least whenever
Mr. Rivers sang, which I was very glad of, for
she had talked incessantly all through poor
Mr. Endersleigh's air.

This duet of the " Pirata " appeared to me to

VOL. II. 18

be rather a poor and disjointed composition, with
some pretty melodious phrases spotted about
here and there over it. I make no doubt it
would have been far more effective on the stage,
for the words and situation were evidently very
dramatic. Not understanding Italian, I didn't
of course know what it was about, but it was
obviously a desperate love-duet, and highly
tragic. Frank Rivers sang it with immense
expression, and turned round to me repeatedly
with a countenance beaming with delight, to
which his remark of "Ain't it so miserable?"
made a very comical contrast. After this Mr.
Cholmondely sang, "A te, o care," from the
opera of the " Puritan." He had a pretty voice,
but I confess I wondered at his self-confidence,
for he had not the slightest idea of time ; and
the accompanied, and those who sang with him,
had hard work to follow him. It was a horrid
massacre of what appeared to me a charming
thing : but many of the ladies seemed enchanted,

and so did he himself ; and one gentleman came
up to me and remarked, "It's better than Rubini ;
and it's all by ear  he doesn't know a note of
music ! "

So I should have imagined," I began to
reply, when Lady Jane gave me a nervous little
push, and in a low voice imparted to me the
information that I was speaking to i\Ir. William
Cholmondely, the younger brother of the gentleman
who had just performed.

We then had a duet between Lady Caroline
and Lady Jane. This was called "Eben per
mia memoria," and was from Rossini's opera of
the " Gaza Laura." It was sung with feeling,
style, and excellent execution, and was altogether
more like the work of artists than of
amateurs. Lady Jane had a charming mezzo-soprano
voice, her sister a brilliant and powerful
soprano ; and they understood each other's
feeling and manner so well, that their singing
together went with the precision of a single

UNIVERSITY Of \Vi\m\


voice. After this, Lord Manvers, a young
nobleman with lovely eyes, sat down to accompany
himself. Of his performance I really
was unable to judge, for he executed nothing
in its entireness : he did nothing but warble,
with a very sweet voice, little melodious beginnings
and endings, and I believe he would have
been there to this very hour, exciting the black
ire of the other tenors, but for Frank Rivers,
who at last, in that irresistible way of his, broke
in with, " My dear fellow, sing, or get up ; we
shall be charmed if you will really sing any one
thing through, but if you can't or won't, you'd
better get up and let us go on. That kind o'
thing is so tiresome, and we shan't get through
the programme to-night."

After this came a fine thing out of Rossini's
Tancred," beginning with " M'abbraccia ."
This was capitally sung, on the whole, by
a Mrs. Harley and Mr. Endersleigh : he, as before,
a little melancholy and nasal ; but the lady had

fire enough for two. She had been a pupil of
Pasta's, and declaimed heroically with a husky
mezzo-soprano voice. The duet was succeeded
by Bellini's romance of "Ah non credere che
piano," from the "Beatrice di Tenda "  a thing requiring
the most perfect finish, which it received
at the hands of Mrs. Wilmot, who dropped
diamonds and pearls of notes without seeming
even to take the trouble to open her mouth.
And then we wound up with another frantic
love-duet of Donizetti's, by Mr. Rivers and Lady
Caroline. This was indeed a most desperate
business ; Frank Rivers worked himself into a
terrible state over it, and again seemed quite
enchanted with the misery of the sentiments he
was expressing, several times ejaculating at
intervals, " O Arising ! " in an agony of grief,
and then turning his bright face round to us
with an ecstatic smile, and exclaiming, in tones
of indescribable comfort, "So wretched, ain't
it } "

On the whole, the Rossini music was much the
finest of all I heard : it was more shapely and
dignified than the rest, and although, in apparent
obedience to some Italian canon of operatic form,
it stuck on a quick movement at the end of every
slow one, there was an expression and character
about it which I found wanting in the other
composers, whose last movements were almost
all trivial and commonplace.

When every one was gone, with the exception
of the performers and myself, we all adjourned
to the round room, where a charming supper-table
covered with flowers and fruits was prepared,
and where we all sat down in wild spirits to talk
over the concert and the events of the evening.
I may say that I had quite an unexpected little
success here, for upon Lady Jane speaking of
her cousin's insolent airs, and suddenly saying,
If one planted Charlotte, what flower would
she come up . " I, who had often played at this
child's game at home, and who had not quite

forgiven Lady Charlotte for refusing before my
face to be introduced to me, called out at once
from the other end of the table, " London Pride ! "
which was received with general acclamation.

And what would Jane come up ? " asked
Lady Caroline.

"Morning-glory," said I, as quick as light,
looking at the fair young head opposite to me,
crowned with its masses of golden hair : this was
also much applauded. But the best of all was
when Mr. Cholmondely said 

And if one planted Frank Rivers, what would
he come up t " '

*' Love-lies-bleeding," said Lord Manvers.

No, no," cried I, mindful of the " O Arising ! "
and all the other agonies : " Love-and-tear-it ! "
the name of the country-folk down in our part
of the world for that mildest and most innocent
of vegetable creatures, the mallow. The instant
after I had said it I was afraid Mr. Rivers might
be offended with my freedom ; but no one

laughed more, and he several' times said, " So
quick of him, so very droll," with the greatest
good nature and with evident enjoyment of the
joke.

One more musical treat, and that the greatest,
I have to record before my departure for India.
This was at the house of Mr. John Grahame, one
of our great city merchants, who was nevertheless
content to reside in the city. I was invited
to spend my last evening with them, and here
I heard the glorious music of the " Don Juan "
executed from beginning to end with the utmost
reverence and care. An able professional man
and excellent pianist, the master of the young
ladies, accompanied it at the pianoforte. Don
Juan was admirably sung by a Mr. Hepworth, a
lawyer ; Donna Anna was a professional singer
engaged for the occasion ; Donna Elvira, a young
German lady, with a magnificent voice, a niece
of my host, on a short visit to England ; the
youngest daughter of the house was the Merlin,

and sang her " Batt, batt," charmingly, accompanied
quite capitally on the violoncello by an
old admiral, an enthusiastic lover of classical
music ; the master of the house, who had a fine
bass voice and great sense of humour, was our
Leporello, Between the acts, Mozart's third
sonata in F  the King of sonatas for four hands
was executed by the two eldest daughters of
the house to perfection. This was the last
music, deserving of the name, that I heard for
five and twenty years.

I had gone out as a tutor to India, but in process
of time I became acquainted with the head
of a large mercantile house there, who recommended
me to try business, and made an opening
for me in his own establishment. And there
I remained, getting on in the world as it is
called ; but alas, for what . I ask myself this
question sadly enough now that it is too late.

The first news of importance that I received
from home was that of my sister Anna's marriage

to a curate who came to do duty for a short time
in a neighbouring parish. He was a widower
with seven little children, but Anna wished it,
and so an unwilling consent was wrung from my
parents. Then followed closely the tidings of
my poor mother's death ; this was a heavy blow,
and one that I hardly like to speak of even now.
Some time after this my brother Walter wrote
to inform me of his marriage and departure
for Australia, where he was soon joined by
my youngest brother Fred. Finally came the
announcement of my father's decease from my
poor sister Mary, who had been living at home
with him and keeping house for him ever since
he had become a widower. Her letter was a
very pathetic appeal to me to come back to her :
she was broken in health, pinched in circumstances,
and quite alone in the world ; and so
I determined to return to England, to settle
down in some quiet little home in the country,
and devote the remainder of my life to my

poor ]ran', the dear companion of my early
years.

At Calcutta I saw Susannahh Wardee again.
She had been for the last twelve years in India,
but we had never met. She had still the same
sweet smile, but she was dreadfully altered. So
much so, that if I had not heard her speak, and
seen her smile, I don't think I should have
known her again. She had suffered terribly
from the climate, which was also telling severely
upon her youngest child, a despotic, lead-coloured
little urchin of about ten years old.
She could not be persuaded to leave her husband
and go to England herself, but was full of
care and trouble about the boy, and exceedingly
anxious to send him over to Europe for his
health and education ; and so it ended in my
volunteering to take charge of him for her. Out
of which arrangement, if any one thinks that
I got any sort of satisfaction of a sentimental
kind, I beg to state he is entirely mistaken : for

the child has absolutely nothing of my dear old
love Susannahh ; he is the living image of Knock-ham
Garth ; he has the same hard voice, and
the " military manner " that poor Mrs. Wardee
had never got used to.

Almost the first person I looked up in London
was Lord Winterton. I found him an elderly
bachelor, a martyr to gout, and obliged to go
about in a wheel chair. He was delighted to
see me, as cordial and friendly as ever, and he
asked Mary and me to come and dine with him.
Here I met my old friend. Lady Jane, with her
radiant face, and the lustre of her golden hair
still undimmed by time : if she was no longer
Proserpine, she was Ceres still, and she made me
acquainted with another Jane, whom I might
have taken to be the same I had left in England
five and twenty years ago, so perfect a likeness
of her lovely mother was this lovely daughter.
Lady Jane was a widow ; she had married a
Mr. Trevor, who had died, leaving her with this

girl and a boy, and she now resided entirely
with her brother, Lord Winterton.

During the course of the evening I talked over
with Winterton my project of finding some little
country home in which to settle down with
Mary, and early the very next morning 1
received from him the offer of a charming little
cottage quite close to his own fine place in
Cornwall. The rent and taxes altogether only
came to eighty-four pounds a year, and it is
furnished, and has six bedrooms, so we shall
always have a spare room for a friend, even
while Knockham remains in our charge.

The few days I spent in town at this period
were again chiefly devoted to music, of which
I was naturally anxious to secure as much as
I could, after having been so long deprived of it.

I went to the Italian Opera to hear mozart's
enchanting '' Nozzle di Figaro." The house was
very poorly attended, the stalls and boxes having
only a thin sprinkling of people here and there.

The music was sung with shameful carelessness,
and the actors did not seem to think it worth
while to give themselves the trouble to move.
I was quite indignant at this disgraceful indifference
; but was afterwards told that the
Italians hate Mozart's music, which they consider
tiresome and ineffective, and that, also, ina
general way, they seldom take the pains to
exert themselves when the house is not full.

To make up for this disappointment. Winter-ton
gave me a place in his box a night or two
afterwards, to hear an opera which I was told
was one of the great works of modern times.
I remembered very distinctly the Italian music
I had heard years ago  the brilliant effects
and grand finish of Rossini, the agreeable vein
of melody, somewhat poorly worked out, but
always charming in sentiment, of Bellini  and
I hoped to have all these delightful old recollections
delightfully revived. I declare that,
from beginning to end, it was one continual

bang and shriek : such tune as there was, was
of the very commonest order, and as for the
story, it defied all comprehension, and beggars
all description. I only know that there was a
husband and wife who bawled a hideous duet
at each other, with the veins in their throats
swollen till I thought they would burst, and their
eyes starting out of their heads at their own
screams  and a mother who bawled because
she had wanted to burn somebody else's baby,
and then by a very unaccountable mistake had
put her own baby on the fire instead ; and then
there was a man with the most extraordinary
lungs I ever heard, who bawled for an hour
together at the same pitch because his mother
was going to be burned. Possibly there might
be a degree of justification in the general unpleasantness
of their positions ; but then I ask,
why choose fire for the libretto of an opera ?
There was at last a moment's respite in a commonplace
but rather agreeable little duet towards

Im

r'

the conclusion, where the lady 'who has burned
the children goes to sleep, and therefore is
obliged to cease bawling for a few seconds ; and
there were two pretty romances sung in lucid
intervals by the tenor, one at the beginning, and
the other at the end when he is shut up in a
tower. But, on the whole, the performance
seemed to me very like the idiot's story, "full
of sound and fury, and signifying nothing."

Upon consulting the play-bills, I found that
for the remainder of the week no music was
to be given except by the same composer, so
this was my last operatic experience. But I
had no reason to complain of any dearth of
musical entertainment, for before I left town, far
from desiring to seek it, at last my only aspiration
became how to escape it. At every house
I went to, it was served up as regularly in the
evening as the dessert was after dinner, and my
life in the morning, was made a burden to me
between street-singers, German bands, organ-players,

and young ladies practising. I could
not even pay my little bill at the newsvendor's
without hearing the pianoforte going in the
back shop.

Of the music I heard in society, what shall I
say .'* Lady Jane Trevor procured me an invitation
for a very fashionable morning concert at
the house of one of her friends. Here, standing
for two whole hours imbedded, imbrued, and
suffocated in ladies' skirts, I heard chorus after
chorus sung. The selection in itself was nota
very good one, and the execution naturally
imperfect enough : for how are twenty or thirty
young folks to find time during a frantic London
season to rehearse sufficiently often to make
their singing together a really satisfactory
musical performance t I myself heard the
daughter of the house trying to persuade a
young friend to join the ranks.

Do come, dear, we want you so badly."

But, dear, I don't know the chorus  I have
VOL. II. 19

never even looked at it," objected the young
lady addressed.

Never mind, dear," replied the other ; " it
will be one more voice, and we are so short of
sopranos."

It was one more voice, and a great many more
false notes. The solos and duets were all rather
audacious ; the young gentlemen had ears ; at
least, I was told of all of them that they sang
by ear (which may be a wonder, but is not
always a grace), and the young ladies had voices,
and with these two elementary qualifications
they apparently thought themselves quite warranted
in standing up to sing operatic music
which it would have taxed even professional
singers to accomplish well. They all imitated
the public performers of the day, and roared
within an inch of their lives ; it was a very
different matter, both as regards art and culture,
to the amateur music I remembered twenty-five
years ago. Mrs. Horton, the great performer of

the occasion, lovely to look upon, and possessing,
moreover, the gift of a magnificent voice,
amused herself with singing one ballad for all
the world like a ventriloquist, it was so absurdly
and unnaturally piano, and then singing another
the whole way through at full stretch, so inexorably
loud that one felt positively battered
by the notes, which came about one's ears pelting
one like a storm of round white billiard balls.
Every one seemed enchanted with it, but I
confess that to me it appeared simply ridiculous.
Lady Jane leaned across and whispered to me,
laughing, " I think we did it better in my day,"
and I heartily agreed with her.

The only thing that gave me any real pleasure
was the performance of a lady with a perfect
glory of fair hair, who sat down to the piano and
accompanied herself in one of Beethoven's sacred
songs. The music was grand, and she sang it
admirably. I asked one of my neighbours who
she was : " Christian Rupert  Mrs. Rupert," 

was the answer. " Hasn't she a lovely voice ?
But it is such a pity she always will sing such
tiresome things."

Too beautiful ! " said an enthusiastic lady
on the other side. " Mendlesham, isn't it .'' I
do dote upon Mendlesham, don't you } I always
say Verdi and Mendlesham  Verdi and Men-gresham
 nothing like 'em ! "

After every one was gone, little Miss White,
whose delicate thread of sound had been entirely
swamped in a duet she had sung with a very
violent dark gentleman with a tremendous bass
voice, was persuaded to let us hear her again, or
indeed, as might be said with more justice, tolet
us hear her for the first time, for before she
had literally only been seen to sing. She accompanied
herself in a number of little romances
which were quite charming  the greatest merit
of all being that she understood her own means
thoroughly, and never attempted what she could
not do to perfection. There was not much

passion, but I declare this absence had become
an absolute relief to me, and although the voice
was rather thin in quality it had plenty of accent,
great sejithnent, and the most exquisite finish.
Mrs. Rupert and herself were the only real
artists I heard, and the former is, more's the
pity, not to be heard often ; she lives out of
town, and therefore is not counted among the
regular well-known London musical amateurs.
I could not help remembering the affluence of
other days. Lady Jane, Lady Caroline, Mrs.
Harley, and Mrs. Wilmot  all first-rate, and all
habitually singing music that very few professional
singers of the present day are at all
able to cope with. The same evening, having
been invited very kindly to tea by my banker's
wife, I had the gratification of hearing her
daughter sing, first, the well-known tenor song
of " Maria, Maria," from Flotow's opera of the
same name, which she had, unfortunately, found
some means of adapting to her own voice, and

then, "Non ti scorner di me," the romance of
the man in the tower, and then a friend of hers,
with a fine contralto voice, gave us " II bale,"
the bass song out of the same opera. After these
three pieces, I made a futile attempt to depart,
but was nailed by the mistress of the house, who
would mount guard over the door and kept her
eye well upon me, and I was condemned to
come back again and listen to what was called a
duet  accompanied on the piano by the daughter
of the house, and performed, I cannot call it
sung, between Miss Whickers, and her own
concertina, which took what ought to have been
the part sung by the tenor voice. Nothing can
ever come up to the extraordinary effect produced
by this singular entertainment. Miss
Whickers was a middle-aged young lady of
fervid temperament, with a short thin eager
figure, and a very long red nose ; and what with
her own passionate adjurations rendered even
more irresistibly comical by her personal appearance,

and the heartless, dumb responses, always
a little out of time and never quite in tune, of
the concertina, with which, apparently, without
any rhyme or reason, she would suddenly begin
to play an ecstatic sort of game at pitch and toss,
I was worked into such a state of nervousness
by the ludicrousness of the spectacle that I felt at
last as if I must have given way to some extraordinary
manifestation or other : dashed down
the piano  or flown at the concertina  or kissed
Miss Whickers. At the conclusion, while my
hostess was for an instant engaged with thanks
and applause, I contrived at last to slip out, and
as I hurried down, whom should I meet upon the
stairs but my old acquaintance Mr. Hepworth. He
was grown very old indeed, but he had a marked,
peculiar face, and I knew him again at once. I
inquired if he had kept his voice and still sang.

"Well, no," he said; "my boys don't care
much for my music, they think it old-fashioned
and dull."

Have any of them inherited your fine voice ?"
said I ; " are they at all musical ? "

"Yes," he replied, "the eldest plays waltzes
on the cornet-piston, and the youngest sings
the Christy Minstrel melodies, and accompanies
himself on the bones. He does it everywhere ;
he's going to do it here to-night : he's doing it
at this very moment at another musical party 
that's why he's late ; but he'll be doing it herein
five minutes. I'm so sorry you won't hear
him." I couldn't echo the sentiment, but hastily
bade him good-night, and thanked my stars for
my escape.

During these ten days in town I seemed to
be living in a chronic state of musical burlesque ;
for after having been stunned and deafened one
day by hearing choruses sung in a space for
which they never were intended, and were quite
unfit, I went on another to an enormous public
room to hear trios and quatuor of Beethoven's
and Mozart's, led by the unrivalled Joachim, and

some of Beethoven's sonatas played with exquisite
delicacy and feeling by Halle, who, having
devoted himself principally to this order of
music, executes it to perfection. The public
was essentially a non-fashionable one, and, on
the whole, behaved and listened very well. But
the want of concentration, which is absolutely
essential to the perfect enjoyment of this music,
called especially musica di camera  chamber
music  made itself painfully felt in this great
public hall. How I longed for a magician's
wand to make the unwelcome crowd vanish, and
to find myself listening to these great men and
their great interpreters, comfortably seated in a
small space, with about a dozen intimate friends,
all animated v/ith the same love and reverence
for these heavenly compositions, where the proportions
of the room would allow the forte
passages really to appear loud, instead of falling
feebly and thinly into unlimited space, and
where the more delicate and tender inspirations

would receive their full value and charm, and be
felt profoundly and mesmerically by an assembly
consisting only of a chosen few, all tuned to
the proper pitch of acute sensibility : this fine
delight in the hearts of all, forms a subtle atmosphere
most propitious to the best efforts of the
artists themselves, who, undisturbed by the
banging of doors, the audible whispers about
places, and the prosaic rustle of non-conducting
silks, would give back a hundred-fold what they
received.

The fact is, that although this divine art is
so generally cultivated, and apparently so much
enjoyed, in reality it is neither properly appreciated
nor sufficiently reverenced in England ;
in order that it should be so, an early apprenticeship
to the highest class of music is absolutely
necessary.

If I were the father of a family all the
members of it should learn music. Almost all
children have naturally good ears, and can

catch tunes easily ; and, strange to say, they
are able to master the mysteries of time much
better at an early age than they do later.
Both girls and boys should be taught to play
upon the pianoforte ; which, although it wants
the power of melting one sound into another 
that touching human effect that some other instruments
possess  is invaluable as bringing
almost every variety of music within reach, and
permitting one, through arrangements and adaptations,
to become acquainted to a certain degree
with nearly all the thoughts of the greatest
composers. At a more advanced age I would
have them learn the grammar of music, thorough-bass
and harmony. The knowledge of the
principles upon which the greatest men worked,
and the examination of the manner in which
they worked, would be a study of great interest,
and could but add to the admiration
with which they were regarded.

Those of my children who might happen to

be great musical geniuses would only build the
better for building upon such a foundation ; and
those who were not, having been taught by their
early studies what real greatness is, and by the
same process to comprehend what real littleness
is also, in default of the charm of talent
would probably achieve that of modesty, and
instead of becoming indifferent executants,
would resign themselves to being intelligent
and understanding listeners  a race of which
the world stands greatly in need. And let no
one imagine that this is to be accomplished at
an undue cost of time which would be better
devoted to other things. Much more time is
habitually given to an unsuccessful and incomplete
musical education than this would require ;
good teaching and one hour and a half  no more
of daily practice, made the Miss Grahame
the accomplished pianists they were ; and the
steady reading of one single line of new music
every day would very soon secure to any one

who chose the invaluable power of playing with
facility at sight.

When musical education is conducted upon
these principles, we shall no longer have music
fit only for the theatre brought into our drawing-rooms,
and our delicate drawing-room music
exiled to places for which it is entirely unsuited.
The effeminate slothfulness which makes people
content to go on having their ears tickled by
the old, beaten, worn-out forms from which
such life as they ever possessed has long since
departed, and leads them to seek those gratifications
which make the least possible demand
upon their own intelligence, will give way to
the wholesome desire of a nobler pleasure at
a nobler price, and they will gradually become
willing to give of their best to the right understanding
of the works of great men. Our
musical entertainments would also undergo a
considerable revolution in the matter of their
duration ; in proportion as they grew purer in

quality, they would inevitably become curtailed
in quantity ; for it would be simply a moral
and physical impossibility to give of one's best
for the same number of consecutive hours that
are now consecrated to a something  I will
not call it music  which appeals to not one of
the higher faculties of our organization.

So, by degrees, our desire to feel and understand
would bring with it its own reward, ina
fruition of understanding and feeling, daily
growing broader, deeper, and finer, until we
could not fail to reach at last the most healthy
of all musical and moral conditions  that in
which we shall love most the thing which is
best. Now to love anything sincerely is an
act of grace, but to love the best sincerely is
a state of grace. We cannot, however, hope to
attain to these serene heights without considerable
and consistent exertion of our own, for
it is undoubtedly with the muscles of our minds
as it is with those of our bodies ; the healthful

exercise of them doubles their strength, while
those that are not used as they were given to
be used, gradually wither away into premature
impotence. "For unto every one that hath
shall be given, and he shall have abundance :
but from him that hath not, shall be taken away
even that which he hath,"  a saying, the eternal
wisdom of which is as universal as it is eternal
and which, if true as regards our worldly possessions,
is yet more profoundly so as regards
the precious faculties of our souls.

VOL. 11. 20

It struck six by the stable clock, on the 31st
August, 1834, as Richard Leslie drove up to the
door of Brankleigh Manor House. As is often
the case in our moist country, July had been
a month of incessant rain ; laying the dust,
tempering the heat, and preserving all the
tender vitality of June to the usually drooping
leaves of August. After a three-years' sojourn
in the south of Italy, the sight of the dewy
pastures, the grand old trees, and all the wonderful
freshness of the English green, filled our
traveller with delight. The whole road down
from London had seemed to him one uninterrupted
well-ordered garden; and the air of peace
and well-being, the prosperity of the whole

landscape, brought the young man to his
journey's end with a sensation of satisfaction
in the land to which he belonged, and to himself
for belonging to it, not altogether unknown to
Britons, travelled and untravelled.

Tall footmen, gorgeously apparelled, opened
the door ; and a sublime butler, mildly grand
and protecting deferential, ushered him into
the library, informing him that Mr. St. John
was out upon the farm, and the ladies driving,
but that he believed all might soon be expected
home.

Left to his own devices, Richard Leslie wandered
out across the lawn, along the lime
avenue, and into an old-fashioned yew walk, a
favourite haunt of his before he went abroad.
It was of considerable extent, and in the centre
of it, cut out of the solid green, was a rustic
arbour, which had often been a pleasant refuge
to him when, on former visits, the guests with
which the house was peopled were not to his

mind  a misfortune which befell him in many-houses,
and perhaps oftener in this than in any-other.


As he walked slowly along, dragging his feet
through the long grass that he might both hear
and feel the soft fresh tangle, sounds from the
summer-house reached him that made him stop
and listen.

Sing fourteen ga-dit-thu slain ! slain ! "
sang a loud child's voice, with a shrill, tremulous,
prolonged moan upon the last word that
went thrilling through Richard Leslie's fibres
as he stood and listened, and that was interrupted
by an equally prolonged and dolorous,
but less melodious, howl from a dog, which
evidently, with the singer, occupied the arbour.
Good darling, to sing so prettily ! Now
again, my own Boguey  slain ! slain ! " moaned
the child, and " Uwhoo " wailed the dog in
concert.

Higher, my own, higher. Screw it up  it

isn't in tune," said the voice, again holding and
vibrating upon the last long note ; while the dog,
with an almost human endeavour, pitched his
voice to hers, and at last made the unison
perfect. A shower of loving epithets and
caresses crowned the successful effort. Richard
Leslie crept softly up to the summer-house, and
peeped through a crevice in the wall. On the
floor knelt a young girl, who might be about
twelve years old. Opposite to her, upon a
throne of moss, sitting up upon his hind legs,
was a brindled mongrel, long in the body, short
in the leg, with a broad flat head, eyes that
glowed like a couple of living coals, and a row
of sharp fangs of dazzling whiteness which
made one feel instinctively that it would be
better to secure him for a friend than have him
for an enemy.

She placed a daisy crown upon his head, and
a sceptre of foxglove between his paws, and
then, sitting back upon her heels, contemplated

him with ecstasy, exclaiming in accents of rapturous
tenderness 

Oh, darling ! how clever you are ! Could
you really be the devil, darling ? "

Richard now burst into a fit of uncontrollable
laughter. The dog precipitated himself out of
the arbour, barking violently, and followed by his
alarmed instructress, who found herself suddenly
lifted off her feet and kissed very heartily on
both cheeks, before she discovered in the unwelcome
intruder one who had stood her friend in
many childish troubles, and comforted her when
there had been none else to comfort her.

"Why Nelly, you absurd little urchin, don't
you know your old friend Dick again ? Has the
southern sun baked me so brown that even the
Queen of the Gipsies won't own me ? Come
here and let me look at you, child. Why, you're
not a bit changed  I don't believe you've
sprouted half a quarter of an inch in all these
years that I have been away." He took both

her hands, and held her from him, while he
looked at her; then, drawing her close to him
again, and passing his arm kindly round her
shoulder, said, as they walked on together 

Poor little Nell ! I'm glad to see you again.
Why, how old are you now, child ? "

Fourteen, Richard," said the girl.

Impossible ! " returned he ; " why, you look
short for eleven ! "

"But I was eleven when you went, Richard,
and it is three long years since then."

"And what have you been doing with yourself
ever since I went } vegetating here the
whole time 1 "

No, Richard ; I have been to schools."

What schools } " asked he, amused at the
vague plural of the answer.

"Well, I went first to Miss Varney's, but they
sent me away for telling Bessie Condor that
my real name was not St. John, but Fane. And
so it is, Richard : you know mamma's name was

Fane, so was poor Angel's too  she was always
called 'the beautiful Angel Fane'"

Richard Leslie's colour deepened through the
brown during this speech.

And then t " said he, after they had walked
on in silence for a few minutes.

"Well, then I went to Miss Pritchett's. But
the girls used to get up again at night to seeme
act ; and one night, just after the Christmas
holidays, Miss Pritchett came in when I was
doing Undine. I had got such a beautiful tub
for the fountain, and was standing on a stool in
the middle of it, covered all over with one of the
sheets, which hid the stool and made white
drapery ; and little Emmy Nicholls was down
behind, where she couldn't be seen, with several
jugs of water, which she was emptying drop by
drop into the tub, to make the trickling of the
fountain, you know. Well, luckily, the candle
was on the drawers within my reach, and the
moment we heard Pritchett's door go, I blew

it out, and held the burning wick tight between
my fingers, that there shouldn't be any smoke
or smell to betray me, standing all the while
like a statue breathless on my stool ; and I
don't believe we should ever have been found
out but for Miss Thompson, who always couldn't
help crying when I came to 'rand now farewell,
false, but too dear ! " and who sobbed so loud
under the bedclothes that Miss Pritchett heard
her. Dear little Emmy Nicholls lay as still as a
stone, though she had taken one of the pitchers
into bed with her in the agony of the moment,
and the icy water was running all over her.
Miss Pritchett said she couldn't think of keeping
me after that ; so then they sent me to Mrs.
Bridgeford's, as that was a serious school, and
they thought I should perhaps learn to be
better there. But oh, Richard ! that was worst
of all ! " and the little maiden stopped short as if
overcome with the recollection of the enormities
which she had committed.

Why, what happened, there, Nell ? anything
much worse than acting Undine, and catching
your death of cold ? "

"Well, I am afraid it was much worse,
Richard. You must know, that every day Mrs.
Bridgeford made us learn a chapter in the
Bible by heart, and when it was about Joseph
or Samson, or any of the stories, I could
always say mine quite perfect ; but one day I
had to say the first chapter of St. Matthew, all
about who begat who, and I couldn't get the
names into my head and was turned back twice ;
and it was a holiday, and we were all to have a
treat and take our dinner out into the woods
by Farley, and Mrs. Bridgeford shut me upto
learn it all by myself, and said I shouldn't
go until I had got it quite perfect. And while
I sat droning over those dreary names, to make
it more lively, instead of saying begat, I called
it Bead, practising the brogue like old Teddy,
the rat-catcher, and when I came to say it to

Mrs. Bridgeford, nothing would come out but
'Obadiah bead Manasseh.' 'What?' Mrs.
Bridgeford said 'What, Miss St. John 1 What
did Obadiah do .? ' ' Bead Manasseh,' said I,
with the brogue, which I had studied so hard
that I couldn't get rid of it. And then her nose
began to get scarlet, and to swell as it always
did when she was vicious ; and screwing up
her lips very tight, she said in an awful sort
of a low slow whisper, * Recollect yourself, I
beg. Miss St. John. What did Obadiah do
by Manasseh } ' Oh Richard, I was horribly
frightened, but I do believe the devil possessed
me, for with a sort of wild screech I answered,
Bead 'em,' with a greater brogue than ever.
And then she sent me to my own room with the
Bible for the rest of the day, and I sat at the
window and saw all the girls go by, with their
cold meat in their little baskets and their nosegays
in their bosoms ; and when they had all
turned the corner of the lane that leads up into

Farley woods, I got quite desperate ; and oh,
Richard ! I ran downstairs into the kitchen, and
I stuffed the Bible into the fire, and rapped cook
over the knuckles with the poker when she tried
to get it out. And so I was sent home again ;
and after some time I was placed at Miss
Whitehead's. But one of the girls, who had
been a pupil at Miss Varney's when I was
there, knew me again, and told Miss Whitehead
that my name was Fane, and she said she
could not let me stay  I wonder why 1 
but that it did not much matter, as I couldn't
learn anything. And so now I have left
school for good, and ]airs. St. John makes
Coningsby teach me to do needlework and
dress hair ; and Coningsby says that, as I
can't learn to be a governess, I must be a
lady's maid."

"A wkatf' said Richard.

"A maid  somebody's maid. I think I'd
rather be a cook, though, than that."

I'll speak to Willoughby St John about it,"
said Richard Leslie, hastily.

Just then, voices from the lawn, which they
were skirting, warned them that the ladies had
returned from their drive, and Nell, darting suddenly
with her beloved familiar up a dark path
which led through the stable buildings to the
back entrance of the house, left Richard to present
himself to the party alone.

CHAPTER 11.

As those who read this book will probably
desire to know who the little being was whose
position at Brankleigh seemed so anomalous,
and whose refractor* temper, combined with her
apparent incapacity for study, rendered her
education a matter of so much difficulty, we
will go back a few years, and explain the circumstances
which had led to her becoming an
inmate of that unhomelike home.

Willoughby St. John had a brother, by some
years his elder  ]\Iackworth St. John who had
gone into the army early in life, and who had
passed the best part of his youth in India.

During his absence, Willoughby St. John had
become a rich man ; he had invested largely

and luckily in some newly discovered mines and
speculated successfully in many ways : and when
Colonel St John came back to England (about
seven years before the commencement of our
story) he found his brother in the enjoyment of
a large fortune, possessor of Brankleigh Manor
House, and just married to Miss Augusta
Champion, a lady considerably younger than
himself, and the daughter of one of our wealthiest
bankers.

People who stay away a long while, had better
stay away altogether. It would be difficult to
describe the disappointment of the wanderer's
return. In his far-off exile, he had had leisure
to remember his friends ; in their busy worldly
life, they had found time to forget him. The
few relations left to him, and to whom he clung
with all the affection which those alone can know
who for years have thirsted for home and country
in a foreign land, appeared to love him in a very
placid abstract sort of manner. He was asked

to dinner a few times on his first arrival in
London, but having no other stories to tell, he
told Indian stories, and they were rather long,
and nobody was amused by them, and people
didn't care to have him again.

He hurried down to Brankleigh, imagining
that there he was to pitch his tent for months 
years if he liked ; but after a very short while he
found that Brankleigh would never be a home
for him. The fair Augusta was vain, hard,
unloving and unlovable ; and Willoughby St.
John's apathetic indifference about everything,
and above all, his entire submission to the little
narrow rule of his dry, worldly better half,
irritated and disgusted the poor exile. He had
come home with a heart overflowing with affection,
and a morbid degree of romantic feeling,
and people in England did not quite understand
or like it : it made demands on them, and
they thought it troublesome and rather ridiculous.
In short, the place he had known knew

VOL. II. 21

him no longer ; and our poor colonel, feeling himself
nothing but a solitary stranger in his native
land, and finding time hang heavy on his hands,
betook himself to Paris, and established himself
in a pension there ; made acquaintance with
those who lived in the house, and those who
dined at the six o'clock table d'hote ; passed his
days strolling drearily enough up and down
the Boulevards, and his evenings at the small
theatres. It was an aimless, profitless, melancholy
existence, but soon to be changed by a
touch of the great magician's wand into one of
new and all-absorbing interest.

Early one soft spring morning, about a week
after he had been installed in his new dwelling,
the sweet sounds of a fresh young voice floated
down to the colonel's apartment, where he lay
between waking and sleeping. The music did
not rouse him at first  it mingled with his
dreams ; and it was not until the servant brought
him his hot water, and that he still heard it in

the intervals of the noise the man was making
in the room, that he felt certain* that he was
awake, and that somewhere there was a woman
singing. On, on the young voice went  scales,
shakes, exercises, and then the last air of the
Sonnambula," which put the finishing stroke to
our poor colonel, who to all his other tenderness
added a passionate love of music. He donned
his dressing-gown, and went out upon the balcony
to reconnoitre. The sounds came from a
small window belonging to the entresol immediately
above his own apartment.

Every day and at all hours did the sweet bird
sing and the colonel listen. There were no new
faces at the table dote and none of those he
was already acquainted with could, by any
human possibility, belong to that flexible tender
downy voice. The most intricate passages were
studied with indefatigable perseverance until
they were executed with an almost fabulous
degree of perfection. Who could she be .'' The

little window soon engrossed all his thoughts.
It looked a happy little window  the sun always
seemed to shine upon it. On the sill stood a
white double stock and a pot of mignonette, and
close beside them hung a bullfinch in a wicker
cage.

By dint of constant observation, he ascertained
that three persons inhabited this apartment.
Sometimes an odd-looking child brought a bit
of sugar out to the bird ; and when it began to
rain, an old French boime would come and take
the cage in ; and once or twice, when the colonel
was in luck, a slender tall girl, with what seemed
to him the sweetest face on which his eyes had
ever rested, had appeared at the window and
given some water to the thirsty flowers. Upon
inquiry he found that she was English  une demoiselle
Fane, who together with her little sister
and old bonne tenanted the tiny entresol, and
who was studying singing under one of the most
celebrated professors of the day. The mistress of

the house had nothing but good to say of them.
They lived entirely alone, and received no visits.
They were very poor  " Mais acres tout, monsieur,
la pauvre n'est pas un crime," observed
the good lady, and the money for their rent
was always regularly remitted by Monsieur
Guillaume, the French gentleman Who had
placed them there, and who appeared to be
their guardian.

CHAPTER III.

That he might the better enjoy the music
which had begun to be the event of his Hfe, the
colonel used now to have his breakfast set out
upon a little table in his balcony, Those were
balmy enchanted May mornings when he sat
there in the sunshine, little gusts of soft spring
wind bringing down to him the delicate scent of
the stock and mignonette, mingled with the
accents of that voice which seemed white as the
stock, fresh as the mignonette, more delicate and
tender and fragrant than either. It was a voice
of little power or extent : if the windows were
shut, the piano quite drowned it ; but it had an
indescribable sweetness and touching quality of
youth about it, that made the eyes fill as one

listened. The first day that Colonel St. John
was sitting out upon his balcony, he heard a
voice from above whisper, "Jacky, viens done
voir ! He has got his breakfast on the balcony
he has got rolls, he has got eggs, he has got
honey : don't it look good ! " Colonel St. John
looked up : the child was peeping down at him
from above. The old Frenchwoman came for
an instant to the window and tried to draw her
away, but in vain. She laid her arms upon the
window-sill, and leaned her chin upon them,
and when the colonel raised his eyes again, he
saw her still in the same position, observing him
with motionless attention.

She was about seven years old ; her head was
large, or seemed so from the heavy masses of
auburn hair which were wound round and round
it in loose thick braids, that seemed to have
neither beginning nor end. The face was square,
and of an immovable gravity ; the eyes large
and very dark ; they never seemed to wink like

other eyes, but remained steadily fixed upon
him with a sort of slow scrutiny, which, combined
with the motionlessness of the little figure,
made him feel a nervous desire to make her
speak, or smile, or move. He looked up and
laughed : the wide eyes gazed down at him 
preternaturally dark and solemn they looked,
peering from underneath those auburn tresses, 
but she gave no sign. He kissed his hand: still
the sphinx-like face gazed down at him, but
immovable, observant, and gravely stern as
ever. He held up a bit of sugar, and made
signs to her to catch it: she made no answering
gesture. He threw it up, and it nearly hither
chin : but she never even flinched or
winced, and it fell unheeded back into the courtyard.


The two following days it rained ; the window
of the entresol remained closed, and Colonel St.
John breakfasted indoors.

The third morning the May sun shone unclouded,

and the little table, with its coffee,
rolls, and eggs, was again arranged in the
balcony. The window above was wide open,
and the indefatigable voice at work  scales,
trills, solfeggi,  and the bullfinch in an ecstasy
of envy, straining every nerve to emulate its
mistress. Lo, too, the small sphinx, in the
same attitude as when he had last seen her 
silent, motionless, intent. He turned his chair
away from her as much as possible, with a slight
movement of impatience, and began the morning
micah ; he had, however, not proceeded far
with it, before he felt something drop like a pea
upon the little cap he wore to protect him from
the sun. Before he had time to ascertain what
it could be, it was withdrawn, and he became
suddenly aware of a piece of string dangling
close down by his ear, with a little knot at the
end of it, which he then discovered to be the
object which had struck his cap. Looking
hastily upwards, he saw the child, with the same

grave visage, slowly point to his breakfast. He
touched the rolls.

Do you want one of these, little one } " he
said.

She laid her finger on her lips, glanced
cautiously back into the room, and then again
pointed sternly and imperatively to the table.
He touched the rolls again : she shook her
head, but the finger still pointed. He touched
the butter-dish : another negative with the
head, but the finger not withdrawn. There was
a plate of the long thin Piedmontese biscuits
called rossini on the table ; when he showed
her these, she nodded repeatedly, with a sort
of angry gravity, and vehemently jerked the
string close to his ear. Greatly entertained, he
fastened the biscuit to the end of the cord, and
she drew it up and ate it, apparently with extreme
satisfaction, but without ever removing
those very uncomfortable eyes from off her
benefactor. As soon as she had demolished

her biscuit, she lowered her string again, and
recommenced her game of pointing. This time
it was for sugar. He fastened a lump to the
cord, and saw her presently divide her booty
with the bullfinch, after which she withdrew,
making no sort of acknowledgment, either of
pleasure or of gratitude.

Every day now there appeared some new
and tempting dainty on the colonel's table,
and every day did his strange little neighbour
let down her string and share his good things
with him ; never, however, exceeding the quantity
she seemed to have prescribed to herself
from the beginning. One cake, and one lump of
sugar scrupulously halved with the bullfinch, was
all he ever could induce her to accept. After
a few days she took it into her head to make
him little offerings in return ; the string announcing
itself by a bang from some parcel
more or less heavy with which it was laden.
One day it was a bunch of violets ; another

time, a tiny pin-cushion, which, by signs, silent,
cautious, but wonderfully intelligent, she made
him understand she had worked for him herself ;
once, a piece of Gruyere cheese descended, carefully
enveloped in a hundred bits of paper ;
and one day there flopped upon his shoulder
a square packet of red gold, recklessly shorn
from the sunny treasure with which the little
head was crowned. She gave him all she
could  she gave him all she had. She had
got to know his hours, and the time at which
he might generally be expected home for
dinner, and was always at the window to greet
his return with her presence. Still she never
smiled nor spoke, and our colonel would probably
have never achieved a further degree of
intimacy, but for a trouble which befell the
little sphinx, and which, as troubles will, taught
her to know her friends.

CHAPTER IV.

One day when Colonel St. John went to his
breakfast, he was very disagreeably surprised
at not hearing, as usual, those sounds which
he had grown quite accustomed to look upon
as the necessary accompaniment of his meal.
He looked up in vain for his small friend  the
bird was not there, the window was shut. It
remained so the next day, and the next. It was
a Friday, and Colonel St. John, hurrying out,
went to the corner of the street and waited
there in a state of unspeakable anxiety. He
had discovered that three times a week  on
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays,  at about
half-past twelve o'clock, the elder of the two
girls, accompanied by her little sister and the

old bonne, was in the habit of going to take
her singing lesson ; and he had often stood,
where, hidden by a friendly porte-cohere, he
could see the slim tall girl pass by, in her
modest suit of faded black, with her large
music-book under her arm. To-day, however,
he waited in vain. Half-past twelve  one
o'clock  half-past one struck; the colonel turned
back again to the pension with an indescribable
foreboding of ill. He asked the concierge for
the key of his room, and then inquired if the
ladies who occupied the entresol had left the
pension, as he had heard no singing for the last
three days.

Non, monsieur," was the reply. " Ces dames
y sont toujours, mais la petite demoiselle est
bien malade, elle a la rougeole."

The moment Colonel St. John reached his
apartment, he seized pen and ink, and wrote
the following lines, which he immediately despatched
to the floor above.

"A fellow-countryman, hearing that English
ladies in the house are alone and in trouble,
ventures to offer any assistance that may be
in his power. Has the little girl any amusing
books ? Would she care for pictures ? Does
she love flowers ? Colonel St. John does not
know whether he can be of any service, but
implores Miss Fane to forget that he is a
stranger, and to command him if he can."

In answer to this missive the servant brought
back word that Mademoiselle de St. Arian
would have the pleasure of coming down and
speaking to Monsieur le Colonel herself.

In about ten minutes the ante-room bell rang,
the door opened, and Mademoiselle Judith de
St. Armand was announced, and, to the unspeakable
amazement of the colonel, the little old
bonne of the entresol stood before him, no
longer in the striped camisole in which he had
often caught flying glimpses of her, hurrying

backwards and forwards, sometimes with a
pipkin in her hand, sometimes with a broom,
engaged in the homely avocations which constituted
her daily employment, but rouged upto
the eyes, and attired in a faded lilac silk
dress, of the scantiest and most antiquated
make, and whose short proportions displayed a
pair of knotty little feet in elaborately sandalled
prunella shoes. Her little withered visage was
literally buried in an enormous yellow bonnet,
covered with roses ; in one hand was an old pink
parasol, in the other, she carried a gigantic
snuff-box. She ambled rapidly into the room,
and then stopping, as it were, with a modest
surprise, executed with infinite grace and dignity
two or three curtsies worthy of the days of the
mefiuet de la coiir. In a dialect, half French,
half English, which the colonel had considerable
difficulty in comprehending, she thanked him
with effusion for his kindness, and offered him
her snuff-box, repeatedly solacing herself with

its contents, while, in the floweret language,
she informed him that his letter had arrived at
the most auspicious moment, and had relieved
them from a very painful embarrassment. She
told him that ever since the fever had set in, the
poor little child had been possessed by a frantic
desire to see him ; that they had endeavoured
to divert her mind from this strange fancy, but
that yesterday, her irritability increasing with
her illness, she had refused all nourishment, and
met every attempt to soothe or amuse her with
passionate cries of ''Je veux le colonel  je veux
le colonel." Mademoiselle Judith therefore
ventured to entreat Monsieur le Colonel, since he
had been so kind as to offer to help them, to
come up and see the poor little invalid who had
taken, how and why they could not imagine,
such an extraordinary caprice for him ; at
present, after passing a wretched night, she had
fallen into a sort of troubled doze, but if towards
evening, monsieur le Colonel would have the

VOL. II. 22

goodness to pay them a little visit, both she and
Mademoiselle Fane would feel " eternellement
reconnaissance " for such an act of kindness.

Have you good medical advice for her ? "
interrupted the colonel.

Monsieur, je I'ai purges," replied Mademoiselle
de St. Armand, gravely ; then, playfully
covering her old visage with one hand while her
little diamond eyes twinkled and winked at him
through the spread fingers :

Hah ! " said she : " should I have blessed
the English conveniences t But you will forgive
 c'est le coeur qui a parle." Then taking
his hand and tenderly pressing it, the little lady
rose to depart, backing out of the room, and
repeating at intervals the gracious and majestic
obeisance which had adorned her entrance, and
which she always apparently directed to an
imaginary circle before her. Her dress, her
manner, the wonderful grandeur and condescension
of her demeanour, the long words she

delighted to use, and the evident desire which
she had to impress him with an idea of the
importance of the family to which she belonged,
left the colonel full of conjectures as to what
their position in the world might really be. We
will at once tell the reader what he only learned
gradually during the course of a growing
intimacy.

CHAPTER V.

Angela Fane, or as she was always called at
home, Angel Fane, and her little sister Judith
were the daughters of a gentle, honest, hardworking
musician, who was engaged in the
orchestra of one of the great London theatres.
He had married an Italian woman who sang in
the choruses, and who died after bringing the
little Judith into the world. In all the distress
of their loss, no one had much heeded the poor
babe, whose arrival had heralded so terrible a
misfortune : her birthday was a day of mourning,
and all the joyful celebrations which usually
usher in a new life were got over as briefly and
unimportant as possible. She received the
name of Elena in memory of her mother, and

that of Judith from the attached friend in whose
arms that mother had died, who had held her at
the font, and who had tended and nursed the
poor forlorn little baby with all the passionate
devotion of one who has few to love or to beloved
by.

In palm' days of former years, Judith
Cabanou had been known as Mademoiselle
de St Armand, and had been rather a successful
mime in the old ballets d'aciion which are
gone out of fashion now. Have you ever lived
among actors } Have }-ou ever known any of
them really intimately? Probably not  for
those who are not what is called '' in society,"
live in a little enchanted world of their own,
made up of illusions and hard work, into which
the inhabitants of the other worlds in the world
seldom penetrate ; and those whom we occasionally
meet in agreeable houses, rarely allow one
to pierce much below the surface. All that is
better or worse in them than in other men, lies

hidden, and all that you perceive is merely a
gentleman very much like other gentlemen, only
rather more genial, rather lighter in hand, and
perhaps speaking rather better English than
most of the other gentlemen at table.

I do not mean such men as , or ;

we all knew them  they were great artists and
exceptional men. How handsome they were !
what winning voices they had ! A chivalrous
quality was theirs too, which made them adored
by all weak creatures  women and children
loved them. They had something of the humour
of vagabonds, something of the fancy of poets,
the tastes and habits of grands seigneurs, and
the manners of most pleasant gentlemen. No
when I talk of actors, I mean the men of
their class, who have never risen above it, nor
mixed with anything out of it. If you have
lived among these people, did you ever know
one who had not had one great moment at least
in his career ?

Every actor  from Hamlet, down to the man
who, with a mean throat, knock-knees and a short
cloak, acts guest at a ball, or tells my lord duke
that his carriage waits  lives and dies in the firm
conviction that at some period of his life, his
genius has been the sole prop of a falling fabric,
that through his efforts alone, at some time
or other, some theatre or other has been
rescued from imminent perdition, some author
crowned with laurels, due only to his interpretation
of the drama.

The only one I ever knew who did not nourish
this valuable illusion, was a poor fellow who
fancied that he could act Shakespeare, and who
passed his life in coming out as Romeo. He
had an invincible lisp, which used to make the
people laugh, and was regularly hooted off the
stage whenever he came to the passage, " How
thither thweet hound loveth' tongue by night."
He called upon me the day after he had failed atone
of the great houses ; he told me in a perfect

frenzy of passion that " both actors and
manager were in a bathe conthplrathy, thir, to
thwamp the greatest dramatic genius that the
age had produced ; but I'll tail for America,
thir, by heaven I will, and leave thigh mither-able
old huthk of a decrepit world to rot in itt
own helplethneth ! " Poor fellow ! when I returned
to England after a few years absence, I
found he had died in a madhouse, of vanity and
disappointed ambition.

The triumphal moment in Judith Cabanou's
existence had been the production of a ballet,
called " La Fiancee de la Montagne," in which,
after leaping upon a table and firing off six
pistols, thereby putting to flight a whole regiment
sent to capture her bandit husband, she
suddenly with indescribable rapidity (shedding
one dress after another as if they had been so
many skins) appeared first in Spanish flounce
and mantilla, and pranced a cachucha to an
accompaniment of castanets ; then, as a Neapolitan

villanella, rushed wildly, tambourine in hand,
into a tarantella ; then danced a pas Tartare with
clicking heels, aided by the whole corps de ballet;
and finally, on the dispersion of the middle
group by which she had been for an instant surrounded
and concealed, was discovered with a
turban, which with incredible velocity she had
contrived to clap upon her head, balancing
herself upon some cushions in an attitude of all
but impossible muscular difficulty, grinning and
leering topsy-turvy at the pit, in a pose that
appeared to set the law of gravity and every
other law, natural and conventional, at defiance.
T\vLpose was the child of her invention ; she loved
it, and called it " Le Rev de I'Odalisque ;" and
she used to go home to her hard bed in her dingy
lodging a proud and happy woman, after seeing
the curtain fall upon her creation, enveloped in
Bengal fires, and pelted with bouquets bought
by the manager and herself, amid the plaudits
of an enthusiastic if not enlightened public.

But Time, the conqueror, did not spare her.
Those fierce bold big bright eyes sank in their
orbits, until the eyes and orbits together looked
like a huge pair of spectacles. Those legs, so
straight, so round, so firm and yet so soft, a
perfect model of form, grew thin and stiff, and
jerked about like two melancholy little old cork
legs. She could not get engagements, and
finally accepted the humble emploi of dresser,
rather than not in any capacity belong to that
Garden of Eden of all actors, a theatre. She
attached herself warmly to Mrs. Fane, whom
she was in the habit of dressing, and when the
former left the stage, Vvhich she did some short
while before the little Judith was born, the poor
Cabanou came home with her, and fell at once
into the position of friend, nurse, counsellor, and
servant in one ; and as Mrs. Fane kept her alive
with green-room gossip and the history of all
the cabals and intrigues of the players, she contrived
for some years to lead a tolerably happy

existence, in spite of what she used pathetically
to call "le gout amer des gloire passes''

About a year before the commencement of their
acquaintance with Colonel St. John, 3.1 r. Fane
had died of consumption, and his situation at the
theatre being all he had had to depend upon, his
children would have been left entirely destitute,
but for a certain ]monsieur Guillaume, a lodger in
the same house, Who, having the greatest opinion
of Angel's musical capacity, had come forward
in the handsomest manner in the hour of need,
had offered to take upon himself the care of the
whole family, and had brought them all to Paris,
where he had placed Angel under the most
celebrated master in the place, merely observing,,
in the noblest way, that she must work hard, for
that to her future triumphs he should look, to
repay him for all the money he eras expending
upon her maintenance and education.

CHAPTER VI.

In the evening, Colonel St. John rung at the
door of the entresol, laden with books and toys
for the sick child. He found the little home
even more humble than the appearance of its
inhabitants had led him to expect ; but the
place, though poor, was bright and cheerful.
How should it be otherwise, with sunshine, birds,
flowers, and children within it . How should it
be otherwise, with sweet Anselm Fane within it }
How shall I describe this tall, fair child  so
very tall, so very fair, so very childlike,  so
joyous, gentle, eager, and, alas ! so weak, that
every little exertion or emotion left her panting
and breathless, and overcome with palpitation
of the heart .- She was only just seventeen, and

already five foot five. Her lithe young figure,
too slight to require any artificial support,
swayed and bent with every movement, like
some tall sapling with the wind. Her face was
round, and perfectly colourless, without looking
in the least unhealthy. '' Non era pallidezza, ma
candor." Her whiteness was not of alabaster,
it was like cream, or " pale primroses ; " it had
the texture and hue of flowers, and was relieved
by little unexpected veins of tenderest violet.
Her eyes were grey, with long black lashes ;
sweet eyes, gentle and shy, that twinkled, and
seemed almost to vanish away with merriment :
add to this, sweet lips often parted to laugh, and
showing the whitest, events, handsomest teeth
in the world, and you have all that I can give
of Angel Fane. She had not long recovered
from a rheumatic fever, and had been obliged to
have her head shaved ; so she always wore a
little round muslin cap, exactly like a baby's,
fitting to the shape of her head, and whose

snowy shillings sat close round her sweet face,
making it look still more delicate and baby-like.
The short hair that peeped from beneath the
cap was auburn, and threw amber shadows of a
vague and exquisite softness upon her temples.

The ice once broken, and the colonel installed
by little Judith's bed, he hardly quitted it until
she was herself again. She would lie for hours
with her little hot hand in his, while he told her
interminable stories of giants and fairies ; and
though he seldom left her without bringing back
something to divert or please her, she hardly
would suffer him out of her sight for half an
hour together.

The days of her recovery were happy days
for these poor children. Attended by the faithful
Jacky  that was the familiar name by which
Mademoiselle de St. Armand was known in the
bosom of her family,  they all went to St. Germain,
where the colonel took lodgings for them
for a week. Happy days were they, too, for the

poor lone man, whose heart, ice-bound so long-was
now fast having in a sort of paradise of
tenderness. These friendless young things
attached themselves very readily and Warmly
to one whose only thought seemed to be of what
might give them pleasure. When they returned
to Paris, he passed all his evenings with them.
Jacky was always of the party  an uncompromising
chaperon, who considered herself
arrayed in full evening costume when she had
whipped off her apron, and stuck a very old rose
in her ragged grey locks. The colonel now had
frequent opportunities of hearing Angel sing ;
and the oftener he heard her, the more impressed
did he become with the conviction that
she never would possess the physical strength
requisite for a public career. How would that
thread of a voice, that hardly carried across the
room, ever make itself heard in the large space
of a theatre } She executed with the precision
of an instrument the most difficult and intricate

passages, but besides being deficient in power
she was also entirely deficient in what may
sometimes be made to take the place of it 
dramatic expression. The passionate Italian
music, with which her master crammed her, said
absolutely nothing to a nature in which the
senses were either non-existent, or entirely
dormant ; consequently, she could not make it
say anything to any one else : her sentiment 
such as it was  seemed all to lie in the natural
colour of her voice, which in its sweet weakness
went straight to one's heart, one knew not how.
The whole creature was touching  why, one
could not tell, for she was not by any means
remarkably intelligent, and anything but sentimental.
Essentially light-hearted she was,
although taxed above her strength, and never
sad except for being scolded by her master, or
prevented by Jacky from doing some trifle that
everybody else did, and which therefore she
always imagined she had strength for, until she

tried it and broke down in the attempt. Perhaps
one felt so tender about her, because she
always looked younger than any one else ;
perhaps, too, one had an indistinct foreboding
that her thread of life was too fine and delicate
for the hard uses of so rough a world.

One evening, that the colonel was as usual
sitting with them, he asked Angel to sing him
what she Alas at that moment studying with
her master.

Oh, dear colonel," she said, " don't ask me.
I sing It too horridly ; and, what is worse, I
never shall sing it any better. Monsieur was
quite furious with me to-day ; he said, ' Vous
eyes froide comme une glace,' several times, and
looked so disgusted with me ! I suppose I am,"
she added, with a little laugh, '' for though I
have been working at it ever since I came home,
it doesn't get a bit warmer. There ! " she continued,
opening the romana of the " Montecchi
e Capulet" and showing it to him, "I do pretty

VOL. II. 23

well till I get to this bit, ' Con quale ardor
t'attendo ! ' and then he always goes off in a
frenzy. To-day he seized me by the shoulders
and shook me, asking me all the while if I had
never attended any one ; and then he called
me a legume, and looked so desperate and
funny, that I could not help giggling, though
really I wanted to cry. And that, of course,
made him crosser than ever, and he said, ' Allez,
je dirai a Monsieur Guillaume que jamais vous
ne ferez rien.' But though I really do try, I
don't see how to do it a bit more than I did
this morning. I never did attend any one but
you, dear colonel, and as you are sure to come,
I never fuss about it, you know."

Ah ! " said Jacky, " but a day will come even
ze coeur will dire his petit mot."

I'm sure I don't know how it should," replied
Angel, laughing, " unless one of Judy's
fairy princes comes down the chimney and
carries me off. I don't believe I shall ever have

anything but fathers  and I'm sure I don't want
anything else, with two such dear old fathers
as Monsieur Guillaume and you, dear colonel ! "
and she put her hand affectionately into his.
Jacky scowled, as she had a peculiar way of
doing whenever ]Monsieur Guillaume's name
was mentioned : the colonel smiled a melancholy
little smile, looked at the little hand that
lay in his  and let it go.

She opened the piano and began : when she
came to the passage in question, she stopped,
and said, " He sang it himself, too, to show me
how it ought to be ; but I'm so stupid, I quite
forget how he did it. Oh, this was it, I think ! "
And she sang.

No it wasn't. Angel," said little Judith, who
was busy building card houses in a corner of
the room ; '' I know how it was, and it wasn't so."

"Well then, show us, Judy," said the other
girl, " if you know how so well."

He stops upon ' ardor,' and you don't ; and

then he seems glad with a sort of gladness ;
and when he begins at first, he is quite sad,
and you don't do that right either. This is how
he does it."

The little creature stood up in the middle
of the room, with her arms crossed upon her
breast, in an attitude of profound melancholy.
So she sang the first few bars of her song ; then
slowly opening her arms with a gesture of
strange grace and pathos, she stretched them
longingly into the air, while, with glowing
cheeks, and her little frame shaking from head
to foot with emotion, the words burst forth 
Con quale ardor t'attendo ! "

The colonel and Angel went into fits of
laughter at the extraordinary energy and passion
of the small creature ; but Jacky seized her up
in her arms and covered her with tears and
kisses, saying, " Laisse-les rire ! tu seras grande
tu seras grande ! Je t'apprendrai le *Rev de
rOdalisque ! ' "

JO

CHAPTER VII.

From this time forth, the little Judith's acting
became one of the constant entertainments of
the evening. One day the colonel would tell
her a fair* story, and the next, she would act
it for him from beginning to end ; often making
her audience laugh, while she herself cried with
her own intensity.

The contrast between the two girls was very
remarkable ; the complete difference of organization
appeared in everything. Jacky informed
the colonel that Angel took after her father,
while Judith was all her mother  the same fire,
the same passion, the same natural gift of acting,
which seems only to belong to southern

people. The one single, common inheritance
appeared to be the auburn hair, which came
to both from the English side : but even here
there was a difference in the very temper of the
hair ; Angel's being so soft and fine that it
could do nothing but lie flat ; while the little
Judith's, if unbound, stood up and out miles
away from her head in crisp Avaves that made
it look like a stiff glory, and it could only be
kept in order at all by plaiting it all over.

The vein of difference ran right through the
two characters, and was perceptible in all they
did, and all they did not do. Colonel St. John
could not delight Judith more than by presenting
her with any sort of glittering trumpery
with which she could adorn her little person ;
beads, above all things, made her supremely
happy ; indeed, she never could act, unless she
had contrived for herself something in the way
of a costume which she thought appropriate to
the part that she was going to play. In general.

too, she put her things on in a fantastic way,
always sticking somewhere or other a bit of
colour that made her look picturesque.

Angel, en the contrary, never wore anything
but black, and that of the simplest fashion, and
the only presents the colonel could ever induce
her to accept were flowers, especially violets,
of which she was passionately fond, and of
which the little room now was always full. She
used every now and then to make feeble attempts
to tear off the rags with which Judith
vv'ould bedizen herself ; but she was no match,
morally or physically, for that exceedingly rebellious
little personage ; and small was the
assistance she received in the matter from
Jacky, who herself nourished at heart a secret
taste for the tawdry, which peeped out wherever
there was the smallest loophole. Besides, with
Jacky the child always had her way. She
was so quick, so eager to learn, so apt at
seizing all that was taught her  Jacky sympathized

with her as an artist, and doted on
her as a daughter. In virtue of her nation,
Jacky was an excellent cook, and into the
mysteries of this science too did she initiate
the little Judith, who was never so happy as
when she was allowed to cook something for
the supper of her beloved colonel. She would
then appear in a long white pinafore, which
covered her from head to foot, with a white
handkerchief pinned round her head in imitation
of a cook's cap, and would come in thus
attired, and serve with the utmost gravity the
dishes which she had dressed.

But, alas ! to all pleasantness there comes an
end, and those happy days of innocent joys and
simple affections were fast drawing to their
close.

One morning, as Colonel St. John was going
out, the concierge presented him with a note
from Angel Fane ; it contained these words : 

Dear Colonel,

Monsieur Guillaume has arrived, and
Jacky insists upon my writing to beg you not
to come to us this evening. She says that you
and Monsieur Guillaume would not suit each
other, and that it would never do ; but I cannot
help thinking that he would be pleased to make
your acquaintance, and I am sure you would
like one who has proved himself so true a
friend, such a noble benefactor to the poor
children you are good enough to care about.
What would have become of us, where should
we be now, but for him t However, as Jacky
says so, I suppose you had better not come till
you hear from us again. Good-bye, dear colonel ;
we shall be so dull without you. Jacky is
always so cross when Monsieur Guillaume is
here  nothing goes right ; and Judy won't open
her lips to him. The blot is a kiss from Judy.
Your ever affectionate

Angela Fane.

Colonel St. John went to a play that evening,
but found the return to his old habits, after so
long an interval, unspeakably irksome and un-pleasurable.


Early the next morning he sent a heap of
fresh violets upstairs, and received in reply the
following welcome words : 

A thousand thanks, dear Colonel. Monsieur
Guillaume goes to-night ; pray come.
Your grateful

Angela Fane.

At eight o'clock in the evening he stood once
more before the little door of his earthly paradise.
He heard a man's voice within, and Jacky,
who let him in, informed him that Monsieur
Guillaume was there  come to take leave. On
entering the room. Colonel St. John was painfully
struck by Angel's appearance. She was
lying on the sofa ; her eyes gleamed with an

unnatural and feverish brightness, and there
were two spots of vivid hectic colour on her
generally pale cheeks. Her manner was nervous
and restless, and she seemed altogether ill at
ease. She seized the colonel's hand with
trembling fingers, and raising herself with an
effort, called to Monsieur Guillaume, who was
standing in the window with his back to the
room, conversing in a low voice with Jacky.

Monsieur Guillaume ! I want to introduce
my English friend, Colonel St. John, to you."

He turned, and Colonel St. John beheld the
orphans' friend, and about as repulsive a specimen
of a human creature as it had ever been
his fortune to encounter ;  narrow-chested ; high
shoulders, upon which descended a shock of
dim unwholesome-looking hair ; a head as flat
as an animal's ; hard little green eyes ; no nose
whatever to speak of; an interminable space
between the nose and mouth ; the mouth a
long hard line, with scarcely any lips at all

Here was the Monsieur Guillaume that Angel
Fane loved !  an essentially mean, cruel, shabby-creature,
In spite of his clothes, every article
of which shone with a bran new lustre. He
wore gold rings in his ears, and when In a
husky, discordant voice he had performed his
civilities to the colonel, and offered him an
extremely dirty hand, the impression was
complete.

The colonel attempted to be amiable, and
spoke of the pleasure he had received from his
admittance to the house, and the delight he
took in Angel's singing.

She has no strength  no lungs," said Monsieur
Guillaume. " She must go to Italy, and
exert herself, and get strength : she has no
-energy."

When he went, Jacky bade him farewell
with a face of thunder. Judith was repeatedly
called for, by her sister, but she had not appeared
at all during the visit, and was not

forthcoming at the departure, when required.
The only person who seemed sorry to lose him
was Angel. She got up to bid him good-bye
she gave him his hat, she gave him his stick,
she gave him a bunch of those violets which
the colonel had sent her.

You seem to be spending a fortune in
flowers," said Monsieur Guillaume, passing his
dingy hand roughly over the faces of the violets
on the table, and knocking some of them out
of the vase in which they stood.

No, indeed," answered Angel, eagerly and
deprecatingly ; " it is Colonel St. John's kindness
that procures us this pleasure."

"Ah  very good  very good," said Monsieur
Guillaume with his hoarse toneless voice ; " a
very pretty present to make a woman  and it
don't cost much. I always give flowers when
I can get women to take 'em ; they don't cost
much. You can get nosegays for half the
price the second day, and they're every bit as

good. It's a pretty present, and It don't cost
much."

As soon as the door was shut, and that
Jacky, who had gone to let him out, reappeared
in the room, a tremulous motion began
to agitate the table-cover, and Judith slowly
emerged from beneath it.

"What, have you been there all the time,
little one } " said the colonel, laughing.

"Yes," answered the child; "I didn't choose
to be kissed by that dirty nasty man."

Oh, for shame, Judith ! " said Angel, flushing
crimson again with annoyance. " How can
you speak so of Monsieur Guillaume .? "

He is dirty  he is nasty  he smells bad 
and I hate him," returned little Judy sturdily,
nothing daunted by the unwonted expression
of Angel's displeasure.

Cette enfant le devine, monsieur," said
Jacky in a proud whisper to the colonel, 
elle le devine ! Yesterday, when he will embrace

her, she crashed him to the visage. Ah,
monsieur ! quelle ange que cette enfant ! " And
she took a pinch of snuff, and complacently
contemplated the amiable infant, who was now
fondly nestling in the colonel's breast, with
her cheek tenderly pressed against his.

Oh, Jacky, I can't bear it ! " again broke
out poor Angel ; " indeed I can't bear to hear
you speak so. Oh, colonel, Judith has been
so naughty, and Jacky has been just as bad,
encouraging her the whole time ! No one has
been decently civil to him, and we owe him
everything. Why, every bit of bread we have
eaten for the last year and a half has been
his ; and I think it quite wicked to behave
so to him : I think it quite wicked of Judy to
like people only for their looks, as she does,
to hate poor Monsieur Guillaume because
he happens to be plain, and to like you
just because you are not." Here Angel burst
into a passion of tears, and could with great

difficulty be quieted and made to He down
again.

The child's instinct was a true one, and no one
who had ever looked at the two men, could have
doubted it for a moment. Colonel St. John was
thin, tall, and straight, and held himself particularly
erect. His face expressed great determination,
but there vas nothing whatever dogged
about it. Something a little sad there was in
the face, perhaps something a little haughty :
but the mouth, that smiled seldom, was inexpressibly
sweet when it did smile ; and the eyes,
though dark and piercing, were kindly, and
looked honestly and fearlessly into those of the
people he spoke to. At a glance you could see
that he would be a fast friend ; and if an enemy,
though a bitter, yet a loyal one.

He learned from the indignant Jacky that the
previous day, as soon as Monsieur Guillaume
had set foot in the house, he had made Angel
sing to him for nearly two hours ; that then she

had had a retiring lesson with her master;
Monsieur Guillaume in attendance, and reproaching
the professor with giving short allowance
of time ; and that in the evening, again, he
had brought with him three or four theatrical
agents to hear her ; that she had been frightened,
and had broken down from nervousness and
over-fatigue, and that he had been much displeased,
and told her that she wanted zeal, and
did not work half hard enough.

He does not know how weak I feel sometimes
! " said poor Angel, wearily ; " but he says
we are all to go to Italy in the autumn, and
spend the winter there : isn't it so kind and good
of him ? Last winter I had nothing but colds,
and coughs, and inflammations, and couldn't
sing at all ; and then I got my rheumatic fever,
and oh ! there was such a doctor's bill ! I think
perhaps it is because I keep growing so, that I
can't get my strength up. Oh, dear colonel, I
do feel so very, very tired sometimes, and as if

VOL. II. 24

I did long so to sit on mother's lap again !
It seems as though no place could rest my
bones but that. Isn't it ridiculous of a great
maypole like me, to want my mammy, just
for all the world like a little baby ? "

She tried to laugh, but two great tears
rolled from her closed eyes all down her face,
and trickled along by the side of her quivering
mouth.

The poor child was fairly worn out  the
benefactor's visit did not seem to have diffused
much happiness over the little circle.

CHAPTER Vii

The summer went  the autumn set in. Towards
the close of November, Monsieur Guillaume
wrote to desire the children to pack up
and be ready.

They were to go to Naples, where Angel was
to become a pupil of the Conservatoire, then
under the direction of the great Presenting.
Colonel St. John was to hear from them immediately
upon their arrival. He had never seen
Italy, and had determined to make his desire to
visit that country a pretext for following, with
as little delay as possible, those who now made
up to him the sum and substance of what is
understood by the words  family, home,
happiness.

He waited more than a month for this promised
letter ; and then, sick of the sickness of
hope long deferred, sailed straight for Naples.
At the Conservatoire, at the post-ofhce, at the
Politic, he made inquiries, but could learn
nothing. After a couple of months spent in
fruitless anxiety and vain suspense, he started
for Rome. Here too, he was equally unsuccessful.
From Rome he proceeded to Florence;
but nowhere could he obtain news of the travellers.
What was his amazement one day at
Florence on finding the following passage in a
Malignant two or three weeks old : it was in a
paragraph which gave an account of an Easter
piece that had been recently produced at the
Adelphi, and ran thus : 

Nothing can exceed the magnificence of the
decorations, and the splendour of the transformations.
The descent of the Spirit of Truth,
who unmasks the wicked Prince, and terminates
the piece by giving the lovers to each other, was

truly magical in Its effect. The part was performed
by i\Iiss Angela Fane, her first appearance
on any stage. The fair dcbiUantc was
evidently labouring under severe indisposition,
and the music allotted to her was obliged to be
omitted. Her extreme youth, and surpassing
loveliness, and the taste and elegance of her costume
excited universal enthusiasm, and at the
end of the piece, the beautiful Angel Fane was
rapturously called for. The few words she had
to say were unfortunately quite inaudible, but
this was doubtless occasioned by the timidity
attendant upon a first appearance, as well as by
the cold and cough from which she was evidently
suffering severely. Her reception was very flattering,
and we venture to predict to the young
lady, when she shall have recovered her self-possession
and the full command of her powers,
a successful and brilliant career."

It was the end of April before Colonel St.
John arrived in England. He hurried to the

Adelphi theatre, and there found that poor
Angel's triumph had been but short-lived : she
had acted but that one night, and had been ill
ever since.

Having with some difficulty procured her
address, he proceeded immediately in search of
her. The house was a dismal abode in one of
the dark narrow streets running down from the
Strand to the river. He was admitted by a
dirty little maid-of-all-work with a wall-eye, who
told him what door to knock at on the second
floor.

He knocked at the door : it eras opened by a
squalid child, with thin wan cheeks ; but there
was no mistaking those unrivalled masses of
auburn hair and the lustrous eyes beneath them
once more he held in his arms the Judith of his
heart. Uttering a sharp inarticulate cry of joy,
she covered him with kisses, and dragged him
into the room. In one corner of the poverty-stricken
chamber stood a dingy bed : in it, lay

the wreck of all that he loved best In the world.
Too weak to utter, she looked at him with
grievous wistful eyes, and put out two tremulous,
hot, skinny hands to greet him. Colonel St.
John could not take them : he tried to speak,
but the words choked in his throat, and covering
his face with his hands, he burst into an agony
of tears.

The sad historical soon told ; he heard it
from the faithful Jacky, who, reviled and ill-used
by monsieur Guillaume, had never abandoned
her poor children. They had never been
to Naples, but had remained at Milan, where
Angel had studied at the Conservative under the
tuition of Vaccai. She had written several times
to Colonel St. John, at Paris, and they could
only account for his never having received the
letters by the supposition that monsieur Guillaume
(who nourished a secret apprehension
that the colonel might end by marrying Angel)
had destroyed, instead of posting them. He

had then brought them all to England, and
endeavoured to get an engagement for her at the
Kinsf's theatre : but her voice was found to be
perfectly inadequate to the space that she Alas
called upon to fill, and he then closed with a
proposal from the manager of the Adelphi
theatre, where he hoped that her physical
attractions might make up for her want of
vocal power ; and it was settled that she should
dcbiLter in the Easter piece of which Colonel
St. John had seen the notice in the Galigiiaiiis
Messenger. She had been taken seriously ill,
however, about a fortnight before the piece
came out. She was positively driven out of her
bed by Monsieur Guillaume to make her first
appearance in public ; and the attack, increased
by the fatal exposure to cold, had turned to
violent inflammation of the lungs. For weeks
she had hovered between life and death ; she
was now a thought better, but had lost every
atom of her voice, and the doctor had said that,

Oo

even if she recovered, she would never be able
to sing again.

Monsieur Guillaume was quite beside himself
with rage at this unlooked-for termination of
what he had expected was to be a lucrative
speculation. He had lately become the manager
of one of the public gardens, which were just
then beginning to come into vogue ; and he
vowed, that as soon as Angel could sit up, she
should go and keep one of the champagne
booths with which the place of entertainment
abounded. " Je lui ai bien dit que cela trait
mon enfant, monsieur," said poor Jacky, With
her apron to her eyes ; '' mais il a rendu,
qu'elle serve d'enseigne, puisqu'elle ne pent pas
servir a autre chose ! "

Colonel St. John saw Monsieur Guillaume
but once again ; this was when, for the sum of
three thousand pounds down, he signed an
agreement to forego all further claim upon the
unfortunate child whom he had murdered.

As soon as Angel could be moved they all
started for Italy, travelling by slow short stages,
so as to fatigue her as little as possible. She
was very entirely happy once again during the
last few weeks of her life ; but the happiness
had come too late.

She died about ten days after they reached
Rome, in Colonel St. John s arms, and it was
only by the look of peace that suddenly came
upon her poor worn face that they knew that
all was over.

She is buried in the protestant cemetery at
Rome. "Angela Fane, aged eighteen years," is
all that tells of her who lies there. The grave is
a very retired spot, where few people ever find
it ; but the evening sun shines upon it, the
birds sing there in the early spring, and it is
covered with a profusion of violets.

Sleep, Angel Fane ! the flowers you loved
are growing round and over you ; sweet airs
of spring kiss the soft turf that covers you ;

hard words and cruel looks no more shall
grieve you : now, only loving eyes of pitying
spirits greet you. Peace to the struggling
breath, the panting heart, the fevered brain !
Out of our toil, and noise, and glare, sleep in
the eternal shadow of your mother's arms !

Sleep, sweet Angel Fane ! your tired limbs
lie in the quiet earth  your weary spirit is at
rest with God.

When Colonel St. John returned to England,
Jacky and the little Judith accompanied him.
The child had become more than ever dear to
him : he adopted her, and gave her his name,,
to the extreme disgust of Mrs. Willoughby
St. John, who never mentioned him except asa
lunatic who ought to be in Bedlam, or a
reprobate who ought to be in a penitentiary
health, which had suffered considerable
his long residence in India, had not been
improved by all he had gone through since his

return to Europe ; his doctor advised country
air and field sports, and so he took a small
house in the village of R , in Northamptonshire,
and hunted. Judith was sent to a sort
of little genteel day-school, kept by the postmaster's
sister ; but she taught all the children
to act, made them study their parts instead of
learning their lessons, and vigorously and steadfastly
rejected the crumbs of intellectual nourishment
with which Miss Minchin vainly endeavoured
to provide her.

One day, when the insurrection was at its
height, Colonel St. John was called in to quell
it. He found Judith with a gold paper crown
upon her head, frantically brandishing a hearth-broom,
and exclaiming, " I won't be clean  I
won't be tidy : I'll be grand and dirty and
beautiful, and I'll never do another sum as long
as I live ! " Miss Minchin said her girls were
getting quite bewildered by the play-acting and
fairy trash with which she had contrived to

infect them all  the pupils older than herself,
as well as those younger. Miss Minchin meekly
wiped her gentle long nose, and tearfully observed
that, in the long run, she felt it tell upon
the sums. And so the public corrupter of school
morals was withdrawn from the establishment,
and remained at home, running wild about the
village ; very idle, very happy, and very generally
beloved. She was helpful to the old and
poor ; the champion of all the oppressed, human
or animal ; the sworn friend of all the black
sheep in the place, and the constant companion
and firm ally of old Teddy the rat-catcher, who
worshipped the ground she trod upon, taught
her to fish and to birds-nest, and who made hera
present of a most hideous brindled mongrel
of the terrier breed, which he had himself
trained to rat-hunting, which Judith christened
Boguey, and which was the delight of her
existence.

But it seemed as if the poor child vas doomed

to be torn roughly from every place in which
che began to strike out a root. After they had

been settled about a couple of years at R ,

Colonel St. John fell from his horse out hunting.
He was brought home by a Mr. Leslie, a friend
of his brother Willoughby St. John's who was
staying in the neighbourhood at the time, and
only survived the injuries he had received, long
enough to tell Richard Leslie to take the child
and her attendant to his brother Willoughby.

I have left him all  give him my love  I
had meant to provide for the child, but this
death has been so sudden  he has everything 
tell him to provide for the child." These were
the last words of the only friend poor little
Judith possessed in this great wide world.

CHAPTER IX.

When Richard Leslie communicated the sad
event, and his brother's last words and wishes, to
Mr. St. John, great was the domestic dissension
that ensued. Willoughby St. John's affections
had got crusted over by money-making, and
worldly living, and above all by the deteriorating
influences of his married life : but he had
once been young, and with the tidings of his
brother's death came back tender remembrances
of their boyhood, when they had been dear
companions, and a remorseful recollection of
the apathy and neglect which had coloured his
relations with him ever since his return from
India. Ah ! that bitter word. Too late !  most
of us know it.

A parcel of horrid strollers !  It is out of the
question that they should come to Brankleigh ;
I never heard of such a thing," said Mrs. St.
John.

"Poor Mackworth ! Tic loved them ! " replied
her husband in a hoarse voice.

It was only a part of the eccentricity which
marked every action of his existence. Who, but
he, would ever have thought of going and living
in that disreputable sort of pray out of his own
country, and travelling about with a pack of love'
vagabonds } "'

The less said about that, I think, the better,"
answered Mr. St. John, with an unwonted degree
of bitterness. " If he had met with more
brotherly love from me, and something more of
a sister's welcome from you, he wouldn't have
been driven to seek affection in other places."

'' Affection indeed ! " retorted Mrs. St. John :
the young lady seems to have known very well
what she was about, and we may think ourselves

uncommonly lucky that she died before he could
disgrace the family still more by marrying her."

I shall write, and desire them to come without
delay," observed Willoughby St. John.

You had much better do no such thing,"
said she. " They had much better not come
at all, since it is quite out of the question that
they should remain here."

*why, Augusta," answered her husband, "I
should have thought that the child might have
proved an object of interest both to you and
me, as we have none of our own. I shall write
and tell them to set off immediately, and I
make it my particular request, that when the
poor things come, you will receive them in a
proper manner."

Mrs. St. John was a tallish woman, with a
certain share of insignificant good looks. She
had dark, staring, utterly meaningless, glassy
eyes, and tolerably regular features ; but it was
the hardest face in the world, and the voice

VOL. II. 25

matched it. When she was sixteen, it was the
voice of an old worldling of sixty, and it had
not improved with years. She wanted charm
of every kind, and distinction completely. Her
complexion was the least good thing about her ;
but as at night she looked showy, and was
always dressed in the extreme of the newest
fashion vulgar people generally thought her
both handsome and elegant. She was fond of
fashionable entertainments, and liked to go to
anything that royalty sanctioned, or of which

Lady A was one of the lady patronesses.

She regularly visited all the exhibitions, except
those of the old masters ; and had a box at the
Opera, for she thought she liked music. Every
season, too, she had a concert at her own house
in Portman Square. Costa conducted it, and
she always had the singers who were most run
after : but, as her manner was alike devoid of
grace and kindliness, they hated going there, and
generally sang indifferently. She had an idea

that she showed both fashion and morality by
keeping what she called " people of that sort "
at a distance. She had a laughably exaggerated
idea of her own importance, and in her
intercourse with all her fellow-creatures (her
friends included) was always anxious  to use
a favourite expression of her own  that they
should " keep their proper place."

This was the woman to whose tender mercies
poor Jacky and her little charge were to be
made over. Anything that in dress or manner
happened to be at all different from what she
was in the habit of seeing, appeared to her,
therefore, necessarily ridiculous, or morally reprehensible
; and the old woman and the little
girl were peculiar enough in all their ways.
Heaven knows, to offend the conventionalities
of which she was the high priestess upon earth.
She had, besides, an underbred way of never
being at her ease with persons whom she thought
either superior or inferior to herself in social

position; and it was a sort of disagreeable
sensation, that generally engendered a feeling
of dislike in her.

Her sister-in-law, Miss Louisa St. John, had
been asked down to Brankleigh to help her
through her painful task on the day on which
the travellers were expected ; and both the
ladies wept, and both would gladly have put on
sackcloth, and strewn ashes on their heads, upon
the melancholy occasion  so greatly did they
think the house disgraced and their worldly
standing endangered by the presence of this
helpless old woman and little child. Louisa
St. John hinted that her brother's mind must
be affected, she had never known him do an
unselfish thing before.

The carriage drove up to the door, and little
Judith leaped out.

Good heavens ! " said Mrs. St. John, who
was at the window, '' look at those hideous
carrots ! "

Her own hair was black, and she believed in
no other colour.

Dearest Gussa," said Miss Louisa, " don't
have her in here just yet ; do let Coningsby set
them a little to rights first. Such a nest of a
head !  who knows ?  foreign ways, you know,
dear  better let Coningsby, dear,"  and they
were shown to their room at the top of the
house, and Coningsby despatched with a comb
and brush to their assistance : but Jacky never
permitted any one but herself to meddle with
her golden treasure ; and Mrs. Coningsby, who
had been deeply injured by being sent upon
such an errand, had to retire still more so, at
having her condescending advances rejected.

Bitter was the first week of their stay at
Brankleigh to Mrs. St. John ; and superhuman
her endeavours to dislodge them. She manoeuvred
 she stormed  she argued, but at
last, Mr. St. John fairly lost his temper, and
told her he would be master in his own house ;

and so she had to give in, at all events for the
present.

The worst of it was, that Willoughby St. John
took kindly to the child ; secretly even he did
not dislike old Jacky (Miss Almond, as the
servants used to call her). Brankleigh was such
a dull place. The old woman's queer ways and
extraordinary lingo made him laugh, and in his
heart of hearts he felt almost grateful to her for
his entertainment.

The first thing objected to in little Judith washer
hair. It was Jacky's pride and glory, and
as it was kept and dressed to perfection by her
the ladies could only find fault with the quantity
of it  which made her head look so large and
coarse, they said  and its colour. "Why not
cut it all off," cheerfully suggested Louisa St.
John one morning at breakfast, " and keep her
head shaved for two or three years } When it
grew again it would most likely be darker ; you
could stuff a small sofa with the hair  I'm sure
there's enough of it ! "

The next thing that was a source of amazement
and disapprobation was her name ; whoever
heard of such a name ? Miss Louisa said
it put her in mind of Punch and Judy ; and Mr.
St. John, who had no great flow of inventive
wit, used regularly to ask Judith twenty times
a day, whenever he saw her, " where Holofernes
was." Rather a mild joke ; but one that shocked
his wife, who was particular about religious
matters. So having discovered that the little
girl had also been christened Elena, they agreed
to drop Judith for ever, and sinking Elena into
Helen, to call her thenceforth by that name.

The great object of Mrs. St. John's life was
now to eject Jacky. The woman had been her
aversion from the day of her arrival, and everyday
grew more and more antipathetic to her.
She walked in the flower-garden with the child
without permission ; she was even once caught
picking a carnation for her ; and one day Mrs.
St. John came upon her unawares, as she was

sitting upon a particular bench which commanded
rather a pretty view of the stream that ran
through the grounds, and which Mrs. St John,
no one knew why, considered sacred to herself.

But the chief grievance of all was that, nothing
discouraged by Mrs. St. John's frigid discourtesy,
with foreign politeness the poor old thing would
hurry to her from a mile off, whenever she caught
a glimpse of her, and overwhelm her with remarks
about the weather, and inquiries after
her health, to which, more or less graciously,
Mrs. St. John was forced to give a reply ; and
more than all, deep in her heart rankled the
feeling that her presence in the house was a
living testimony of the only battle with Mr. St.
John in which she had not come off victorious :
this was the bitterest morsel of all, and she
could not digest it. Poor Jacky ! she had a
hard time of it : the servants laughed at her,
the magnificent footmen insulted her ; they pretended
not to understand what she meant when

she asked for anything. She bore it all with
unswerving civility and an angelic patience,
so anxious was she to propitiate these only
friends of the child she doted upon ; but there
came a day, a fatal day, when excess of zeal
lost all.

About six months after their arrival at Brank-leigh,
a great dinner was given to the neighbours
in honour of Willoughby St. John's birthday.
The Rector of Willesden and his wife ; the Vicar
of Worsley ; the Rev. Augustus March, with the
Honourable William Thereby, an unpleasant lad
of seventeen, with a pimply chin, who was reading
with him ; Sir William and Lady Median ;
Sir John Hammesley, and the Lady Adela
Brandon  a most odious old maid, who was
toadied in the neighbourhood in virtue of her
being a duke's daughter, who would go anywhere
to save the expense of her dinner at
home, and who delighted in making the people
who received her as uncomfortable as she

possibly could. It was quite a tip-top party ;
the guests were numerous, the food interminable,
and the function lasted more than two
hours.

At last, grace was said, dessert was placed
upon the table, and there was heavenly relief
from the creaking of the footmen's shoes ; but
the lull was only momentary  an odd jingling
sound as of bells was heard, the door opened,
and the little Helen suddenly appeared. She
wore a short white petticoat, and her legs and
feet were bound round with sandals of red
worsted braid ; high above her head she held
a tambourine, brimming over with fruit and
flowers. Softly-glowing geraniums leaned their
rosy petals against the deep bloom of purple
grapes ; large moon-faced roses were there, and
flaming sylvia mixed with the dusky barberry
and dark branches of the copper beech ; long
waving garlands of blood-red Virginian creeper
hung down, framing her grave young visage.

and Southern eyes ; and crowned with all these
fires of the falling season, and with the royal
masses of her auburn hair, which was unbound
and nearly covered her from head to foot,
she stood for a few seconds before the astonished
assembly, a gorgeous vision of incarnate
Autumn : then, slowly advancing, with a stately
obeisance she laid her fragrant treasures at
Willoughby St. John's feet. Having presented
her offering, the little creature began bounding
over the large empty space at the bottom of
the room. Sometimes she seemed to float,
sometimes she seemed to fly, sometimes she
spun round and round upon the same spot,
while her hair, driven from her by the velocity
of her motions, stood out round her like a
halo oi red light. Her vigour and animation,
her strength and lightness were beautiful to
behold. But, alas ! no one there thought them
so ; the consternation was universal and complete.
The Rector crimsoned ; the Vicar looked

another way ; the Reverend March got up and
sat down again, veiling chaste eyes with a fat
hand ; the Honourable William lay back in his
chair, and laughed till he cried  he applauded
too, he was so pleased at the discomfiture of
the clergy in general, and of his own clergy
in particular. Lady Median, after looking
steadily at the performance for a few seconds,
put down her glass, and said nervously, " Dear
me ! how very peculiar ! " The only person
who preserved her presence of mind was Lady
Adela, who put up hers, and leaning forward
from her place of honour at Willoughby St.
John's right hand, towards the other end of
the table, where Mrs. St. John sat, ready to
faint with mortification, observed, with slow
grinding nasal distinctness that could have been
heard miles off, "Well, you have given us an
entertainment this time ! " But the horror had
not reached its height : the child, feeling, with
the unerring instinct of an artist, that she was

I o

not successful, paused, and hesitated in her
dance, and, blushing to the roots of her hair,
cast a look of anguish towards the door : it
burst open, and in rushed Jacky to the rescue
attired in that Spanish costume which we have
had occasion to mention, and from which she
had never had the courage to part. Throwing
herself on one knee in the middle of the room,
she bent her body back until her head nearly
touched the ground behind her, deliriously
cracking her castanets, and waving her miserable
old arms, while she screamed to the frightened
child to encourage her. " Allons ! du
courage, ma fille ! enfonons la cabals ! c'est
a  allez ! crayons ! enlivens la salle ! "  which
indeed she did effectually, for Mrs. St. John
suddenly rose, and for the first and last time
in her existence wholly oblivious of etiquette,
swept out of the room with her handkerchief
to her eyes, followed by all the ladies of the
party. Lady Adela included, who said she was

totally indifferent to matters of precedence, but
who never forgot it, for all that.

Willoughby St. John did not pass a good night
his wife had real hysterics,  and the next day
Jacky disappeared. She took no leave of the
little one  she never could have gone if she had
trusted herself to do that : she knew that upon
these people hung the fate of her beloved one,
and without a word, without a murmur, she
made up her little bundle, great drops of pain
falling slowly down the while, and then, having
sent Helen out to run with her dog, she walked
down to the village, and took the coach for
town. The child was well-nigh frantic with
despair when she learned that Jacky was gone,
not to return. Willoughby St. John, who was
good-natured at heart, was grieved to see her
suffer so ; but the only person who seemed
at all able to comfort her was Richard Leslie,
who was staying in the house at the time,
and who became quite fond of the poor little

forlorn girl, to whom everything in this new
life was so oppressive and painful, and who
pined and faded away for the want of the love
and companionship of her old faithful friend.

But Richard Leslie did not live at Brankleigh,
and he went abroad, and the child grew more
wild and sad and sickly than ever ; and then
Lousia St. John, who although a fool was a
clever one, suggested school. This stone killed
a good many birds  it gave Mrs. St. John the
air of occupying herself about the child's welfare,
while it removed her out of her way ;
and it gave Willoughby St. John the comfortable
sensation of doing his duty by his brother
at the same time that he propitiated his wife,
while the child's health, physical and moral,
would no doubt derive incalculable benefit from
the change in her existence ; and so she went
successively to Miss Varney's, Miss Pritchett's,
Mrs. Bridgeford's and Miss Whitehead's different
establishments ; and now, as she told

Richard Leslie in our first chapter, was at
home once more, studying the mysteries of
hair-dressing under Coningsby, that she might
qualify herself at least for a lady's-maid's station
in life.

CHAPTER X.

The contents of the letter-bag which leaves
Brankleigh every evening at six o'clock : 

Mrs. St. John to Miss Louisa St. John.

Dearest Louisa,

I hope you have not forgotten your
promise to pay us a little visit in September.
We have been at home ten days now, and
our little party is already beginning to form
itself for the shooting season. The Wyndhams
and Captain Montagu are here  they arrived
last week ; and on Saturday, when we came
home from our drive, who should we find upon
the lawn but Richard Leslie! but so altered,
I think I should hardly have recognized him 

VOL. II. 26

grown so brown and muscular, so different
from the Interesting refined-looking youth he
was when he left England : I am sure he
must have been living in inferior society, or
his expression could never have changed as it
has. His manner too has become abrupt almost
to rudeness. He sits silent for hours without
any attempt to make himself agreeable, and
when he does speak, I regret to say that it
is too often with a sneer at things that everybody
respects and admires. However, perhaps
he is hardly seen to advantage by the side
of Captain Montagu, who certainly possesses
fascination of manner that belongs to very few
people. So enthusiastic, so gentlemanly, and
then so much mind ! You will have to take care
of your heart, I warn you, dear Louisa. Seraphina
Wyndham, who came here complaining extremely
of her health, has wakened up immensely
since Captain Montagu's arrival  more
than I think I should quite like in Mr. Wyndham's

place ; but I always wish to take the
tolerant view if possible  foreigners cannot be
expected to have the principles of English
people, and I strive never to forget that she is
German.

Richard tells me that his cousin, Miss Sandford,
is passing within a few miles of Brankleigh
on her way to Waverley next Thursday, so I
could not well do less than invite her to give
us a day or two. You might perhaps arrange
to come down together. I cannot say that I
look forward with much pleasure to her visit ;
there is no great congeniality of disposition
between us, and she always is so uncivil in her
manner to Serafina, that I should have preferred
having her at another time if it had been
possible. Adieu, dearest Louisa, or rather as
Captain Montagu always says so prettily, " Auf
Widersehn ! "

Ever your affectionate sister,

Augusta St. John.

Mrs. Wyndham to Mademoiselle Oppenheim.

Best One,

This is to announce the arrival of a
basket of fruit and vegetables that I have
begged from the garden here for you, and
which you will receive tomorrow. You will find
the flavour very different from what is to be got
in London.

What will my Amalia say, when she hears
that I want another box sent down immediately }
I want my blue glace, my pink crape, and the
white ribbon upper skirt with the tulle boufifantes.
Wyndham has said we would stay for ten days ;
but Brimstone Square at this season, and with
him on my hands, would try me too severely
in my shattered state of nerves, and I mean to
be here three weeks at least. Mr. St. John is
easily managed, and can be made obstinate too,
if he takes it into his head to have his own way ;
not, indeed, that I anticipate opposition in any

other quarter. Augusta is quite engrossed with
her friend Captain Montagu, and at present intolerably
good temper with herself and her
guests. A few days ago, there might have been
a little difficulty, as Captain Montagu is very
musical ; and as her voice is deficient both in
quality and quantity, and very imperfect in
intonation, he naturally preferred singing with
me ; but even that amount of slight sympathetic
intimacy which music always engenders, was
quite sufficient to impart a very perceptible
shade of acid to her customary frigid civilities.
Ah, dearest, it is not life among these icy English
hearts ! I am sick of their pretensions and
their pride ! The moral superiority with which
they are so puffed up, is nothing but a sort of
court suit to be put off and on at will : they
make use of virtue to censure and oppress every
other nationality, and I do not find that in
reality they practise it a bit more than their
neighbours. Mr. Richard Leslie is here, just

returned from Italy. The sentimental dreaming
boy has ripened into the thoughtful passionate
man. He has eyes that open new worlds to
one : elements eyes  they have the power of
fire, the depth of water, some earth too  ah, if
he loved, they might be all heaven ! He is far
above them all here, but they do not understand
him. Does my Amalia tremble for her
Serafina's peace } No, best one ! for your
Serafina is that book for ever closed. Ici
have gelebt und geliebt. Besides, I must keep
Wyndham in good humour or there will be no
Paris this winter. When next I write, I will
enclose you a receipt for pine-apple cream,
which is delicious here. Put the servants onboard
wages, dearest, and dine yourself at old
Mrs. Wyndham's as often as you can. You
can make yourself useful at backgammon and
cribbage ; besides, who would not be glad of my
Amalia's society t When you send the gowns,
you might enclose a box of chocolate bonbons

filled with maraschino cream ; they are to begot
at Very's in Regent Street. A thousand
heartfelt greetings from your fondly attached.
Serafina Wyndham.

Mr. Leslie to Miss Sand ford.

Dear Hope,

I enclose a note from my hostess, asking
you to take Brankleigh in your way to
Calvert. I hope you will come : I wish to talk
to you about that child I am so interested in,
and whom I would give worlds to help, if I only
knew how. Besides, we want something of your
stubborn element here. We live from morning
to night in a sort of vapour bath of poetry,
music, aesthetics, and metaphysics, and all of the
very flimsiest description. Our feet are never
on the ground for one single instant, and I feel
thirsty for something real. Your hearty shake
of the hand, your dear gruff voice, and the clear
blue truth that looks out so honestly and kindly

from your eyes. It can make no difference to
you to give me these few days ; besides, I heard
from Calvert this morning, and you are not at
all wanted there yet : my mother is remarkably
well, and has got the two eldest Johnston girls
with her.

The Wyndhams are here. I remember I
used to think her a sort of mysterious white
angel before I went abroad, and Wyndham
a hideous despot. Were her teeth always
black >

Yours ever,

Richard Leslie.

The ladies obeyed their respective injunctions,
and on the appointed Thursday made common
cause to Brankleigh. The house stood high,
and the carriage had to wind slowly up a
sheepish hill.

I'll get out, if you please," said Louisa St.
John, who was always frightened to death in a

carnage, and invariably requested to be put
down the moment she was off the plain.

I'll come with you," said Miss Sandford,
jumping out after her. " It will be much pleasant
walking across the park. Do you know if
there are many people at Brankleigh just now } "

"Only Richard Leslie and the Wyndhams,
and dearest Gussa's new friend. Captain Montagu,
I believe," returned her companion.
Richard Leslie seems quite thrown into the
background by the military phoenix."

What has become of the little girl who was
so strangely thrown upon their hands a few
years ago .? "

Look to the right there," answered Miss St.
John, "and if I am not very much mistaken, I
think you will see the person you are inquiring
about."

Hope Sandford followed the direction of Miss
St. John's parasol, and saw Helen stooping down
over a low stone wall at a little distance, apparently

too absorbed to heed them. Her dog was
barking furiously at some object which she was
offering to his observation.

What has she got there, I wonder } " said
Miss St. John: " something she oughtn't to have,
I make no doubt."

Oh, do let us go and speak to her," said Miss
Sandford. " I have heard so much about her
from Richard Leslie, and have always had such
a curiosity to see her."

Fruit, most likely," said Miss Louisa, following
up the thread of her reflections. "That
child does exactly what she likes with all the
sei-wants. " How d'ye do, Helen 1 " added she,
as they drew near.

The little girl hastily put the object, whatever
it might be, that had been engrossing her attention
into her hat, which, as usual, was in her
hand, and not upon her head.

What have you found precious enough to be
concealed so carefully in your hat } "

Oh, nothing that you would care to see, Miss
St. John," answered the child.

Something or other nice that you've been
wheedling out of the gardener, or purloining out
of the hot-houses, eh } Not likely to have anything
like a scruple to her back, you know," said
Miss St. John, hardly lowering her voice while
she made the last not very flattering observation.
Come, Helen," added she, *' show us the booty,
and if we do consider it our duty to acquaint
dear Mrs. St. John with the fact, at all events we
won't compel you to give up the spoil." She
made a movement to seize the hat ; whereupon
Helen, who had gradually been growing very
red under she fire of Miss St. John's various
remarks, suddenly drawing her hand from
beneath the hat, thrust the object of discussion
almost into her face.

Pray take it, ma'am, if you wish to have it,"
said she.

Good gracious ! Take it away  nasty hideous

beast ! What is it ? For Heaven's sake take it
away ! " screamed the alarmed Louisa, backing
in extreme discomfiture, while Helen in fits of
laughter replaced the bone of contention in the
crown of her hat.

"What is it?" said Miss Sandford gently,
putting her hand on the child's shoulder.

Only a poor little baby bat, ma'am,"
answered she. " I found it here, under the
wall : I suppose it has tumbled out of its nest."

She took the strange soft black creature out,
and showed it to Miss Sandford.

What a queer beast it is ! " she said. " I
don't wonder at its frightening Miss St. John.
How uncanny it does look, to be sure ! "

But isn't it lovely .''" said Helen, stroking its
back. "Look what darling little ears it has,
and what a funny little face ! "

It's like a little devil'" said Miss Sandford.

Yes  ' birds of a feather,' you know,  that's
why she likes it, depend upon it," said Miss

Louisa, who was listening to the conversation
from a discreet distance.

I suppose," said Hope Sandford, sitting
down on the wall by Helen, "that living in
the country as you do, you learn to get over
the terror and aversion we cockneys feel at the
sight of creatures we are not used to ? "

'' I don't remember ever being afraid of
insects : they are so pretty, and generally so
harmless," said Helen.

Pray, what insects do you particularly admire
} Earwigs . or cockchafers . " said Miss
Louisa, becoming gradually insolent again asher
alarm abated : Helen had put the little
beast down again, under the shadow of the wall
where she had found him.

"Well, caterpillars are often quite lovely," she
said, " and some spiders too ; and see how pretty
these are ! " she continued, diving into her
pocket, and bringing up a handful of lively
beetles of various colours. This last exhibition

fairly put Miss St. John to flight ; and rather
lucky it was, for on arriving at the house they
found that the dressing-bell had rung sometime,
and it was a cardinal sin at Brankleigh to
be late for dinner.

CHAPTER XL

When the newly arrived pair appeared in the
drawing-room, Mrs. Wyndham flew to meet
Miss St. John, and embraced her tenderly ; she
then turned to Miss Sandford, apparently with
some intention of greeting her with a similar
demonstration of affection : but that lady immediately
extended a very stiff arm right in
front of her, in a manner so ingenious and
uncompromising, as to make any nearer approach
both physically and morally impossible.
Luckily, the announcement of dinner, and the
bustle attendant upon the ceremony of obeying
the summons, covered any little awkwardness
Mrs. Wyndham might have experienced.

Serafina Wyndham's teeth were black  at

least, two of them were. One was at the side,
and didn't so much matter ; but the other was
directly in front, and spoiled her good looks
considerably. But for this defect, and a coarseness
of expression and of texture about her
nose, she would certainly have been a very
pretty woman. She was a tiny creature with
clouds of fair hair, a wonderful white skin, lovely
hands and arms, the eyes of an angel and the
feet of a baby : but here ended all resemblance
with either angels or babies.

Of a forgiving temper however, she appeared
to be, if you might judge by the amiable manner
in which, when they were all assembled in the
drawing-room for the evening, she again addressed
Miss Sandford, who appeared to labour
under a natural incapacity for accepting any
proposition that she suggested, or agreeing with
any opinion that she expressed.

How kind of her," said Mrs. Wyndham, " to
come and give up two or three days of dear

Mrs. Leslie's society for yours ! I hope you
feel as flattered as you ought, Mr. Leslie 1 "

Might there not be a want of grace on my
part," answered he, laughing, " in assuming that
Miss Sandford's presence at Brankleigh is entirely
attributable to the force of my attractions,
great as we all know them to be ? "

"Mrs. Wyndham is perfectly right," said
Hope, sturdily. " I am here almost entirely on
your account, Richard ; but for the fact of your
being here at present, I should greatly have
preferred coming later : it would have suited me
better in every respect."

"I am sure," said Mrs. Wyndham, "you
ought to be quite touched, Mr. Leslie ; Miss
Sandford not only gives you up her pleasure
and convenience, but makes you what is the
loveliest offering of true friendship  the sacrifice
even of her duties. Your dear blind mother,
who is always so much in need of her,  you see
she even gives her up for you."

VOL. II. 27

"My mother has two young friends staying
with her," replied Mr. Leslie, " and is quite able
to dispense with Hope's attendance for the
present ; and as I look upon it as her vocation
in life to be eyes to the blind, when she is not
ministering to my poor dear mother's physical
infirmity, I get her to look after the moral
vision for me a little."

You must be delighted to come into the
country after your London season, Miss Sandford,"
remarked Mrs. Wyndham, "though one
would not think, to see your beautiful colour,
that you came from town."

"Yes," said Hope, "the heat and dust have
put my face into a very uncomfortable blaze, I
know ; but I feel London most when I go there
first It does seem too bad to go into all that
smoke and dinge just as the new leaves are
beginning to uncurl in the country."

"I hate an English spring, for my part,"
observed Mr. Leslie. "The sky is always so

high and hard, and the new leaves have such a
raw tone. The autumn is the only really
beautiful season here, and our sporting propensities
always get us into the country time
enough for that."

"Partings are more tender than meetings,"
murmured Serafina, " and the poet feels all the
melancholy sweetness contained in nature's
lebewohl. There is but one word for this
pleasurable pain, and that is one of our German
words  li'ehmiith. You have, I think, no word,
that expresses it in English; but that is, perhaps,
because you also have not the feeling.

I should think very likely not," answered
Miss Sandford. " English people are generally
glad when they are glad, and sorry when they're
sorry, and don't deal in mixed feelings and confused
sensations, as I believe Germans do."

There was a momentary pause, during which
Mrs. Wyndham fixed her eyes upon Hope with
a little air of masked astonishment, and then

observed, " I suppose you speak Italian quite
perfectly now, Mr. Leslie ? It is delightful to
know many languages. Some one said that it
was like living so many different lives : not that
three or four lives would be a gift for all  for
some," she added with a stifled sigh, " one is
even too much ; but it is charming always to be
able to find an echo in some nationality or other,
for one's untranslatable feelings."

I have no untranslatable feelings," said
Miss Sandford, " and therefore find English
more than sufficient for my very limited necessities
of expression."

"But surely," said Captain Montagu, "we
should be lost creatures without some of the
words which really by common consent have
almost become incorporated into the English
language. German abounds in words which we
want and do not possess : why, oh why, have we
not a ' sehnsucht } ' "

"And what, oh what," cried Richard Leslie,

should we do to express a paradise of idleness
under a fine sky, without * dolce far niente ' ? "

I never was under any but English skies,
thank Heaven," said Miss Sandford, " and I can't
fancy idleness a paradise in any climate, or
under any circumstances whatsoever."

But * sehnsucht, sehnsucht,' " rapturously
murmured Captain Montagu ; then, taking his
guitar and leaning languishingly towards Mrs.
St. John, he warbled the beginning of " Du, du,
liegst wir im Herzen."

That used to be a duet, needn't it," asked Mr.
Leslie. " Montagu, why don't you make Mrs.
Wyndham sing it with you } It wants the
second part."

I'm sure it's much prettier with the man's
voice alone," said i\Irs. St. John sharply ; and
turning to Leicester Montagu, she added, " If
you are not exhausted by so much feeling, dosing
that charming ' Hers, mein Hers.' "

The lovely Leicester, nothing loth, gave her

an ardent look, thrummed a few chords on the
guitar, cast his eyes to heaven as if to collect
thoughts that would wander, and began.

He had a sort of little throttled tenor voice,
and couldn't sing a bit ; but it did uncommonly
well for women who did not care about music,
and who liked to be sung at : he warbled continual
abschieds and lebewohls ; all his doleful
little ditties were full of hers and misery ; and
as he knew nothing about time, and could not
read his notes, " inspired " was the epithet particularly
consecrated to him amongst his enthusiastic
female friends.

Divine ! " gasped Mrs. St. John when he had
done, throwing herself back upon the sofa and
closing her eyes ecstatically. " There, Richard ! "
said she triumphantly, " did you ever hear anything
half so lovely .'* "

"I think," answered he, "that my stay in
Italy has made me come away somewhat from
the immense admiration I used to have for the

vague in all things : my taste is more for the
positive now."

What ! " she exclaimed, quite in a small
fume, " not like German music ! I really never
did see any one so changed as you are, Richard !
Why, you used to dream away whole hours
listening to Serafina's lovely lieder before you
went abroad."

Mr. Leslie looked up with a quiet smile at
Mrs. Wyndham., whose white face and neck were
for an instant perfectly clouded over with a pink
suffusion.

Not like German music ! " Mrs. St. John
indignantly continued : " so intellectual ! so
spiritual ! so inspired ! "

Well, that is exactly what in a general way
German music does not appear to me to be,"
said he. ** In all German art, you feel more
or less obstructed by the movement of the
ponderous intellectual faculty ; even in the
commonest German ballad, and what ought

to be the very simplest expression of sentiment,
you feel the interference of their thought between
them and their heart : so different in
this respect from the songs of the people in
Italy  you don't know whether they are love
or music, and you don't hear, you only feel
them."

Oh ! " whispered Mrs. St. John to Hope Sandford,
" isn't he altered ?  become so material ! "

I really know so little about music," answered
Miss Sandford, "that it is exactly as if
you were all talking in a language that I didn't
understand."

Mrs. St. John has changed in her opinions
quite as much as I have, in these years,"
observed Richard Leslie to Miss St. John :
"surely when I went away she was frantic
about Atone, and only believed in Italian
music  but the very most Italian. What style
of music does she really prefer ? "

"Always the same," answered Louisa St.

John with a kind of meditative tenderness ;
handsome tenor  handsome tenor : no change
whatever. Dearest Gussa ! her style has always
been the same."

Have any of you ever heard little Helen
sing } " asked Richard Leslie.

Dear me ! " said Miss Louisa, " can she sing
too . We all knew she could dance, but I had
no notion that her accomplishments extended
to singing ! "

Mrs. St. John winced, and got red, as she
always did whenever that unhappy event of
former years was alluded to ; and to her it
hardly ever was, except by Miss Louisa when
she was evilly disposed, and by Lady Adela
Brandon, who at any time would walk across
any length of room for the pleasure of asking
her when she meant to treat them to another
ballet.

Did you ever hear her sing, Mrs. St. John t "
said Richard.

** No," was the answer, given in a tone of
peculiar dryness.

Well, but mayn't we hear her ? " said Hope
Sandford. " It will be a novelty for us all, as
Richard appears to have been the only privileged
person hitherto. It would be odd if, with
that handsome face of hers, there 'were not
something remarkable about it."

Well, Hope," said Mrs. St. John, " you certainly
are the first person who ever thought of
calling Helen handsome."

I beg your pardon," said Richard ; *' I admire
her immensely."

"What, with that short square figure and
enormous head } I always thought that one went
to Italy to improve one's taste, but I don't think
yours can have acquired much refinement, if you
can like that great clumsy head and heavy face ;
but perhaps it is the colour of the hair that
you admire 1 " she added contemptuously.

Well, that too," said Mr. Leslie, quietly ; " it

is so very Titianesque. Besides, I don't agree
with you about her face : I don't think it is a
heavy face. You always see her when she has
got on her good frock and company manners,
and when she feels bored and ill at ease ; but
get her out into the open with her fishing-rod or
her dog, and she is as different as night from
day. Only wait till she grows to her head  all
fine pups have big heads. She'll come out a
grand woman one of these days, take my word
for it. Do yoii think her so very plain } " he
continued, turning to Mrs. Wyndham.

The poet thinks that he finds the beautiful,
when he himself creates it," answered the slow
honeyed tones of the transparent Serafina.
Richard Leslie did not quite understand the
sentiment, but had a dim perception that he Alas
the poet, and that it was rather flattering, and
on the whole he agreed with her.

As you haven't been to Italy, Captain Montagu,"
said Mrs. St. John, rather tartly "perhaps

you won't think it artistic and original to admire
red hair ? "

If we lived in the days of chivalry," said the
beautiful Leicester, " I should sue on bended
knee for one dark tress of my lady's hair, which
I would wear round my arm instead of the
embroidered scarf that fair ladies of the olden
time used to weave for their noble knights. How
often would it go round ? " he murmured in a
low voice, as he gazed ardently at the false
plaits : " four times at least."

He certainly was a fascinating creature, that
Leicester Montagu, with his guitar, and his
flaxen moustache, and his washy chivalrous
twaddle. Mrs. St. John fervently believed in
him. She almost believed in her own plait
when he looked at it with those eyes. There
was nothing in the world that Augusta St. John
had such a genuine horror and mistrust of, as
real originality of thought or opinion ; although
she imagined that there was nothing which she

appreciated so much. She adored all sorts of
nasty little poetry, and worshipped the  third ?
no  fourth rate in art. She talked an immensity
about mind, but readily mistook for it what was
not even matter, and with a good deal of pretension
to refinement and some appearance of it,
contrived to combine a coarsest admiration of
masculine beauty. When Louisa St. John was
in a vicious temper she used to say of her sister-in-law,
" Dear Gussa ! she likes little talents and
big men ! " What she really did like best in the
world was a bad style of good-looking fair man,
who would show undisguised admiration for her
clothes and her points ; and what she liked next
best, was a tedious rector with a good memory
and anecdotes of royal personages.

But in our discussion as to Helen's looks, weare
quite forgetting her singing," said Miss Sandford.
" Do call her in, Richard ; she went by
the window there to the left, only a minute ago."

Mr. Leslie vanished through one of the long

windows that opened on the garden, and presently
returned with the captured Helen.

Now, Nelly," said he, " we want you to sing
us something."

But I don't knows anything fit to sing,
Richard," answered the child,  " nothing good
enough ; besides, does Mrs. St. John want me to
sing .? "

Oh, pray sing at once, Helen, if anybody
wishes to hear it," said Mrs. St. John, sourly ;
"we don't expect it to be anything very wonderful,
so the less fuss you make about it the
better."

Helen coloured, and in a low voice again
appealed to Richard.

Oh, Richard, what } I'm sure I don't know
what ! "

Miss Sandford, who was sitting on the sofa
near the spot where Helen stood the picture of
shy distress, made room for her, and drew her
kindly down by her side.

What have you heard her sing, Richard ? "
asked she.

We'll see presently," was the answer ; " in
the mean time the fair Serafina shall open the
concert."

He made his way across the room to where
she was sitting, giving pretty half-refusals to
Leicester Montagu, who had been for the last
ten minutes soliciting in vain.

I only sing German," she said, " and the
musical taste here "  looking at Richard  '' is
so very Italian, that "

Only mine, only mine," said Mr. Leslie,
and I am such an ignoramus that my opinion
ought to go quite for nothing ; besides, I thank
my stars I am able to like more than one good
thing, and so, liebste, generate, verehrteste, Mrs.
Wyndham, come and inspire us all, and if you
begin, I'll follow ; I'm sure that's a handsome
offer."

He stooped down and took her little hands in

his ; she looked up at him, and the vapoury
blue eyes seemed to melt and lose themselves in
the glowing brown ones like drops of dew sucked
in by the sun, as with a gentle force that lay
more in the eyes than in the hands, he raised
her out of the comfortable chair in whose depths
her little figure enveloped in cloud-like gauzes
lay buried.

God bless my soul, Mrs. W. ! going to
sing ! " said her husband, waking up suddenly
as she passed him. " What are you going to give
us, mum } Song old cow died of } " After which
marital observation he relapsed into a condition
of repose, in which, with Willoughby St. John, he
had been indulging ever since they had come in
from dinner.

Serafina gave the sleeping just one a look
that would have killed him if it could, and swept
past him to the pianoforte in injured silence.
Richard Leslie took her gloves, the tiniest in the
world, and her handkerchief, which was of a coarse

texture and saturated with verbena, and sat himself
down on a low stool just behind her. Laying
her hand upon her forehead, as if to recollect,
and giving one glance round at Richard Leslie,
who was apparently in a fit of complete abstraction,
pulling out the fingers of the baby
gloves he held, she embarked in a ''Wann
denkst du mein " of a sentimental and ordinary
description, which would have been inoffensive
enough, but for a modelling refrain which broke
out at the end of each verse in an entirely 
and uncalled-for manner. As soon
as Mr. Leslie had seen her fairly launched, he
took his seat on the other side of Helen ; she
was looking over a volume of Retsch's outlines
which Mrs. Wyndham had brought down with
her. Richard took hold of her hand  long,
brown, slender, Florentine fingers those, very
unlike the pretty little Saxon paw which he had
held the minute before.

"There, Nell," said he, "you'll have more

VOL. II. 28

courage now that some one else has broken the
ice for you ; unless indeed your genius should
be entirely rebuked by the super-excellence of
Mrs. Wyndham's performance ; how do you like
it ? "

She has a fine quantity of voice," answered
the child, "but it sounds always the same; and
the words come out just as if she had got a cold
in her head, or a potato in her mouth. I don't
like it," she said again, after a pause ; '' it's all
puddingy. Give me my hand, Richard, please ;
I want to turn over."

"Turn over with the other," he replied.
*' Heavens ! what a severe critic you are, child !
and all the more that what you say is so completely
within justice; pudding is exactly what
it is. Dreadfully fallen off, isn't she, Hope ? " he
whispered to Miss Sandford.

I never liked Mrs. Wyndham's singing myself,"
answered Miss Sandford, 'but it seems tome
to be very much what it always was, and I

remember the time when "you used to admire
it considerably more than you appear to do
now."

She sang better then," said he, rather
abruptly ; " or at all events she sang prettier
music  I hate that hideous modelling."

Please do give me my hand, Richard," said
little Nell ; '' I want it to turn over."

What has happened to the other hand, that
you can't use it 1 " again asked he.

She took it from beneath the folds of her
gown where it was lying, and under cover of the
table mysteriously produced a little pot, over
which was tied a large green leaf

No more beetles I hope, Nelly," said Miss
Sandford, edging a little away from her.

Oh no, ma'am," said Helen, '' they're not
beetles ; besides, I have got them quite safe,
they can't run away."

She lifted a corner of the leaf, and showed
them three or four glowworms ; while they were

admiring her treasure, Serafina's song came to
an end.

Exquisite ! perfectly exquisite ! " exclaimed
Leicester Montagu, who had been making the
agreeable to Mrs. St. John over the tea-table all
the time the music was going on, and who now
hurried with tea, and bread and butter, to Mrs.
Wyndham, which he gracefully dropped upon
one knee to present.

There are people who know how to make
familiarity respectful ; and there are others, who
contrive to make an action, deferential in itself,
unduly familiar : Leicester Montagu always
managed the latter; but vulgar women, who
constituted the chief of his clientele, thought all
his little under-bred graces quite too delightful
He gave bread and butter so once to Lady
Adela, who remarked audibly to her next neighbour,
" I should like to set my foot in his chest."

"Mrs. Wyndham," said Richard, "before I
went abroad, you used to sing the loveliest song

in all the world ; it began with ' Ici duke
dein,'  no, no, I remember, 'Want denkst du
mein it was ! I do wish you would be amiable
enough to sing it."

"I have this instant finished singing it,"
replied j\Irs. Wyndham in a tone of considerable
pique. " But you have either quite forgotten it,
or else you were too deeply engaged to hear it."

No, never ! " cried he, " quite impossible !
I know it wasn't that  all models are exactly
alike, but my song began with * Want denkst
du mein.' Why, I remember it as well as possible
as if I had heard it only yesterday, and it
used to be quite too lovely, so do be amiable
and sing it for me ! "

I am sorry," she answered, with compressed
lips; "but I have just sung it, and cannot,
even to oblige you, inflict a repetition of it
upon the whole society. "

I won't believe it ! " again exclaimed Mr.
Leslie. " You know I must have known it again ;

Helen, I appeal to you ;  Avhat were the first
words of the song Mrs. Wyndham has just been
singing ? "

It began with the words you said," she
replied ; "something about dcnks and meiny

How very extraordinary ! " he said, laughing
and colouring. Mrs. Wyndham coloured, but
she did not laugh. She quietly removed her
gloves from his keeping, and Without a word
withdrew, deeply offended, to the other end of
the room.

"Sing away, Nelly ! sing, sing, child, and cover
my shameful discomfiture," ejaculated Mr. Leslie
in a low voice. " Italian, French, German,
anything, but make some instantaneous noise,
for Heaven's sake. "

Helen went to the piano and sung the romance
of "Reggio d more" from the "Furioso"
of Donizetti ; during her performance of which,
Leicester Montagu was flirting with Mrs. St-john,
and Richard busily engaged In endeavouring

to smooth the ruffled plumage of the
irate Serafina.

She had left the drawing-room and wandered
into the conservatory Which opened into it, and
there he found her bitterly weeping and indignantly
refusing the attentions of old Wyndham,
who had at last woke up with the cessation of
her song, and seeing her disturbed had followed
to inquire the cause.

He left the conservatory as Richard entered it.

She will eat such unwholesome things," he
said, shaking his bald head despondingly as
they crossed upon the threshold : " twice of
that rich pineapple cream upon Scotch ale and
lobster salad,  quite sure to make her cry 
always does. Now do go and try and persuade
her to take a little soda and magnesia  there's
a dear good fellow, now do  or I shall have
her crying at intervals all through the night. "

Richard promised to do his best.

Isn't it lovely } " said Helen to Miss Sandford

when she had finished her song. Don't
you Hke it ? "

'well, I can't say I do very much," said
Hope ; "but then I know nothing about music,
you know, and can only tell what just pleases
myself. Is what you have been singing a
great favourite of your own ? "

Yes," said Helen, '' I think it's lovely."

What are the words about ? " inquired Miss
Sandford.

Love," answered the child,  " such beautiful
desperate words they are," she added, with a
fervour that made Hope smile.

"You would not laugh if you knew what
they meant," said Helen, with great gravity.

Translate them for me," said Miss Sandford,
and Helen began with Southern emphasis and
eagerness to declaim and translate for Hope's
benefit with very fair success, until she came to
the words *'Vieni, I'antico more, meade le fibre,
ingrate, tyranny idolatry," etc., which she put

Into very literal and ludicrous English by " It
burns my fibres and idolatries tyrant," at
which Hope, who had been from the beginning
restraining a great inclination to laugh, went
off into such a hearty peal as completely to
damp poor little Helen's poetical enthusiasm,
and to make her vow in her inmost heart that
she would never again scatter her precious
pearls before swine.

As soon as Hope perceived how much her
ill-timed merriment had discomposed the little
girl, she said "Dear little Nelly, you mustn't
mind my ways ; I am a thorough John Bull,
and don't understand sentiment a bit better
than I do music. Can't you find me an English
ballad out of your store, dear : the Marquis
of Montrose's love song, for instance,  now that
I do call a right good love song,  or something
in honour of that heartless good-fortnight
Bonnie Prince Charlie ? "

I know no English," replied the child, instantly

won again by Hope's frank kindly
manner. " But I can sing a real Irish one that
dear old Teddy taught me."

'And who is Teddy?" asked Miss Sandford.

"A Siberian rat-catcher, and Nell's bosom
friend," said Richard Leslie, who having made
his peace now came up to the piano.

There was an instant's pause, and then, without
any accompaniment, the young voice chanted a
pathetic Irish lament, the words of which were
as follows : 

*' I will dye my petticoat with red,
And round the world I'll beg my bread,
My parents both would wish that I were dead I
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain ! Slain !
Shule ! Shule ! Shule Agra !
Sing Agus usgarugga, Shule Agra !
When thinking on the time  ah ! it's long enough
ago!
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain !

I will sell my rock and reel,
And I will sell my spinning wheel,

An' all for to buy my love a sword an' a shiel 
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain ! Slain !
Shule ! Shule ! Shule Agra !
Sing Agus usgarugga, Shule Agra !
When thinking on the time ah 1 it's long enough
ago!
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain !

I will climb up yonder hill,
An' there I'll sit an' oiy my fill,
Till every tear should turn a mill 
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain ! Slain !
Shule ! Shule ! Shule Agra !
Sing Agus usgarugga, Shule Agra !
When thinking on the time  ah ! it's long enough
ago !
Sing fourteen ga dithu, Slain ! "

The air wandered sadly away, like the
sorrowful wandering feet the words described,
and there was a whole vague world of dreary
memory in the sort of wintry half-smile with
which the child sang the " ah ! it's long enough
ago ! " which recurs, ever more and more
dismally, in each successive stanza.

The song ceased, and Helen looked towards
Miss Sandford.

Her back was rather turned towards her, and
her head completely buried in her knitting.

Do you Hke that one better than the last ? "
at length asked Helen, timidly.

Trashy twaddle ! No, I can't endure it  a
pack of idiotic gibberish ! " she answered savagely
; then, suddenly turning upon Helen a
visage bathed in tears 

Oh, Nelly ! Nelly! " she exclaimed in broken
accents, ** what a sweet, sweet, voice you have,
child, and how it does cleave right through
one's heart ! " And jumping up with an ungovernable
emotion of tenderness, she put her
arms round the little girl and kissed her.

Richard, I'll tell you what," she said, wiping
her eyes energetically, " I call that first rate.
Don't talk to me any more of Mrs. Wyndham's
rubbish." And she blew her nose indignantly
with a trumpet-like sound. "It's first rate,

that's what it is ; and the child has made a
perfect fool of me." And she gave a last nervous
sob.

"Where in the world did she pick up that
low song ? " said Mrs. St. John, to Miss Louisa
at the other end of the room. " Can't you give
us something Italian, Richard," she continued,
in a loud voice,  "some sweet little Venetian
barcarole, to take those barbarous sounds out of
our ears } "

"And do, for mercy's sake, let it be something
a little cheery," added Miss Sandford, who
couldn't get over a degree of emotion she was
quite unused to, and angry with herself about.

Mr. Leslie, greatly diverted at the very various
impressions produced by Helen's performance,
seized hold of Leicester Montagu's guitar, and
began one of the common popular Neapolitan
tarantula, the homely refrain of which was : 

lo dare i mien carson
Per un piatto di macpherson,"

in which burthen he was joined by Nelly, whose
hands and feet and head and eyes were all set
going by the marvellous entrain of the 
melody.

It must be a serenade ? " said Mrs. St. John.
"There's something about a song  cannon means
a song, I know. Richard, what does it say about
a song? " asked she, raising her voice. " I know
cannon is a song. I'm sure it must be a serenade,"
she again said, turning to Captain Montagu.


Rather a boisterous one," he answered with
a contemptuous smile. " Leslie, aw, my dear
fellow, do tell us what's that you're singing
about a cannon"? It's in such a horrid patois
that one can't make it out" If it had been in
purest Tuscan he wouldn't have understood ita
bit better. "What's the sentiment, aw, my
dear fellow t "

Carson  carson, not canons' shouted
Richard Leslie from the other end of the room.

Fd give my unmentionables for a plate of
macaroni  that's the sentiment, aw, my dear
fellow."

Mrs. St. John instantly rose and proposed
candles and bed, murmuring to Leicester Montagu
as she passed him, that she was miserable
that his lovely instrument should have been so
desecrated. As they went upstairs Miss Louisa
kept saying to Helen, while she administered to
her at the same time a series of little pokes in
the back, " Never mind, Helen,  never mind ;
it has been a sad failure, but the fault is not
yours. It lies entirely with poor dear Mrs. St.
John. She will not remember that she can't
make silk purses out of a certain animal's ears.
She cannot do it. I always say to her, * Tracts
for the inferior classes  soup, too, if you please,
but do remember that silk purses can not be
made out of a certain animal's ears.' She has
not remembered it, and she must abide the
consequences  the fault lies entirely with dear
Mrs. St. John."

Poor little Helen ! her singing experiment
had been only just one degree less unfortunate
than the dancing experiment of former years.

Heavenly beautiful are some of the still days
of closing winter. Soft rainy sunshine lies
lovingly on the green level of distant fields.

Against a low dark heaven of almost purple
grey, the young twigs stand out in an inextricable
mesh of delicate colour. Faint lilacs,
tender browns, and where the blood mounts in
the veins of the reawakening branches, softest
crimsons, dotted here and there with the pale
green lights thrown by delusive catkins, making
one believe in newborn leaves while yet the
boughs are bare.

On these days the whole earth smells of
coming violets, and the whole air and the hearts
of men are filled with an exquisite presentiment
of spring.

Not less lovely in its own way was the

still autumn day on which Richard Leslie and
Mrs. Wyndham were slowly pacing up and
down the broad terrace at Brankleigh.

It was the reign of Salvia and Lobelia.
Wondrous marigolds in parti coloured velvet
vests (the gorgeous livers footmen of the garden;
and China asters of every hue filled the beds ;
while at every turn, mixed with the aromatic
odours of these late flowers of the year and the
bitter fragrance of dying leaves, came delicious
whiffs of mignonette, most delicate and most
enduring of all the scents of summer. Beyond
the terrace lay a belt of beech-trees, every now
and then dropping their yellow leaves into the
motionless air ; these, again, were crowned with
uplands of tawny stubble, and richly coloured
new ploughed earth lying in the embraces oi a
clinging, sunny, silvery autumn mist

Hope Sandford and Helen were walking too,
but faster than the others  Miss Sandford hated
dawdling. They had been by way of all start-vol.

II. 29

ing together, but their disuniting properties and
a general tendency of Serafina's towards tete-tete
made them soon fall asunder. They took
opposite directions on the terrace, and crossed
and recrossed each other at intervals.

"But, my dear child," said Miss Sandford,
do you never do anything but collect beetles
and sing love songs } do you never read or learn
anything } "

I do read sometimes," answered Helen,
but I am not allowed to take the books out of
the library, and I have only a few of my own,
which I have read till I know them almost by
heart."

And which of your books are you fondest
of, Nelly .? "

"* Faust,' I think," said the child. "I wish I
could read it in German ; I have only a
translation of it. And I have got an old copy
of ' Romeo and Juliet' which belonged to papa,
and which poor Jacky gave me ; and I have got

an odd volume or two of Lord Byron, that
belonged to uncle Mackworth, and that got
packed up among my things by mistake. Oh,
Miss Sandford, don't you like Lord Byron's
poetry ? "

Well, no  yes  some of it ; but I don't
quite think it's the best reading in all the world
for you, Nelly. Do you never descend from
your altitudes, my dear, and condescend to
honest prose } "

I am very fond of some prose," returned the
child, " but I don't care about travels or history.
Do you know 'Wilhelm Meister,' Miss Sandford
} I like that very much. Mr. William
Hetherington had it when he was staying at
uncle Mackworth's, and said it was a farrago
of sentimental bosh and philosophic twaddle,
without beginning, middle, or end, and all
about nothing at all ; but I liked it, and read
it over three times running while he was there.
He forgot it when he went away, and when

uncle Mackworth wrote to tell him of it, he
said it wasn't worth the expense of the carriage,
so I asked for it and got it. Did you ever
read ' Wilhelm Meister,' Miss Sandford ? " continued
the child.

I tried it once a year or two ago, Nelly,
but I believe I agree with your friend Mr.
Hetherington about it : it bored me, and the
only thing that seemed tolerably clear to me
when I had done, was that it was not a
particularly good book."

"Why, what is there bad in it. Miss Sandford
t " asked Helen.

"Well, my dear, I think the hero himself
bad ; and if Philip is the heroine, I think she is
pretty bad too ; and then there's that wretched
Mariana "

(Here the parties crossed. " They are colder
and warmer too than they used to be, but not
the good eyes of the old days," said Serafina's
silvery voice.)

Oh, poor Mariana, with her faithful loving
heart ! she wasn't bad," said Nelly, quite excited.
"Dear Miss Sandford, goodness is so
various."

"No, my dear girl, no," interrupted Hope,
goodness is not various ; goodness is one,
like the God it comes from."

But," continued Helen, " I mean that what
would be only common, decent, good conduct in
one human creature, might become heroic virtue
in another. The goodness of resisting evil
depends upon the amount of temptation to
commit it. I don't think poor Mariana is bad
at all ; Philip is. But I don't care about all
that : all one wants is to be able to believe in
the books one reads ; they must be a faithful
likeness of real things, or else there would be
no amusement in them. I hate the good books
with a moral at every turn. What use or
pleasure is it to me to read of a parcel of dull
dolls, who, because they behave in a tolerably

correct civilized way, are rich and prosperous
and end with making great marriages? Real
people are not like that ; nor the justice of God
either, if He is just."

They walked on silently for a few minutes.

"I have been young," said Hope, in a low
voice, " and now am old ; yet have I not seen
the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging
bread."

Yet papa and mamma," said poor Helen,
with her eyes full of tears, " were both good, and
they lived miserable and died paupers. And
Angel was hunted out of her poor life by a
wicked man who is, I dare say, driving in his
carriage at this very instant of time."

"Mr. Leslie," said Mrs. Wyndham, "will
you pick me that rose t Don't you think it will
look well in my hair for dinner to-day } " He
stopped and gathered a large crimson queen
from one of the late standard rose-trees on the
terrace.

I see you are as fond of flowers as ever,
Mrs. Wyndham," he said, as he gave it to her.

I do not change," observed the lady ; " and
although this may be a disadvantage in some
respects, at least my friends find me where they
leave me. Can you say as much } " And the
pale eyes shot both tenderness and reproach at
him.

"Perhaps not," he replied, rather dejectedly.
"As life goes on, one's sphere of experience enlarges,
and one's appreciation of things varies
greatly ; so do one's tastes, so do one's opinions
change, as effectually as one's skin does, though
perhaps less frequently and at less regular
intervals."

One changes one's skin once in seven years,
doesn't one t " said Mrs. Wyndham. " How long
is it since we met last, Mr. Leslie t "

Let me see. I have been away three years.
You were at Paris I think the winter before that,
which makes four."

"Yes," said she, "and you never thought it
worth your while to come and look us up there,
although you seemed sorry enough when you
parted from us here at Brankleigh."

Sorry enough, did you say ?  too sorry,
fairest lady. I could not bring myself to renew
such an agony of leave-taking at Paris. Do you
see the west lodge gate there 1  we had all
walked together up to that gate, and there we
stood for an instant shaking hands before you
got into your carriage."

You remember it, do you . " said Serafina,
almost in a whisper.

Perfectly," said he ; "I remember feeling,
too, as if I could have killed you for being as
unmoved as you were when you bade me goodbye."


What would you have had me do } " she
answered. " Mrs. St. John, Mr. Wyndham, and
a whole host of other people were there. I was
obliged to control my feelings."

"Yes," said Richard Leslie, "I know that,
but I couldn't control mine, and there was
the difference. How drolly one does revel in
utter misery before one is full-fledged, doesn't
one ? "

"Those can afford to revel in misery whose
sorrows are unreal : when one's wretchedness
is of every day and of all time one ceases to
enjoy it quite so much ; above all, one shrinks
from laying bare one's wounds before unsympathizing
souls, and one learns to wear a mask
which sometimes deceives even those who ought
to know one best."

So as to obtain a more equal mental balance.
Proportion in a mind is a grand thing," said
Miss Sandford.

But I can't reason," replied Helen impetuously,
" and I hate analyzing, it does so empty
the light out of everything."

Here the parties crossed each other again.
'* Poor Hope has undertaken rather more than

she will get through, I fancy," said Richard,
laughing.

Mrs. Wyndham made no answer, but walked
slowly down the steps of the terrace and turned
towards the house.

I hope you are not going in because I have
offended you," said he, following her.

"Why should I be offended?" she said coldly.
** It is no new thing to me not to be understood.
My whole married life has been an apprenticeship
to that sort of suffering."

Bring no flowers rare

To deck my bed ;

The violets grow above

The hearts of those they love.

Hang no garlands there

When I am dead.

No woeful human groan,
No friends to weep ;
But where I'm lying low
Let the soft spring winds blow,
And doves make lulling moan
And coo me to my sleep.

Lay no stone above

My lonely head.

Lay no stifling tombstone there ;

The flowers will spring up thick and fair

The violets love

The early dead.

