CHAPTEE 1.

PAGE

Husband and Wife 1

CHAPTEE 11.
Deserted 19

CHAPTEE III.
The Wife 38

CHAPTEE IV.
The Child 55

Part II. Vera.
CHAPTEE V.

PAGE

On the Elmstone Downs . . . . .7-1

CHAPTEE VI.

A New Purpose . . . . . .89

CHAPTEE VII.
Davy's Pupil 105

CHAPTEE YIIL
AEebel 126

CHAPTEE IX.

New Friends AND Old 145

CHAPTEE X.
An Exile 165

CHAPTEE XL
Lucy 183

 xJtr

PART Lea TANGLED WEB.

CHAPTER I.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

It was nine o'clock in the morning. The May
sunshine fell in a perfect Hood of radiance upon
the eastern side of a small white house, situated
upon a wide and breezy down which overlooked
the sea. No other building was visible, although
the town of Elmstone was barely two miles
distant. The house  it was little more than a
cottage  was sheltered from the winds, and to
some extent concealed from the eye of a casual
observer by a ridge of rising ground behind
and a clump of fir-trees before it. There was
a cheerful-looking little garden and pleasant
VOL. I. 1

shrubbery ; and the walls of the house were
nearly hidden by creeping plants, green-leaved
only as yet and not in blossom. The house
nestled so snuoiy in this retired nook that one
might well have fancied it to be the resting-place
of some recluse who had grown weary of
the world.

But no sign of weariness of the world would
have been found in the occupants of that little
white house on the fine May morning of which
we "Tite. On the contrary, both master and
mistress were eager to quit this rural retreat and
see a little more of the restless world from which
their dwelling-place seemed so far away. They
sat  master and mistress  at each end of the
breakfast-table : the master, with a newspaper on
his knees and a letter in his hand ; the mistress
toying with a fragment of toast upon her plate.
Their little boy, a child of three years old, was
playing with a favourite setter upon the hearth-rug.
A fire burned in the grate, for the morning,
though one of brilliant sunshine, was undeniably
chilly. The child basked in the blaze
and talked to the dog. His voice was the only
one that had been heard for some minutes in the

room, for the father and mother had been silent
for the last quarter of an hour, and sat with
averted eyes and faces on which the traces of
care and vexation were sadly manifest.

It was the young man who at last looked u})
and broke the silence.

"Come, Lucy," he said, "don't be angry.
You need not mind what people think. This
state of things will not last long."

'but I do mind what people think!" she
broke out passionately. " Do you suppose when
I married you that I expected to keep our
marriage a secret for full four years % I have
risked everything for you ; and you care for me
so little that you will do nothing at all for me."

She pressed her handkerchief to her eyes and
began to sob. Something in the very violence
of her emotion seemed to grate upon her
husband's ear. A keen observer might have
said, indeed, that the momentary frown upon
his forehead was caused by a certain lack of
refinement and self-control, which made itself
evident in the raised tones of her voice and the
excitement of her manner. But Gaston Heavens
frown very speedily faded, and was succeeded

by a gentler look. He could never belong
angry with her. In fact it was difficult for
any one to be long angry with Lucy Heavens
for she was a young woman with a striking
and rather pathetic style of beauty, which generally
softened the hearts of those who were most
ill disposed towards her. And her husband was
no more insensible to the charm of her loveliness
than to the appeal made to his pity by her tears.
At the same time he was inclined to say to himself
that she was unjust when she accused him
of risking nothing for her sake. He thought
that he had risked a good deal. For the world
called him a proud man ; and yet he had married
his mother's waiting-maid, and then carefully
concealed the marriage.

His dark handsome face, with its boldly-marked
features, heavy moustache, and stern
black brows, from beneath which a pair of fine
dark eyes looked somewhat scornfully and
stormily out upon the world, wore no well-pleased
expression as Lucy poured forth her
complaints. He said nothing at first, but moved
the papers before him restlessly with his right
hand as she proceeded.

It will kill me, Gaston ! This secrecy, these
years of waiting ! What do you hope to get by
it ? Why should we not let everybody know,
and face the storm that would follow ? Are you
afraid of what your mother and your brother
will say ? Are you afraid of what the world
will say ? Oh ! why did you marry me at all if
you are so ashamed of me ?" A fresh burst of
tears completed her appeal.

]mr. Eavenscroft threw himself back in his
chair with a movement of impatience, but his
face expressed perplexity rather than displeasure.

Be reasonable, Lucy," he said. " This arrangement
will not last much longer ; and you
know that it was made with your own consent."

'* Yes, years ago," said Lucy passionately ;
years ago, when I was a mere child, and did
not understand the view that all the world would
take of my position. You took me abroad, and
I heard nothing  saw nothing  but what you
chose me to see and hear. It was only when
baby came that I began to understand ; and as
soon as we set foot in England, I knew  I "

Shall I take you back to Italy 1" said her
husband in a low voice.

No ; why should I go to Italy ? I want to
have my own place at home ; I want the people
at Netherbyby to know that I am your wife. What
must they all think of me now? My foster-mother,
and poor Davy, who was like a brother
to me  I must have broken their hearts long
ago. Oh, Gaston, be good to me ; show me that
you love me !"

'' It seems," said Gaston, with a flash of his
eyes, " that you prefer the good opinion of Mrs.
Kowe and her son, the fiddler, to your husband's
welfare. Have I not told you a hundred times
that I must wait until I am independent of my
people at home before I can tell them about our
marriage ? You never troubled me concerning it
until our return to England six months ago. I
wish to heaven that we had stayed in Italy !"

"Ah, yes !" cried Lucy, with resentful indignation
 "that you might not have to think
about your wife's rights and your wife's position.
They did not matter  in Italy ; she never
claimed them there."

And who has been suggesting to you that
you should claim them here ?" asked Mr. Heavens
sternly. " You had not these notions before

our return, as you confess. Who lias been talking
to you, Lucy ? "

Her face crimsoned, but her eyes did not fall
beneath the keen gaze with which he confronted
her.

'nobody has been talking to me," she said.

'' I don't believe you' he answered with
sharp directness. Then he tossed away his
papers, rose, and approached her. '' Come," he
said, putting his hands on her shoulders and
compelling her to turn towards him, "tell me
who it is. Some meddling fool, no doubt; let
me hear."

No one has been talking to me," she repeated.


'* Somebody has been writing to you then, eh ?
I am right this time, it seems, from the flame in
your cheeks. %yhat a wretched quibble ! " he
added, with a distinct note of anger in his voice,
as he released her and walked to the fireplace,
where he rested his elbow on the mantelpiece
and looked down upon his boy. '' Why must a
woman always have a mystery, I wonder ?"

My mystery is nothing to the one you are
making," she said defiant! v. '* I would not conceal

the fact of my marriage for a day if I had
my own way."

No, you would prefer to ruin me."

She tried to look haughtily offended, but her
lip quivered. Gaston however did not glance
towards her. He held out his hand to the little
boy who was now clinging to his knee, and
babbling baby nonsense to him in an undertone.
Lucy suddenly rose and pressed her hands to
her ears.

'' What a noise the child makes ! " she said
irritably. *' If you are not going to listen to me
anv lono'cr, Gaston "

Pardon me : I am not only going to listen
to you, but to say something which will require
your closest attention," said her husband in a
tone of dry courtesy. " If you will kindly wait
for one moment I will take Bertie to his nurse.
He is rather too old now to listen to the wrangling
of his parents."

He stooped down and took the child into his
arms. The boy shouted with delight : his little
hands were thrust into his father's short black
locks, and his little feet drummed gaily on his
father's broad chest as he was carried from the

room. But his joy was changed to wailing when
he found that he was consigned to his nurse's
care after an unusually short ride. With both
little arms he clung to his father's neck ; it was
with some difficulty, and after repeated and
tender embraces, that Gaston disengaged himself
I'll come back soon ; be a man, Bertie ; don't
cry," he said. " I must go and talk to mamma."

His manner with the child was wonderfully
soft and caressing: he had no imperious ways
with Bertie, though he mioht be lavish of them
in his intercourse Sith other people. Lucy
Eavenscroft, sitting alone where he had left her,
said to herself with a touch of added bitterness :

There is no question about his love for the
child. The only doubt is whether he has any
love for me. If he had, he could bear to sacrifice
a little money for my sake."

When Gaston Eavenscroft returned he saw
from her face and attitude that she was in no
compliant mood. His own brow grew dark ashe
took up a position on the hearth rug and
addressed her.

'* The sooner we come to an understanding
the better, Lucy. We have been married sometime,

and I don't see why you should have so
completely changed your tone during the last
few months with respect to your position. For
four years you have been my wife. If I have
not chosen to write to my mother and my
brother about you, or to take you to Netherbyby,
I have acted only out of consideration for you.
If I tell them, don't you know what will happen?
My mother has unlimited control over her own
fortune : I am entirely dependent upon her ;
and she would never give me another penny if
she knew of our marriage. I am sorry if this
sounds brutal ; but it is the truth."

In fact," said his wife, without looking at
him, 'ewe are living on an income obtained on
false pretences. I should prefer honest poverty
if I were you."

A red flush mounted to Gaston's forehead ;
he had some difficulty in answering calmly.

'' I wish that I had told my mother from the
beginning," he said. " But you know the circumstances
as well as I do. I am taking from
her hands only what my father left me by the
will which he never signed. It would be mere
cruel caprice if she deprived me of it  and yet

she has the legal power to do so, and would
doubtless use it if she had a fair excuse." He
spoke very bitterly. " I think it is hard enough
that I should have to accept it in this way without
your upbraiding me for the concealment of
our marriage, Lucy."

If I were a man," said she with some sullenness,
'' I would have made a career for myself and
dispensed with my mother's help by this time.
I would have made myself free to tell the world
that I had a son, even if I did not wish to acknowledge
the boy's mother."

And pray, what more could I do than 1 have
done ? " said Gaston, a dangerous gleam appearing
in his eyes. " As long as I lived abroad I
scarcely touched my mother's money ; I spent
my own, and hoped that I should get some appointment
which would keep me. But now I
have nothing to do, and I have spent my own
paltry two thousand  how can we live without
my mother's money ? As soon as I can  that is,
as soon as I get some work  I will make a clean
breast of it and give up all the Netherbyby connection,
Lucy ; but till then, for your own sake, I
mean to say nothing."

Then I shall tell the truth. I Avill not be a
mark for slander and ignominy any longer."

If you were slandered I should be the first
to protect you ; but you are not slandered," said
Gaston coolly. " Just look at the facts of the
case. My mother and I seldom corresponded when
1 was abroad : in that obscure little place where
we lived we saw nobody who would think it
worth while to inform her of your existence.
And here  in an equally obscure place  our very
name is unknown. My letters are forwarded tome
under cover from London. How can slander
be busy about you ? The thing is impossible.
Nobody knows that I am here : nobody guesses
that you are here with me. Just keep quiet, and
when the proper time comes I will take care that
you receive the treatment due to you as my
ife."

'you say that nobody knows that you are
here," said Lucy quickly. ''Do you call Captain
Harcourt nobody ? "

"Is it Captain Harcourt that I have to thank
for the change in your manner towards me ? "
Gaston asked in the chest of tones.

"No." But Lucy blushed and hesitated.

''He seemed so surprised  when he came
first' she added in a low voice. " I did not
like it."

'' He shall not come here again,"

Oh yes, he shall  he must. You cannot forbid
him the house."

I both can and will."

"You do everything you can to make me
miserable ! " said Mrs. Ravenscroft, suddenly
burying her face in her hands and bursting into
tears. " I wish that I was back in old Hester
Eowe's cottage or at work on your mother's
dresses : I was far happier then than I am now."

Gaston looked at her with a frown of despairing
bewilderment. A woman would have seen
at a glance that Lucy was far from strong, and
that her present state of mind and body was one
that required careful management. But Gaston
Ravenscroft had no clue to the reason for her
bursts of temper and hysterical passion : she was
sensitively reticent on the subject of her bodily
ailments, and left him to conclude that she was
losing the gentleness and good humour which had
always characterised her in earlier days. He even
fancied that she was weeping over the banishment

of Captain Harcourt  a friend of his own
who had recently appeared in the neighbourhood
and accidentally discovered Gaston's place of residence,
and an angry frown disfigured his face
at this supposition.

What is it that you do want 1 " he said
rather bitterly. '' My mother's recognition ?
What good would it do you ? It is no use crying,
Lucy ; I can't do anything at present. I
should bring a crowd of duns down on my head
if they knew that I had married, and all hope of
help from Netherbyby would be gone. Wait till I
get an appointment. I have one promised. It is
only a question of weeks now."

I have waited long enough. I will wait no
longer."

Indeed ! And pray what will you do ? "

'* I will write to your mother myself I will
write to the Owes."

You will do nothing of the kind."

I will." She raised her head and looked
him defiantly in the face. ' I will either have
the marriage declared, or I will leave you
altogether."

Gaston shrugged his shoulders. " I wish you

would not talk like a fool, Lucy," he said, in a
tone which showed that this threat was not now
made for the first time. " I'll do what I can ;
but you must have patience."

No," she answered him ; "I am tired of
having patience. I sometimes think that you
mean to keep me in the background all your life.
Why do you treat me in this way \ I have not
made a mistake, have I ? I am your wife, Gaston %
Amid can you not say so to the world ? "

Good heavens I " said Gaston, moving impatiently
to the door ; "' am I continually to
rehearse the reasons for my conduct, Lucy \
You know them as well as I do. You seem to
have exceedingly little trust in me when you
speak in this way. Now understand, once and
for all, that I will hear no more of this nonsense.
Of course if you choose to ruin me for life you
can do so ; but in that case "

Well, in that case ? " she said, rising ashe
laid his hand upon the door - handle, and
advancing a step or two towards him with
crimsoning cheeks and flashing eyes: "supposing
that I do tell the truth and ruin you  as
you call it  what then ? "

He paused for a moment. She had. roused
his temper, never a very placable one, and there
was a dangerous look upon his face  the look of
a man whose impulses were uncontrolled, and
whose will had seldom been resisted.

*' In that case," he said sternly, "the less you
ventured into my presence afterwards the better.
I would never speak to you again."

Then he went out, shutting the door sharply
]behind him. He was hot, angry, excited : it
took him full three-quarters of an hour's smoking
and walking over the downs to bring him back
to a gentler frame of mind. But at last he
acknowledged to himself that, although Lucy
had been provoking, she had had right upon her
side, and he was sorry for his harsh words to
her. If she disobeyed him a thousand times he
knew that he should forgive her after all. His
declaration that he would never speak to her
again if she told her story was a mere expression
of anger which she must take for what it was
worth. She understood him and she loved him.
He would go back to the house and make it up
with her. But he could not risk the future for
the sake of a woman's whim, he told himself.

He was sorry now that he had not made his
marriage known from the beginning ; he had
never meant the concealment to last so long,
but since the secret had been kept until now, he
must not precipitate matters by divulging it
too suddenly.

He knew afterwards that to have made a
secret at all of his marriage had been a great 
in some respects a fatal  error. Deceit had
been very easy in the first instance, but it was
not so easy to rid himself of its consequences.
He paid dearly in after years for his mistake.

He had turned homewards, but was yet
distant from his house, when a boy from the
railway-station met him and delivered a telegram
which had just arrived. He found that it
was from an old college friend who besought
him to come at once to London, as he had
secured for him an interview with an official
personage which might be of great service to
him. The interview, however, was fixed for
that afternoon, and he must start at once if he
wished to avail himself of the opportunity.

]mr. Eavenscroft consulted a time-table card,
and found that he had only a quarter of an hour

VOL. I. 2

in which to catch the train. An explanation
with Lucy was impossible. He could but send
her a message and make the best of his way to
town. He wrote a few words on the blank leaf
of a note-book, and gave it to the boy with a
shilling, telling him to deliver that paper at once
to the lady at the cottage. The boy promised
to take the note ; and Gaston set off for the
railway-station with an easy mind.

He caught the London train. But the boy
to whom his written message had been confided
happened to meet a friend, in whose company
the shilling was rapidly expended upon apples
and ginger-beer ; and at the close of the repast
the folded scrap of paper was mysteriously
missing. Master Bob Stokes had managed to
lose it on the way ; and Lucy Eavenscroft never
received her husband's letter.

DESERTED.

When Mr. Eavenscroft had left the house, his
wife drew a letter from her pocket and began to
pore over it with curious intentness. His guess
had been in the main correct: somebody had been
writing to her and putting into her mind suspicions
that would never have entered it of their
owTi accord. But she could not have told him
the name of her correspondent, for she did not
know it. The letter was an anonymous one, and
it was one of a series which she had received at
intervals since her return to England. They
had always been delivered to her by hand when
Gaston was out; and the messenger had generally
been either a child or a labouring man, who professed
to know nothing of the person from whom
the letters came.

The circumstances of Gaston's marriage may
here be briefly told. He was the second son of a
large landholder in Lincolnshire, who died when
his two boys were mere children. Their mother
had speedily married again,  this time a certain
Baron Waldstein, with whom she lived for many
years at Vienna,  and the boys were left at
school, spending their holidays with a cousin of
their mother, a Mr. Hervey, whose residence
was close to their own. In course of time Philip
Ravenscroft, the elder of the brothers, grew up,
took the management of affairs into his own
hands, and married. Gaston, who had been left
with next to no fortune more from accident than
design, lived a somewhat idle life in London when
his schooldays were over, in the hope of a
vaguely-promised appointment which never came,
and seldom visited Eavenscroft Hall, his brother's
house at Netherbyby. His mother, however, being
again widowed and partially disabled by a slight
paralytic seizure, returned to her old home in
Lincolnshire, and Gaston felt it his duty to
present himself sometimes to her notice. He
never got on well with her ; she seemed to
reserve all her affection for her elder son, Philip;

but he tried hard to be patient and respectful,
even when she tried his temper, as she often did,
by contemptuous gibes at his awkwardness, his
roughness, his want of savoir faire. In return
she made him an allowance, without which he
would have found it singularly hard to meet his
expenses. For Gaston Kavenscroft was a man
who contrived to get through a great deal of
money without much to show for it at the end.

During one of his visits to Netherbyby he
formed a slight acquaintance with a very pretty
village girl named Lucy Moore. She had been
brought up by a woman of half gipsy origin,
named Hester Eowe ; but her parents  simple,
honest people  had lived and died as small
tradesfolk in Netherbyby. Gaston had known
Hester Eowe and her lame son Davy, who
played the violin and mended shoes, and pretty
Lucy Moore herself for years ; but he was specially
attracted to the girl in her bloom of seventeen,
and was half vexed, half pleased, when he found
that she had accepted the situation of lady's maid
to his mother. He saw her daily : he fell in love
with her and she with him; and in the end she
went away with him, and they were married at

an obscure little church in London when she was
barely eighteen and he was twenty-one.

It was essential to Gaston's plans that nobody-should
know of his marriage. Everybody believed
that Lucy had been led by him to leave her home,
and for a time there was a buzz of excitement
and suspicion in the village ; but Gaston stayed
away until the rumours subsided, and refused
to answer any questions respecting Lucy's fate.
When his relations questioned him on the subject
he even gave them clearly to understand that his
business was not theirs, and that he would tell
them nothing either about Lucy or about himself.


His mother was not difficult to silence. He
knew that he could not blind her ; her shrewd
and cynical eyes saw through all his evasions ;
but she did not pester him nth questions. Ashe
had reason to think in later years, what the
Baroness Waldstein wished to know she would
learn for herself by fair means or by foul, with
his permission or without it. It was possible
that she knew the whole story from beginning to
end, even when Gaston flattered himself that he
was most sedulously hiding it from her. But

if she knew it, she knew also how to howl her
peace.

He took his wife away with him to Italy soon
after the marriage. He never meant to keep ita
secret for very long ; he believed himself sure of
an appointment which should lift him above the
necessity of consulting the wishes of his family :
but months and years went on, and the opportunity
of declaring his marriage never came. In
Italy he almost forgot that such a declaration
was a duty; but as soon as they returned to
England Lucy began, for the first time, to manifest
an eager desire to assume her position in
public as his wife, and to see her boy acknowledged
as Gaston Eavenscroft's lawful son. And
this desire had been first created and then
stimulated by the succession of anomalous
letters which had come into her hands ; letters
which suggested horrible suspicions of Gaston's
good faith, and caused her to display towards
him at times an amount of bitterness and jealous
feeling of which she herself was afterwards
ashamed.

She longed above all things to let it be known
at Netherbyby that she was Gaston's wife. There

were her own people, as she still fondly called
them, Hester Eowe and Davy the cripple, for
whom she entertained a warm and yearning
affection. She had been allowed to enter into
no correspondence with them since the day of
her departure from the village, and she longed
to set their minds at rest concerning her fate.
There were the Baroness whom she had served,
and Philip Kavenscroft her son ; both of these
had treated her with a cold distrust and haughtiness
of manner, which it still made her cheeks
burn to remember. Philip Eavenscroft's wife,
Felicia, had been gentle and kind enough ; but
of her Lucy was perhaps more afraid than of the
Baroness. She felt also that she should like to
justify herself and Gaston in Mr. Hervey's eyes.
He was a man of cold smooth ways and tones,
a man whom Gaston deeply disliked; and yet
Lucy knew, by instinct, that her husband felt
lowered in his own eyes by his inability to explain
away the suspicions which Eichard Hervey
his cousin and former guardian  had conceived
of him.

But it was only since her arrival in England
that Lucy had had such thoughts as these. In

Italy she lead been as happy and contented as a
child. But those peaceful days of her early
married life were past ; she had changed from a
trustful girl into an exacting and imperious
woman. It was her love for her boy rather
than mere womanly pride that worked this
change; but the change was a great one and
was destined to lead to sad results.

As she sat alone after Gaston's departure, she
drew forth once more the last letter that she
had received from her unknoTi correspondent,
and pondered over it with aching heart and
burning eyes.

*' You have not then prevailed V  so ran the
words. " You have not persuaded Gaston
Eavenscroft to acknowledge you as his wife ?
No, and you never will. He keeps you in the
background, because he is ashamed of your birth
and your want of education ; and if you do not
stand up for your own rights nobody else will.
If he were to die, what proofs have you to show
his family that he ever made you his wife
at all?"

Lucy meditated much over these last words.
She scarcely realised the value of a marriage

certificate or of the register kept in the parish
where her marriage had taken place ; but she
had a vague notion that her 'lines," as she
called them, were in Gaston's possession,  not in
her own,  and that if she could find them, they
would give her greater confidence in her position.
She rose tremblingly from her seat and began to
wonder whether Gaston carried them upon his
person or whether they were in his desk, of
which the keys had been that morning carelessly
flung upon the dressing-table. She resolved to
ascertain this fact for herself.

Her suspicions of Gaston were entirely unfounded.
He had acted with utter recklessness
in the first instance, as he always did when he
set his heart upon any object ; and his first reckless
act had, in his opinion, needed concealment.
It was this concealment that troubled and perplexed
him now as much as it fretted Lucy, butin
a different way. He knew that there would
never be any difficulty in proving the legality of
the marriage whether he were alive or dead : he
had made every provision for the establishment
of his wife's position when she or he should find
it necessary to put forward her claim ; but he

never thought of saying so to her. He could
not have believed that Lucy would suspect him
of a dishonourable motive for his silence. He
thought that she had perfect trust in him  and
he was mistaken.

The papers that Lucy sought were easily
found. They were placed in a secret drawer,
which he himself had shown her how to open.
She took them out  precious papers they were
to her  the certificate of her marriage, of the
boy's birth and baptism, and with them a lock
of Bertie's hair when he was yet a baby, and a
withered rose which she herself had given to her
husband years ago. These relics failed to soften
her as they ought to have done. She put back
the rose and the lock of hair with hurried,
trembling fingers, but she kept the papers in
her own possession. Then she went downstairs
again, feeling less anxious than before, but more
than ever resolved to insist upon her rights.

She waited indoors for Gaston. She expected
him to come to her subdued and penitent and
wretched, as was his wont after a quarrel. But
time passed on, and Gaston did not return. At
noon she began to feel uneasy. When the

luncheon hour arrived and he was still absent,
she felt not only uneasy but afraid. She had
never known him to be so angry before as to
stay away from her for three hours at a time.

Gaston, as we know, was already well on his
way to London. The telegraph boy, having
finished his game and spent his shilling, was
bethinking himself of the paper which he had
been charged to deliver at the little house in the
hollow, and was becoming somewhat alarmed at
the discovery that the paper was altogether
missing. And Mrs. Eavenscroft was working
herself up into a tempest of rage and grief and
suspicion, which would neither let her eat nor
sit still nor behave like any rational creature
at all.

In the course of the afternoon she departed
from her usual custom so far as to w\ilk to
Elmstone, a distance of two miles, in order to
see for herself whether he might not be strolling
about the streets or sitting in the public reading-room.
But he was, of course, nowhere to be
seen. Then, as the afternoon drew to a close,
she wended her weary way to the railway station
and made cautious inquiries of the clerk and

porters. Had they that day seen the gentleman
who lived at the Laurels ? What was he like \
Oh, a very tall gentleman, with a black moustache
; very good-looking. His name? Mr.
Croft. Yes, they had seen Mr. Croft (for this
was the name under which Gaston was known in
the neighbourhood); he had taken the uji train
to town at 11.15. He would be at Victoria
station by one o'clock.

Lucy's limbs almost gave way beneath her as
she heard these words. She was obliged to go
into the waiting-room and drink some water
before she could turn her face homewards.
Gaston's sudden departure was entirely inexplicable
to her, save on the ground of deep
displeasure T\ith her proceedings. If she had
had his note she would easily have understood
the whole matter ; but, as neither note nor
message reached her, she had no clue to any
reason for his disappearance. She cried bitterly
as she made her way across the wind-swept
downs ; and when she arrived at the house she
was so much exhausted, so wan and worn by
fatigue and tears and hunger (for she had tasted
nothing since the morning, and had walked for

some hours), that she was already the mere ghost
of her ordinary self.

About eight o'clock in the evening a ring at
the front door made her start up nervously. It
could not be Gaston; he would never ring to
announce his coming ; but it might be a letter ora
message that would explain everything. She
dared not rush to the door ; she stood erect in
the middle of the room, her hands clasped, her
face white, her eyes strained and gleaming  a
sad yet lovely picture of expectation and distress
at which the entering visitor stood amazed,  for
it was nobody at all but Captain Harcourt, the
young man who had claimed Gaston Heavens
acquaintance, and had been to some extent
taken into his confidence.

As he paused near the door, Lucy made a sudden
movement which brought her close to the sofa,
on which little Bertie was reposing in the serene
soft sleep of childhood. The mother had felt that
she could not bear to be alone ; she had brought
her boy downstairs from his crib and tucked him
up warmly and safely in a corner of the old-fashioned
broad flat couch. She stood with her
hand upon the cushions that formed his pillow

and looked  not at Harcourt, but beyond him,
as though she expected to see him followed by
another. But Captain Harcourt was alone.

' Why  why have you come?" were the words
that rose to Lucy's lips. " You have bad news,
bad news of Gaston ? ''

The young man's face expressed genuine astonishment
and dismay.

'' Bad news ! " he stammered. ' Bad news,
Mrs. Eavenscroft ! I have no news at all."

'' Not of Gaston ? Have you not seen
him ? Have you heard nothing of him at
all?"

''Yes," said Harcourt with an embarrassed
laugh ; " I have certainly seen something of him,
but he seemed well enough as far as I could judge.
He "

"Where did you see him?" she interposed,
with an eager light in her eyes.

'' Well, I have just come up from Queens-borough
myself," said the young fellow, speaking
confusedly, for he had a vague sense that everything
was going wrong in the Eavenscroft household,
and began to feel very sorry that he had
ventured to call on pretty Mrs. Eavenscroft that

evening. *' Just come from Gainsborough, and
knowing that you would be alone, I "

* And low did you know that I should be
alone '?" said Lucy, growing whiter than she had
even been before.

Knew ! Oh, why, Mrs. Eavenscroft, I did
not think that your husband could fly back from
the Continent on the wings of the wind ! I saw
him on board, you know," said the young man,
waso-ino; his honest foolish head at the anxious
wife, with a smile that looked to her like one of
mockery, though it was in reality only one of
sheer awkwardness and confusion, *' on board the
Flushing boat "

"The Flushing boat!" It seemed to Lucy
that the room was growing dark, that Captain
Harcourt's voice was strangely distant, and
that the floor was shaking beneath her feet ;
but she only looked towards the bearer of
ill tidings with a ghastly sort of smile, and
vaguely repeated his last words. '* The Flushing
boat?" she said. "Yes  the Flushing
boat!"

He said you knew that he would be away 
that you were not expecting him to return,"

Captain Harcourt proceeded uncertainly. "He
said yon knew all about it "

Oh yes," said Lucy from between her gasping
lips. " Of course I knew  I "

She did not finish the sentence. She gave a
little cry and fell doTVTi upon the floor beside
Bertie's couch, and lay there, a tumbled heap of
white clothes, and a face as white as they. For
the moment Captain Harcourt thought that she
was dead.

An unexpected thing had happened to Gaston
Eavenscroft. His interview with the great
official personage had terminated very satisfactorily,
and when he came away from Downing
Street he began to please himself with the reflection
that he should soon be completely independent
of help from his relations, and that he could
therefore make known his marriage with Lucy.
He turned into his club in order to see whether
any letters were waiting for him, and there he
found not only letters but a telegram. He tore
it open, and read the message with surprise,
succeeded by alarm and sorrow. It was from his
sister-in-law, Felicia Eavenscroft. She telegraphed
from Wiesbaden, whither she with her

VOL. I. 3

husband had gone for a few weeks' holiday.
Philip Kavenscroft had been thrown from his
horse and injured so seriously that his life could
hardly be prolonged over the morrow. Gaston
was entreated to come at once to Wiesbaden if he
wished to see Philip again alive.

There was just time, he found, to make
hasty preparations for a journey, and to catch
the train to Gainsborough, whence a boat left
for Flushing that afternoon. He did not telegraph
to Lucy, thinking that she knew already
of his visit to London, and that she would not
expect him for a couple of days. There was no
need to startle her by a telegram. He would
write a note to her whilst on board, and post it
as soon as he reached Flushing. He did not
know what other agencies were at work, nor how
his absence would be interpreted by the foolish,
jealous little heart of the woman whom he had left
behind. As it happened, he did not post his
letter until he reached Wiesbaden ; but this
additional delay mattered very little. The mischief
was done.

Philip Kavenscroft and his brother had never
been on intimate terms. Their natures were too

dissimilar to amalgamate. Philip was a man of
cold and cautious temperament  a dabbler in
art, a profound believer in the conventional
canons of society. He looked upon Gaston's
fiery and emotional nature with a feeling akin
to contempt, certainly with grave disapproval.
Nevertheless, Gaston, who had far more affection
for Philip than Philip had for him, was sincerely
distressed, and even overwhelmed by grief at
his elder brother's death, and at the desolation
brought upon the poor young widow with her
one little daughter. The bitterness of the bereavement
was not in the slightest decree
alleviated to him by the fact that, as Philip
left no son, he was now the head of the house, and
master of the greater portion of the Eavenscroft
property. But for his wife and child he could
heartily have wished himself no gainer by his
brother's death ; but for them he would almost
have offered to hand over the estate to Mrs.
Philip Eavenscroft and little Olivia. It did
give him a thrill of relief (for which he angrily
blamed himself) to know that he need no longer
keep secret the history of his marriage. The
secrecy and deceit which had embittered his life

for the last four years might now come to an
end.

He wrote two or three lines to Lucy, and was
surprised to receive no answer from her ; but he
was too much absorbed by the care of his sister-in-law
and the arrangements for Philip's funeral
to think very much about his wife's silence.
She was no great letter-writer at the best of
times : he would explain everything to her when
he returned to Elmstone.

Some days elapsed before that return took
place. Felicia could not be left alone : she was
already ill with grief and fatigue. Gaston
travelled with her to Netherbyby, and saw his
mother for a few minutes only before he went
back to London and thence to Elmstone.

He reached Elmstone at dusk. As he approached
his own house he noticed that it presented
a curiously desolate appearance; the
rooms were unlighted, and the gate was locked.
The solitary maidservant came out to admit
him, and looked inquisitively into his face.

Your mistress is in ?" Gaston said quickly.

''Oh no, sir. She has not got back yet, sir,
you know."

Not got back ? What do you mean ? " said
Gaston, with a sudden thrill of dismay. '' Where
has she gone?"

'' I don't know, sir. She has not been here
for a fortnight."

''A fortnight!"

'' She left here with Master Bertie, sir, on the
day after you went away. I don't know where
she has gone. I thought that she went to you."

Gaston stood amazed. " Did she leave no
letter or message V he asked, after a moment's
pause.

No, sir," said the maid, demurely observant
of his agitation. " She left no letter or message
for any one. She went to the railway-station
without any luggage except a little bag,  and
Captain Harcourt went s\dth her."

Gaston went to seek Captain Harcourt. But
he had vanished from the town, and left not a
trace behind.

THE WIFE.

In Gaston's first frenzy of anger and astonishment
a terrible suspicion presented itself to his
mind. He thought that Lucy had run away
from him in company with a lover, and that this
lover was Edmund Harcourt. It need hardly
be said that this conjecture was founded upon
nothing in Lucy's previous conduct or character.
And Lucy's love for her husband had never been
greater than it was upon the day when she left
her home at Elmstone.

Captain Harcourt's information that Gaston
had left England, together with the absence of
any message or letter to that effect, made poor
Lucy believe one of two things : either that
Gaston was so much displeased dth her that he
had resolved to punish her by going abroad fora

holiday without informing her of his intention
an explanation much too simple to be readily
accepted by Lucy's fevered mind ; or (and for
this idea the anonymous letters were to blame)
that he had grown tired of her and meant never
to return. On recovering from the swoon into
which she had fallen upon hearing Captain Harcourt's
words, she awoke to a sense of maddening
uncertainty. And, to make matters worse, on
the morning after Gaston's departure there came
for her, no letter from Gaston, but another of
those stinging unsigned communications which,
if she had been a sensible woman, she would
have thrown into the fire unread. But she was
not a sensible woman ; and she read the letter
with a feeling of pain and humiliation that
seemed to scorch her.

Did you ever ask whether you had been
married properly at all \ This letter is from one
who wishes you well and is sorry to see you so
deceived. When Gaston Kavenscroft is away
from you he boasts of the trick he ]played you in
London. Mark my words ; you are not his
wife, and that is why he hides you from the
world. If he had really married you he would

uot be so slow to acknowledge the fact. And,
unless you yourself do not feel sure about the
legality of the marriage, why do you not make it
known '? If you have any rights, claim them at

once."

I i'll claim them"' said Lucy, turning very
white as she read the words. " I have been
foolish and weak. If those papers mean anything,
I am Gaston's wife ; and I will say so 
to his mother  to the Eowes  to every one.
We will have no more secrecy  for Bertie's
sake ! "

Forthwith she made her preparations. She
would go to Netherbyby, and she would see the
Baroness herself She would tell her, and she
would tell her kind old friends the Eowes, and
Mr. Hervey at the Manor, and everybody else
whom it might concern, that she was Gaston's
wife. Thus, if it were not true, she would force
the truth from Gaston's lips. Thus she would
take her revenge upon him for his cruel conduct
in going away and leaving her without a word.

Captain Harcourt called to inquire after her
health when she was on the point of leaving the
house. He walked to the station with her,

good-hiimouredly carrying Bertie, and taking the
railway ticket for her to London. It was then
only, seeing how ill and worn she looked, that
he invented an excuse for going up to London
by the same train, simply that he might be at
hand to assist his friend's wife if she should want
him. He did not travel in the same carriage
with her ; and Lucy was hardly conscious of
his intention until the train had started. At the
terminus he reappeared, ready to secure a cab
for her or do anything that she might need
doing. She was only eager for his departure ;
she did not want anybody " to spy upon her," as
she expressed it to herself; and she was relieved
when she found herself and her boy in the cab,
with Captain Harcourt's honest, puzzled face
turned mutely towards her from the pavement,
as she drove away to King's Cross Station.

When she reached the station and put her
hand into her pocket for her purse, she made the
startling discovery that she had lost it  probably
left it behind in the railway carriage. She had,
however, sufficient loose silver with her to pay
the cabman ; then she betook herself to the
ladies' waiting-room and counted the coins that

remained. She found that she had enough
money to pay for a third-class ticket to a station
some five miles distant from Netherbyby. She
knew the station well ; she had often walked
from it to her own home in the days of her girlhood.
She could walk that distance easily, she
considered, forgetting that what had seemed
easy in those days might be more difficult to her
now that she was a woman in delicate health,
with a child of three years old clinging to her
hand. Should she go forward, or should she go
back to Elmstone and await Gaston's return?
Ah, perhaps Gaston never would return ! She
would go on, at any cost, to Netherbyby.

But before she was far upon her way she regretted
her decision. She had not been well for
some weeks ; fatigue, anxiety, and exhaustion
now began to make themselves felt. From time
to time she grew sick and faint ; she began to
wonder how she should reach the end of the
journey, how she should walk those five long-miles
that lay between the station and the village
of Netherbybybyby. In Netherbybybyby itself she did not
think that she should want for friends or for
assistance.

She was deadly pale when she left the carriage
at the station to which she had taken her
ticket; her limbs trembled and her eyes were
dim. Bertie was crying wearily ; she spent her
last coin in some biscuits and a glass of milk for
him, drank some water herself and set out upon
her way.

For a time she felt stronger, and walked
rapidly. She left the high road for the grassy
lanes and meadows which formed a ''' short cut '"
to Netherbyby ; she had ascertained at the station
that the way was unaltered still, and she knew
that she remembered every step of it. She
hastened therefore, for the afternoon was growing
late and the clouds were gathering overhead.
She began to wish that she had left Bertie
behind. A storm would not hurt her : it might
frighten him and make him ill. The first few
drops of rain that fell aroused in her a sensation
of defeat and dismay which proved how greatly
she had lost heart since she set out that
morning.

She tried to hasten her footsteps. But she
was growing sadly exhausted : the feverish
strength which had at first animated her had

given way, and she was conscious of bodily pain
and weakness. She sat down under a tree for a
little time, but soon rose and stumbled on for a
few paces, then seated herself again on the wet
grass, regardless of the pouring rain and of Bertie's
wailing cries. She began to understand how
much she had risked in this wild endeavour to
vindicate her rights. But now it was too late
to retrace her steps ; she must go on with the
work that she had begun  on to the very end.

Her progress was necessarily slow. She
walked a few steps only at a time and at long
intervals. It was wonderful that she did not
miss her way altogether or lie down by the wayside
and lapse into insensibility. There were
no buildings upon the road which she had chosen ;
and if there had been, it is doubtful whether she
would have found sufficient energy to ask for
help. How she managed to stagger on for nearly
five weary miles amidst the gathering darkness,
with a child crying at her side and the rain
beating in her face, could never be told. Certainly
she achieved the greater part of her perilous
journey, for at ten o'clock that night she
was found lying in a lane near Netherbyby Church,

not far from Mrs. Rowe's cottage, with Bertie at
her side. She had left the railway-station at
five o'clock in the afternoon.

The person who found her was a broad-shouldered,
undersized man, with a limp in his
walk. He was making his way along the lane
to Mrs. Rowe's lonely cottage, with a violin-case
slung upon his back and a thick stick in his
hand. He had a rough, ugly, thick-featured face,
a shock of dark hair, and a pair of dark deep-set
eyes, through Which looked out into the world as
true and loving and generous a soul as ever God
had made. This man had cherished a silent love
for Lucy from the days of her childhood ; and she
had tricked and abandoned him as soon as Gaston
Ravenscroft had become her lover. It was the
fiddler of whom Gaston had spoken contemptuously
to his wife  David Rowe, whose mother had
given her a home when she was left an orphan.

This man bent over her, thinking at first that
she was some beggar woman who had fallen in
the lane. Her clothes were so drenched with
rain and stained with mud that, indeed, she
looked no better than a tramp from the nearest
workhouse. Bertie roused himself from a semi-slumber,

and began his despairing wail once
more. And then David Rowe saw the supposed
beggar woman's face and knew that it was the
face of the woman whom he had loved.

He uttered a wild, inarticulate cry, knelt
down beside her and began to chafe her cold
fingers and call her by her name. She moved a
little and moaned feebly, but did not open her
eyes. It was evident that she was quite unconscious,


David Eowe stopped rubbing her hands at last,
and looked into her white drawn face. The raindrops
fell upon it as he looked ; the wind whistled
in the branches of the elm-trees overhead. The
child, standing beside him, and clutching the
fiddler s arm as if in fear lest he should leave him
alone with his mother in the darkness and the
cold, burst forth once more into piteous sobs and
tears.

The man rose, shaking off the child's hand as
if he could not bear that touch. Then he managed
 not without difficulty, although he was of
great muscular strength  to lift the insensible
woman from the ground and carry her in his
arms for the few yards that intervened between

her resting-place and Hester Rowe's cottage. The
little boy ran sobbing at his heels ; David Rowe
took no notice of him as he strode along the
muddy lane, with the frail and precious burden
in his arms.

He struck a blow with his foot against the cottage
door. It was opened immediately by a gray-haired
woman, with a stern, handsome, old face,
singularly unlike his own. She held a candle in
her hand, and raised it so as to throw its light full
upon his face as she spoke to him.

You ! " she said. " I had given you up for
to-night. You are late. What have you got
there ? "

Lucy," he answered briefly. " Let us in."

The candle flickered. The woman's hand
trembled, but she resolutely barred the way.

Take her back to the place where you found
her, and let her lie," she said, in harsh and bitter
tones. " I gave her up years ago  when she
gave us up ; there is no home for her here."

Wherever my home is, hers shall be," said
her son sternly. " Turn her away and you turn
me away too."

Is that her child ? " said Mrs. Rowe, catching

sight of the little boy. ''I expected as
much. Let them go to the workhouse, both of
them."

Do you wish to see her die in my arms ? "
said David Eowe. " She's ill, she's poor, she's
in trouble ; let her in, or her blood will lie on
your head. Mother, you used not to be so hard on
those that had seen trouble. Let me bring her
in, or, by the Lord, you shall never see my face
again 1 "

His voice rose as he spoke, and Lucy writhed
and moaned in his arms as though she understood.
The old woman was silent for a moment,
then drew back from the door.

You must have your way," she said, with a
kind of cold dignity. " Lucy Moore broke your
heart and ruined your life, as well as her own,
perhaps ; but now that she is homeless and friendless,
as it seems, you must needs shelter her under
your roof, and share your last bit and sup with
her. Do as you please ; I will not say you nay."

Davy entered, and laid his burden gently
upon a bed that stood at one side of the dimly-lighted
room. The child followed him. Mrs.
Kowe shut the cottage door, and stirred up the

embers of the fire. And thus did Lucy return
to the home that had been hers in days of
yore.

Mrs. Rowe did not long hesitate to help David
in his efforts for Lucy's restoration. She tried to
warm her hands and bring her back to consciousness
; she warmed milk and food for the little
l)oy, and put him to bed ; but she did everything
with a grimness and a severity of aspect which
said little for any kindliness of feeling towards
the wanderers. When all her remedies had failed,
she said to her son, with the same dryness of
manner 

You must go for the doctor. I can't do anything
more for her. She is very ill."

Davy started up and went out of the house
without a word of reply.

He returned after a time sith the doctor. By
this time the unconscious woman had been carried
into an inner room. Davy remained alone in
bitter anxiety and fear, which was by no means
dissipated when he heard the doctor's report.
Lucy was certainly very ill  dangerously ill, in
fact ; it was doubtful whether she could ever
recover the strain that she had put upon herself
VOL. I. 4

during the last few hours. There was little
hope.

For three days Hester Rowe watched by Lucy's
bedside. She kept David out of the room for
the most part, much against his will ; but at
times he stole in for a few minutes and listened
with feelings of mingled rage and grief to the
incoherent words in which Lucy betrayed the
desolation of her owt soul. Poor Lucy! her
words were gathered up and commented upon in
silence by two listeners who gave to them the
darkest interpretation that they could bear.
When she cried upon Gaston and besought him
not to leave her, not to be angry with her, not
to hide her from her friends, what could they do
but believe the worst of Gaston and the worst of
her ? She spoke of the letters that had told her
of "Gaston's falseness;" she talked vaguely of
his leaving her '' for ever ;" in short, she conveyed
to their minds the impression that she had been
abandoned and betrayed, and that she had wandered
back to Netherbyby in despair to take refuge
with her adopted mother and brother in the little
cottage by the churchyard gate.

It will be better for her to die than to live,"

Hester said once to her son in reply to his inquiries,
and Davy assented with a groan.

Several times in her delirium it was noticed
that Lucy spoke of certain papers which she
wished to show ; and she would not be satisfied
until a little packet of paper, which the doctor
folded so as to satisfy her, was placed in her
hands. With this packet she seemed content.
Her own papers  the papers which she had taken
from Gaston's desk  meanwhile lay in the long
grass beneath the trees, in the place where she
had been found, undiscovered and undisturbed.
They had been placed in a leathern case, and
were therefore to some degree protected from the
effects of exposure to the weather ; but unless
they were speedily reclaimed there was every
chance of their complete destruction.

The doctor's opinion was correct. On the
third day after her arrival at Netherbyby, Lucy
Ravenscroft lay cold and white and still upon
the truckle-bed to which she had been carried ;
and beside her, cold and white and still as she,
lay the infant who had breathed but for a few
minutes before it closed its eyes in the sleep of
death, into which its mother als(| fell. Lucy was

U, Of iLL LIB.

dead. Gaston Kavenscroft, unconscious of his
bereavement, was far away in a foreign land ;
little Bertram, stunned and frightened into
silence by strange and hard surroundings, was
left alone with two persons who had, perhaps
not unreasonably under the circumstances,
a positive aversion to his presence, and a
desire to rid themselves of him as soon as
possible.

David Rowe, a man of gentle and kindly
nature, tried hard to be tender in thought and
speech to the little lad ; but, in spite of himself,
he could hardly bear the sight of Lucy's child.
He had loved her for many years, and the thought
of her disgrace filled him with a greater woe than
the knowledge of her death. But Hester Rowe
was made of sterner stuff. She had loved Lucy
too, in a cold self-contained way, although Lucy
had been none of her own kith and kin, and she
was indignant in her heart because Lucy had
scorned her son David and brought herself to
shame which the old woman could not pardon.
Hester herself was of gipsy origin ; but she had
married a Scotchman of strict views, and although
she never adopted his religious principles,

they had had an effect upon her. She was a
rigid believer in purity of life, and she had no
sympathy with Lucy in her apparent fall. The
child was an outcast, a disgrace ; and Hester
Kowe was by no means inclined to cherish it for
Lucy's sake, as a woman of a softer nature might
have been. Still less was she disposed to call
upon Gaston Ravenscroft to maintain his son.
The less the child has to do with that bad man
the better," she said, grimly eying the sleeping
boy one evening, and speaking to David in cold
dry tones. " I will let him know that Lucy is
dead. If he wishes to make inquiry about the
boy, he can do so."

Do you mean to keep the child here ?" said
David, looking up.

I'll think about that after the funeral."
I must go back to Stanger's tomorrow
evening," said the fiddler, with a depressed air.
Stanger was the name of a travelling theatrical
manager in whose troupe David was enrolled.
'* I can't stay any longer ; but if you want money
for the child, let me know from time to time, and
rU send it you. Netherbyby won't see me again
for many a long day."

I shall not want any money," said Mrs.
Kowe.

There was a look of dark purpose upon her
face, which made her son restless and uneasy ;
but he did not ask what his mother meant to do
with the little waif and stray.

THE CHILD.

Lucy Eavensceoft and her baby were buried in
Netherbyby churchyard a week after her flight
from Elmstone. David Eowe went back to his
duties on the evening after the funeral. Little
Bertram was left upon Hester's hands, and she
found him a heavy burden. But she speedily
took means to rid herself of it.

She heard of the bereavement that had fallen
upon the Eavenscrofts. She heard that Gaston
Eavenscroft would now become the head of the
house : she knew that he would be rich and
powerful; and she deliberated with herself fora
time as to whether she would not appeal to
him to take the child into his care. But Lucy's
words on her dying bed seemed to show that
Gaston had cast off both her and her child, and

Mrs. Eowe thought it unlikely in that case that
he would acknowledge his paternity. She was
not eager to do anything either for the child's
o[ood or for Gaston Eavenscroft's satisfaction;
but she resolved that he should know at least
what Lucy's fate had been. With this intent,
she wrote a short letter to him, which ran as
follows : 

SiE  Lucy Moore and her infant died at
my house on the 20th of May, and were buried
in Netherbyby churchyard. The little boy remains
with me ; but if he is not soon claimed by his
friends, I shall send him to Mickleham Workhouse.
I have no desire to bring up another
child, as I brought up Lucy Moore, to repay
kindness with ingratitude.  Hester Eowe."

She sent this epistle up to Eavenscroft Hall,
and waited for a reply. A week passed before
any notice was taken of it. As a matter of fact
she did not expect it to be answered until Mr.
Eavenscroft returned to Netherbyby ; and it was
a full fortnight before he brought Mrs. Philip
Eavenscroft back to her home. Then, as we
know, he stayed for a few hours only and set off
once more for Elmstone, where he hoped to find

his wife and receive an explanation of her long-silence.
It was, however, before the clay of his
flying visit to Netherbyby that Hester Rowe
received an answer to her letter. But that
answer did not come from Gaston Eavenscroft.

She was sitting, stonily quiet, as was her
wont, before the fire in her cottage, about four
o'clock in the afternoon, when the sound of
wheels broke upon her meditations. A dog-cart
had been driven down the lane, and was standing
before her door. Mrs. Rowe cast a quick glance
at little Bertie, who was amusing himself somewhat
dismally in a corner with a broken toy,
and rose to greet her visitor. She expected to
see Mr. Ravenscroft : she was somewhat disappointed
to find herself confronted only by Mr.
Hervey of Netherbyby Manor.

But she remembered that Mr. Hervey was a
cousin of the Ravenscroft family, and an intimate
friend of the old lady, at-the Hall. Probably he
had brought her a message from Mr. Ravens-croft.
He was a magistrate, a poor-law guardian,
a man of importance in the place : no doubt he
had come to see whether matters could not be
quietly and satisfactorily arranged.

He was a man of sixty years of age, white-haired,
bland, gentle and courteous of tongue,
yet with a certain coldness of expression which
made him feared even by those whom he wished
to conciliate. Many stories of his harshness
towards his tenants and dependants were rife in
the neighbourhood. Chief among them was an
account of his behaviour to his only daughter,
who had married against his will. She had runaway
from home with a German music-master,
and Mr. Hervey had refused to see her or to
speak to her again. Humour said that the
German music-master was dead, that she had
fallen into poverty, that she and her child were
starving ; finally, that she had died of sorrow,
and that the child had been adopted by its
father's relations ; but no one knew how much
there was of truth in any of these assertions.
Poor Mabel Hervey had never been seen in
Netherbyby since the day when she and her
husband tremblingly presented themselves before
the master of Netherbyby Manor, in order to ask
this forgiveness for their stolen marriage, and had
been coldly but politely requested to leave the
house. Mr. Hervey now lived alone, and devoted

himself in a dilettante sort of way to literature
and art ; but neither man nor woman could
say that he had ever shown one trace of reset
for the conduct of his daughter, nor one sign of
sorrow for the loneliness of his home.

He entered the cottage abruptly, shot a keen
glance at the boy, as Mrs. Rowe herself had done,
and accosted the old woman with an ironical and
decidedly unpleasant smile.

I suppose you thought that you were not
going to receive any answer to your letter," he
began. ' It is better that it should be answered
by word of mouth than in writing, however. I
have come in Mr. Ravenscroft's place, to answer it."

"Mr. Ravenscroft showed you my letter'*
said Hester, in her usual indifferent manner.

'' I saw it  yes, I saw your letter," Mr. Hervey
answered, seating himself and looking round the
cottage with carelessness equal to her own. ''' That
is the boy I suppose ? Handsome little fellow,
Mrs. Rowe. I wonder that you do not wish to
keep him and bring him up. A grandson like
that child would do you credit."

You forget, sir, that Lucy Moore was not my
daughter."

*' Ah yes, one does forget that, Mrs. Eowe.
Naturally you have not much interest in a child
whose very existence might be considered a disgrace."


There are others who have got to consider
that," said Mrs. Kowe coldly. '' He has plenty
of relations in the village  on his father's side 
if they choose to acknowledge him."

'you seem very sure of that," said Mr.
Hervey. "And pray, who told you the name
of this boy's father or of his relations ? "

He looked at her very keenly as he spoke,
and Hester Eowe seemed troubled.

It was pretty plain," she said after a moment's
pause, " to any one who listened to Lucy
on her deathbed."

'' Ah ! And what did Lucy say to you ? "

She did not say anything to me exactly.
She was light-headed from the moment she
spoke first within my doors to the moment of
her death. But folks tell the truth when they
are light-headed more readily sometimes than
when they've got their senses."

Very likely," said Mr. Hervey in a peculiarly
suave manner. " But they also confound fact

and fiction sometimes in a very singular way.
She never recovered consciousness, did she ?
And she left no writing behind her  no papers?"

'No/'

Then I should like to know upon what
grounds you think that this child has any claim
upon Mr. Eavenscroft ! " said the magistrate
with some severity. "If the ravings of an
abandoned girl in her last delirium are all your
proof, I think that you had much better hold your
tongue, Mrs. Rowe, or you will find yourself in
trouble."

**rve no wish to meddle or make in the
matter," returned Hester monotonously. " I only
go by what Lucy Moore said on her dying bed.
She talked of nothing but  Gaston,' * Gaston ' all
the time ; and how he had left her and broken
her heart and all the rest of it. It's natural
enough that I should think that he was the man
as ought to provide for the child."

"He won't do that."

Is that what you've come to say, sir ? "

Yes, my good woman, it's that."

Then the child must go to the workhouse,"
said Hester Rowe.

*' Yes," rejoined Mr. Hervey dryly, 'she must
go to the workhouse, certainly."

There was a little silence. Mr. Hervey turned
towards the boy, who, unconscious that his whole
future life was shaped for him in that moment,
had dragged his toy cart into the centre of the
floor and sat triumphant in a patch of sunlight
which turned the brown of his curls to
gold. He caught Mr. Hervey 's eye, and laughed
with babyish glee as the old man beckoned to
him with his long-fingered finely-shaped white
hand.

*' Come to me," Mr. Hervey said. '' Will you
come {

The boy rose and trotted fearlessly towards
him.

What is your name, little man ? "

'bertie."

And your other name ? What else beside
Bertie ? "

The child shook his head. *' Mammy knows,"
he said regretfully, "but she wouldn't tell me.
And now she's gone away."

Will you come with me ? "

'* No," said Bertie stoutly.

Why not ? "

"Me wait here till mammy come back again."

But if I take you to see her \ "

Mr. Hervey paused, half regretting the untruth
; for the child dropped the cart, which
hitherto he had been holding tightly in his hand,
and placed his fingers on Mr. Hervey 's knee.
'' Yes,'"' he said decidedly. '' Me go T\ith you to
find mammy  now. And papa  and Ever 
and everybody."

Mr. Hervey's hand closed, as it were involuntarily,
over the soft little fingers on his knee. He
looked at Mrs. Kowe with an odd smile.

If you will not keep him, Mrs. Eowe," he
said, " he might as well come away with me at
once. I am going to Mickleham. I can see him
to the workhouse on my way. I assure you that
Mr. Kavenscroft will do nothing for him, and as
you refuse to burden yourself with his support
(in which refusal you are, no doubt, perfectly
right), he must be placed in the charge of the
parish authorities. I am one of the parish authorities
myself," he continued, with the same peculiar
smile, which often recurred to Hester Eowe's
mind and puzzled her in days to come, " and I

shall be happy to take charge of him for thei
present."

Mrs. Eowe made no objection to the proposal.
Bertie's little cap was found for him : he had no
other possession except his one broken toy ; and
he was lifted to the back seat beside the groom.
Mrs. Eowe bade him no farewell. He put up
his mouth for a kiss, but she turned away from
him. Some grain of conscience told her that
she was acting towards a worse than orphaned
child WT.th cruel harshness, for faults that were
not its own. Mr. Hervey waited only to say a
word of warning in her ear.

"Mind, Mrs. Eowe, if you mention Mr.
Eavenscroft's name in connection with this child,
you'll get into trouble. You know nothing, and
your suspicions are libellous."

'* Libellous or not, sir," said Mrs. Eowe coolly,
they are true."

Mr. Hervey shrugged his shoulders and departed.
He took the reins from his groom, and
drove towards Mickleham. But after driving
for a mile or two upon the road, he turned back
and made his way to his own house. He was
a man who generally indulged his whims and

fancies ; and a certain fancy lead taken possession
of him now. Little Bertram did not seethe
inside of Mickleliam Workhouse that afternoon.


Of course Gaston had never received Lies.
Eowe's letter. It had fallen into the hands of
Madame Waldstein before his return from Wiesbaden
; and she, learning from what quarter it
had come, took to herself the right of opening it
and of consulting Mr. Hervey as to the answer
that should be returned to Hester Eowe. " Gaston
would find it very awkward' she said, *ras he
will probably now reside in this neighbourhood, if
the Owes made this statement public. Go and
see, Eichard, whether you cannot silence them
and get the unlucky child sent to a workhouse
or an orphanage or something. I hioiv that
Gaston only wants to have the tribe off his
hands. They have all been begging of him for
the last four or five years. I am glad that the
girl is dead at last."

*' Gaston has behaved very unhandsomely to
her," said Eichard Hervey in a tone of disgust.

Abominably," said Madame Waldstein. She
was a handsome woman still in spite of her
VOL. I. 5

sixty-three years and her half crippled state :
she sat up erect as she spoke, with a wonderful
brightness in her quick dark eyes. She had
been greatly overcome by the news of Philip's
death, but she was so far herself by this time as
to be able to make arrangements for the future
of her second son. " I want him to marry,"
she remarked. " He can make a fresh beginning;
now that Lucy ]\Ioore is out of the way."

This letter is not your first intimation then
of his connection with her ? "

'' Certainly not," said the old lady briskly.
'' I have known the whole story more or less
ever since she left Netherbyby with Gaston. But,
as he did not trouble me about it, I never said a
word to him. It was no business of mine, and
if I had opposed it, he might have put a sea]
upon his folly by marrying her out of sheer
obstinacy. Now they are separated for ever,
and nobody can imagine that I contrived their
separation or even counted upon it."

"You did contrive it then, Leonora?"

Madame Waldstein laughed. ''Do not ask
too many questions," she said significantly.
The matter is ended now. And, for heaven's

sake, do not mention it to Gaston. I will speak
to him."

Mr. Hervey's curiosity was aroused by this
interview. He had no great liking for his
cousin, Madame Waldstein, and would not have
been sorry to do her an ill turn ; but he agreed
with her in thinking it right that Gaston should
be separated from the Owes, and that the child
should not be brought up in a place where everyone
would comment upon his history and his
parentage. Madame Waldstein went on to make
a proposition that a cheap school should be found
where the boy might be boarded for a time and
taught a trade : she herself would furnish the
money for that purpose and make the Eowes a
handsome present for their future silence. But
when Mr. Hervey visited the cottage he found
that no bribes were necessary. Hester Kowe
was neither disposed to keep the child nor to
talk about him in the village. She was only
anxious to get rid of him ; and Mr. Hervey was
accordingly enabled to drive off in triumph,
with the avowed intention of placing the boy in
Mickleham Workhouse.

Madame Waldstein had her own ends to serve

in what she was doing, and she served them
well. She said that she knew the whole story
of Gaston and Lucy Moore ; if so, she concealed
part of her knowledge very skilfully. Never by
look or word did she let any one suspect (or
show that she suspected) that Lucy had been
Gaston's wife. It would not have suited her
plans at all that little Bertram Eavenscroft
should be brought home and acknowledged as
Gaston's son and heir.

As soon as Felicia was safely housed at
Eavenscroft Hall, Gaston's fruitless expedition
to Elmstone took place  an expedition upon
which he set off so precipitately that his mother
had not time to intercept him and to make the
communication to him which she was anxious
that he should receive as soon as possible.
Gaston, however, returned to Netherbyby with
great speed : he thought it likely that Lucy had
gone to her friends, the Eowes. He was very
angry with her for acting so foolishly, but he
was also prepared to forgive her, and to tell her
that her troubles now were over  that all the
world should know that she had been his wife
for the last four years and more. But when he

reached the Eowes' cottage, he found it deserted.
It should be mentioned that Hester was in the
habit of going away sometimes for long tramps
over the lanes and fields  tramps which often
extended through a period of days and weeks :
it was one of the ways in which her gipsy origin
showed itself; and she had quitted Netherbyby
for that purpose soon after Mr. Hervey took
Bertie away sith him. The cottage door was
locked, the windows were closely shuttered ; nota
sign of life was to be seen. Clearly Lucy
could not be there.

Gaston, dismayed and aggrieved, scarcely
knew what his next steps ought to be. After
some anxious thought he determined to o-q too

o

Mr. Hervey, lay the facts of the case before him,
and ask him for his advice. He was resolved that
as soon as Lucy was found, all secrecy should beat
once and for ever at an end. His first step in
this direction should be an acknowledgment of the
truth to his cousin, Richard Hervey, for whom
Gaston had a sort of respect if not much affection.
But disappointment followed upon disappointment.
Mr. Hervey had suddenly shut up his
house and gone abroad. Gaston asked in some

surprise whither he had gone, and was told that
Mr. Hervey intended to spend the coming winter
in the south of France. The young man turned
away, and retraced his steps to his own home,
intending to see his mother and explain the
matter to her. If he could not find Lucy at
once, he must spend all his time and energy in
the search for her until he was successful.
Madame AValdstein should know the state of
affairs at once.

He presented himself in his mother's room
with a troubled and downcast air which told her
his errand before he spoke. The last few days
of sorrow and anxiety were beginning to tell
upon him : his eyes were haggard and his hands
shook. Madame Waldstein looked at him searchingly,
and raised her forefinger.

Wait ! " she said sharply. "' I have something
to tell you before you begin to speak. I
know what you are here for ; you wish to tell
me about Lucy Moore."

Gaston stared at her in dumb bewilderment.
How do you know ? " he stammered after a
pause.

I always know anything that I choose to

know. She left Elmstone on the day after the
one on which you started for AViesbaden, and
she came to Nether. She was ill and over-fatigued,
I suppose : she reached Hester Eowe"s
cottage in a fainting; state "

Gaston rose to his feet. ' Where is she ? "
he said, his eyes blazing with excitement. '' You
know where she is  let me go to her "

My poor Gaston' said his mother quietly,
*' control yourself. You laye bad news to hear.
Sit down and take it quietly."

Is she ill ? " he questioned. " Dangerously
ill \ For God's sake, mother, speak. Don't you
know how I love her ? "

Madame Waldstein looked at him curiously.
His voice was broken with emotion; his face
was gray. She began to fear the effect of her
communication ; but she could not retract her
words. She must go on.

She was ill," she said with a reluctance
which looked like sympathy. " For three days
she was very ill. Then she succumbed  it had
been too much for her strength. On the third
day  she died  of fever."

Gaston reeled as if from a sudden blow.

'rand the child?" he said hoarsely. "The
child is here  with you ? "

"The child V said his mother, avoiding his
gaze as she made the statement which she knew
so well he would misunderstand : " her child
was buried with her. He died the day after
the mother "

She said no more. Gaston had fallen and
lay like a dead man at her feet. The blow had
been too heavy a one for him to bear  wife and
child taken from him at a stroke. It was perhaps a
merciful thing that a severe illness rendered him
unconscious of his loss for many days and weeks.
But the slow return to health and strength was
a terrible time for Gaston Kavenscroft.

His mother was astonished to find him contented
with so little explanation. During his
convalescence he asked only a few questions
concerning the way in which these matters had
come to her ears, and on this point she found
it easy to satisfy him. She brought the clergyman
who had read the funeral service over
Lucy's grave and the doctor who had attended
her, cautioning both beforehand to say nothing
about the child, "as poor Gaston could not bear

to hear him mentioned' in order to answer any
questions that lie might wish to ask ; but he
asked none. He was so silent and depressed
that his friends feared for his sanity, and it was
with great unwillingness that they heard him at
last announce his intention of leaving Netherbyby
for London. He did not say what he meant todo
in London ; but Madame Waldstein hazarded
a shrewd guess when she said, with a significant
nod of her handsome old head 

London ! He will not stay long in London !
He is bound for Elmstone to see his fool's paradise
again. And I hope that he may come back
to us safe and sound ! "

Thus the first act of Gaston Kavenscroft's life
was played, and he was sorely inclined to wish
that it had been the last.

CHAPTEE Y.

ON THE ELMSTONE DOAVNS.

Madame Waldstein was right. Gaston had
gone once more to Elmstone.

It was now the month of August. The sun
blazed hotly in a cloudless heaven. The sea was
blue as the sky itself, and the wind-swept downs
were rich with golden gorse and purple heather,
over which the great brown bees went humming
and the butterflies hovered on the wing. The
grass was scanty and yellow; it had been withered
by a month of drought. The ground was cracked
and burnt ; the birds were silent ; there was nowhere
any life, any motion, any sound. Faraway
on the one hand lay the shining sea, its
blue unchecked by even a single cloudlike sail.

The summer silence seemed more dreary  at
least to one or two persons on the Elmstone
downs that day  than a tempest of wintry rain
and wind could have done.

Gaston Eavenseroft was not so much alone ashe
imagined himself to be when he flung himself
dowTL that day upon the scorched bare earth and
thought of all that he had lost. Life had grown
unendurable : in the madness of his grief he
fancied himself justified in putting an end to it.
He had the remedy for his woes at hand : why
should it not be used ? But between him and
that desperate remedy a barrier was about to be
interposed  a barrier of which he did not as yet
suspect the existence. His safeguard was near
him, though he knew it not, in the shape of a
little child.

This child  a little girl of nine or ten years
of age  had been wandering over the downs for
two or three hours, and had finally seated herself
in the shadow of a lichen-covered boulder in
order to cry over her own troubles, which were
as real and perhaps as great to her as those of
Gaston Eavenseroft were to him. She was a
pale, neglect ed-looking little creature, with wild,

strange gray eyes, which looked odd beneath her
long black eyelashes and dark brows, and a
wealth of very fair hair. Her frock was torn
and shabby, and she crouched down beneath the
sheltering stone in an attitude of fear or pain,
sobbing loudly and passionately from time to
time and again holding her breath as if afraid to
make another sound.

It was long before the stillness of her refuge
quieted the weeping child. The chirping of a
grasshopper at last attracted her attention : she
forgot her grief a little in watching the movements
of his quaint green body and slender legs.
When he had leaped out of her sight she looked
round, with tears still glazing her fevered cheeks,
and became suddenly aware of her own loneliness.
It frightened her a little. She rose and
moved out of the shadow of the boulder into the
glare of the sun and stared nervously about her :
there was nothing in the guise of a human
creature but herself to be seen between earth
and sky.

She walked on dreamily ; her footsteps made
no sound upon the heather. She scarcely even
frightened the rabbits until she was close upon

them. In spite of her troubles, her languor, her
sense of loneliness, she laughed to see the way
in which they kicked up their heels and scurried
off as she drew near  their white scots betraying
them before they whisked into the darkness
of their burrows. She stood to watch a furry
mother with a group of little ones around her.
A sound of running water reached her ears :
there was a fissure in the limestone rock beneath
her, and at the bottom of it a streamlet tinkled
musically. She looked and watched ; perhaps
she moved, for the rabbit family disappeared at
lightning speed ; or perhaps it was something
else that moved, not far away. The child turned
her head with a spasm of visible fear. But all
that she saw was a man lying face downwards
upon the shrivelled grass.

She thought of flying; then changed her
mind. The man did not move : he was probably
asleep. Even if he were awake, she reflected,
he was not likely to do her any harm. She was
not afraid of strangers : they were often kinder
to her than the people with whom she dwelt.
She would not disturb him by a sound, although
he lay straight across her path  a narrow sheep-track

which she was following out of very idleness
;  she would make a circuit and pursue her
way. But first, moved by what instinct she
knew not, she surveyed the stranger's motionless
figure with profound interest.

It was no man with whom she was acquainted.
It was not Mr. Stanger, her stepfather, whose
black coat  grown shiny at the shoulders 
always reminded her irresistibly of a black beetle ;
nor was it "old Davy," as she called him, although
he was not really old, but only bent with
the weight of sorrow and of toil  the musician
of Mr. Stanger's troupe, lame and undersized,
and clad in garments that were rusty with age
and soiled and frayed to the last degree of
shabbiness. This man was neither small nor
badly dressed nor apparently old ; his frame was
strongly made ; his hat was thrown aside and
displayed a head covered with short black locks
not a gray hair amongst them.

Was he asleep indeed ? the child asked herself
; and one glance at his attitude sufficed as a
reply to the question. His face was hidden on
his left arm ; the other was flung wide, and the
right hand clutched the earth convulsively. The

thin white fino-hers were clenched : the nails were
digging into the baked earth. From time to
time a shudder passed through all his limbs :
once he even uttered a faint groan or gasp  but
only once. His agony was not to be lightened
by words or sighs : he was about to choose a
speedier method of relief.

The child stood transfixed by this spectacle of
sorrow such as she had never known,  wondering
whether he suffered bodily pain, whether she ought
to speak to him, or go to the nearest cottage for
help. Suddenly his attitude changed. The
grasp of the hand relaxed : he drew his arm
slowly towards him. The nails were livid with
the force which he had used. Then he was still.
He seemed to be searching his pockets  was it
for food, medicine, brandy ? the child wondered
to herself. She watched and waited with prudence
and self-command beyond her years.

He raised himself a little on his elbow and
glanced around. She thought that he had seen
her, but she dared not move. The event proved
her wrong. Gaston Eavenscroft's weary, bloodshot
eyes failed to distinguish her little brown
fissure from the dried earth and the stones. He

thought himself quite alone  with nothing near
him but those terrible blank spaces of sky and
sea and barren land.

What was it that his fingers held ? A little
thing, not larger than a toy, something made of
rosewood and polished metal that glittered
brightly in the sunshine. He raised his hand.
Rashly and wickedly enough he had made up
his mind that the earth would be well quit of
Gaston Eavenscroft.

But before he had pulled the trigger, the child
had leapt forward with a sharp, frightened cry.
She understood the gesture well enough  understood
it as scarcely one child of her age in a
hundred would have done. For she belonged to
a company of players : a strolling troupe devoted
to melodrama on the boards of provincial theatres
; and her experience of sensational plays
and players interpreted to her that little movement
of the hand. She cried out loudly and
passionately and bade him stop.

Gaston Eavenscroft lowered his hand and
started violently. Then he raised himself into a
sitting posture, and looked at the unfamiliar
little figure with haggard eyes. She stood before

him trembling with excitement, and holding out
her hands.

*soh, don't!" she said. "Don't go on.
Don't you know how wicked it is ? Please
don't do that."

He looked at her with a sort of dull wonderment
and then dropped his face upon his hands.
The beads of perspiration stood upon his forehead.
A minute ago and she had trembled. It
was his turn to tremble now. He shook like an
aspen leaf, and began to breathe heavily.

The child, with her old-fashioned, thin little
face still quivering, drew near and touched him
on the shoulder. " Are you ill ? " she said
anxiously. " Can I do anything for you ? "

'' No, nothing. Go away."

She retreated for a few steps, but she did not go.
Her eyes were fixed upon the revolver, which was
now lying upon the ground. It seemed to have
a fascination for her : she could not lift her eyes
from it.

In a short time Gaston made an effort for
composure. He let one hand fall to his side,
but kept the other over his pale face as he
said :

VOL. I. >

'' Why do you not go % Do you want money?
Take it." He threw a piece of silver at her
feet.

*' I don't want your money," she answered
sullenly. " I only want to be sure that  that
you won't try to hurt yourself."

* What if I did?" muttered Gaston to himself
with a short laugh. Then he lifted his head and
looked at her. 'who are you?" he said.
What are you doing here ? You startled me ;
you might have caused an accident."

'' But it would not have been an accident,"
she said, looking back at him in a grave and un-childlike
manner. "You were doing it on
purpose. I have seen people act in that way at
the theatre. But you were in earnest."

In earnest ?" he echoed bitterly. " Well 
I don't know  perhaps I was "

He had forgotten her presence. His dark
miserable face was turned towards the sea. The
child's opportunity had come. She made a
desperate effort over her fears,  for she had a
secret dread of all firearms,  picked up the
revolver, which he seemed to have forgotten, and
suddenly dropped it down the fissure in the cliff*,

where she had listened to the running water not
long before. She heard it strike the limestone
rock in its descent. Then she burst into an
agony of tears.

Gaston made an angry movement towards
her, but stopped short as soon as she began to
sob. His eyes had already begun to look less
wild and strained ; as he observed the little
figure for a moment or two in silence his face
assumed a more natural hue and expression.
When he spoke again it was with curious calmness.


'What made you do that? How do you
suppose I shall get it back again ?"

''You won't get it back!" cried the small
girl, stamping on the ground with a mixture of
passion and triumph, which absolutely silenced
him. " You will never see it again. That crack
is so deep that nobody can climb down it, and
there is water at the bottom. Why should you
want to get it back ? Did you never think how
dreadful it would be to lie here all alone, and
nobody to find you for days and days?"

"You are a very odd child!" said Gaston
slowly. Then he rose and walked up and down

for a few paces, with this eyes bent ujDon the
ground. In a short time he came back to her
and spoke.

'' Do you understand," he said, " that you are
not to chatter to anybody about what you have
seen and heard to-day ?"

She raised her eyes to his and stood silent.

You are not to say that you saw me here :
you are not to mention the revolver  do you
hear ? If you do, I shall find means to punish
you ; understand that. If you will hold your
tongue, I will make it worth your while ; I will
give you a present  anything you like. I won't
have my affairs gossiped about."

Still she did not answer. He frowned and
looked annoyed.

"How much do you want?" he said. "A
sovereign ? Here, take it. Don't you understand
me ?"

I understand quite well," the child answered
in a low voice. " But there's no need for you to
give me anything. I won't take it. I shall not
say a word about you."

Not even at your own home, remember."

"I have no home."

*' No home ? What do you mean ? Where
are you goinoj?" said Gaston, in a tone of extreme
irritation.

I don't know. I don't care. I have runaway."


He looked at her intently. Little by little
his brow cleared ; in a few minutes he laughed
aloud.

"Better and better. We are in like case 
waifs and strays, trying to escape from the
burdens Fate lays upon us. What are you
running away from ? Is it my duty to take you
back to your friends, I wonder V

If you do," the child cried passionately, "I'll
tell everybody everything about you."

He laughed contemptuously. "Tell what
you like. I have changed my mind about it.
AMiat is your name ?"

Vera Marlitt," she answered with some reluctance.
Gaston's face suddenly changed.

"What name ?" he said.

She repeated it, and he looked at her with a
long keen gaze of inquiry.

"' Come here," he said presently in a gentler
tone. "Don't be afraid of me; I won't take

you back against your will ; but I should like to
hear a little more about you. Let us sit down
somewhere ; it is very hot, and I am tired."

He led the way to one of the great boulders
which were to be found at intervals about the
downs, and stretched himself upon the turf with
his back to the stone. The little girl followed
him slowly ; child as she was, she was surprised
to see him draw out a cigar-case. " If I am not
to shuffle off this mortal coil just yet, I may as
well refresh myself with a cigar," he said with
would-be carelessness. ' Do you object. Mademoiselle
?"

You may smoke if you like. My name is
Vera'' she replied with dignity. '* Nobody calls
me Mademoiselle."

*but I shall call you Mademoiselle if I
choose. It is a privilege reserved for me alone.
AVhat have I here '?" and he suddenly pulled out
of his pocket a little tin case. " Oh, sandwiches !
What an anti-climax ! Franklyn must have put
them up ; they are of no use to me."

Thus speaking, he flung the case to some little
distance; then turned again to Vera. ''AVhat,
crying once more ! Yhat is the matter now ?"

I'm very sorry' said the child, submissively
trying to restrain her tears. *' It's only that I
am tired and  hungry."

She had enough pride to make this confession
a difficult one. But the throwing away of the
sandwich-box had upset all her self-control.

He gave her a curious look ; one in which
surprise mingled with a sort of pity. Then he
rose, marched to the spot where the tin case
had alighted, picked it up and deposited it in
her lap.

'' I beg your pardon, child," he said, more
gently than he had spoken yet. " I was thoughtless.
But a good deal ought to be forgiven to a
man in my circumstances. By the by, I suppose
that some people would say that you had saved
my life ; I owe you thanks for taking the trouble,
though I own I think it was thrown away. Eat
the sandwiches, my dear; I assure you that
Franklyn prepares them excellently."

He leaned against the stone, with the cigar in
his mouth, and closed his eyes. The nonchalance
of his attitude amazed the child ; she was
not old enough to read the signs of pain and
trouble in the dark shadows beneath his eyes, the

pale mouth, the bent brow, and twitching fingers.
She could not tell that she saw before her a man
who was feeling the exhaustion consequent on a
prolonged mental strain, or one whose nerves
had been thoroughly shaken by grief and illness.
She meditated silently upon the carelessness of
his demeanour, as she ate the sandwiches which
he had given to her. It was not until she had
consumed the last mouthful that he roused
himself and looked at her with a faint curious
smile.

A NEW Purpose.

Well," said Gaston, turning his face towards
the child, as she finished the last mouthful, " I
want to hear something more of you. Surely a
waif and stray like myself can look after a waif
and stray like you. Don't you think so ? "

The wearily ironical tone perplexed the child.
Seeing this, he flung away his cigar, glanced at
her again, and said seriously :

Tell me your name once more."

Vera Marlitt. They call me Vera de
Lusignan at the theatre."

Why do they call you so ?" said Gaston,
whose eyes began to glow with curious brightness
as he listened to her.

"Because I was born in France at a place
called Lusignan, and my mother said it would

make a good stage-name for me when I began to
sing. I think Mr. Stanger told her to say so."

And who is Mr. Stanger ?'*

The manager. I hate him."

Is he a relation of yours ?"

No. I haven't any relations."

"But your mother and father " Gaston

began, with increasing interest.

"They are dead."

'dead? ah, yes. But your father  what
was his name ?"

His name was Ernst Marlitt. He was a
German  a musician," said the little girl, with
serious eyes. " He died in France when I was
a very little girl ; and mamma and I were left
alone. Mamma was an Englishwoman. When
my father died she had to work very hard, and
she was so ill that she said she would come back
to England, and see whether anybody would help
us there. I don't think anybody helped us. We
met the Stangers ; and Mr. Stanger got mamma
to play the piano during his entertainments and
to act sometimes, and by and by she married him."

Child, do you know your mother's name
before she married your father ?"

"Yes," said little Vera. ' It was Hervey."

I thought so," Gaston murmured to himself.
This is an odd coincidence indeed. Go on.
Vera. Why did she marry Stanger ?"

She said she did it for my sake," said Vera,
drawing a deep breath. " I don't know why.
Perhaps she was afraid to say no. And then
Mr. Stano'er brought me out as the Infant Prodigy.
But mamma died a few months afterwards,
and I was left to Mr. Stanger."

Who takes care of you ? Has he married

adam f

No. I don't want any one to take care of
me. There are the Bliss St angers, his grown-up
daughters ; they manage everything."

Are they kind to you ?"

'No."

"No? Why not?"

Vera spoke sullenly and decisively. " They
hate me. They hated my mother. They call
me the little Dutch doll. They pinch me and
box my ears when nobody sees them. But I
should not mind them so much if  if "

If what ? This is quite a case of Cinderella
and her cruel sisters ! Well, if what ? "

If Mr. Stanger did not beat me !" lie
answered, with an irrepressible sob, and overflow
of tears.

He did not speak for a moment, and then he
muttered a word or two below his breath.

"What brutes!" Vera heard him say. As
she continued to sob, he put out his hand and
gently stroked her bare ruffled head. There was
almost a wistful tenderness in his tone when he
spoke again.

Poor little thins: ! Poor little neglected
Cinderella ! " Then after another pause :

Was that why you ran away ?"

For answer the child pulled up the loose
sleeve of her shabby brown frock, and showed
some livid marks upon her arm. '' He did that
this morning, and more than that, because I did
not sing well enough to please him. I was
hoarse and couldn't get up to the high notes.
And I didn't know the steps of a new dance very
well. He said it was all sham and obstinacy,
and that he would flog it out of me once for all.
But he broke the little cane that he generally
uses, you know, and he went out to fetch his
riding whip,  he said he would make me dance

to another tune,  and while he was gone, Davy
the fiddler helped me to get out of the window,
and I ran away. You won't take me back to him,
will you ? He would kill me, I know he would."

Grafton was biting; his long; dark moustache
savagely ; his eyes glowed with a new fire. But
his answer was very gently spoken.

' I will see that you come to no harm, little
Vera. I shall not let this business go on at any
rate. I have a right to interfere."

He fell to meditating. She did not understand
him, but she dried her tears, feeling a
childlike trust in his ability and willingness to
save her from all present and future annoyances.
Presently he spoke :

*vera, would you like to go to school?"

I don't know," she said doubtfully. " Emily
Stanger says that everybody will always laugh
at me. I should not like a whole school to lauo[h
at me."

' Why should they laugh ? "

Little Vera's face grew crimson. " I am poor.
for one thing  and ugly  and stupid," she
stammered.

I shouldn't have thought you stupid. As

for poverty, nobody but fools would laugh at
you for that."

Vera said nothing, but she twisted a corner
of her apron and regarded him wistfully. She
did not dare to ask the question that was in her
mind, Was she indeed so very ugly ? That she
was hideously plain had been instilled into her
mind with jibes and sneers from her earliest days
in Mr. Stanger's household. Had not Emily
Stanger that very morning boxed her ears for
no other reason than that she was, as Miss
Stanger said, "such a mean-looking little toad !"
And indeed she was small and slight, even to
leanness ; her skin was colourless ; her hair,
which under a mother's care might have proved
a redeeming feature, was lustreless and tangled.
Only when she sang in a more important part
than usual was any notice taken of her dress ;
and then she was encouraged in a love for finery
rather than for neatness.

Vera's companion looked at her oddly, then
laughed in his sarcastic way. "Daughter of Eve,"
he said, " I know what you are thinking of. I'll
leave other people to talk to you about your
looks, Httle one."

Vera bit her lip ; the colour rushed to her
cheeks and the tears to her eyes. She turned
away to hide her face, but in vain. Gaston's
keen gaze followed her ; his face wore an amused
expression, tempered with pity, which she could
not at all understand. For the moment she was
unmixed ly miserable.

'' You little fool ! " said Gaston, not unkindly,
at last. His voice had quite recovered the musical
ring which was its peculiar characteristic. " I
should not have thought you so full of vanity !
So you want compliments to your pretty eyes
already, do you ? Silly child ! you will hear
plenty of them in half a dozen years or so ! "

Do you really mean it ? " said Vera, wiping
away her tears. " But I don't believe it ; you
are kinder than other people  that is all. I don't
mind what they say  much."

' Don't you ? And you won't mind going
back to them, I suppose ? "

'back to Mr. Stanger? Oh, won't you 
won't you  take me away with you f "

That might be difficult, little one."

''I itwi' go back to Mr. Stanger," was the
child's response.

He frowned a little, eyed lier with that keen
gaze which seemed to penetrate the inmost recesses
of her heart, and then bestirred himself to
speak seriously.

"You have been badly treated," he said, "and
I should like to help you to get away from these
people ; but I can do nothing if you are going to
behave like a foolish child. You seem to have
sense and spirit beyond your age : use them and
listen to me. If that man thinks he has lost
you, he will advertise and search the country 
because you must be a valuable possession to
him  and you might be given back to him and
treated worse than before without hope of redress.
If you walk quietly back with me, I will arrange
matters with him." There was a world of haughty
meaning in the emphasis that he laid upon the
pronoun. "/ shall not stand by and let him
abuse you. But you will have to confront him,
perhaps, and stick to your story  I think you are
brave enough for that % You do not seem to
want for courage. If you will do this I will help
you."

Vera looked up with a glow of confidence and
pride. "I'll do anything for you," she said, childishly

enough. But her emotion of reverence and admiration
for her new friend and benefactor was
anything but childish.

That is well," he said gravely ; and with
these words she was content.

Meanwhile a slight change had come over the
scene around them. A rising breeze had driven
some light fleecy clouds between the earth and
the sun, which mitigated the fierceness of the
heat : the shadows were less strongly marked :
the birds chirped and flew low as if they thought
the evening hours approached. Gaston looked at
his watch and suddenly rose to his feet.

It is not so hot now," he said. '' How far
are we from the town V

'I do not know."

'two miles only," he went on reflectively.
I suppose that you can walk two miles. Vera ? "

"Yes." .:::

He looked round him silently. For a few
moments he totally forgot the child's presence :
a sad and dreamy expression stole into his eyes.
At last he sighed deeply, passed his hand over
his forehead, then turned to Vera.

So we must go and take up our burdens once

VOL. I. 7

more, must we, little one ? " he said, with an indescribable
sweetness of intonation in which,
child as she was, she could distinguish a note of
profound melancholy. " I had a wild dream of
escaping from mine like yourself, you see  and
in counselling you to be brave, I have brought
myself to reason. I must put off the day of
escape a little longer  if only for your sake, Vera.
Shall we go back together ? "

He held out his hand. She placed her hot
little fingers within his strong but gentle clasp,
and they turned their faces to the town.

Scarcely a word was spoken during that two
miles' walk. It was well for Vera that she was
accustomed to much active exercise,  she escaped
from the Stangers for a country ramble as often
as she was able,  for her companion walked fast
and took little notice of her. Only when they
neared the town did he slacken his pace at all.

"You must come with me to the falcon,'
Vera," he said curtly. " I will see Stanger alone."

And, holding her still by the hand, he turned
towards the inn where he had been staying since
the previous evening. Here he summoned a servant
who had come with him from Netherbyby and

consigned Vera to his care. He had business in
the town, he said, and Franklyn must see that
the young lady was made comfortable and happy
whilst he was away.

Vera was accordingly given into the hands of
a friendly chambermaid, who washed her face and
brushed her hair, and then she was provided with
a good dinner, of which she certainly stood in
need. When this was over she curled herself uj)
in a corner of the sofa, and there, overpowered by
fatigue and soothed by the quietness of the place,
fell fast asleep and did not wake until late in the
afternoon. Even then she was aroused only by
the sound of voices close beside her ; and, starting
up, she found herself confronted by the faces of
the two men, each of whom wished to establish a
right to her guardianship. Mr. Eavenscroft had
returned in company nth Mr. Jonas Stanger.

Mr. Stanger's manner was exceedingly obsequious,
but his face wore a viciously disappointed
look. ]\lr. Eavenscroft's haughty features showed
an admixture of anger and contempt.

' I brought her up as my own child," Mr.
Stanger was observing in an oily whine. " I
treated her as a father. And is this the return she

makes me ? Alas ! child of my lost, my sainted
Mabel! why do you malign me thus?" This
last ejaculation was accompanied with a well-managed
sob and flourish of his handkerchief.

Are you awake, Vera ? " said Mr. Ravens
" Come here to me. Show me your arm
again. There is the lie to your professions of
affection, Mr. Stanger. Don't you think you
had better hold your tongue ? "

"Did she dare to insinuate that I ill-treated
her ? " said the manager, casting a venomous
glance at her bruised arm and shrinking figure.
It was an accident  a fall."

I have heard your story already," said Yea's
friend contemptuously. " You know exactly how
much confidence I place in it. Yera, listen tome.
This man agrees to set you free  to hand
you over to me, in fact  on certain conditions,
which I need not specify ; but," he added, drawing
her out of Mr. Stanger's hearing and speaking
low, " he will not consent, on any terms, to your
not singing at the theatre to-night. I can
guarantee his not ill-treating you during that
time ; it would be against his own interest to do
so, the cur. I have unfortunately no right to

interfere exactly ; the person who has a right is
now away from England, and he knows that ;
therefore he refuses to yield more than absolute
fear requires him to do. However, I'll explain
all that to you another time. AVill you do what
he wishes, child ? In another day you will be
free."

"He looks as if he would kill me!" Vera
murmured doubtfully.

''He dare not lay a finger on . you, child.
Don't be afraid. You can stay here till the
evening ; I will have you taken to the theatre
and brought safely home at night."

* And you will come to the theatre too ? I
will sing if you are there, but I shall be afraid of
him if you are away."

A look of repugnance came over Gaston's
face. He had been to that theatre once before 
with Lucy. But in view of the child's evident
terror he could not refuse to accompany her.

*then I will go," she said readily enough,
'* and I will sing my best, my very best, because
you will be there."

He turned back to Mr. Stanger and gave him
the reply that the manager was awaiting.

She will sing for you once more ; you known
what conditions. There need be no rehearsal,
I suppose ? I will send some one with her tonight,
and I shall be in the theatre myself to
take her away after the performance. Remember
that she is my property now, not yours."

''I am sure, sir," said Mr. Stanger with
servile humility, " if I had known that she had
friends so able and willing to serve her I "

*' You would have treated her with civility?
I have no doubt of it," said the young man dryly.
And Mr. Stanger took his leave in some confusion.


Vera was still too much of a child to wonder
at Mr. Ravenscroft's kindness to her. If she had
been nothing but the waif and stray which she
appeared it is probable that he would merely
have made her a present and perhaps remonstrated
with the manager concerning his treatment
of her, but he would never once have
thought of rescuing her from an unhappy life or
of taking any responsibility upon himself concerning:
her. But the utterance of her name had
at once arrested his attention. Marlitt ? It
was a man of the name of Marlitt who had persuaded

Mabel Hervey to run away with him.
Gaston well remembered the enthusiastic musician,
with his long hair and visionary eyes, in
the days when he lived at Mickleham and came
to Netherbyby Manor to instruct Miss Hervey in
violin-playing, in harmony, and counterpoint.
Mabel Hervey had a passion for the violin, and
was not wanting in genuine musical talent. The
lessons ended, however, in her running away
with Ernst Marlitt and marrying him. Gaston
was present when the announcement of the
marriage was made to Mr. Hervey, and well
remembered the old man's burst of anger and
grief. Since that time little news of Mabel had
come to Netherbyby, but Gaston had certainly
heard of the birth of a child (a little girl with a
Kussian name  he had forgotten whether it was
Olga, Vera, or Nadia, but he knew that it was
Kussian), also of Ernst Marlitt's death and
Mabel's subsequent marriage with a theatrical
manager, whose name he did not know.

Thus placed on the track, he followed it up
with ease. Mr. St anger placed in his hands all
the papers belonging to Mabel which had come
into his possession, and agreed to deliver Vera

over to him in return for the payment of a sum
of money. Gaston did not as yet know what
he should do with the child. He would write of
course to Eichard Hervey to tell him of his little
granddaughter's position, and no doubt, he
thought, Hervey would decide what should
become of her. If he refused to give her a home
Gaston thought it probable that his mother and
sister-in-law would find a place for Vera at
Eavenscroft Hall. She would be a nice playmate
for little Olivia, and the second cousins
could share the same advantages.

Had he been in a more genial mood he would
have told Vera of his relationship to her. But
he wanted energy to do it. Felicia would make
the communication better than he. And perhaps
it would be as well to wait until it was seen how
Mr. Hervey took the news, and what he meant
to do for his granddaughter.

DAVY S PUPIL.

At nine o'clock that evening Vera was seated ina
little room behind the scenes of the Elmstone
theatre, dressed in a very short and flimsy
costume, her face plastered with paint and
powder, her hair crowned with gaudy artificial
flowers. Mr. Eavenscroft had taken care that
she should be well guarded. Mrs. Kemp herself,
the landlady of the '' Falcon," had been persuaded
to accompany Vera '' behind the scenes "
an office of which she did not altogether
approve, as she considered it rather beneath her
dignity. But it had been represented to her by
Mr. Eavenscroft's confidential servant, whom he
had brought from Netherbyby, that without some
protector the little girl would probably be
pinched, nipped, and bobbed " between the acts,

and kidnapped by Mr. Stanger afterwards ; and
this picture had produced the desired result of
bringing Mrs. Kemp to the theatre in Vera's
company.

Upright and severe in her respectable bonnet
and shawl, Mrs. Kemp sat in the dressing-room,
her comely face expressive of some interest, but
of more dislike, of her surroundings. Two or
three girls ran in and out ; a demon in black
and red stood at the door smoking a cigar.
Miss Julia Stanger was touching up her eyebrows
before the glass and withering Vera by
her sarcasms. Vera had not had a flattering
reception. Miss Emily Stanger had gone into
hysterics upon her appearance, and expressed a
wish to tear " the German toad's eyes out ; "
Julia had been prevented from boxing the child's
ears only by a rough admonition from her
father ; the rest of the company had had hints
or orders not to treat her with friendliness. But,
now that Mr. Stanger was out of the way, Julia's
tongue ran on unchecked by Mrs. Kemp's austere
presence.

** I wonder you can look any of us in the face,
miss !" said the fair Julia indignantly. " Telling

lies about my pa in the way you have done !
You'll say Emily and me were unkind to you
next, which we weren't, you little viper !"

Yes, you were," said Vera, who was in no
patient mood.

If giving you the best to eat and to drink,
and taking you about with us to the first hotels,
and treating you like a lady instead of the
beggar's brat that you are  if thais unkindness,
then we were unkind; and I should like to
know what next!" said Julia fluently. "And
now you turn on us, you little wretch ! I
wouldn't have such a bad disposition, oh, not
for worlds ! would you. Miss Spratt ?"

"Oh, not for worlds!" said Miss Spratt, a
thin girl with a pursed-up mouth and watery
blue eyes, whom Vera hated almost as much as
she hated the two Miss Stangers.

"Don't you go for to answer them, dear,"
said Mrs. Kemp in an undertone. " They ain't
worth it, the impudent hussies ! "

It was fortunate for her that this speech was
unheard by the two girls, or there would have
been a disturbance. It produced no calming
effect upon Vera's own mind. She was intoxicated

by the prospect of freedom, and not disposed
to leave Miss Stanger's abuse unanswered.

'' You have always been unkind to me," she
said. " You often kept me without food when
I was hungry ; you often pinched and pushed
me when I was on the stage, so that I might
forget my part and be punished ; you often
made your father leat me. I have not told Mr.
Ravenscroft all about you yet, but I shall  I
shall tell him what a bad, wicked, cruel girl
you are ; and when you are acting in different
towns, he will tell people about you, and they
will come and hiss."

It was a childish speech, but Julia had been
known to fly into a fury for less. On this
occasion, however, she made an obvious efibrt
to govern herself.

You little story-teller !" she said contemptuously.
"What do I care for your Ravenscroft?
He's none so grand, if the truth were told, nor
so saintly either. As for you, everybody knows
where you came from ; your mother was a
beggar or worse, and your father a rogue and
a vagabond  that's about the truth of it."

My father was a gentleman," said Vera,

rising to her feet, and looking at lier with eyes
before which she quailed in spite of herself ;
and my mother was a lady, and your father
killed her with being so cruel both to her and tome.
You think you can torment me as you like,
because there is nobody to take care of me. Did
you never hear that God curses the people who
are cruel to the poor and fatherless, Jura
Stanger ? You will have to ask Him to forgive
you for your behaviour to me before ever you
hope to go to heaven."

Yera's speech was certainly indefensible. It
was the outcome of the state of excitement in
which she had spent the day. Besides, she had
had a theatrical training. She was partly quoting
from a play that she had once seen acted ; nevertheless,
she was terribly in earnest, and her
earnestness told upon the hearers. Mrs. Kemp
made a clicking sound of disapprobation ; Miss
Spratt uttered a scream, and ran out of the
room ; Julia turned pale beneath her rouge.
But in an instant Miss Stand-er recovered herself.
The blood rushed to her bold handsome
face ; she struck the child furiously on the head
with the back of a hair-brush, and would certainly

have repeated the blow but for the
vigorous interposition of Mrs. Kemp. At that
very moment came Vera's call; she left Mrs.
Kemp to settle the matter with Julia as best she
could, and made her appearance on the stage.

She had little acting to do, but she had two
songs  one a comic '' patter" song, and one of a
more pathetic character. Vera was never nervous
when singing, and she gave forth her comic
utterances and performed the accompanying
dance with more spirit than usual after the encounter
with Julia. She was applauded to the
echo ; but it was not until the close of the second
repetition of the last verse  a very slangy one, the
meaning of which she scarcely understood  that
she caught sight of Mr. Eavenscroft, looking as if
he did anything but enjoy the performance. He
was sitting far back in one of the boxes : his
arms crossed, a dark frown upon his brow.
Vera was disappointed. She had hoped to please
him by her singing, and she went off with tears
in her eyes.

The interval between the two songs was not
great, and she had to change her dress in the
meantime. Her exultation had been followed

by sudden shame and depression : an intense
realisation of her own loneliness came upon her
as she stole back, in picturesque rags and poverty,
to the darkened stage, and sang as if she were
telling her own story to the world. How came
the Stangers to give the child so suitable a part ?
Even to Yera's own ears her voice rang out with
a passionate thrill of real emotion as she sang.
The last verse ran as follows : 

My heart it is sore, and the cold wind is driving,

In the grave with my mother I would that I lay ;
To be done with the hunger, the toil, and the striving.

The comfortless night and the desolate day.
Oh, mother in heaven, look down from the glory.

And take me at last as of old to your breast.
Let me sob in your ears all my pitiful story,

And then-vyith the angels, and you, be at rest."

A woman sobbed in the very midst of the
verse. The audience sat as if spell-bound until
the end, and then electrified the child by such
bursts of applause as she had never before
received.

Vera hardly deserved their plaudits. She
had but seized upon the words and made them
her own  she had been indeed the forlorn, neglected
child whose mother was in heaven ! 

but her hearers believed the impersonation to be
simply dramatic, and gave her credit for talent
and training which she did not possess.

She could not see Mr. Kavenscroft's face.

He came behind the scenes in a short time,
and found Vera in Mrs. Kemp's lap, crying her
heart out upon her comfortable bosom.

* What have they done to her ? What is
the matter ? " he thundered.

I don't know, sir, I'm sure ; unless it is the
way that that brazen-faced girl struck her just
before she sang her first song  I gave her a
piece of my mind, the saucy jade !  "

Struck her ? " said Gaston. It was well
for Julia that she was out of his reach at that
moment. His voice, though low, was menacing
and stern. "Where is that man?" he said.
*' He has broken his bargain."

'' No, no ! " cried Vera, starting up. " It did
not hurt me  I was not crying for that !  please
don't "

What are you crying for, then ? " he said
gently. " Don't be afraid to tell me, Vera ; if
that girl has hurt you, she ought to be punished.
No ? Well, what is the matter ? "

It was only the song, she murmured shamefacedly.
"It was so like me  I was really the
little girl without any mother  and without any
friends, until  until you found me."

And Vera suddenly caught his hand between
her own and kissed it, greatly to Mrs. Kemp's
astonishment.

He looked at the child gravely, with a faint
lifting of his eyebrows ; then drew her closer to
him nth a gentle, caressing gesture.

'' Poor child ! That life is over for you now,
Vera. Forget it as soon as you can. And now
come home with me. You have no farewells to
make, I suppose V

If you would not mind," she faltered, " I
should like so much to say good-bye to Davy \ "

Who is Davy ? ''

He plays the violin ; he is in the band.
He is lame, and I love him because he was always
so kind to me."

"You shall see him tomorrow at the inn.
Have you anything here belonging to you ? Get
your things together and come."

Vera obeyed him hastily. She saw nothing
more of Julia. They met Emily Stanger in one

VOL. I. 8

of the corridors : she tossed her head and drew
away her skirts as they approached her. Mr.
Stanger, in eager conversation with another man
stood near the door.

Gaston caught a sentence or two as he passed

by.

Such talent too ! Never saw so much in a
child of that age  but couldn't afford to refuse,
you know Ah ! "

He started at seeing Mr. Ravenscroft, and
bowed with an uneasy crafty smile. Mr.
Eavenscroft's hand closed on Yera's a little more
tightly than before, but he gave the stage-manager
neither look nor word. Mrs. Kemp
and Franklyn followed bearing Yera's very few
and poor belongings. And so she passed from
the tyranny of Jonas Stanger to the guardianship
of Gaston Eavenscroft.

When he reached the "Falcon," Mr. Eavenscroft
gave some orders which seemed to differ from
those previously bestowed. He had arranged at
first that Yera should sup with Mrs. Kemp ; he
now directed that she should take her evening
meal with him.

He touched no food himself ; but he plied her

with good things until she could eat no more.
Then, while the servants took away the dishes,
he leaned back in a low armchair, and sank into
a melancholy reverie. Vera sat on a high seat
at some distance, and watched him furtively ; she
liked to dwell upon each distinctive trait  the
short-cropped hair and close moustache of raven
blackness, the bent brows, the strong handsome
features, the fine dark eyes. Vera thought her
hero a middle-aged man, old enough to be her
father. She Alas quite surprised to learn in after
days that he had then been only five and twenty.

He lifted his eyes at last and caught her
glance. Immediately he roused himself and
stretched out his hand to her.

''Come and sit by me, Vera," he said. She
drasored a footstool to his chair and sat down
beside him. He stroked her hair as he had done
that morning upon the downs. " Child," he said,
'' I wonder what I am to do with you."

Vera's face fell. She had thought that he had
some plan ready. He noticed her change of
expression.

"" What a sensitive plant it is ! Don't be
frightened, child. Matters will be arranged for

you ; never fear. But you disconcerted all my
plans this evening."

How r' asked Vera.

He laughed. ' I will tell you  in ten years'
time, if I know you then, Vera. Who taught
you to sing ? "

' Davy," she answered promptly.

Davy is a wonderful man," he said, with an
enigmatic expression on his face. " Are you fond
of singing ? "

Oh, yes. But there is one thing I should
like better."

"What?"

'' I want to play the violin. My father played
it. I have his violin. And my mother played
it too."

''Ah, that accounts for the violin case that
puzzled me. You should have made Davy teach
you to play."

He did a little."

Indeed ? Let me hear you play, Vera."

Vera went for her violin, which she handled
with care and reverence. She was nervous about
her playing, if not about her singing, because she
was not so sure of the effect that she would produce;

but she did her best. She played some
simple airs that Davy had taught her, then a
German volkslied of which her mother had been
fond. When she had finished she noted the same
inscrutable look of surprise upon Mr. Ravenscroft's
face that she had seen before. But he said
nothing.

"Don't you like it?" she said at last, very
vistfuUy. " I know I play badly."

He smiled a little, then spoke with the air of
one who wishes to counsel wisely.

*' You have, no doubt, a talent for music,
Vera," he said. 'you must cultivate it, of
course. But do not let your mind run upon a
public life. Your nature is not fitted for it.
You would suffer a martyrdom on the stage, poor
child ! Love music for its own sake, not for the
sake of fame or money."

Vera could not understand him, and said so
frankly.

You will understand me in time," he said.
"Put away your violin, child, and talk to me.
Is it possible that I met you for the first time
this morning only ? It seems years ago."

I shall never forget it," she answered. " Nobody

has been so good to me before  so kind, so
good!"

That has not been my character heretofore'
he said dryly. And then he fell into a long
silence which Vera did not try to break.

I shall take you home with me tomorrow,
Vera," he said after a time. " You will meet my
mother and my sister-in-law. I suppose you
understand"  and there was an ironical ring in
his voice which Vera did not like  "thatj'ou
must not treat them with as much frankness as
you bestowed upon Miss Stanger."

They will not speak to me as Miss Stanger
did."

"I won't answer for the way in which my
mother speaks to you," said Gaston in an enigmatic
tone. '* In any case, remember that she
is much older than you, and behave to her with
respect." Vera thought the warning unnecessary,
and held her peace. '' Now go to bed, my
child. I left word at the theatre that your friend
Davy was to call here in the morning. What is
his name beside Davy, by the by V

Davy Rowe."
Davy  David Rowe !" said Gaston, with a

ie:\

sudden change of tone. Vera turned to look at
him, but lie averted his face, and sat nth his
cheek upon his hand. " What brings him
here ?" he murmured to himself dreamily.

Vera waited for a few minutes, but finding
that he took no notice of her, she stole quietly
away and went to bed.

Gaston sat long in deep abstraction. At last
he roused himself, and began to write a letter to
Richard Hervey. It was midnight before he had
completed the task that he had set himself, but
when it was done he felt more satisfaction than
had visited his breast for many a day.

I was a coward to think of ending my
troubles in that way," he murmured to himself.
' The child saved me. I will do what I can for her. "

It was on the next day that Vera received her
farewell visit from her friend the fiddler, David
Jowe, whom Gaston had known under such different
auspices. He came about ten o'clock in
the morning. Mr. Eavenscroft had already gone
out, leaving word that the musician was to be
admitted ; and Vera met him in a little back
parlour of the Falcon Inn and rapturously threw

her arms round his neck. David Rowe had never
suspected that the lady who played a humble
part in Mr. St anger's company was the widowed
daughter of Mr. Hervey of Netherbyby Manor, but
he had been attracted to her through her little
daughter Vera, whose caresses had won his heart
when she was hardly old enough to walk alone.
Vera's mother had very possibly recognised David
Rowe from the very first : he was less changed
than she had been by years of sorrow, poverty,
and exile ; but if she recognised him she never
told him of the fact. She was always particularly
gentle and considerate in her dealings with
him ; and she allowed Vera to have more intercourse
with the lame fiddler than with any other
member of the troupe. It was Davy, therefore,
who had developed Vera's musical talent, and
nourished her imagination on a never-failing
store of wild legends and ghost stories. It seemed :
to him sometimes as if in Vera he had found his \
Lucy once again, as she had been in the days of her '
childhood in the cottage at Netherbyby. As for Vera, {
she was sincerely, if somewhat patronisingly, !
attached to him ; and welcomed his visit with !
delight, which afforded Davy much satisfaction. j

Stanger's mad with us all this morning,
missy," he said confidentially. He says it'll
ruin him for you to leave the company."

' He won't turn you off for coming to see me,
wil he, Davy ?"

'' It's not much odds if he does. I can get a
living anywheres."

'' I shall never forget you, Davy, you
know."

'' Out of sight, out of mind, missy."

"Not with me, Davy dear. You have been
so kind to me. Mamma used to say you were a
kind man. If ever I am rich, I shall find you
out and give you as much money as ever you
want."

Davy shook his head but said nothing.

' Don't you think I shall ever be rich ?" Vera
asked. '' I shall work hard and try : I want some
money for you and other people."

Try if you like, but try the right way, dearie.
It's ill gained what the devil gives."

"But you don't think that the gentleman
means to do me any harm, do you, Davy?" said
Vera, gathering from this remark, after some
reflection, that Davy thought her in danger.

She had not yet accustomed herself to speaking
of Mr. Kavenscroft by his name.

'' I can't tell," said Davy meditatively. " It
is a queer start altogether. Why should he take
you away from Stanger's when he knows nothing-whatever
about you. It's as queer as Dick's hatband,
which went nine times round and wouldn't
tie at the last."

Oh, I've heard of Dick before," cried Vera,
almost pettishly. ' Who was Dick ? Why did
he want a hat-band ? I wish you wouldn't talk
of him if you can't say anything more sensible
than that."

"Ay, ay; it's always the way. New friends,
new manners. It's time I was off."

'' No, Davy, no," entreated Vera, clinging to
him. " I did not mean to be cross. Be kind tome,
Davy ; I shall not see sou again for a longtime
perhaps."

'' That's true," he said ; * truer than you think
for, missy. It's all come to an end now. You've
been a slave to one man, and now you'll be a
slave to another, and the Lord knows whether
you'll ever be free to do as you please for the
rest of your life."

'' What do you mean, Davy ? I'm not a slave
at all."

'' You've been bought and sold like one, at
any rate," said Dav} nth bitterness. " Would
Stanger part with you for nothing? No, it's
money that has done it : two hundred pounds
or more at the least, as I've heard tell to make
you this strange gentleman's apprentice instead
of Jonas Stanger's. He's bought you, and he's
your master, and that's the long and the short
of it."

"I am glad of it then," said the child passionately.
*' I like to do what he tells me.
I always shall. He is good to me, and I love
him."

'love or not, he's your master," returned
Davy in an obstinate tone. " I shall scarce hear
much more of you, missy. I haven't set eyes on
this gentleman yet, nor heard his name. I daresay
he's a fine gentleman, by all reports ? " This
was said questioningly.

Yes, he is a very fine gentleman indeed ! "
Vera asseverated. " He is very rich  very handsome
 very good ; and his name is Mr. Gaston
Eavenscroft."  . .

Davy started from his seat with dilated eyes
and outstretched hands.

' What's that you say ? " he stammered.
'' What  what's his name ? Eavenscroft 
Gaston Eavenscroft of Netherbyby? The Lord
have mercy upon you, child ! Is it into the
hands of that wicked man that you have fallen ? "

'* He is not a wicked man, Davy ! How can
you say so ? "

'' Because I know  because I know," said the
musician with an appearance of great agitation.
I can't tell you why  it's a story that you would
not understand ; but I know that he's not a man
to be trusted. Oh, my dear, what would your
mother say to me, as asked me to look after you
when she was on her dying bed % "

I don't believe that Mr. Eavenscroft is anything
but good and kind," said Vera, whose eyes
were filling with indignant tears. " You are
very naughty and disagreeable to tell me so,
Davy, and I think it's very wrong of you.
Where are you going ? "

My dearie," said the fiddler, shaking his
head mournfully, " I can't do anything for you
but warn you. That I will do, and then I'll go.



Remember that Mr. Kavenscroft is not to be
trusted : remember that I say so. He's a badman
and will bring you harm, and do you a
mischief if he can. So take care ! "

And with these ominous words David Rowe
took leave of Vera.

iv'\iiivA\Ujii/, uvj

A REBEL.

Ravenscroft returned to Netherbyby without
meeting David Rowe, whose presence at Vanstone
made the young man doubly anxious to
leave that place. He took Vera with him. His
plans were not matured with respect to her  in
fact, he had scarcely formed any definite ones,
for he fully expected that this task would at once
be taken off his hands by Mr. Hervey, Madame
Waldstein, and Felicia. It did not cross his mind
at all that any one of the three might raise an
objection to her presence at Netherbyby.

Vera herself  shy, excited, and almost overwhelmed
with the sense of liberty and idleness 
did not venture to ask any questions respecting
her future. She had already made an idol of
her new friend, and thought that all that he

-aid and did was right. Gaston bestowed little
apparent notice upon her, but he was carelessly
kind and indulgent ; and it was plain that the
new interest which she had brought into his life
was of service to him. He was less dispirited
and languid than he had been since the beginning
of his illness.

'* Stay here, Vera," he said to her, when they
had reached Eavenscroft Hall. He opened the
door of a small sitting-room and pointed to a
chair. "'I sill come back presently or send for
you. They do not know yet of your arrival ; I
must go and prepare their minds'

He left her with a reassuring nod and smile.
Some time elapsed before she heard more of him,
but she did not wait long alone. A little girl,
with a doll in her arms almost as big as herself,
pushed open the door and announced her name
to be ' Olivia*' With Olivia Eavenscroft  her
second cousin, although she did not know it 
Vera speedily made friends.

Little Olivia was four years old and Vera was
not far wrong; when she mentally decided that she
had never seen a lovelier child. The complexion
of peach-like bloom, the tendrils of silky dark

hair clustering round the white forehead and
laughing eyes, the delicate features and rosy
mouth  nay, even the dainty white frock with
its black bows and the look of exquisite care
visible in every detail of her attire  all these
things impressed Vera with their perfect completeness
and a sense of her own poverty and
insignificance. She was far more shy than Olivia,
but in a few minutes the two children became
quite at ease with each other, and chatted and
played together as if they had been intimate all
their lives.

Their games were, however, presently interrupted.
For some time the sound of voices had
issued stormily from the next room. Then came
the rattle of rings as a curtain was drawn aside,
and then a door was hastily flung open. Little
Olivia rose from the floor, with a solemn look in
her great dark eyes, as she said to Vera wisely :

'* That is grandmamma."

Folding-doors stretched across on one side of
the room, and these were the doors that opened
to admit Madame Waldstein and her son. The
Baroness entered leaning on Gaston's arm ;
Felicia came behind them with a white shawl

thrown over lier arm. Madame Waldstein was
queen of the household, and it was plain that
every member of it must be prepared to pay her
assiduous attention. She was a very handsome
old lady, and she did not at all disdain the use
of art to heighten her charms, although these
were wonderfully little impaired by time. Her
face was like a piece of delicate old china, her
white hair was dressed in a multitude of little
curls high above her forehead, her dark eyes
flashed vivaciously beneath eyebrows which
nature would scarcely have left so dark and well
defined. It was very easy to see from whom
Olivia Eavenscroft inherited her most characteristic
traits.

She was dressed in mourning for her elder
son ; but she had resumed her usual ornaments 
diamonds  of which she was extravagantly fond.
The lace on her head was kept in its place upon
the frizzled curls by magnificent diamond pins ;
there were diamonds in her ears, at her throat,
and upon her wrinkled white fingers. When she
came suddenly into the sunshiny room in which
the children were playing, it seemed to Vera as
if some wonderful fairy god-mother of legendary

VOL. I. 9

lore stood before lier all radiant with points of
changing light : ready to change persons who
displeased her into singing birds and coloured
fish, or to transport herself, at a moment's notice,
a thousand miles away. When she came to
know Madame Waldstein a little better, she was
glad to reflect that she had at least no supernatural
powers ; for this old lady seldom used her
abilities for any very benevolent purpose. Felicia,
walking behind her mother-in-law, was tall and
slender, with an oval face of Madonna-like sweetness,
and tender melancholy eyes ; but she was
eclipsed by the Baroness, although she had youth
upon her side.

"Is this the child then?" said Madame
Waldstein, continuing her conversation with
Gaston as she advanced into the room. '' AHiat
an odd little creature !  Hervey won't have anything
to do with her, Gaston ; you need not
imagine ito



"I expect that he will."

Not he. He was too angry at the whole
business to relent now. I daresay he will furnish
money enough for "

Pray remember what I told you," Gaston

interrupted with small ceremony. " I have said
nothing to her as yet  she does not know "

He caught Vera's eyes and stopped short in
some confusion. She was listening intently and
trying to comprehend.

"Let her go into the garden' said the
Baroness sharply. " She has eyes like the wolf
in the story-book. What an absurdity the whole
matter is! What a game at cross - purposes !"
and she laughed satirically.

I don't understand you," remarked Gaston.

No ; I daresay not," said his mother, allowing
him to lead her to a large arm-chair. " You

seldom do, my dear Gaston, and in this case

Do send the children away, Felicia ; we do not
want them here."

The little girls were accordingly banished, and
their elders discussed the child's circumstances
and prospects with freedom. Gaston was somewhat
surprised to find that Felicia did not hail
the notion of Vera's remaining at the Hall as a
companion for Olivia with any. great delight. It
was tacitly agreed, however, that she should stay
for a time, so that Mrs. Ravenscroft might see
what kind of child she was ; but that Vera

should not be told of her relationship to Mr.
Hervey until Mr. Hervey himself had answered
Gaston's letter.

Meantime the children had tea in a dainty
nursery under the supervision of a cheerful-looking
nurse, who brushed Yera's hair and tied a
pinafore round her neck exactly as she did to
her own little charge. Mrs. Eavenscroft came
in once to caress her little girl and speak softly
to the visitor. The house was quiet, yet full of
pleasantness. Vera did not respond to the
advances made to her ; she was in a shy mood,
almost a fierce one ; she wished herself back upon
the stage, where she could be, like little Olivia,
a fairy princess. Then she was angry that Mr.
Eavenscroft had not been near her all the afternoon.
Was he forgetting her altogether ? Vera
was no heroine ; only an untrained, wayward
child ; and she was hurt and angry by his treatment
of her. It was in no gracious mood that
she went downstairs with pretty little Olivia to
dessert. The nurse had decked her out with a
muslin pinafore and a sash ; but she would rather
have worn her old brown frock without disguise.


The Baroness sat in a throne-like chair at one
side of the round table ; her son fronted her, and
Mrs. Eavenscroft was between them. The air
was cool and the light fading ; sweet scents and
sounds came through the open window. The
table itself was a pretty sight, with its ornaments
of flowers, silver, china and crystal, the piles of
crimson and purple fruit, the translucent wines
reflecting sunset tints upon the snowy table-cloth.
]vir. Eavenscroft called Vera to sit by him, and
gave her some strawberries. He did not look
either pleased or happy, and for some time sat
perfectly silent.

Olivia had seated herself by her mother, and
chattered gleefully without seeming to expect an
answer. It startled every one when the Baroness
suddenly tapped the table with her fan and uplifted
her cracked vivacious treble.

You say that child can sing, Gaston. Let
her sing to me ; I used to be a judge of voices.
Let me hear her."

"You can scarcely judge of the voice of a
child who is not ten years old," said her son
dryly.

'' T can make allowances," said Madame Waldo

nodding at him. " And I can judge whether
she has talent or not. Now, child, sing."

Vera bent her head over her plate and fingered
her strawberries.

'does she not hear?" said the Baroness,
sharply. '* Or is she obstinate ?"

She is shy," said Mr. E-avenscroft, without
looking at the child. " Sing something. Vera.
Anything you know."

The tone was quietly imperious. Suddenly
Davy's ill-judged words had recurred to Vera's
mind. Mr. Eavenscroft was her master, but she
would not be his slave. She would not sino;.

'don't press her, Gaston," said Mrs. Heavens
softly. " She does not like it."

"Nonsense!" said Madame Waldstein, in a
tone of malicious enjoyment. " I want to hear
her, Gaston. Have you no authority over the
child whom you say you have 'rescued'? Are
my wishes to be set at naught by that baby ?"

Mr. Eavenscroft's face grew dark. Even
Vera could see that his mother had offended
him. He did not look round at her, however ;
he only said, more curtly than ever :

"Sing, Vera."

She did not dare to disobey. But it was left
to lier to choose what she should sing ; and, out
of pure freakishness, she selected the song that
she knew Mi. Eavenscroft had not liked when he
heard it at the theatre. There was no harm in
it, but there was a good deal of slang ; more,
indeed, than she herself could understand. She
sang it with the verve and spirit which Mr.
Stanger s company had found acceptable. The
Baroness laughed to herself; Mrs. Eavenscroft
looked at the little girl with a sort of incredulity
mingled with positive alarm; her brother-in-law's
brow gathered blackness. At the end of
one verse he bade Vera stop. '' That is enough,"
he said.

' Quite enough, I think," said Mrs. Heavens
putting her arm round the wondering
Olivia, and pushing back her chair from the
table. " Is that the kind of song you like to
hear, Gaston V

There's no harm in the song, my dear," said
Madame Waldstein briskly. "A trifle slangy
and vulgar ; that is all. A low music-hall ditty,
I should think. Go on, child. I like my dishes
highly spiced. I can put up with a touch of

coarseness in the seasoning. I love onions and
peppermint."

My tastes differ from yours, mother," said
Mrs. Eavenscroft, with dignity. " If you will
excuse me I will take Olivia up to the nursery.
It is time for her to go to bed."

"And for Vera too," said Mr. Eavenscroft
indifferently.

Mrs. Eavenscroft stopped, looked at the
Baroness for a moment with an odd expression
of appeal, then left the room holding her little
girl by the hand. At a sign from Mr. Heavens
Vera followed her. She felt that in someway
she had made a mistake, and was miserable
at the thought ; and yet she scarcely understood
what was wrong.

She went with lagging steps into the day-nursery,
whither Olivia and her mother had
preceded her. Mrs. Eavenscroft at once entered
the adjoining bedroom, and shut the door of
communication between the two rooms. The
nurse was absent ; for some little time Vera remained
alone. Mrs. Eavenscroft went downstairs
again, and the child looked out of the
window, cooled her flushed cheeks in the evening

breeze, and wondered where she was to sleep
and what Mr. Eavenscroft would ultimately do
with her.

It was all but dark when Mrs. Ravenscroft
reappeared. She was moving more quickly than
usual ; and her voice had an agitated sound
which she vainly tried to disguise by a forced
cheerfulness.

'Your hat and cloak are here, are they not?
mr. Eavenscroft will be ready in five minutes,
and you are to go with him."

"To go away ? " said Vera, moving from the
window and comines close to her. " Must I 0:0 ?
I thought I might stay here, perhaps  just for a
little time  with your little girl."

Felicia's face was flushed. She answered with
a touch of stiffness, ' My little girl has her owt
companions. You are going to school very
shortly." And then something overcame the
attempt to be cold and hard. "Oh, you poor
little thing ! " she said, sitting down and drawing
the child to her lap. " It is not your fault. You
have no mother." And then she kissed her, and
Vera felt the tears wet upon her cheeks.

This was all utterly incomprehensible to Vera,

but she leaned her face against Mrs. Eavenscroft's
shoulder, and felt comforted by the pressure of
her soft maternal arms. ' I should like to stay
with you," she said, almost in a whisper. Felicia
gave the child another caress, but answered nothing.


While Vera was putting on her hat and
cloak, however, Mrs. Kavenscroft talked to her
gently  told her to be a good girl and learn her
lessons, and not sing silly songs  such as she
had heard in the theatre  for they would get her
into trouble with older and wiser people. Mr.
Eavenscroft took a great interest in her (she said
nothing about the relationship), and would probably
send her to school and afterwards find hera
situation as a governess, perhaps, if she behaved
nicely and learned the things that it was
good for girls to know ; and she would always
help Vera, if it was in her power to do so. Then,
seeing possibly how forlorn and bewildered poor
little Vera felt, she kissed her again, and put into
her hands a string of coral beads which she had
admired on Olivia's neck that afternoon,, and told
her to keep them in remembrance of the little
girl.

As Vera left the nursery, Felicia stole softly
into the other room, and bent over a little white
bed in which her own child was Ipng. Vera
could not see this without remembering the visits
that her mother used to pay her in the darkness
when she was in bed. She turned away with a
sudden constriction of her throat, a clenching of
her hands, a resolute forcing back of the tears in
her hot eyes. For although she was dismissed
with tears and kisses and a gift, she felt instinctively
that she was dismissed in disgrace ; she
was no fit companion for Olida Eavenscroft.

A servant conducted her to the front door.
Here stood Mr. Eavenscroft, eyeing a powerful
black horse that had just been brought to the
steps. Vera took her place timidly beside him.
At first he did not see her ; then he started and
said, '' Oh, here you are, child ! " and mounted
his horse. '' Help her up, Norris," he said to the
man. And before she well knew what she was
doing, she had been half-lifted, half-swung up,
and found herself before him upon the horseback.


He put his arm round her, and she felt herself
safe enough ; but there was something in the

novelty of the situation that kept her quiet. They
had gone for some distance before he spoke.

Are you comfortable ? " he said at last.

'* Yes, sir, thank you."

Vera's tone was a very humble one. He
glanced down at her and saw the tears on her
eyelashes.

'' What did Mrs. Eavenscroft say to you ? "
he asked abruptly.

She told me to be a good girl and  and 
not to sing," Vera answered tremulously. " She
was very kind."

Oh, was she ? " Then, breaking out into a
short laugh : " What possessed you. Vera, to go
and sing a song of that sort ? Of course it prejudiced
them against you. The odd thing is
that I have watched you for two or three days,
and could have sworn that you were as well-behaved
and gentle and refined as Felicia's own
child herself! And you broke out to-night
like " he did not finish the sentence.

Vera could not speak, so he continued grimly :
Well, we have ruined your chances in that
house at least. I thought I could have induced
them to take you in, adopt you, pet you, make

you Olivia's playmate. But you set Olivia's
mother against you, my dear, and I offended the
Baroness ; and between us we made a mess of
the whole affair. So nothing remains but that
I should take you over to the inn at Mickleham,
and keep you there for a day or two till I find
another home for you ; and if you are asked to
sing henceforward, I should advise you to choose
the pathetic, not the comic, line of ]performances.
Women in the country have no sense of
humour."

He might have proceeded in this vein for
some time but for an involuntary little sob that
escaped the child. He stopped abruptly.

** There ! " he said after a pause, during which
she had much ado to repress the sobs which
were shaking her from head to foot, "there,
child, don't cry ! "What they say or think
signifies nothing either to you or to me. What
a queer little mortal you are ! All fire and fury
one moment, and then dissolved in tears ! Do
you think I have never quarrelled with those
good people before ? Come, dry your tears, and
tell me why you would not sing at first when I
asked you to-night ? '"

Vera got out an answer with difficulty. *' Old
Davy said I was your  your slave ; and you
were my master. I remembered it when you
told me to sing ; and it made me angry."

He maintained silence for some moments, but
when she glanced timidly up at his face, he was
smiling.

"Davy is a fool," he said finally. "I have
no ambition to be a slave-owner, Vera. I don't
mean to pose as your master, tutor, father, or
anything else authoritative. But you are rather
young to begin this work of rebellion at such a
rapid rate. First, Stanger; now, myself "

Oh ! " cried little Vera, " I would do anything
for you ; indeed, I would ! "

' Except sing ? Now there's nothing to cry
about ; indeed, if you cry any more I shall put
you down in the road and leave you to your
own devices  probably find you next morning
drowned in a pool of your own tears. There,
forget your grief for a time, if you can, poor
little bird. I will take care of you."

He spoke with tenderness which he had never
shown to her before, and Vera nestled more
closely to him as they rode onwards in the

moonlight. He did not speak again. He was
much vexed by the turn which things had taken.
Felicia had refused to have the little waif and
stray in the house with her child for more thana
night or two, and the Baroness had upheld her
in that decision. The upshot had been a tremendous
quarrel, followed by Gaston s resolution
to carry Vera away at once and take charge of
her until ]mr. Hervey's letter should be received.
Accordingly, he took her to the chief hotel in
Mickleham and remained there for the next two
or three days. She gave him little trouble.
The events of the preceding days had produced
a curious effect upon her : she became positively
ill, and lay in bed for some days in a motionless,
half-unconscious state  the result of over exertion
and excitement  during which he could do
nothing but relinquish her to the care of a nurse.
Before she was well the expected letter came to
Gaston from Mr. Hervey. It was not a satisfactory
one. Mr. Hervey wished to know
nothing and see nothing of his granddaughter ;
but he was willing to pay her expenses at a good
school if one could be found for her. He was
prepared to be liberal, but he was not affectionate.

In a wonderfully short time the school was
found. Thither Vera was despatched with a
handsome outfit, of which Felicia (a little remorseful
for her behaviour to the orphaned
child) took charge. Nothing was said to Vera
about her family or her mother's history : it was
thought wise to reserve this communication
until she should be older and better able to
understand it. In the meantime she was allowed
to think of Mr. Eavenscroft as her guardian and
generous benefactor.

Gaston thought little about her. He had
made up his mind to leave England for a time ;
and before she had been a week at school he
started for the East. Many years elapsed before
he set foot on English soil again.

NEW Friends AND OLD.

Gaston Ravenscroft had vanished from the
scene, and was little missed, except by the child
whom he had rescued from an unhappy and unsatisfactory
life. She indeed mourned for his
absence, and made a hero of him in her thoughts ;
but by no one else was he much regretted. Little
was heard of him for the next few years.

Meanwhile Vera Marlitt remained at the school
where he had placed her. She soon forgot her
experiences of the stage or became ashamed of
them, but her love for music grew with her
groTvi:h until it became a passion. Seeing this,
her schoolmistress (who from time to time corresponded
with Mrs. Philip Ravenscroft with respect
to Vera) recommended that she should have
special instruction in that subject. It seemed
VOL. I. 10

that no expense was to be spared in Vera's
education. She was to learn everything, and to
have her powers cultivated to the utmost. At
fifteen she went to a great German Conservatoire ;
thence to Italy, chiefly for the purpose of cultivating
her voice, which was a remarkably good
one. After a time she returned to England, and
established herself in London with her old schoolmistress,
Mrs. Cradock, who had given up teaching.
The introductions and testimonials that
she brought with her to England soon made her
known in musical circles. She sang at concerts,
in drawing-rooms, she gave lessons, she worked
steadily and hard ; and in time she found that
she was achieving a tolerable measure of success.
And then she carried out a purpose which had
long been uppermost in her mind  the purpose
of severing herself from all dependence upon
Gaston Eavenscroft.

This action of hers was less ungracious than
it may seem. Gaston, feeling annoyed at his
inability to tell her the whole story of her grandfather's
cold liberality as regarded money matters,
had repulsed with some harshness her attempts
to express her gratitude to /wm. She had written

once; pouring out the affection and thankfulness
which she felt, from a full heart ; and the only
reply which she had received had been a curt
message through her schoolmistress to the effect
that he needed no thanks, and did not wish her
to write to him again upon the subject. Vera
\Tote once more  when she had fixed upon her
profession ; but to this letter she obtained no sort
of reply. And again, when she felt that she had
secured her OAvn position and might well consider
herself independent of his help, she wrote a few
lines to inform him of her success, and to ask him
to discontinue his remittances to her. She knew
that she was guilty of a somewhat rash act in
trying to loose herself from the hand which had
certainly been stretched out to help her for many
years ; but Vera was proud, and despised gifts
that were thrown to her without affection, as one
might throw a bone to a hungry dog. Therefore
she wrote to ]mr. Eavenscroft on this wise : 

You have forbidden me to thank you for all
that you have done," she said, " but you must
at least allow me to explain why I have returned
to your bankers the sum so generously placed at
my disposal at the beginning of the year. I

need accept your gifts no longer. I have the
means of earning my own living, and need be a
burden upon no one. I have more engagements
than I have time to fulfil, and am not likely to
be in want of help at present. I must for the
last time ask you to let me thank you from the
bottom of my heart for all that you have done
for me, and to believe that I remain always,
gratefully and sincerely yours  Vera Marlttt."
When she had sent this letter to Beyrout,
from which place all letters to Gaston were to be
forwarded, she felt more contented than she had
done for many a long day. She was young and
strong and able to work for herself : the sense of
independence was very precious to her. She had
Mrs. Cradock for a companion in pleasant lodgings
in Kensington, and she was gradually making
friends for herself in many circles beside purely
musical ones. She had a great number of acquaintances
by whom she was liked and esteemed,
and there was little doubt but that her reputation
as a concert singer would become greater year
by year as time went on. At two and twenty
she had been fortunate indeed to achieve as much
success as had already fallen to her lot.

It was a fine afternoon in April, and she was
coming away from a rehearsal, in company with
Mrs. Cradock, when an unexpected hindrance
occurred. Mrs. Cradock suddenly laid her hand
on Vera's arm, and spoke rather nervously :

"" Do you know the young man who is looking
at you so intently, Vera ?"

Not at all."

' How pertinaciously he stares ! He is quite
rude. Get into the cab, Vera, dear. Oh, he is
coming this way. What can he want ? is he
beQ-rino;?"

Mrs. Cradock had already taken her seat in
the cab, and Vera was about to follow her, when
the young man of whom they had spoken drew
near, hat in hand, with an evident desire to
speak.

Vera glanced at him in surprise. He addressed
her by the name which she still used in public,
the name by which she had been known in Mr.
Stanger's company. ' I think," he said, ' that I
have the honour of speaking to Mademoiselle de
Lusignan ? "

Vera bowed assent.

May I convey to mademoiselle a message

from an old friend of hers who is also a friend of
mine ?

An old friend of mine ! " Of whom did the
stranger sneak? Vera wondered whether she
had met this young man or his friends abroad ;
certainly she did not remember his face. She
was sure that he was not an Englishman,
although he seemed to speak English perfectly ;
but there was some trick of manner or gesture
that stamped him in her mind as a foreigner.
His voice was strikingly musical ; his demeanour
quiet, polished, refined. But although he had
the characteristics of a gentleman in voice and
bearing, it was noticeable that his clothes were
exceedingly old and shabby. He was poor, he
was not an Englishman  two facts that were
decidedly against him in Mrs. Cradock's opinion,
and as strongly in his favour in that of Vera.

Whilst Vera still hesitated for a reply, Miss.
Cradock spoke, and, misunderstanding the situation
completely, she spoke sharply :

Go away, my good man ; the lady has
nothing for you. Take your hand off the door.
Drive on, cabman."

Wait, cabman  hush, dear  it is not what

you think," Vera said, feeling her face grow hot
at this mistake. " I beg your pardon ; you said
that you had a message for me ? "

"Yes," he said, "from David Rowe."

David Kowe?"

You knew him, he tells me, by the name of
old Davy the fiddler."

Dear old Davy ! yes, yes ! " cried Vera.
"Where is he ? I have wanted so much to find
him again ! Is he in London ? "

"He is in London, but he is very ill. He
saw your name advertised, I believe "  the
stranger spoke very deferentially  " and felt
sure that you must be the Mademoiselle Vera de
Lusignan whom he knew as a child. He sends
you this little token ; " and Vera saw the half of
a coin which she and Davy had broken before
they parted, " and begs me to ask you whether
you would have the infinite kindness to honour
him with a visit, as he cannot come to you."

"Certainly: of course I will. I will go at
once. Where does he live % "

The stranger named a street which Vera did
not know, but at which Mrs. Cradock looked
horrified.

My dear Vera, in the lowest neighbourhood !
You cannot possibly go ! "

' I assure you," said the young man eagerly,
'' that there is no danger. The street is perfectly
safe and quiet, although poor. I shall be happy
to accompany you. I  I  " he hesitated for a
moment, and then added firmly, " I live there
myself."

Mrs. Cradock surveyed him keenly. She
was astonished. The stranger returned her gaze
very frankly, but with a faint smile not devoid
of irony.

Vera also examined his face more closely than
she had done before. He was still uncovered,
and the sunshine fell upon a very handsome fair
head and an attractive countenance, full of the
glow of manliness, full also of a curious calm
and sweetness which inspired confidence. The
features were fine but a little worn ; his mouth
was perhaps the finest and the sweetest feature
of all, although the drooping fair moustache left
its expression sometimes enigmatical. His eyes
were gray or blue  one could not be certain
which ; pleasant, thoughtful eyes, now lighted
by quiet humour, which was as free from bitterness

as from guile. There was indeed something
so genial and so trustworthy about this man's
face that Vera liked him on the spot. And
in her heart of hearts so did Mrs. Cradock,
although she thought it her duty to raise
objections.

I will go," Vera said quickly. " You mil
come with me, Aunt Dorothy, will you not ?
And you, sir, may we give you a seat? You
can then kindly direct the cabman where to go,
if he should be in any difficulty."

He thanked her, but seemed inclined to take
his seat on the box beside the driver, saying that
by so doing he could insure their reaching their
destination by the shortest route. This the two
ladies would not allow. Before he entered the
cab, however, he presented Mrs. Cradock with a
card on which his name was written in pencil :
'' Maurice Guy on."

As they drove rapidly eastward. Vera asked
him several questions about her old friend. He
said that Davy had been ill for some time, and
that his present ailment was a sort of low fever.
This, however, was in itself slight, and the real
danger lay in the breaking up of his constitution,

long undermined by hard work and
exposure.

Davy's lodging was in a squalid-looking house
in a street near the Strand. The visitors entered
a bare, scantily-furnished room at the top of the
house ; poor enough, but scrupulously neat and
clean. Upon an uncomfortable - looking pallet
lay Davy, his emaciated face turned eagerly
towards the opening door, his wasted fingers
clutching the neck of the cherished violin that
still lay at his side. He held out his hands to
Vera as she came in. She rushed forward to
kneel at his bedside and kiss his grizzled face
as she had done when last she saw him at
Elmstone.

Dear Davy'' she said, '' you remember Vera,
do you not ? I would have come before if I had
known where you were. Oh, why did you not
let me hear ? Don't you remember what we
used to say ? how we used to plan that when 1
was a singer I would find you out and take you
home, and make you happy and comfortable all
the days of your life ? The time has come,
Davy. I am able to do it now. You will come
home with me, will you not ? "

He was holding; her hands in his, and smiling
time to time with a wonderfully radiant
face. He nodded once or twice, and moved her
hands gently up and doTi, then turned his
beaming eyes upon Mr. Guyon who stood with
Mrs. Cradock at the foot of the bed.

'' I told you so," he said triumphantly ; " 1
told you she'd come ! She wouldn't forget her
old Davy  not if she lived a thousand years !
You were wrong and I was right. My sweet
little lady, so you've come at last, and found
your voice and your fortune as I said you
would!"

'eyes, Davy," Vera said. "But who told
you that I would not come ? Did you not know
that I would have done anything to find you ?
I tried, dear Davy, but I did not succeed. Yo%i
never thought that I had forgotten you ? "

"No, my pretty, no. He didn't know you
as I did. It was he that thought you would not
come." He nodded towards Maurice Guyon.
who was watching the scene silently and attentively,
and at whom Vera flashed a glance of
impulsive indignation.

But as she could not call a stranger to

account for his words, lie laid her lips on Davy's
hand in mute protest : he understood her and
smiled.

'' I can only ask your pardon, mademoiselle,"
said Mr. Guy on respectfully. "I see indeed
that I was much mistaken."

'they said you were proud, dearie," Davy
murmured. 'proud and cold. But I knew
what they meant. It was always your way to
be silent : you were never the one to scream and
cry even when Stanger beat you, were you ?
Cold and proud you might be to those you did
not love : never cold and never proud to your
old Davy who taught you how to sing ! "

Never, Davy, never."

"My dear," Mrs. Cradock nervously interposed,
"do you not think that your presence
excites this poor man too much ? Perhaps you
had better come away now. We will send for a
doctor and a nurse if you think well. No doubt
he requires proper care and attention."

"Yes, mis care and attention," Vera said.
"We will send for everything he needs, but I
am not yet ready to go away, dear auntie,
although you can go if you like."

Who is she ? " said Davy strangely. '' Your
aunt  your ostl relation ? "

"No," Vera answered. " Only loy adoption."
And she saw his face fall at her response.

Meanwhile Mrs. Cradock, almost in tears, was
reduced to appealing to Mr. Guyon. '' / do not
want to go," she said,  but I wish Mademoiselle
de Lusignan would come away. Her health is
so precious ! And she is not strong. If she
were to catch an illness I should never forgive
myself."

Mr. Guyon smiled reassuringly. '' The doctor
assures me, Madame, that there is nothing infectious
in our friend's disorder. Otherwise, I
would not have brought Mademoiselle de Lusig-
nan hither. Allow me to offer you a chair. If
mademoiselle will tell me at what hour she would
like her carriage summoned I will arrange that
it shall be at the door."

He spoke as if Mademoiselle de Lusignan had
been a princess and her homely four-wheeler a
state chariot. Vera was half amused and half
displeased : she suspected him of irony, but saw
no trace of it in his frank and kindly eyes. She
turned to Mrs. Cradock.

Let the cab take you home, Aunt Dorothy,"
she said. " Let me stay here and nurse DaY}\
I can get a room close by. I will sleep here and
take care of him till we find a nurse or take
him out to Kensington."

But even Davy opposed this plan.

'' No, my dear, it ain't for the likes of you,"
he said. ''A nurse ? -why, I've got a real good
one. Mr. Maurice, there, sits up with me at
nights, gives me my medicine, brings me the
news and makes me laugh; and what could a
nurse do more % Don't you go to needless
expense for an old man like me. Stay here for
half an hour or so, and come and see me tomorrow
if you like : that's all I want."

' You could not stay here, mademoiselle,"
Mr. Guyon assured her. 'The place is not fit."

''If it is fit for Davy," Vera answered vehemently,
" it is fit for me."

My dear Vera !" Mrs. Cradock expostulated.
I am sure that Mr. Guyon is quite right."

"Shall I say 'in an hour,' mademoiselle?"
said Mr. Guyon. And Vera yielded, not being
well able to do otherwise.

I shall be at hand if you should want me,

Madame," he said with a bow. But Davy's thin
voice interposed.

*' Come back when you have ordered the cab,
won't you, sir ? I want you here. He has been
a true friend to me, dearie, and I like to see him
by me. Besides, it's his room, not mine."

Mrs. Cradock added her entreaty. " Oh yes,
pray come back. We would not turn you out
of your 0T\Ti room on any account ; and indeed,
I feel safer when you are here."

Mr. Guy on bowed, glanced at Vera, and then
replied that he would return in a few minutes.

Vera could not refrain, when he was out of
the room, from putting a question which had
been troubling her mind for some time.

'who is this m\ Guy on, Davy?'

I don't know, my pretty," said the fiddler,
shaking his head. '' He's a foreign chap, and
he's in trouble, and he's poor. That's all I
know. But he won't always be poor : I've read
so much in his hand ; for I can tell fortunes, you
know, missy. Anyhow he's a good man and a
gentleman. And now about yourself, dearie.
Tell old Davy what's happened to you during
the last twelve years."

Vera gave him a short sketch of her history,
to which he listened with great satisfaction.
Mr. Guyon returned before it was ended, but
did not appear to attend to it. He went to the
open window and leaned out.

And so you sing at concerts now, do you,
my pretty?"

Yes, Davy."

"And they throw you flowers and jewels, do
they?"

Flowers sometimes."

"And you ride in your own carriage ?"

"Why, no, Davy. lam not rich enough for that."

"But you will be one day. And to think
that I taught you once ! You'll have forgotten
all the songs you learned from me, won't you ?"

No, Davy, I remember them very well."

Sing me one before you go, missy ! "

"Which one, Davy?"

Any : I don't care which."

It was hard to sing at that moment, but Vera
would have done anything to please him. She
chose the song of the motherless child which Mr.
Kavenscroft had heard in the little theatre at
Elmstone.

Although she subdued her voice as much as
possible, it seemed to fill the little room. For
one moment, towards the close, she allowed it to
swell out to its full power, then to sink to the
lowest whisper with the most finished cadence of
which it was capable. Vera had sung to crowded
audiences with less care and earnestness than
she bestowed upon the song that she sang to
Davy.

Her pains were rewarded. Davy lay rapt in
mute delight ; Mrs. Cradock wiped the tears from
her eyes ; Maurice Guyon stood erect in an attitude
of profound attention. His face was somewhat
moved, but Vera was glad to find that he
did not thank her when she had finished ; she
had not sung for him.

I taught you that, did I V said Davy,
dreamily. " Wonderful ! wonderful !  it is like
the singing of angels. I should like to hear you
at the great concerts too, dearie."

*' So you shall, Davy. When you are better
you shall have tickets as often as you please. I
will sing my best for you."

He shook his head sadly.

'' I dsh I could, my dear ; but it's too late

VOL. I. 11

now. And you sang that song when Mr. Ravens-croft
heard you, did you not ? "

"Yes."

Where is Mr. Eavenscroft now ?"

''I don't know. Somewhere in the East'"

When did you last see him, missy ?"

** Twelve years ago, Davy."

The old man drew a long breath, and turned
his hollow eyes full upon the girl. " But he
writes to you ? He is coming to see you soon,
now that you are a woman grown  you are great
friends ?"

Vera's face grew hot. " No, Davy," she answered
gently; ''Mr. Eavenscroft and I are not
friends. He was generous to me, but not  not 
kind. I owe him much ; but I hope and pray
that we may never meet again."

The passion of wounded feeling that lay within
her dormant awoke, and roused itself to fuller
life even while she spoke. But Davy's face grew
bright.

All the better," he said. '' He wouldn't have
done you any good, my pretty. Let him be
buried in the desert and drowned in the deep
seas a thousand times over before ever he bring-s

any harm to you, my little lady. He is not for
you."

 He would not harm me. He meant to be
kind," Vera answered sadly.

Kind ! With the kindness of the creeper
that sucks out the life from the plant that
cherishes it ! If that is kindness, then Mr.
Ravenscroft is kind."

Vera was silent ; and in the silence her eyes
began, almost for the first time, to scrutinize the
apartment in which she sat. Signs of poverty
were apparent ; but there was at least one indication
of the presence of some one beside the
fiddler, and of a man not altogether used to
poverty. Upon the wall hung the miniature of
a very fair and beautiful woman in a gold frame
studded with brilliant. It was battered enough,
and many of the stones had dropped out ; but
the setting had once been of the most exquisite
and delicate kind. It was not the sort of thing
that had ever belonged to Davy.

When Mr. Guyon had gone to summon Vera's
cab, she could not resist asking a question about
the miniature.

It's not mine, dearie ; it's Mr. Guyon's."

AN OPEN FOE.

'* But he does not live here ?" Vera queried in
surprise.

''He's done so for the last six weeks, my
pretty. He's been a kind friend to old Davy,
has Maurice Guy on," the musician answered
simply.

AX EXILE.

Vera saw that her poor old friend was sadly exhausting
his small stock of strength in this conversation,
and she resolved to protract it no
longer. She took her leave, promising to come
again as soon as possible ; but before she went
she consulted Mr. Guyon concerning Davy's illness
and requirements. It appeared that Mr.
Guyon had hitherto been nursing him ; but he
acknowledged, with something like a sigh, that
he was not able to do for a sick man all that
should be done. He himself was obliged to be
out very often, especially in the evenings, and a
nurse's services were much required.

"I would gladly sit up with him day and
night," said the young man, with what seemed
to be real and deep emotion : '* but my business

calls me away at times, and then I can do
nothing. You do not know, mademoiselle, what
a friend and consoler I have found in Davy and
his violin. If you knew, you would not wonder
that I long to do for him all that needs to be
done ; or how bitterly I regret that it lies no
longer in my power to do so."

Vera could not help wondering how poor old
Davy had been so great a friend to him ; but he
said nothing more.

She went away to order fruit and flowers, and
anything that she thought could add to Davy's
pleasure. She found out the doctor who attended
him, and heard his opinion of the case  it was
not likely to be a lengthy one, he said; she
found, also, at his recommendation, a good trustworthy
nurse, and despatched her at once to her
old friend's lodging ; then she turned homeward,
still with a heavy heart ; for she loved Davy as
she had loved him when she was a child, and he
would not be with her long.

When Vera visited Davy's room again she
found the nurse installed. The character of the
place was changed already : a woman's presence
made it less bare and squalid. Mr. Guyon was

away, so she sat down beside the old man's bed
and talked to him for some little time.

By and by her curiosity found its vent.

Where did you make Mr. Guyon's acquaintance,
Davy dear?"

' At a club, missy ?"

'sat a club?"

'* A working man's club. He goes about a
good deal among them sort of places, foreign as
well as English. A sort of socialist, you know, in
his talk; and he talks very well too. And always
a kind word for a man, and would share his last
crust cheerful-like with a beggar in the street."

"So you made his acquaintance? " Vera

paused, hardly knowing how to frame the question
that she wished to put.

He made mine, dearie. He took a fancy to
my playing, and he used to ask me to play the
same tunes to him time after time, and listen to
them with the tears in his eyes too. And he
can play too  wild tunes that you'd think the
devil himself had got into, and then again, notes
that make you think of all the sadness in the
world, and all the love and joy  ay, he's a fine
player "

Does he ever play in public ?"

' No, dearie : he laughed and shook his head
when I asked him that, and said that he couldn't
play well enough, and he preferred to be a poor
man and a vagabond. That's just it," said Davy
dreamily, ''he 'prefers to live like me  it's a
regular gentleman's whim, isn't it ? They do
have odd fancies now and again, these gentlefolks."


Vera was silent for a time. " He said that
you had been kind to him : how was that,
Davy?"

You didn't think old Davy could have been
kind to anybody, did you dearie ? "

Indeed I did, Davy."

Well, I did what he asked me  that was
all." A shadow seemed to fall over the rugged
face with its hollow eyes and large weird features
as he spoke. " I told him he wasn't fit for the
work ; but he said he wanted to try all kinds of
work that he might know how the workers felt.
A gentleman's fad, my dear, that was all. He
has lived here ever since I fell ill. That was a
gentleman's fancy too : he used to have better
rooms than mine."

' What work does he do?" Vera asked
curiously.

"He'll tell you he'll tell you," Davy answered
a little peevishly. " Sing to me before
you go : I want to hear you. I can't talk any
longer."

She sang for a little time to him ; but she was
soon obliged to go ; as she had already stayed
longer than she had meant to do. As soon
as she left Davy's house she looked round for a
cab. But in this narrow and miserable street no
cab was to be seen, and she walked onward,
expecting every moment to reach a more frequented
thoroughfare.

Vera was not gifted with the faculty of easily
finding her way in a new place. Through some
inaccuracy of memory she missed the right turning,
and soon found herself involved in a network
of tiny streets and alleys of the less reputable
kind, peopled moreover with men and women of
no pleasant appearance. A cab crawling leisurely
down a more respectable street in the distance
excited her hopes ; but it was out of sight before
she could attract the cabman's attention. She
was late for rehearsal already : evidently she

should have to miss it altogether unless she could
find her way. Moreover on putting her hand
into her pocket to make sure that her purse
was safe, she found that it had mysteriously
disappeared.

It was no very formidable position to be in,
for Vera knew that she could not be very far
from a respectable neighbourhood, and that her
purse had contained nothing but a few shillings
and some stamps ; but the annoyance of the
moment was great, and was imprinted very
legibly upon her flushed and discomfited countenance,
when she beheld before her the welcome
face and figure of a man whose name at least she
knew. It was Mr. Maurice Guyon, walking
leisurely and easily, as if he were familiar with
the place. He lifted his hat, giving it a sweep
with his arm which almost made her smile  a
flourish so thoroughly un-english that it carried
her mind back at once to the days of her school-life
in Germany ; and then he would have passed
without a word, had Vera not uttered his name
in an accent of appeal.

scan I do anything for you, mademoiselle?"
he said, turning eagerly.

'' I am very sorry to trouble you," she answered,
' but I have been foolish enough to lose
my way  and my purse as well. Will you
kindly tell me which is the direction I ought to
take ? I am going  at least I wish to go 
towards Piccadilly." .

'will you allow me to guide you?" he asked.
We are now not very far from the Strand, but
you are wandering in an opposite direction from
the way that you ought to take ; and  excuse me
I do not think that this neighbourhood is very
safe for a lady walking alone."

Vera assured him that she would be glad
of his guidance, and they went on their way
together. They soon fell into talk about Davy,
and Vera said that Davy had told her of his
love for the violin.

'davy has genius," he said. "It is a pity
that he has had so few chances in life : he might
have made a name."

You are a musician too, he tells me."

I ought not to be called so," he said, shaking
his head. "I play a little, and I am a great lover
of music. Certainly, at present I am  well, I
may, by stretch of imagination, call myself a

musician, mademoiselle ; and it was in gaining
me the position that I now occupy that Davy did
me such service'

Davy ! " Vera exclaimed in astonishment.

Davy, and no one else," said her companion
with a slightly amused air. " In truth, mademoiselle,
I was reduced to great straits when Davy
met me at the club. I had begun to think of
begging of my friends for a livelihood. But
you know that Davy was connected with a
theatre. A friend of his took an interest in me
kind of him, was it not ?  and obtained forme
a situation at the same house as a violinist in
the band. Oh yes, I think I may call myself a
musician ! I owe that to Davy, who helped me
out of his own slender store when I had not a
kopeck in my pockets."

Hitherto he had spoken lightly, even playfully
; but at the last words his tone changed to
one of deep and grateful feeling. '' Davy is one
of the truest friends I have," he said heartily.

'but surely"  Vera paused in some little
embarrassment  " surely such a position as that
is  quite  beneath your powers ? "

He turned his bright fair face to her with a

look of undisguised pleasure and amusement.
Oh no, mademoiselle' lie said simply, '' I could
do nothing more : I am really no musician. So
long as I can earn sufficient for my daily needs
I am quite satisfied. This occupation leaves my
days tolerably free ; and I am of a curious turn ;
I want to learn a little about the life of the
English artisan, and I learn a good deal about
him here. But I am glad that you know now
what I am and what I do ; it was for Davy's
sake alone, mademoiselle, that I presumed in the
first instance to address you. I know very well
that my position at the Parthenon would not
have warranted such an intrusion."

It was no intrusion : under the circumstances
it was a duty," Vera said quickly.

He glanced at her suddenly, then looked down.
There had been a curious dewy softness in those
kindly eyes. '* I thank you for sa3dng so,
mademoiselle," he answered.

The streets had become less narrow during
the progress of their conversation. Vera lifted up
her eyes and saw a wide space before her and the
shining river Thames beyond. 'the Embankment
1 " she exclaimed in some surprise.

It is the nearest way," said her companion.
But were you going to Piccadilly this afternoon,
mademoiselle ? Is it not a little late for your
enoao-ement there ? "

'' I suppose it is," said Vera, ruefully consulting
her watch. ' Too late  I shall have to
manage better another time. I will go to
Kensington."

"Yes, mademoiselle. And  we shall meet
a cab presently, no doubt. Shall we walk upon
that other side and enjoy a little of the freshness
and the sunshine ? "

Vera consented. They sauntered leisurely
along the broad pavement. The fitful April sunshine
cast flying gleams upon the flying water :
a slight haze hung over the banks and bridges
and distant towers of Westminster. A girl came
up with violets for sale, but Vera was forced to
shake her head : she had no money with her.
Mr. Guyon noticed that her eyes lingered on the
blue and white bunches ; he turned and bought
a couple.

One I am going to take to Davy," he said,
as if to preface his request. *' May I offer the
other one to you, mademoiselle ? "

Vera took the sweet, stiff little green-leaved
bunch with a word of thanks, and raised it to
her face. '' It is very sweet. I love violets."

' They are my favourite flowers," said he,
raising the other bunch as she had done. " But
what a pity to tie them up so tightly with thick
string, and to cut all the leaves after one pattern,
too. Mademoiselle, it seems to me, I assure you,
almost a sin to disfigure leaves and flowers after
this fashion ! Why do they not sell your sweet
English violets as they come straight from the
woods and fields ?  loose, wet, fragrant, and
natural ! "

' AVe are in London," she answered, smiling.

*' Is there nothing sweet and natural in
London? I cannot believe that. I must try
your flower-market  your Covent Garden, is it
not ?  perhaps I shall there be more fortunate.
Do you like Russian violets too, mademoiselle
 "

Not quite so well as English ones, I am
afraid. I suppose that you like them better \ "

*' Why should you think so, mademoiselle, if
I may ask before replying ? "

'' I may be wrong," said Vera in some little

confusion, " but I lead made up my mind that
you were yourself a Russian "

"And therefore that I must like Russian
violets ? I think, like you, that I like English
ones best. And to satisfy my curiosity again,
mademoiselle  I told you that I was of a curious
disposition  may I ask why you have decided
on my nationality ? "

"You spoke just now of kopecks: that was
all."

Ah, did I ? " Her companion turned away
his face and seemed to hesitate for a moment;
but resumed presently with all his usual
lightness of tone: "You were quite right. I
am a Russian, and in exile. I will go further
and acknowledge that Guyon is only a Christian
name and not a family one. You have penetrated
further into my secret, mademoiselle, than Davy
has done during all these months ! " His voice
showed some amusement  a fact which rather
displeased Mademoiselle de Lusignan.

I had no intention of penetrating any secret,
Mr. Guyon. But 1 am interested in Russians
and anything belonging to Russia, because of
an old association that I have. I was called

after a Russian lady  whose name I do not
know."

Mr. Guyon looked round quickly. '' Indeed ?
I noticed that you bore one of our favourite
names. My mother's name was Vera," he added
in a lower voice.

' I am sure that I have excited your curiosity
now' she said, smiling.

' I confess it," he answered, with a slight
bend of his head. "You must forgive me,
mademoiselle ; I was wondering who might bethe
countrywoman of my own whose name you
bear, and whether I could help you to find her
out, supposing that you wished to find her. But,
no doubt "

"I will tell you the whole story," she said,
as he hesitated for a moment, " and you will see
how it happened. My mother and father were
in a French town  the town of Lusignan, from
which I have taken my stage-name  when I was
born. My father was a violinist ; he had fallen
into ill health and poverty, and my mother was
nearly in despair, when a great Russian lady
who had heard him play found out their distress,
and came several times to help them. She held
VOL. I. 12

me in her arms during those visits, my mother
told me, and said that I was like a little child
whom she had lost, whose name was Vera ; and
she begged as a favour that I might be called
Vera, and that she might be my godmother.
She was of a Polish family, I believe, so she was
of the Roman, not the Greek, Church. My father
was a Roman Catholic also, and I was baptized in
that Church, although I have lived as a Protestant
ever since. But my parents died when
I was so young that I forgot my sponsor's name ;
and she went back to Eussia, no doubt, and soon
forgot me."

Maurice Guyon did not speak. It seemed to
Vera that his face was troubled by some new and
strange emotion. It was with a very gentle
manner that he turned to her at last, and said
softly :

Think rather, mademoiselle, that she remembered
you to the last day of her life.
Doubtless she would never forget that tie."

I like to think that she is living," Vera
replied, " and that some day I may meet
her and thank her for her kindness to my
mother."

Mr. Guyon's eyes dwelt on the girl with kindly
interest.

'' She would be surprised, no doubt," he said
and did Vera fancy only that he sighed 1  " to
find the baby whom she had held in her arms
grown into a woman of genius  a queen of song."

Am I that indeed ? " she questioned slowly.
'' I think not yet."

'' May I speak the truth, mademoiselle % "

'' If you will be so good."

'well, then, let me say that your singing
in Davy's room yesterday proved to me that of
which I had been a little doubtful. You have
genius, mademoiselle ; genius and soul, and art
beside. But you do not always sing in that way
at your concerts, do you ? Am I unbearably
impertinent, or do you think me right ? "

'' You are right."

"I should think that it is the first time a
bandsman ever presumed to criticise a well-known
lady-singer in her own hearing," he said, half
playfully, half seriously. " But courage ! I have
seized my opportunity ; and the singer has too
large a brain and heart to be offended by what I
say. I think this then, mademoiselle : you have

a great career before you ; you are young, and
you have time and power to perfect yourself, so
that you will take your proper place with the
greatest singers of our time. You will have few
rivals, fewer equals ; the world will be at your
feet. Diva ! I salute you ! " He raised his hat
as he spoke, with a sparkle in his eyes, a slight
smile upon his lips. '' And when all this comes
to pass, mademoiselle," he added, with a light
grace of manner which gave his words just the
right shade of meaning, just the emphasis which
kept them from growing either too serious or too
trivial, " I pray you remember the poor, starving
Kussian violin-player, who had ears and eyes for
what was loveliest and best just  minutes
before the rest of the world perceived it."

He replaced his hat on his head with a smile
which was so frank and winning that Vera would
have felt herself churlish indeed to object either
to the criticism or to the compliment which accompanied
it.

"I hope I may justify your expectations," she
said. " Whether I do or not, however, I shall
always have two great consolations : one, that I
am trying faithfully to interpret the music of the

great masters ; and another, that I have always
an outlet for what is strongest and wildest in
me. When I am in trouble, I think I should go
mad if I did not sing."

You are happy, mademoiselle, to have that
outlet."

Some graver shade upon his brow arrested
Vera's answering words. Light-hearted as his
manner seemed to be, there was something in the
glance of his eyes, in a momentary expression of
his face, that showed a depth of earnestness, even
of sadness, behind the apparent gaiety. Indeed,
when he was grave, his face fell naturally into
something approaching melancholy of expression ;
the slightly-hollowed cheek, the finely-cut mouth
and chin had a purity of outline that made him
at times look almost stern. They walked on in
silence, Vera's thoughts busy with his possible
history ; his, buried in the past.

The silence recalled Vera to a prosaic side of
life. By the time that she reached home she felt
sure that Mrs. Cradock would be awaiting her
arrival in order to ring for their evening meal 
high-tea at half-past five, before going to a
concert-room, where she had an engagement that

night. It behoved her to hasten back to Kensington.


I see a cab standing empty," she said to Mr.
Cluyon. " I think that I must take it and go
home. I am very much obliged to you for
bringing me so far."

"Pardon me, the obligation is all upon my
side. Is there anything more that I can do ? "

'thank you, nothing."

He bowed after helping her into the cab, and
would have retreated, but she held out her hand.
He looked decidedly pleased as he took it in his
own ; he even flushed up a little and seemed
embarrassed. It struck Vera that he had been
foolish enough to think that as he was, as he had
said, "a starving violin-player" only, she would
omit this customary mark of civility. He gave
her a different explanation of his behaviour afterwards.
Certainly, no such petty notion ever
crossed his mind.

LUCY.

Yera's next visit to Davy took place on the following
morning, and this time lie did not come
alone, but attended by Mrs. Cradock's maid. Just
as the cab drove up to the door j\Ir. Guyon also
arrived at it on foot. His face lighted up as he saw
Vera; he lifted his hat and looked at her with a sort
of eagerness and hurry that seemed like pleasure.

*' Mademoiselle," he said, almost at once, " do
you see that I have been successful ? There are
sweet and fragrant and natural flowers to be had
even in your city of gloom and smoke."

He carried in his hand a flat rush basket lined
with wet moss and leaves, on which there lay,
loose, long-stalked, and glistening with rain or
dew, as if they had just been picked, a fragrant
heap of sweet white violets.

*how lovely ! how Davy will enjoy them!"
said Vera, lifting her dark gray eyes earnestly to
Mr. Guyon's face.

"Pardon me, mademoiselle," he said, as he
showed her some other flowers in his hand,
"these daffodils are Davy's favourites, and
they are all for him ; but the violets  if I
may offer so small a gift  were for you, to
show you what London can produce," he added,
smiling.

"You are very kind, Mr. Guyon. They are
sweet indeed."

'* I will keep them for you until you go. They
will be in your way just now."

"Thank you. But wait a moment." Vera
separated two or three of the fragrant white blossoms
from the others and fastened them into her
brooch as she stood. " I shall have them all the
morning now."

That will help you not to forget them."

You must think me very ungrateful," she
said as she passed him to go upstairs.

"You could not be so, mademoiselle," he
answered gravely. And something in his tone
sent the colour to Vera's cheeks ; so that she

entered Dav}'s room with a face that caused him
to tell her that she looked 'like a rose in
June."

Which ain't your usual way, my pretty," he
said, stroking her cheeks with his browTi forefinger
; " for you're more like a white lily in
general, or a white violet like them you've got
there. Did Mr. Guyon give you those, dearie % "
he asked, almost in a whisper.

'eyes, Davy."

I thought so," said the old man, in a tone of
inexpressible satisfaction. "He was off before
daylight, nth a young fellow that he's taken
a fancy to  a tramp, I should call him  to a place
miles out of London, where wild flowers grow.
Where are you going \ ' I said to him. ' Don't
be afraid, old man,' he answered me, ' I'll be back
before noon ; I'm going to get some white violets
for a lady who is more like a white violet herself
so modest and white and sweet she is  than
any woman I ever knew  except the mother that
bare me.' And he said nothing more ; but I knew
what he meant, and I said to myself that you
should know it too."

A violet that blooms only to wither beneath

the gas lamjs/' Vera said softly, laying a burning
face against his wrinkled hand.

Always sweet, withered or not withered," he
answered her ; and no word of praise or compliment
ever touched her more.

He lay still for a long time, and when he spoke
again, she found out that he had grown perceptibly
worse since she last saw him. He was restless
and uneasy, and much disposed to talk. The
nurse did not think, however, that the excitement
of Yera's visit was bad for him, and she listened,
therefore, without trying to silence him, while he
spoke disconnectedly of her earlier years, of the
Stangers and of her mother; also of some one
whom she did not know, whose name was Lucy.

But after he had mentioned Lucy a change
came over his face. The light leaped into his
eyes, his lips trembled. He felt hurriedly under
his pillow, and produced thence a little packet of
discoloured papers, tied around with string.

I had a dream last night," he said, holding
the paper between his hands and nervously fingering
the string. " I dreamt of Mr. Kavenscroft

and you. I dreamt that he was coming back

You hope he ivill ? "

He put the question suddenly, in a terrible
voice of anger and alarm. Vera started, but
answered steadily enough.

*' No, I hope not."

'* I know you better. You want him to come
and see you as you are now."

Why should you speak to me of him, Davy ? "
she said, trying to quiet him as his voice grew
fierce and his eyes wild. ' I have almost forgotten
him : forget him too."

I must speak to you of him, missy. I have
left you unwarned too long. It was your mother
who came to me in my dreams last night and told
me that she had trusted you to me and I had
failed her. ' There is no one but you to tell her,'
she said. ' No one but you. Make haste  make
haste.' "

"Dear Davy, that was but a dream. Mr.
Eavenscroft will never cross my path again. He
helped me when I was a child ; but everything is
different now."

"Yes, now you are a woman and worth knowing
; then you were a child. Besides, your mother
told me to warn you," said Davy, with the strange
commingling of prudence and of vagrant fancy

which was often to be noticed in his speech. " I
am to put you on your guard against him : I am
to warn you, do you hear ? "

Vera sighed assent. It was less easy to oppose
him than to keep silence. He raised his finger
and shook it imperiously in the direction of the
nurse and Vera's maid, both of whom were in the
room. " Tell them to go away," he said. " I
don't want them : I want nobody but you."

Vera asked the two women if they could go
into another room for a short time. She would
call them if they were required. The nurse had
a small apartment at her disposal : thither she
led Janet, whilst Vera returned to Davy's bedside.


He lay back upon the pillows muttering to
himself, with wandering eyes and pallid face ;
his fingers were busy with the string of his
packet. Vera offered to untie it for him, but he
only shook his head and fumbled at the knot.
When it was undone, he fixed his wild eyes on
her and addressed her solemnly.

I wrote this paper, dearie," he said, 'only a
few months ago, although it is about matters that
happened years before. My eyes are too dim,

my voice is too weak, to read it to you now. Do
you read it aloud to me that I may see whether it
needs to be altered in any way. Sit where I can
best see you, with your face to the light, and
read slow ; for I'm no scholar and can't follow if
you read it fast."

He handed her two or three sheets of paper,
written all over in a cramped but legible hand.
Vera sat down, with her face to the light, as he
had requested her to do, and began to read.

This is the true narrative and testimony of
me, David Kowe, written in the month of October
1877." So ran the opening sentence : further
down the page the narrative itself began.

' I was born in the parish of Mickleham in
Lincolnshire, though neither of my parents was
Lincolnshire born. My father came of a Highland
stock and my mother of a Eomany tribe.
It was from her that I got my knowledge of the
stars and the way to read men's hands. She was
skilful in herbs and roots, moreover, and used to
be called ' The Wise Woman of Netherby/ My
father died when I was young, and left me
nothing but his fiddle and his love for music.
Mother worked in the fields until I was old

eDOugli to go out and work for her. Then I
took to the speaking ; and fiddled sometimes
for pence at statute fairs and weddings and the
like, and told folks' fortunes for a change "

If it's not written so correct as it should be,
missy," interposed the writer, " take a pencil and
put it straight. Fm no scholar."

Vera nodded and resumed her reading.

But my lameness prevented me seeing much
of the villagers, and they were afraid of us both
for our fierce, wild ways, and because, they said,
we knew more than we ought to do. But when
I was close on twenty or thereabouts, mother one
day brought home a baby girl whose parents had
died of fever in the village, a tiny scared-looking
little thing, as desolate as we were ourselves. We
could not bear to send her to the workhouse 
she had such pretty ways with her  and she
never was frightened either of mother or of me
I'm sure of that. She grew up fair as the day
and bright as the morning; and it was a sore
thing for me when she said that she was old
enough to earn her own living and would go and
be maid to a fine widow-lady who was living half
her time in Netherbyby and half in London. Her

name, which I take to be a foreign one, was
Madame Waldstein "

Here Vera came to a sudden stop and raised
her eyes. "Yes," said Davy, with a fiery look
from under his dark brows, '' you know the name.
His mother."

She dropped her eyes and went on with the
reading.

** Madame Waldstein, who had been married
before to a Mr. Kavenscroft, and was the
mother of the squire of Netherbyby and his brother.
I often saw these gentlemen : they were both
fine, personable men. Philip and Gaston where
their names. Philip, the elder, was a proud man
and mean in his ways about money, but very
careful that nobody should say ill of him. So he
and his mother kept Mr. Gaston supplied with
money, for Gaston had not a penny but what they
gave him, and folks said he was kept very tight.
Gaston was as proud as his brother, but openhanded
and fiery, and he did not like the way he
was treated, although he could not well complain
for fear he should get less instead of more. I
write all this down because it has to do, as I believe,
with what came next.

'these young men's mother had married a
foreign nobleman after old Mr. Eavenscroft's
death ; and when the Baron died she came back
to England and lived at Eavenscroft Hall with
her elder son. Mr. Philip had been married fora
year or two when Lucy went to wait on Madame,
I remember ; and he had no children at first, so
that people began to say that Gaston might come
in for the estates after all. But he had a daughter
afterwards.

I was so fond of Lucy that I couldn't bear
to see her going out to service. If I had been
like other folks I should have asked her to marry
me. But she would, perhaps, only have laughed
at me, poor soul ; so I said nothing. She went
to the Baroness', and was very happy. Fine
tales she told us of my lady, and of Mr.
and Mrs. Philip, and of Mr. Gaston, who was
always hanging about the house. But she
soon stopped her tales. There were things
that she would not tell. More than one was
making love to her : and not of her own
station. I heard of many  Captain Aylmer
for one, and Mr. Gaston for another. Lucy
was a beautiful girl, with hair like gold, and

eyes as blue as the forget-me-nots that grew in
the wet meadows.

Lucy was there for a year and a half. Then
suddenly she disappeared : nobody knew why.
I saw Madame myself about her  an old lady
dressed up in silks and jewels, who sat and
smiled and smiled at me, and said that she
knew nothing about the matter. She had had
an illness, the old Baroness, and was weak and
crippled, and she made that an excuse for doing
nothing to help me in my search. She had
an evil look in her eyes, too, which made me
suspect her. Mark my words, whoever it is that
reads this paper, she knew well enough what had
become of Lucy. I would stake my life upon it
that she knew !

The Eavenscrofts were all away from home
at the time when Lucy disappeared. If they had
had a hand in it they concealed their work well.
I found no trace of Lucy anywhere.

It was then that I began to travel about
with my violin  trying to find Lucy. In two
or three years I allowed myself to join Jonas
Stanger s company. I had given up the hope
then of finding her,

VOL. I. 13

"The lady that Stanger afterwards married
used to play the piano for him at that time.
She had a little girl, a strange frightened little
thing, with a look about her of Lucy when first
she came to my mother's house. Her hair was
not so yellow, but it was soft as floss-silk  like
Lucy's, and her skin had the milky whiteness of
Lucy's too. That child was Lucy in her childhood
over again to me."

You must excuse the liberty, missy," said
Davy apologetically. But Vera was touched by
the comparison. She bent forward and laid her
hand on Davy's as she read, while Davy turned
his face away and plucked nervously at the bedclothes.


What Vera read need not be rehearsed.
Davy had written down an account of the way
in which he had found Lucy in the lane at
Netherbyby, and of her subsequent death. He
went on to speak of the little child, and of his
own and his mother's aversion to it. And then
he continued the story thus.

My mother sent the child away," he had
written. " It was a sweet pretty boy, with dark
eyes like Lucy's own ; and when T had gone back

to Stanger's, after Lucy's funeral, I could not
help but think of him and call myself a brute for
letting Lucy's boy go to the workhouse. Yet I
did nothing'  nothing' for weeks and months. It
was only when the little girl that I had loved
was taken away from me by Ravenscroft himself
it was always Ravenscroft as came between me
and my happiness  it was only then that I made
ujD my mind to go back to Netherbyby, to take
Lucy's child out of the workhouse, and to behave
to it as though it was my own. In this way I
thought that I could make up for the cruelty
that I had shown.

' I spoke to mother first. *' As you please,'
says she. ' Don't bring the child to me ; that's
all. Mr. Hervey took it to the workhouse, and
for aught I know it's in the workhouse still.'

'' I went to the workhouse. But I did not
find Lucy's child. I looked at every boy in the
place, and I asked questions of every one that I
thought likely to know anything about him 
Timothy Worldly, in especial, as was the porter
of the place and remembered every child for
forty years back  but I couldn't find any trace
of him. There had been no bov called Bertie or

Moore, or any such name at all in Mickleham
Workhouse.

Mr. Hervey was in France at that time, and
I could not ask him what he had done with
the child. It's certain that he took the boy
away from mother's cottage. Some months later
I did manage to see him and I asked him about
the boy. ' Oh, you're too late,' he said. ' The
boy's relations took him away before his name
was entered on the books.' * Then he did go to
Mickleham Workhouse?' I asked. 'I suppose
so,' he said. But I don't believe him. I don't
believe he ever took little Bertie to the workhouse.
And I believe that he knows where the
child is now and what became of him.

' I wish to leave to Lucy's child all the money
that I possess. I live poorly, but I am not so
poor as I seem. I have toiled and striven and
saved for Lucy's boy. My savings are invested ;
the paper along with this one will show where.
But I must find friends who will take charge of
the money for Lucy's little son. To them I will
commend him, and they shall have my savings
in trust for him.

I desire also to record the name of the man

who blighted my Lucy's life, broke her heart,
and then deserted her. That man was Gaston
Kavenscroft."

Here Davy's manuscript came abruptly to a
close. Vera laid it down and looked at Davy
with wistful anxious eyes. What more did he
want ? She had not long to wait.

''My dearie," he said at last, very tenderly,
my beauty, that would charm the heart out of
a man with your sweet voice and your speaking
eyes, will you remember what you have read ?
Don't let that man crush the life out of your
body and your soul. Eemember my warning,
for God's sake."

' I will remember-sera said. But, in spite
of the evidence afforded by Davy's narrative, she
could scarcely believe that Gaston Eavenscroft
was the bad man that Davy represented him to
be. She thought of the scene upon the Elm stone
Downs, of the revolver that she herself had
thrown down the fissure in the limestone rock.
Did the story that she had heard afford an explanation
of Gaston's agony ?

She waited silently for Davy's next words.

But they were not addressed to her. He had
fallen back upon his pillow ; the energy had died
out of his face and voice ; his eyelids flickered
and sank low.

I've done it," he muttered to himself. ' I've
warned her, Lucy. I shall not be afraid to see
your face again. Nor Vera's mother neither.
I've done my best."

His voice was hollow and feeble when he
spoke again.

I had a lawyer here a day or two agone,"
he said. " He drew me up a will. Do you
know what I've done, my darling ? I've left my
money to you and Mr. Guyon in trust for Lucy's
child. You'll find the boy, won't you ? and give
him the money from the man that loved his
mother \ Promise me that you'll do that."

"Yes, Davy. If Mr. Guy on consents I will'"

He knows ; he'll consent. Call him in,"
said Davy breathlessly. " He's outside. I feel
him near."

Vera went somewhat doubtfully to the door,
and, to her surprise, found that Maurice Guyon
was at that moment ascending the narrow
stair. Davy's intuition had been correct. She

beckoned the young man silently into the sickroom.


Maurice Guyon went to the musician's bedside
and took one of the brown and wrinkled
hands between his otvtl. " What is it \ " he said
softly. 'what can I do ? "

'* She has promised to do all I wish," Davy
answered. " You know what. Promise me,
too ; promise that you vill find out Lucy's son,
and I shall die happy."

Maurice Guyon stooped down and addressed
his friend with singular gentleness. '' Dear old
man," he said, '' you know so little of me ! May
I not, after all, be unworthy of your trust ? You
do not know me well enough for this."

Davy' caught at the young, strong hand which
rested so caressingly upon his own, turned it
over, and with his trembling fingers traced the
course of certain lines upon the palm. 'eyes,"
he said, looking into Maurice's eyes with infinite
placidity and trust, " I know : I know."

There was no more question of refusal. " I
accept the trust," said the young man, with a
tremor in his voice.

I accept it too," said Vera clearly. They

exchanged a glance, and then their ,eyes fell
somewhat confusedly. But Davy lay back upon
his pillows with a look of infinite content.

From time to time, after this interview, Vera
visited the old man, finding him at each visit
weaker than when she saw him last. It became
sadly evident that the end was very near.

'davy," Vera whispered once when she
heard him muttering, as he did constantly, the
names of Lucy and Bertie and Gaston Heavens
 '' Davy, I am sure that Lucy forgives him
now. Will not you also forgive him, as we all
pray to be forgiven \ "

No'' he muttered in a sullen and hopeless
way ; " I can't forgive him  and I won't. He
ruined her  and me too  and Til not  I can't
forgive him."

At last  it was on a Sunday afternoon  she
found him unconscious. The grayness of death
was already on his face. She sat beside him,
with Maurice Guyon not far away, and waited
silently and sadly for the hour of death.

They were both startled by and by to see a
flicker of light in his dim eyes, to hear a murmur
from those dying lips.

Vera bent down to listen. Painfully and
slowly came the words ; not all of them were
intelligible.

' Lucy "  the well-loved name came first 
' in the night  I dreamt she came  told me to

forgive " A confused murmur followed,

then again more distinct utterances. " I am
trying  I want to see her again. Pray for me ;
pray aloud."

This was no time for refusal. How could
Vera have refused him ? On her knees beside
the bed she repeated the Lord's Prayer, pausing
a little at one petition  '' Forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those "

'' Ay," said the dying man, '' that's it. Forgive
us, as we forgive  as I forgive Ravens
"

Then a great light came into his ashen face.
He lifted up his hands and called " Lucy " in a
tone of glad surprise. " Lucy," he said, " have
you come back ? "

Then, with his hands still lifted and his eyes
turned to the bare, white-washed wall as if they
saw beyond it and away, the old man died.

Maurice Guyon laid his hand upon Yeas
hand and held it as he spoke.

Come away, Vera ; we can do nothing for
him now."

And when she had kissed the dear dead face
he led her from the room and took her home.
She could never think of him as other than a
friend when she recalled the sympathy and kindness
that he had shown her in the hour of her
grief.

It happened that Vera was obliged to sing at
a great concert on the evening of Davy's funeral,
at which she, together with Maurice, had been
present. She had expected to find herself
almost voiceless ; but when the evening came a
feverish excitement took possession of her,
glowed in her cheeks, brightened her eyes, and
gave strange power and sweetness to her voice.
She sang as she had perhaps never sung before,
and took the critical audience by storm.

Maurice Guyon had in some manner managed
to gain admittance to the rooms set apart for the
performers. Vera spoke to him once in the
interval between the two parts of the concert.

"Am I singing well now?" she asked him.

As well, do you tidnk, as I sang once to Mm ? "'
She was thinking still of Davy.

Better, mademoiselle," he answered her.
*' You are achieving a triumph*'

It was in the very midst of this triumph,
whilst she was led forward to bow to an applauding
crowd, that Vera suddenly caught sight of
the face of one of her hearers and saw in it the
face that had haunted her dreams for more than
half her lifetime  the face of the man to whom
she owed perhaps the whole success of her career
the pale, proud, brooding face of Gaston
Kavenscroft.

WITH MADEMOISELLE DE LUSIGNAN.

Gaston Eavenscroft was in Asia Minor when
Yera's letter was forwarded to him. He had
been travelling in unfrequented places for many
months, and had just arrived at the house of an
old friend, who had long held the post of Consul
in a small Oriental city. Vera's epistle therefore
fell into his hands at a moment when he
had no special project of travel or adventure in
view, and he was able to give undivided attention
to her communication.

It was a letter which vexed him exceedingly.
He had almost forgotten the length of time that
had elapsed since he left her at school in England,
and was astonished, when he counted the

years, to find that Vera must now be a young
woman of two or three and twenty. He had
vaguely meant to do something definite for her
before this time ; and he became very angry
when he read Vera s assertion of her own independence.
He was particularly displeased to
hear that she had taken upon herself to return
to England, and make engagements without
waiting to hear from him : he certainly thought
that she owed him so much consideration and
respect. After fuming over the letter for a time,
and talking about it to his friend, Charles
Herbert, who furnished him with a pile of newspapers
in which he found Vera's name many
times repeated, and accompanied by terms of
warmest praise, he made up his mind suddenly
that he would return to England, and try once
more to persuade Mr. Hervey to receive his
granddaughter at Netherbyby. He had not much
hope of success ; but he was resolved that, if he
failed in persuading Mr. Hervey, he would tell
Vera the story of her mother's marriage, and let
her make what use of the facts she chose.

When this decision was made he found that
the prospect of treading English soil once more

was not disagreeable to him. He had recovered
from the effects of his early sorrows ; they were
indeed not forgotten, and they had left their
traces on his mind and on his character, but
they had naturally dwindled in importance since
the day when he very nearly put an end to his
existence upon Elmstone Downs. He had greatly
changed since then.

His friend Herbert travelled with him to
England. They went to London together, and
here one of the first objects that met Gaston's
eyes was an announcement that the celebrated
artiste, Mademoiselle de Lusignan, would sing
two songs at a concert in St. James' Hall that
evening.

It cannot be little Vera ! " he said laughingly
to Herbert. But he bought tickets for himself
and his friend, and went at eight o'clock to St.
James' Hall.

Vera had been very present to his mind
during the past few weeks  an insignificant-looking
little maiden, with fine eyes, and a voice
like a nightingale's  a wild, untamed, delicate
little thing of impulse, for whom he had imagined
that the life of a public singer would be unendurable.

Yet, with the strong T\ill and the
power of self-control which she had at times
exhibited, he acknowledged to himself that if
she had in truth submitted to the hard toil and
training involved by success in her profession,
she might possibly have developed into a rare
and striking creature. He awaited Mademoiselle
de Lusignan's first appearance therefore with
great interest and curiosity ; but when she came
he drew his eyebrows together with a look of
perplexity and astonishment which Herbert, who
was sitting beside him, noticed at once.

'' It is not your protegee, then '? " he said.

*' Upon my word I can't tell. I must wait
and see."

He saw before him a fair and gracious woman,
tall, slender, but exquisitely proportioned, with
a mingled grace and dignity of mien which was
singularly attractive. Of this peculiar grace
there could be no doubt ; but Eavenscroft was
not equally sure as to her beauty. The features
of her face were delicate, but not strictly regular ;
her complexion seemed to be fair  but how could
he judge of her complexion ? Had rouge and
enamel nothing: to do with that dazzling red and

white ? Was that mass of golden hair her own ?
Did those marvellous eyes owe their brilliancy
to artistic tinting of eyelashes and eyelids, and
was the arched distinctness of the dark eyebrows
due to nature or to a hair-pencil ?

She had one of those voices which are heard
a few times in a lifetime only  a voice which
would make her name of European reputation.
Some faults in its management there might be
still ; but it was wonderfully sweet, searching,
and sympathetic. This young artiste had a great
career open to her,  so much was plain to Heavens
from the very first,  and she sang as one
inspired, not merely as she had been taught, but
with a touch of that divine fire which we call
genius. Never was the success that befell her
that evening more thoroughly deserved. But it
was not until the very close of the performance
that Gaston Kavenscroft could decide whether
she was '' his Vera " or a stranger.

It was at the last moment, while he was still
studying her with baffled wondering eyes, that
her eyes rested upon him in turn. She started ;
he fancied that she turned pale, and that her
lips for a moment lost their smile; then, still

looking him full in the face, she deliberately
bowed  yes, to him and himself only. After
that first moment she showed no outward trace
of confusion or embarrassment ; yet she had
recognised him, and Eavenscroft seemed more
moved by the fact than she. He turned to
Herbert with visible excitement of manner. '* It
is my Vera'' he said, " and she knew me. Did
you see her, Herbert ? She knew me again 
poor little soul ! " and he laughed rather unsteadily
as he spoke.

'eyes, she knew you," said Herbert, becoming
gravely observant of his friend. " You are probably
less changed than she would be. What
are you doing now ? "

For LIr. Eavenscroft, with a half smile and
a determined air, was writing upon one of his
own visiting-cards. " I'll have her address, at
any rate," he said. " So she thought to cast me
off entirely, did she ? I fancy I can make her
feel my guardianship still."

What are you going to do ? "

Eavenscroft showed the writing. 'swill
Mademoiselle de Lusignan allow an old acquaintance
to have the honour of calling upon
VOL. I. 14

her ?  Gee." He rose while Herbert was reading
it.

Satire is a dangerous weapon with a woman
of that kind," said Herbert, simply returning
him the card.

Why should she take it as satire ? Wait a
minute : I must find some means of conveying
this to her."

The means were found, though not very
easily ; and then Ravenscroft insisted upon
waiting some minutes near the door to see
whether any present notice would be taken of
his communication. They seemed to be waiting
in vain, however, and were just turning away
when Ravenscroft heard himself addressed byname.


Mr. Ravenscroft, I think ? "

Gaston turned eagerly. A young man with
a note in his hand stood before him, bowed, and
spoke.

"Mademoiselle de Lusignan desired me, if
possible, to find you and to give you this note.
If there is any answer I can take it to her if
you will allow me to do so."

Gaston opened the note in silence. Herbert

meanwhile observed the messenger with some
keenness : a handsome man, apparently about six
or seven-ands twenty, with fine features and a long
fair moustache : not in evening dress  in fact
decidedly out at elbows, but with the manners
and bearing of a gentleman. Such, at least,
would have been Herbert's verdict.

These were the words read by Gaston Ravens
:

Vera de Lusignan thanks jMr. Ravenscroft
for his kind remembrance of her. She will be
happy to see Mr. Ravenscroft at any time between
twelve and five which may suit him best,
upon any day this week. Perhaps Mr. Ravens-croft
will kindly let her hear when she may
expect him."

An address was given below.

*' Is Mademoiselle de Lusignan still here ?"

'she is, sir."

I might give her my answer by word of
mouth then ? "

' Pardon : Mademoiselle de Lusignan will see
nobody to-night."

May I know to whom I am speaking ? "
said Ravenscroft with ironicalcourtesy.

The young man's face changed. It coloured
a little and his eyes flashed. But he controlled
himself, and answered with coolness and gravity :

"For the present I am Mademoiselle de
LusioTian's lessen-er."

* I will not trouble you," said Eavenscroft
dryly.

Mademoiselle de Lusignan's messenger lifted
his eyebrows a little, gave the speaker a searching
glance out of a pair of very keen blue eyes,
then bent his head in token of comprehension
and retired. Gaston watched him out of sight,
before turning upon his heel, with a haughty
exclamation to Herbert :

*' Who is that fellow, I should like to know ? "

An admirer, probably."

Insolent pujDpy ! "

*' I have seen him before," said Herbert
reflectively, ' or somebody very like him. I
wonder where."

Eavenscroft went to his hotel and thence
wrote a note to the address given, fixing his visit
for the following afternoon. He sallied forth at
the appointed time with an odd feeling that he
was about to meet the child whom he had befriended

twelve years before, and not the beautiful
vision seen u23on the performers' platform ina
public hall. But in truth he met neither.

The house iu which Vera and Mrs. Cradock
had taken rooms stood back from the road, and
was fronted by a pretty little garden, bright with
roses and geraniums. As Eavenscroft went up
the path from the little iron gate, the front door
opened to let out an earlier visitor. For a moment
Gaston was more startled than he would have
liked to confess : the visitor was the young man
who had given him Vera's note on the previous
evening. He was intimate, then, with Mademoiselle
de Lusignan ? The eyes of the two men
met with a certain expression of hostility, but
they passed each other without any other sign
of recognition. It was with no well-pleased
look upon his face that Gaston Eavenscroft
knocked at Vera's door.

The clock was striking four as the neat maid
admitted him to a pretty little sitting room, till
then unoccupied, and left him there alone.
Eavenscroft looked round him. The sound of a
monotonous voice reading aloud had struck upon
his ear. On his right hand the entrance to

another room was screened by a portiere ; but
the portiere had been slightly disturbed and
afforded him a glimpse of an interior which
instantly riveted his attention.

He saw a pleasant room, softly shaded from
the sun and bright with flowers. A gray-haired,
sensible-faced, elderly lady in black silk sat in
an arm-chair reading aloud. On a chaise longue
lay Vera de Lusignan at full length, with her
arms crossed behind her head.

Was it done for effect ? Gaston wondered
cynically. The attitude was one of repose,
almost of indolence, and yet of wonderful grace.
She looked singularly slight and young in this
position ; and her soft white dress was of almost
childish simplicity. Her only ornament was a
bunch of violets which she had fastened into the
bosom of her dress.

I should have known her if I had seen her
thus at first," said Gaston to himself as he stood
unseen, and looked.

The flush that her face had worn whilst she
was singing had gone, but she was lovely with
the loveliness of extreme refinement and delicacy.
Her complexion was very fair, and her skin had

a peculiar whiteness  not the dead whiteness of
ill health, but a pearly transparency and freedom
from spot or blemish, which was very striking.
The fair hair was drawn back from her forehead,
but the shorter hairs refused to lie smooth, and
clustered above her low broad forehead in a perfect
halo of tiny natural curls. Her eyebrows were
so dark and well defined as to afford a strong
contrast to the fair hair and complexion ; the
long eyelashes were also dark, and the beautifully
shaped eyes were of a pure gray that looked
almost black in shadow. Though intellect and
will predominated over feeling in her face, with
its strongly developed brow and chin, yet at
first sight, to unobservant eyes, the extreme
fairness of her skin save an effect of fragility,
and the infantine sweetness of eye and lip an
impression of great pliability of disposition.

Eavenscroft heard his name announced by
the maid and hastily turned his face away from
the opening. In another instant the sound of
sweeping garments was heard, the rings of the
curtain rattled as it was drawn aside, and Vera
herself stood before him. She shook hands with
him simply, and did not say much ; her manner

struck him as gentle, cold, and even a trifle inanimate.
He might have supposed her tame and
spiritless if he had not heard her sing the night
before.

She conducted him into the next room, where
the gray-haired lady was still sitting. 'you
may perhaps remember Mrs. Cradock?" she said.
You had some correspondence with her at one
time. She has been a very kind friend to me."

Eavenscroft found it less embarrassing to exchange
a few sentences with Mrs. Cradock than
to pursue a conversation with Vera, who meanwhile
rang the bell for tea, and then stood silent
for some minutes, apparently engaged in collecting
the loose sheets of music upon an open
piano. To Gaston's eyes she was perfectly calm.
Mrs. Cradock, who knew her better, saw from
the faint rose-tinting of her cheeks and the slight
restlessness of her movements that she was unusually
agitated. Presently Eavenscroft rose
and offered her a chair. This brought her to a
seat between him and Mrs. Cradock, where he
could see her face and address an occasional
remark to her. He wanted to make her talk ;
but she was so still, so frozen, either by pride or

shyness, that she became more of an enigma to
him than ever. Afternoon tea proved a diversion.
Vera seemed more at ease behind the tray,
and Eavenscroft watched her with a sort of surprise
as her slim white fingers moved quickly
amongst the pretty shallow cups and saucers.
He began to see that she was embarrassed, but
that embarrassment failed to make her awkward
only silent.

Mrs. Cradock felt her presence to be an
oppression, and slipped away as soon as she had
sipped her tea, in spite of Vera's piteous glance.
Mr. Eavenscroft was glad to see her go ; but he
wondered a little how to introduce the subject
of Vera's prospects in talking to her alone. This
fair, still girl was difficult to treat as the baby he
had thought her. And she seemed inclined to
give him no opening for conversation on any but
the most indifferent topics.

But he was wrong. After a few careless
remarks, and one or two long pauses, Vera
turned to him with a sudden change of attitude
and countenance. She clasped her slender hands
together upon her lap and crimsoned to her
temples as she spoke.

Mr. Eavenscroft, I hope you did not think
me ungrateful when I ventured to act for myself.
You were very far away, and my friends
said that I ought not to wait."

The answer that she expected did not immediately
follow. She looked up at him pleadingly,
and made some silent subtle comments on his
face and the changes that she saw therein. Freed
from the hairy growth which he had cultivated
in Asia Minor, with the exception of a dark
moustache, browned by many an Eastern sun,
far sterner and harder in expression than it had
been twelve years before, his face struck Vera at
that moment with a sudden sense of surprise at
its massiveness and power. It was still a handsome
face, with fine bold lines, but there was a
certain grimness about the strong contour of brow
and chin, a latent fire in the glance of those deep-set
brilliant eyes, an ominous knitting of the
dark eyebrows, which promised neither patience,
humility, nor good-humour, and were far more
imposing than amiable. Vera looked at him,
thought that her defence had sounded weak, yet
felt more courageous now that the subject had
been broached than she had done before.

The reply, when it came, was abrupt and
ungracious enough. "And what if I do think
you ungrateful ? It does not signify to you now ;
you are successful, and that is all you want."

Not all."

"What else do you require ?"  sarcastically.

I should be glad to have the esteem and 
and  affection"  the word trembled upon her
lips for a second or two before she uttered it
of my friends."

Gaston looked at her sith an ironical smile.

Verily you ask much, Mademoiselle de Lu-signal
! And who may your ' friends ' be ? You
had not too many when I saw you last. What
friends have you had who counselled you not to
wait?"

Her face turned pale and her eyes looked
grieved and puzzled, but she answered with a
patient simplicity which was not Without its
pathos.

God has been very good to me. He has
given me a great many friends. I owe them a
great deal  more than 'ever I can repay," she
added, with a melting of her gravity into a
bright, sweet look which directed the application

of her words to himself. '' But, ah ! I forgot ;
you do not like to hear of repa57inent or of
thanks."

Gaston bit his lip, and felt the shock of something
very like unpleasant surprise at the tone
of her first sentence. "Devote!" he said to
himself, " I should not have thought it. Where
did I hear that story of some great singer who
never went on the stage without praying that
she might do her part well ? Vera seems to be
moving on the same lines."

I like gratitude," he said aloud, coldly.

'' And you think I have not been grateful ? "
again with the sensitive flushing from brow to
chin.

I did not mean to say that. But of course
the fact remains," said Eavenscroft dryly, ' that
you have preferred the advice of other friends to
mine ; and although I never wanted to force mine
upon you, I think it would have been better for
you if you had consulted me before taking so
important a step in life as leaving the school
where you had been placed, in order to teach
and to sing in public. You did not do me that
honour, and I do not wish to claim a right to it.

You informed me of your decision only : it was
very kind of you to do so, I am sure, but, under
the circumstances, unnecessary. I could hardly
have expected you to await my opinion."

Could I have had your opinion in less than
six or eight months ? "

*' Would six or eight months have been so
serious a loss to you at your age ? Six months
more study,  I had the Conservatoire at Milan in
my mind if your voice were worth it, as it is,
though your style is not faultless yet, Mademoiselle
de Lusignan,  and then you could have come
out under better auspices than those which you
have secured for yourself."

Vera writhed under the lash of his keen
tongue, but ventured to oppose his dictum. " I
had good introductions. It was considered that
these concerts at St. James' Hall would give mean
excellent chance. I was engaged for the
season," she said.

'' Of course. Oh, doubtless the end justified
the means. You are very successful ; and as 1,
being an unsuccessful man, worship success, I
congratulate you on the measure of it that you
have gained."

But Vera's cup was full. He had taunted her
until she could bear no more. She answered
him as vehemently as ever she had answered
Jonas Stanger and her daughters in the days of
her passionate childhood ; and he was not displeased
to have provoked the outburst.

"It is not true ; it is not true," she said.
I care nothing for the success except for its
making me free and independent  is it that which
you dislike ? You forget how you repulsed me
when I once ventured to thank you in a letter
for your kindness, and how you refused to give
me any advice at all when at Essential I asked
what profession you T\dshed me to adopt ! ' Decide
for yourself : I do not wish you to consult
me,' you said then. Was that answer of yours
no reason for my acting as I did ? Was I not
justified ? "

He had risen from his seat and stood with
his shoulder against the mantelpiece, with his
eyes studiously averted from her face, but he
was silent. She continued passionately :

Indeed, indeed, I was not ungrateful !
But I was half afraid to write to you at all, when
you had so sternly forbidden me to do so ! How

could I know that you cared about my prospects ?
I thought that you would be glad to have me
off your hands : you gave me every reason to
think so."

' No, Vera."

'' But I was obliged to think so : you made
me think so," said the girl, standing before him,
so that in spite of himself he was obliged to seethe
quivering lips and indignant eyes, and to
hear the quick breaths that tore up the sentences
almost with sobs. " I would have given anything
 done anything  for you when I was a
child : you might have taken the whole management
of my life if you had chosen. But you
refused to do anything but give me money. Oh,
it was good, it was kind, of you to do that, but
is money everything ? You told me that you
would have nothing to do with me. From that
moment I could not  I could not feel as if your
gifts were anything but burdens. Ah, yes, I
was ungrateful : I see it now. But you made it
hard ! "

'eyes," said Kavenscroft in an odd tone, '' I
did. I thought I was right."

"But now?"

" Now," he said, looking at her face with a
mixture of shame and hardihood which she did
not understand, " now I wish I had left myself
the right to reproach you'

"You acknowledge that you have not?" she
asked, in utter astonishment at this sudden change
of tone.

I acknowledge it. I was unjust."

x\nd you see," she said tremblingly, " that I
would gladly have consulted you if I had known
that I might ?  that it was your own doing ? "

A pause ensued before he said " Yes."

She drew a long breath. "I am glad," she
said, sitting down and covering her face. " I
could not bear that you should think me so ungrateful
! " And for some minutes her tears
flowed silently but fast.

There was a long silence. Kavenscroft moved
up and down the room, glanced perplexedly at
the fair bowed head, and finally came and stood
before her.

I don't think you are much tamer than you
used to be. Vera," he said lightly. " You fire up
precisely as you did when I saw you last. But
you were more forgiving then, child  I beg your

pardon : I suppose I ought to say Mademoiselle
de Lusignan, like all the rest of the world."

This drew her head up. She looked at him
with a great radiance in her beautiful eyes. " Do
you mean to be only like all the rest of the world
to me ? " she said ; "or what you were in my
childhood  my best and kindest friend ? "

A new and sudden consciousness of her
womanly charm, of the sweetness of her eyes,
the grace of her manner, made Gaston Heavens
falter in his answer.

'' Your friend, Vera," he said at last in a softened
tone. " Now and always your true and
faithful friend  if neither the kindest nor the
best."

VOL. I. 15

MAURICE S PLAN.

Vera had no occasion to tell Mr. Ravenscroft
that Maurice Guyon had never visited her before
that afternoon when the two men met almost
at her door. There had been no appointment
between them ; it had simply occurred to Maurice
that he would take to her the violin that Davy
had wished her to possess, and that, if she
wanted to consult him respecting Davy's legacy
to the missing child, she would then have the
opportunity of doing so.

He was shown at once into the little sitting-room,
whither Vera came to meet him. She
seemed at once to understand his errand.

'* Davy's violin ?" she said quickly.

It was a trust committed to me, mademoiselle,"
Maurice Guyon answered. "Davy wished

you to have the instrument on which, as a child,
he said you had often longed to play."

Vera said " Thank you " in a low tone ; then
moved to the table and opened the case that
stood upon it. On seeing the violin, she laid
her hand upon it gently and let it linger there,
as if she would have caressed it for the sake of
its former owner. There seemed to Maurice
something very tender and beautiful in this
action, something very lovely in the silence
with which she looked upon this memorial of
the dead. For he had seen enough of Vera to
be aware that her silence covered deep reserves
of feeling, and that her pale cheek and lowered
eyes indicated more emotion than another
woman's burst of tears. He honoured her for
her self-control, and waited until she herself
should break the silence.

''I have written to his mother," at last she
said, without lifting her eyes.

"Ah ?" He looked at her inquiringly.

"' She sent a few lines in reply. She T\dshes
for no help ; she did not seem to grieve for her
son's death. He had been long dead, she said,
to her. How strange it is," said Vera, taking

her hand off the violin, and moving away from
the table a few steps, " that persons can be dead
to each other in this life ! It is very sad."

A flash of fiery meaning seemed to shoot
across the young man's face, and then to leave
it colder and darker than it had been before.
*' Sad it is, no doubt, mademoiselle," he said
softly ; " but strange ? It is too frequent to be
strange."

Vera stopped short in her gentle movement
across the room ; he could not but notice the
sudden stillness of her slim straight figure and
the averting of her graceful head. His words
had touched her now, as hers had touched him
before.

I suppose you are right. I know that there
are persons to whom I, for instance, have died,
although I formed part of their lives once. But
people do not let this happen knowingly ; they
do not often cast a person away from them and
say, * You are henceforward dead to me.' They
merely let old friends slip, and then some day
we wake up to find we are nothing any longer
to those who have been all the world to us."

She spoke almost with indignation, and yet

there was a speculative melancholy in her tone
which made her hearer doubt whether she were
quoting from her own experience or not. He
smiled sith quiet, covert irony.

You would not cast off an old friend wittingly
; I am sure of that, of course, after seeing
what I have seen ; but others  other women 
act differently. An old friend ?  an old glove : it
can be taken off or put on at pleasure, or thrown
away. A breath of adversity, suspicion, disgrace,
blights a friendship as an east wind blights a
rosebud."

She turned round and let her clear dark gray
eyes dwell upon him reflectively, sith a certain
amount of pity and inquiry reflected in their
translucent depths, before she said 

'' We have all different kinds of experience.
I have known examples of strong friendship
and great faithfulness ; perhaps you have met
with examples on the other side, and judge
every one by them."

He laughed carelessly, but his face flushed a
Kettle as he answered.

"You think me easily influenced, Mademoiselle.
I would not presume to contradict you,

but, with your permission, I will tell you the
story of a friend of mine  a story which will
not occupy much time in telling, but which will
serve to illustrate my point."

Pray tell it me," said Vera. " Will you not
sit down ? I am afraid that I have kept you
standing all this time ; it is because I am so
restless to-day ; I feel as if I must walk up and
down the room. But I will sit still now."

'' Do not let me tire you," said Maurice
gently. " Shall I go away now and tell you
my little story another time ? After all, it is
not worth telling."

I want to hear it," she said, seating herself
and turning her face to him. "Please
go on."

He was silent for a few moments, as if collecting
his thoughts. Then he turned away
from her a little, and spoke slowly, with his
eyes bent on the floor.

"Mademoiselle, I had a friend once  in St.
Petersburg  a man who longed, like myself, for
freedom of thought and action in Eussia such as
you have here in England. He did not conspire
against the Czar's life, but he did sympathise

with the men who were spending time, and
energy, and money, and brains upon the one
object of their lives  the propaganda of what
they thought to be the truth. He himself
helped them in this object, and, when some of
his friends were in danger, he hid them in his
house. He was betrayed to the police,  by
whom he never knew,  his house was searched,
the suspects found and arrested. The police
were brutal and violent ; my friend struck one
of them to the ground, and seriously, though
accidentally, injured him. For these offences,
he was first condemned to death, and then to
perpetual exile in the mines of Siberia."

How terribly unjust ! Could nothing be
done to save him ?"

Maurice shook his head.

He was betrothed, mademoiselle, to a lady
young, rich, beautiful ; he loved her, and he
thought that she loved him. When he was condemned,
his one thought was this : ' She will
be faithful to me throughout. She will be my
wife, and come with me even to Siberia.' For
such things have happened before : other women
have followed the men they loved into exile ; was

she, whom he believed to be the pearl of womanhood,
to be less true than they ?"

No, oh no ! " said Vera, as if he had appealed
to her for an answer to the question. The
story had carried her completely with it ; her
eyes were shining, her lips parted, with interest
and expectation. " Oh no, there could be no
doubt. Of course she went with him."

The young man turned a nervous twitch of
his mouth into a smile.

"You are mistaken, mademoiselle. She
would not even see him again. She sent him
no farewell. Before six months had passed she
had married a kinsman of his own  the man
upon whom his estates had been conferred by
Imperial command."

"All women would not have been so false," said
Vera indignantly. " You do not think so ? You
have not lost faith in them, because one woman
was faithless  to your friend T' She said the last
words with some emphasis, and gave him one keen
glance as she did so. But he did not look up.

No, mademoiselle, I have not lost faith in
all. I thought I had, but I find I was
mistaken."

And your friend ?" said Vera hastily. " He
went to Siberia ?"

"Mademoiselle, yes."

*' But he was pardoned afterwards ? It was
such a small offence ! It was a virtue  not a
crime !"

''He was not pardoned."

But he escaped ?"

Do men escajDC from Siberia ?" said the
young man slowly, as if weighing all his words.

"Why, yes, sometimes."

That is true. Bakunin, the Nihilist, escaped
about the year 1860. He got on board an
American ship at Novo-Nikolaievsk, and went
first to Japan and then to North America."

And your friend "

Another time, mademoiselle  pardon me 
I will tell you all about my friend another time."

His voice was husky, and it seemed to Vera
as if his eyes had grown wet with tears. He
screened them with his hand for a few moments 
silently, but with nothing of an Englishman's
proud reserve. He showed his emotion openly
and simply, knowing that it was not a thing of
which to be ashamed. Vera held her peace ;

she was sure already that the story which he
had told her was his owen.

Vera was silent out of sympathy, but not
because she would have feared, even after his
prohibition, to question him. She had begun
dreamily to wonder whether it were possible that
she and Maurice had been friends or kindred
in another state of existence. There are persons
who seem to us, even at a first meeting, like old
acquaintances, whom accident alone has hitherto
kept away. So with Maurice and Vera. They
had never been strangers from the moment when
they first stood together at Davy's dying bed.

Thank you, mademoiselle," he said at last ;
though Vera did not knows J  should thank
her, and indeed he scarcely knew himself ' Let
me now fulfil the rest of my commission. I
have some papers to place in your hands. I fear
that I am detaining you too long."

"Not at all, Mr. Guyon. Ah, Days
papers You read them ? "

She asked the question with some timidity.

I read them, mademoiselle."

"And what," said Vera slowly, " what do you
think that we had better do '?"

The papers were laid upon the table at her
side. She took them up, and turned them
slowly in her hands as she spoke. Maurice
watched her rather anxiously.

*' Have you anything to propose, mademoiselle
?" he asked her.

She raised her candid eyes and fixed them
upon his face. " Mr. Guy on," she said, " I will
tell you exactly what I feel. Mr. Kavenscroft
is coming to see me this afternoon. When he
speaks to me I shall half expect to hear him
say : ' What is it that you have heard of me ?
What secret of mine do you hold that I do not
know ? ' And I shall feel that I am mean and
dishonourable in knowing what I do. What I
propose is that we should hand the papers over
to Mr. Eavenscroft and say to him : ' These concern
you. Take them and find for yourself the
son that you thought you had lost.' I wish to
tel him all."

Then you' said Maurice with emphasis,
'you have more faith in Gaston Eavenscroft
than Davy had ?"

Far more," she answered steadily.

"You think that Mr. Eavenscroft would rejoice

to hear of Davy's suppositions ? For we
have not the slightest evidence to go upon. If
we had, it would be a very different matter.
What have we to tell him ? "

Vera was silent.

Give me a few days' grace, at least, mademoiselle,"
said Maurice in his winning voice.
I should like to go down to Netherbyby and see
Davy's mother, and try to trace the child who
was sent to the workhouse. If I am unsuccessful
there, I will come back ; then wee can try
your plan. It is Cjuite possible that Mr. Heavens
knows something of the matter already."

Vera did not agree with Maurice's judgment.
Still she yielded the point ; there was
a certain pleasure in yielding a point to Maurice
Guyon.

I will do just as you think best, Mr. Guyon.
If you fail  if you hear nothing  then perhaps
we can devise another plan. It is very good of
you to take this trouble."

Did you not think that I would take trouble
for my friends, mademoiselle ?"

I am sure that you would  for Davy."

' Yes  for Davy ; and  may I not say it ? 

for you as well. I may think that I am working
for you too, may I not ?"

She hesitated. " If it pleases you to think

so " she said at last. She left the sentence

incomplete, but it was plain that she had granted
the request.

Will you think me presumptuous for suggesting
one thing % " she said, after a short pause,
which to her was instinct with happy meaning.
Your engagement at the Parthenon "

''\ will leave it."

But  can you ? Ought you ? "

Mademoiselle," said the young man, with a
bright look of determination on his face, " I can
do for another what I did not care to do for
myself. You will call me perverse if I tell you
that I have worked for myself rather because I
chose than because I need. If I spoke a word,
if I lifted a finger, I could get sufficient for all
my wants. So you need not think that I am
resigning much when I resign my few shillings a
week at the Parthenon."

Perhaps," said Vera, *' you are resigning
something more  some plan of your own  some
freedom or independence "

Say rather some foolish pride, mademoiselle,"
he answered gravely. ' It is not much that I
shall gain, to be sure  a pittance only ; but it is
there for me if I put out my hand. I have been
intending to claim it for some time."

'' Don't make any sacrifice, Mr. Guyon," said
Vera, the quick colour rising in her fair cheeks.
You are acting for others, not for yourself.
You ought to have no expense in the matter.
1-

)1

And there she stopped short, for Maurice
Guyon's face and gesture entreated silence.

May I not do something for Davy too ? Do
you want to keep to yourself all the pleasure of
giving, mademoiselle V he said in a tone of
gentle remonstrance. " I assure you," he added
more earnestly, "' I am doing nothing but what
it is right for me to do. I have hitherto neglected
to put myself into communication with
certain friends of mine, because I fancied that
they did not trust me as I had expected them todo.
It may have been a foolish fancy ; at any
rate, I will go to them at once. They were very
kind to me as a boy ; I think they will be kind
still."

But must you ask them for any anything ?
Could you not ask me as easily % It is for
Davy's sake ! "

Dear mademoiselle," said Maurice, almost
tenderly, " I shall ask them only for my own. I
shall need nothing more."

"I understand. I beg your pardon for my
mistake."

' There is no need ; I did not explain myself
sufficiently. I will go at once," said Maurice
with some eagerness, " and then I shall be ready
to start for Netherbyby as soon as I am free from
the Parthenon business. Mademoiselle, I thank
you for your great kindness."

But although he announced his intention so
energetically, he seemed to find it hard to tear
himself away. The papers were slowly gathered
up, with a word or two between each ; reluctantly
at last he took his leave, after a lingering pressure
of the slender fingers that were silently held
out to meet his own, and a word of farewell
which was in itself a pledge of swift return.

He left the house, and found himself face to
face with Gaston Eavenscroft at Vera's door.

Vera FRIENDS.

If Gaston Ravenscroft had thought seriously over
his first conversation with Vera, and the words
and acts immediately preceding it, he might have
found occasion to accuse himself of great inconsistency.
But he was not a man who reflected
much on his own actions. He was always said to
be a man of strong will. Perhaps it was only an
obstinate one. It certainly was apt at times to
veer from one point to another with suddenness
proportioned to the violence of his disposition.
Never of a very tractable nature, he had now for
many years accustomed himself to look upon his
own wishes and emotions as the sole limits to his
will and the only laws that he acknowledged.
This tendency, moreover, had been increased by
an adventurous life of exploration, such as suited

this tastes and habits better, he used to say, than
the humdrum existence of an English squire.
Above all a man of whims, crotchets, and eccentricities,
he had seldom shown himself more
whimsical than in his dealings with Vera Marlitt.
As a child, he had petted her ; as a young girl,
he had liberally provided for her welfare, but
refused to enter into any personal relation with
her, expressly declining to take advantage of the
authority that he might have claimed ; yet when
his amour-propre had been wounded by her
independent stand, he had at once hurried back
to England in order to assert the binding nature
of a tie which he had taken the utmost trouble
to sever ! So far all was bad : he was acting with
the impulsive selfishness of a man who had done
a kind action for the sake of his own pleasure
rather than the benefit of the recipient ; and yet
there was a better motive at work within him
than he chose to show. His very desire to provide
for Yera's future made him dislike her acting
independently of him : the fear that she might
have cast away her chances and injured her own
prospects brought him to England on her account.
He had forgotten that she was a woman grown,
VOL. I. 16

and lie was of course guilty of culpable negligence
in fororettinor it, but it was not unaccountable
neofliofence in a man who had renounced his own
home ties, and believed himself bound by no
duties. He had long ceased to care for anything
but how best to seize and enjoy the fleeting
moment ; he had no aims and no ambitions. It
was perfectly characteristic of him that at a
moment of intense wretchedness he should have
tried to put an end to his own life. He thought
it the most natural thing in the world for a man
to take the only means in his power of ridding
himself of torture as soon as it became excessive.
His want of patience, and in some cases of fortitude,
had been a marked feature with him from
boyhood. Physically he could dare and endure
anything ; it was in the moral region that he
failed.

Yet Gaston Eavenscroft had qualities that
merited esteem. He was generous ; he was
tender-hearted to the weak and poor ; he had a
great scorn for the meaner vices of humanity, for
anything that savoured of truckling, cowardice,
niggardliness, or deceit. His own faults inclined
to the opposite extreme  to lavishness, rashness,

outspoken arrogance, and pride. He was a man
of rare gifts, who had chosen to fling them wantonly
away because he disdained the importance
that they would give him in the eyes of the
vulgar crowd.

Vera de Lusignan, in meditating upon this
strangely undisciplined nature, surmised that it
had received some terrible shock before it was
fully developed, either for good or evil ; that there
had been some tremendous convulsion, as of the
rending of rocks and letting loose of the elements
in a mighty volcanic eruption ; and that he
would bear the traces of this struggle to his dying
day. She called to mind the influences of his
earlier years ; she remembered the cynicism and
worldliness of his mother; and she came to a
dangerous conclusion  for a woman in what
concerns a man  that circumstances had been
greatly against him, and that, though not wholly
free from blame, he was more sinned against
than sinning !

Another inconsistency made itself manifest in
that first interview with Vera. He had meant
to show himself ready to be her friend, and yet
he could not refrain from upbraiding her (unjustly

as he knew) for ingratitude. He would
not have spoken in this manner, he told himself
afterwards, if she had not angered him by her
cold demeanour and by the appearance of that
handsome stranger at her door. (How she was
responsible for his appearance Gaston did not
inquire of himself, and was not likely to ascertain.)
Certainly he had allowed his vexation to
get the better of his reason. And then she had
fought him gallantly,  he admired her for her
resistance,  and had forced him to admit that he
had been unjust. He had yielded unwilling'
and in dudgeon at the time ; but he had known
that she was right.

He came away from the house with a certain
excitement and exhilaration of feeling that proved
him to be younger at heart than he would have
cared to acknowledge ; and all through the evening
he was conscious of a glow of interest and
animation to which he had long been a stranger.
"The little witch!" he said to himself, as he
remembered the sweet eyes and silver-keyed
utterance, which were two of Vera's greatest
charms ; " who would have thought that she had
ever been beaten by that brute Stanger. or had

sung in a provincial melodrama ?" Of comes he
could not understand that these very incidents of
her early life had helped to make her what she was.
I suppose it is her mixed blood that gives her
that curious fascination of manner ; she ought to
be a trifle more stolid, however, with her undeniably
Teutonic fair hair and complexion. But
there is a suggestion of Southern blood in the
tinting of her eyes and brows. Doubtless other
people feel the fascination ! And I never asked
her a single business question after all ! Is it
possible that she did not avant me to ask questions

and kept me from remembering them by

Pooh ! she was natural enough ! thoroughly unconscious
of herself."

In which opinion Gaston Eavenscroft was
mistaken. Vera was neither ' natural' nor
'' unconscious " in his sense of the word. Her
profession, as well as the reticences of her early
life, had forced upon her an unusual amount of
self-control, and, except in moments of strong
excitement, she kept perpetual watch and ward
over her words and actions. This self-control was
caused by the natural recoil of a proud nature upon
itself : the shame and distress that followed any

self-betrayal taught her to retreat into a shell of
reserve and apparent coldness at the faintest
token of dislike or indifference. The life of a
singer had its peculiar pains as well as pleasures
for her : she could throw herself heart and soul
into her public performances, but she suffered
agonies of painful reaction when they were over.
To avoid any display of this sensitiveness she
had taken refuge, as sensitive people often do,
in an exterior of impassive quietude. Only,
while with many people this impassiveness, this
quietude, is cold and disagreeable, with Vera it
assumed a peculiarly gentle and winning form,
and was more like humility than pride.

Kavenscroft found his way to her house on
the following afternoon, giving as excuse for his
reappearance the fact that he had not " talked
business " with her during the first interview.
He found her somewhat changed in manner.
They had parted on the friendliest terms ; but
now she seemed to wish to set up a barrier.
There was almost a look of trouble in her eyes ;
she gave him the wistful glance of a child who
longs, but is half afraid, to ask a question, and at
times she replied almost at random to his observations.

He wondered slightly what was amiss,
but concluded that some woman's whim that did
not signify was at work within her, and that she
would "come roimd " in time. So he simply
disregarded her coldness and abstraction, and,
after a formal request that he might ask a few
questions about the present state of her affairs,
he proceeded to put her through a keen catechism
respecting her business arrangements, and
her prospects for the future.

He could not find fault with the way in which
she had been treated. It would have been rather
a satisfaction to him to be able to demonstrate
that he could have managed her affairs better
than she and her friends had already managed
them ; but this satisfaction was denied him. He
took upon himself unhesitatingly the part of
censor, adviser, and guide ; and although Vera
might be surprised, and even a little amused by
this tone, not knowing that he had a reason for
it in his relationship to her, she was willing to
allow him to retain it. She was even thankful
to find a strong, staunch friend at her side.

Mrs. Cradock did not think it necessary to
chaperon her young companion during Mr.

Ravenscroft's visits ; she looked upon him as
Vera's guardian still, and was pleased to think
that the girl had so efficient an adviser. Hence
it came about that at four o'clock that afternoon,
Vera and Mr. Eavenscroft found themselves
alone in the pretty little drawing-room, with a
good many papers between them and a sense of
having discussed, if not transacted, a great deal
of business.

''I hope you will acknowledge that even if I
am not wise, my friends have been wise for me,"
Vera had said when the last paper had been
inspected and silently returned to her.

Ah, these same friends ! " said Mr. Heavens
'' Who may they have been. Vera ? You
told me that you had made a good many : most
of them in Germany, I suppose ? "

'Yes, chiefly. I had Mrs. Cradock in
England, but of course I made far more
acquaintances at Essential than I had done at
Mrs. Cradock's school."

Who were they ? "

Vera considered. "There was the old
organist, Kriegsthurm," she said, "and Dr.
Miller, and Herr Krach, and Professor Weiss

oh, almost all the professors were kind tome.
Then Lise von Auersperg was my great
school friend : her mother asked me once to
spend a week at her house ; I was very happy
there."

'' A large family, I suppose."

'' Yes, five sons and three daughters."

Grown up ? "

Luise was the fourth ; she was just my
age."

Eavenscroft mused a little, seemed discontented,
and presently asked, " Do you correspond
with them ? "

"With Luise? yes."

"And with none of her seven sisters and
brothers ? "

There was some eagerness in his tone. Vera
answered " No," with a look of such surprise that
he felt ashamed of his question.

And your professors ? Not interesting men,
I imagine : snuffy old musicians with unkempt
hair and long pipes, raving of their beloved art
and nothing else  eh ? "

Indeed," said Vera with spirit, " you are
quite mistaken, Mr. Eavenscroft. They are

very pleasant cultivated men, and advanced age
was not a necessary qualification for a professorship.
See  here is the photograph of Herr
Krach ; what do you think of it ? "

She moved a stand of photographs towards
him and pointed to one of a decidedly handsome
young man with dreamy dark eyes and long
hair.

Is he a professor ? "

'* Yes : a violinist. A great friend of mine."
Were all your professors after this fashion?"
No," said Vera, smiling with genuine amusement,
'they were not so good-looking."
But they all made much of you ? "
'' They were very kind," said Vera serenely.
Gaston threw himself back in his chair and
looked savagely ill-humoured. Mademoiselle
Vera gave him one considerate glance through
her long eyelashes, and then confined her attention
to the rings upon her fingers.

"You have left them behind now, at any
rate," said Eavenscroft at last, with some complacency.
" Well, you were probably right incoming
away : you had been there long enough.
That part of your life is done with."

'* Oh no ; I have not done with it. I am
going back to Germany in a year or two to visit
my friends."

In a year or two !  You will have formed
plenty of other ties before then. I daresay you
have met with friends in England already ? "

 Yes, a few. Of course I have been obliged
to make a good many acquaintances ; but, I am
almost afraid that I like Germans better than
English people."

Is the young man who brought me your
note the other night a German ? " said Heavens
with what seemed to Vera striking irrelevance.


No, he is not," she said slowly. Then the
colour rose up into her fair face as she saw that
Eavenscroft was scanning it with unusual attention.
" He is a Russian."

Indeed. Is lie a friend of yours \ "

In spite of herself Vera's cheeks retained their
crimson hue, and her eyes began to look afraid.
She answered very quietly, however. ' Yes ; I
think he is."

It seemed as if Gaston Eavenscroft had not
been altogether prepared for this reply. He

continued his scrutiny of her blushing face for
several minutes, with darkened brow and compressed
lips ; then he changed his position and
asked another question  this time in a much
lower voice.

What position in life does your ' friend '
fill?"

He is a musician' said Vera.

You met him  professionally, I suppose ? "

She thought of the first interview in the
street, and hesitated. " Yes," she said rather
reluctantly ; '' I met him  first  on business."

And not on business afterwards ?"

"Exactly." She was recovering her self-possession.


Gaston opened his lips to say something
hasty, then controlled himself and spoke in a
gentle, conciliatory tone.

"My dear Vera, you are pleased to answer
me as if there were some mystery concerning
this young fellow. If there is any "

Oh, there is none," she answered proudly.
I had never spoken to him until he asked me
to go with him to see poor Davy. You remember
poor Davy, my old friend? He was

ill, and sent me a message ; that was how 1
began to know Mr. Guyon."

Guyon ? Is that his name ? " Then Heavens
reflected awhile. " Does he play at concerts
with you \ "

'nowhere

does he play then ? I don't remember
to have heard his name."

"He plays in the orchestra  at the Parthenon."


"Oh ho!"  Another long pause. "Can he
do no more than that ? He cannot be much of
a performer, I suppose. Why does he not adopt
some more lucrative profession ? "

Vera was too angry to reply.

"A good-looking fellow too," said Mr. Heavens
magnanimously. " Something of a military
turn about him ; make a nice jeune premier on
the stage, a capital ' walking gentleman.' Why
do you not give him a helping hand, Vera ? "

He would not have accepted my help," said
Vera in rather an ill-assured tone, " if I had
offered it to him."

What, you thought of offering it, then ? '*
said Eavenscroft with a sudden start and glance

towards her, while Vera remained dumb with
astonishment at his quickness. He rose up and
took a little turn about the room, as if not
knowing what to say next. Finally he came
and stood before her.

I met this young man yesterday afternoon
coming out of this house. He had been calling
upon you, I suppose ? "

On business."

Exactly. I have no wish to advance any
claim of my own over you, Vera, but I do wish
I should like to think  that you would let me
do your business for you."

Musical business ? " said Vera with a faint
lifting of her delicate dark eyebrows.

'' Did he come on musical business ?" Heavens
asked dryly.

She looked up at him with her calm serious
eyes, and said " No." But immediately afterwards
a rush of colour dyed her forehead, cheeks,
and throat to a burning crimson. She hung her
head to conceal it, but the blush was only too
evident to Gaston's keen eyes, and gave him a
quick sharp pang. He was too much taken
aback to be angry, and remained  rather unkindly,

Vera thought  looking down upon her,
knitting his eyebrows and pulling his moustache
after his wont, and wondering why on earth
women were such fools, and why Mrs. Cradock
did not take better care of her charge. It was
to her that he resolved to speak : he felt that
there would be a want of delicacy in openly
warning Vera that her conduct was liable to
misconstruction.

But he had not reckoned upon Vera's acuteness
or upon her courage. She suddenly looked
up at him with her clearest, most open expression,
and went straight to the heart of the subject.

I know exactly what you think," she said.
You think that I am not acting as  as you
would like your niece. Miss Eavenscroft, to act.
You think I am, to say the least, ill-bred and
unconventional. So I am. But you forget that
I am merely a public singer  not a lady in your
sense of the word. Oh, please don't interrupt
me, for I know what I am saying. If a singer
has not aU the social privileges of a member of
your class, she has at least some immunities."

She has no immunity from scandal," muttered
Gaston almost below his breath.

She is a public character ; she sees many
people, talks to many people, whom she would
never meet if she lived, as your niece lives, in a
quiet country place, shielded from harm and
responsibility in every way "

What do you know of my niece ? '"

I saw her  twelve years ago." Vera was
silent for a moment ; he thought the tears rose
to her eyes ; but she went on steadily. '"'A singer
is not bound by the rules that bind lier youth
and her inexperience. Do you think I have no
visitors, Mr. Eavenscroft ? Do you think I lead
a nun's life ? I have acquaintances of all kinds
chiefly among men : I meet them often and
know them well "

Good heavens, Vera, and you told me you
had so few friends ! "

"Few friends, Mr. Eavenscroft, many acquaintances.
Not many are allowed to enter
this house : the few that come are here by
special invitation."

And you invited this fellow  this Guy on V

I am coming to that. Mr. Guy on has been
asked to visit me if he hears anything concerning
a matter in which he and I both are

interested. My old friend, David Kowe, left us a
certain trust, which we are anxious to carry out."

*' A very unbecoming proceeding," said Heavens
coldly. '' Of course a man of that kind
knew no better than to place you in a position
in which you would constantly be associated
th this young fellow ; but you might have
refused to act. Come, Vera, give me the power
to act in your place : tell me what the fiddler
wanted doing and I will see this Mr. Guyon
about it. You need not then have more to do
sith him at your house."

Vera turned away. " I have told you already,"
she said, " that he is my friend."

If you have no one else to say it to you,"
Gaston replied, '' I must take the privilege of
an old acquaintance and tell you that the world
will never believe in a mere friendship) between
a young man and a singer. The world will say
that at least he is your  admirer." He had
thought of a stronger term, but substituted this
mild one in its stead.

'' I hate the world !" said Vera impetuously.
'' What right has the world to interpose its
odious suspicions  what right have you "  sud-vol

T. 17

deny facing round upon him  " to suggest its
suspicions to my mind ? You think you have a
right to wound me, but you have none to insult
me."

'' Don't excite yourself, my dear Vera," said
Kavenscroft, coolly regarding her. "You must
not lay yourself open to remark if you dislike it
so much. Tell me your business with this man
and I will see that he does not trouble you for
the future."

She looked at him with a sort of terror.
You ! " she said. " You are the last person  at
least  I beg your pardon  this business can be
transacted by no one but myself and Mr. Guy on."

She left the room abruptly as she spoke, and
Gaston Eavenscroft thought that he had reason
for grave dissatisfaction at this state of affairs.

His anger was not lessened by a remark that
Herbert made to him that evening as they met
at a club, where each of them had been renewing
old acquaintanceships. " By the by," he said,
I have remembered where I saw that young
man who brought you Mademoiselle Vera's letter
the other night. You know I told you that 1
had seen him before. I never forget a face."

Where' said Ravenscroft sharply.

"In a van with other prisoners bound for
Siberia."

Are you sure of it ? "

Certain. He was fainting with illness and
fatigue when I saw him, but it was the same
face."

Political offenders, I suppose. Just the
thing to touch a woman's heart  patriotism and
all that kind of humbug."

Unfortunately," said Herbert dryly, and
with a certain reserve of manner, "these were
not political offenders. I inquired at the time,
out of sheer curiosity. Nothing so respectable."

What had Ixe done ?" said Gaston.

He ? I am not sure that I know. I rather
think," said Herbert reflectively, "that Mademoiselle
Vera's friend was pointed out to me as
the worst criminal of the party. So it might
be well to put her on her guard."

She is not very likely to listen to me," said
Ravenscroft in a bitter tone.

I have it," said Herbert suddenly. " I remember
now. He had been exiled for conspiracy
and murder. Yes : that's the man."

AT Nether.

Ravenscroft left London on the day following
his second interview with Vera, and betook himself
to Lincolnshire in order to pay a short visit to
his mother, whom he had not seen for several
years.

The separation had not been grievous either
to mother or son, although the Baroness was
sometimes heard to murmur that it was difficult
to know what to say when people asked after
Mr. Gaston Eavenscroft. But she was not ill
pleased to have the management of her son's
estate, and there was an amount of material gain
to be derived from his absence, which she did
not by any means despise. Her only desire for
his return was founded upon the fact that a visit
from him was an attention which she thought that

he ought to show. Kavenscroft himself was by
no means so devoted to his mother as to make
a long separation from her at all painful.

He arrived at Netherbyby late in the afternoon.
The day had been warm and bright ; he sent on
his luggage by the carriage that had been ordered
to meet him, and resolved to walk to his mother's
house. His path lay across some broad green
meadows, then through a shady lane which would
bring him close to the village ; then, as he well
knew, to the churchyard, which was used as a
public thoroughfare and opened upon a plantation
leading into Madame Waldstein's garden.
Had he a motive for choosing this pathway on
the day that brought him home after so many
years of absence ?

He noted the different changes which years
had made in the buildings and the scenery
through which he passed ; but his thoughts were
for the most part elsewhere  not with the friends
whom he was going to see, not with the dead
who lay beneath the churchyard soil, but with
a fair - faced girl whose voice and eyes were
perilously sweet, and whose greatest charm to
Gaston Eavenscroft lay in the fact that he felt

her to be as yet an enigma  a riddle that he
knew not how to read.

He had crossed the fields and reached the
stile which led to the shady lane. And here fora
moment he paused as if he saw something that
astonished and rather amused him. And yet
there was nothing to be seen  except two young
and handsome figures who were standing under
the shade of an elm-tree, apparently in a very
affectionate attitude. The girl's face was turned
towards Mr. Eavenscroft, who recognised it at
once as that of his niece Olivia. A very handsome
face it was, with its well - cut features,
bright complexion of the brunette order, and
raven-black hair and eyes. He had seen more
than one photograph of her, but he might have
known her even without that aid, from the extraordinary
likeness that she bore to a portrait
of his mother in her youth. Even the slight
elegant figure was the exact reproduction of
Madame Waldstein's in that portrait ; the slope
of the fine shoulders, the haughty carriage of the
defiant little head, would alone have served to
convince Gaston of her relationship to his mother
and therefore to himself.

But who was the young man who was kneeling
on one knee before her with his head bent
over the hand that he held in his own ? Gaston
Eavenscroft was immediately conscious of a
desire to attack the kneeling figure with his cane 
an unreasonable desire which had to be carefully
subdued before he could resolve to leap the stile
and advance to disconcert the two young people.

For a moment he thought of passing them
without apparent recognition, but in his present
mood of idle and scornful indifference he could
not resist the temptation of bringing into Olivia's
pretty cheeks the scarlet flame of maiden modesty
and making the unknown young man look
ashamed of his indiscretion. So forward he went,
with rather a cynical smile upon his lips.

To his surprise, however, neither of them
moved a step. Miss Olivia still stood with her
hand extended and her eyes cast down ; the
young man bent his head over it with persevering
assiduity. Mr. Eavenscroft was confounded, but
more curious than ever.

Thank you," he heard the girl's clear tones
say as he approached ; "I think it's out now.
Those thorns are most provoking."

This was a very sharp fellow," said her companion,
rising from his knee. '* It has made
your hand bleed, Olivia ! "

But Olivia had turned from him impatiently,
met Gaston's inquiring eyes, and sprung forward
with a quick exclamation.

*' It's Uncle Gaston ; I am sure it is ! "

I am equally sure that you are Olivia," said
Mr. Eavenscroft, feeling relieved that the extraction
of a thorn alone had been the delicate
operation which required so reverential an attitude.


Grandmamma was right," said the girl, who
spoke in a rapid decisive way which her uncle
was not sure that he liked, as she lifted her
delicate face to be kissed. " She said sou would
come this way."

'why?"

*' I do not know ; grand mamma is like a witch
sometimes, and tells us things that we should
never have thought of for ourselves. She told
me to go by the churchyard and the lane, and I
should meet you ; and behold, her words are
true!"

Eavenscroft's brow darkened, but he made no

rejoinder, only turned a little towards the young
man and seemed to wait for an introduction,
which Olivia was not slow to give.

' This is a very old friend of mamma's, uncle,"
she said demurely. Gaston could not but smile
at hearing this formal designation of the lad,  he
did not seem to be more than nineteen,  and the
young fellow himself reddened slightly as he
heard it. He had a pleasant face, with a very
winning expression, a complexion that changed
colour like a girl's, lazy broTTi eyes, and dark
brown hair. His forehead was good, his mouth
sweet, but a little undecided ; on close observation
it could be seen that he had one or two
tricks of manner, which a public school would
have corrected  one, a habit of holding his head
slightly on one side, and half shutting his eyes
when he was considering a subject; another, a
soft slow dainty way of speaking which caused
him at times to be called affected. He was tall
and slenderly built, but, although in the lanky
stage, he moved with an ease and grace and
spoke with a readiness which showed him to be
more accustomed to the ways of the world than
was at first quite apparent. In spite of the clear

red of those uncomfortable blushes (quite as
pretty in their way as any of Olivia's, and a
greater embellishment to his dark face than he
could have imagined), his manners were marked
by an unembarrassed courtesy which was singularly
little like the mauvaise honte of an English
boy at eighteen, and proceeded, perhaps, from
the fact that he had spent much of his life abroad.
Mr. Eavenscroft felt an involuntary attraction
to him, which, strange to say, was succeeded by
an entirely different feeling as Olivia continued
her introductory speech.

Mamma asked him to come and take care of
me," she said. " I daresay you know his name,
uncle. Mr. Lancelot Aylmer."

Kavenscroft's face suddenly changed. It
assumed its coldest and sternest expression
as he slightly returned Mr. Lancelot Aylmer's
courteous salutation. The chilliness of his
demeanour struck both young people with
surprise. Olivia drew up her head with some
offence. Lancelot reddened  this time with
visible annoyance, and said in his quiet dulcet
tones,

''I will go home by the fields, if you will

excuse me, Olivia. I have to call somewhere in
the village for Mr. Hervey."

Oh, very well. We shall see you this evening."


"No, I think not, thanks. Good afternoon."

He lifted his hat and turned back. It seemed
to Kavenscroft that she looked disappointed, but
as she walked onwards with him she did not
give any outward expression to this feeling in
words. She only said,

If Cousin Richard wants him, of course he
must 2:0. He is bound hand and foot to Cousin
Richard. You remember them very well, do
you not. Uncle Gaston ? "

I remember Richard Hervey, of course."

And Lance too."

I have heard of him from my mother."

Ah, of course he had scarcely come here
when you were at home last,' said Olivia, reflectively.
" He is Cousin Richard s ward, you
know. I always thought that guardians were
obliged to educate their wards properly."

'' Does Richard Hervey not educate this lad
properly % " said Gaston with a certain grimness
of tone.

Mamma and I do not think so," said Olivia,
decidedly. " Lance wanted to decide on his
profession a year or two ago ; the army was what
he would have preferred, but Cousin Eichard
would not allow him to go in for the examinations.
Lance says sometimes that he will go and enlist
as a private."

'' A very suitable rank and profession."

Olivia detected the satire, but did not guess
against whom it was levelled ; she laughed, therefore,
merrily, and continued :

He thought Cousin Eichard meant him to goto
Oxford, perhaps, but he cannot tell ; Cousin
Eichard says nothing decisive. Don't you think
it is odd, Uncle Gaston ? "

'* I should advise you to leave your Cousin
Eichard Hervey and his affairs alone, Olivia.
Depend upon it, if he has adopted this lad, or is
bringing him up, he will doubtless do what best
befits his future station in life."

Olivia arched her eyebrows and telegraphed
signals of astonishment to the hedgerows.

" I thought that University training was suitable
to any gentleman," she said in an undertone.


"Possibly'

Then it is suitable for Lance ? " She
flashed an eager glance at him and seemed to
expect a reply ; but he gave her none of a kind
that satisfied her. He began questioning her
concerning the building of some houses in the
neighbourhood, and would not allow her to return
to the subject of Mr. Hervey's treatment of his
ward.

Once or twice, however, she nearly stopped
in the middle of her gay chatter about the news
of the place, for she saw that his eyes were absently
fixed on the gray church tower, and that
his thoughts were evidently far away. But if
she paused he immediately inserted a question
so very much to the point that she, baffled and
disconcerted, was obliged to go on with the trivial
recital.

They reached the house after a time, and
Gaston underwent the salutations of his friends
with resignation rather than with joyfulness. In
fact, there was now and then to be perceived in
his manner a touch of scornful impatience, especially
when Madame Waldstein expressed any
pleasure at the meeting. At these moments

Gaston's gesture and glance Avould give the impression
that his thoughts ran in some such
fashion as this : " Why do you say you are glad
to see me ? Would you not rather by far that I
had left my bones to bleach on the steppes or in
the desert than come here to claim the right that
you have grudged me ever since Philip died?"
And then the reflection would follow : "Was it
worth while to come back ? AVould it not be
well to settle the bulk of the estate on Philip's
daughter and go back to the East ? " But he
never entertained the proposition seriously fora
moment. There was one word which seemed
to him sufficient as protest, reason, and refutation
alike, and that one word was  Vera. If no one
else needed him, he was sure that Vera did.

The old Baroness looked frail, and was almost
unable to move from her couch, or the chair to
which she was carried in the afternoons ; but she
was as magnificently dressed, her eye was as keen,
and her tongue as sharp, as ever. Having made
a decent show of pleasure at her son's return she
deemed it expedient to begin a course of searching
questions respecting his reasons for it, but
obtained very few satisfactory answers.

You are reserved," she said to him at last,
putting up her eye-glasses and glancing him over
with the sort of delicate scorn which he had
been accustomed to receive from her since the
days of his infancy ; " you say no more than you
can help, apparently."

'did I ever say more than I could help?"
said her son indifferently, as he pinched the ears
of a little Skye terrier that had climbed into his
lap. He was lying back in an easy chair, long-limbed,
muscular, and bronzed ; he seemed almost
out of place in Madame Waldstein's small and
dainty chamber. The Baroness looked at him
fixedly, noting every distinctive point, good or bad,
about him  the strong frame, the dark, proud head,
the dauntless eyes and stormy brow, the haughty
lip and the rapidly changing expression of his
features, in which fire and gloom seemed alternately
to predominate, and then said quietly,
'* You have grown rather like your father."
Is that intended for a compliment ?"
That is an uncivil return for it, if it were.
However, you never piqued yourself on your
civility to me ; you expended it in other directions,
I believe."

Not entirely, I hope," said Gaston, restoring
to her a handkerchief which she had dropped,
with a little bow and ironical smile ; " I keep
some for home consumption."

Then he relapsed into careless silence, and
looked out upon the lawn, where Mrs. Heavens
and her daughter were walking together.
Olivia had slipped her hand through her mother's
arm ; Felicia's graceful head was bent a little, as
if to listen to the girl's confidences. The day
was closing, and a soft stillness had fallen overall
the scene. The Baroness averted her eyes
from Gaston's face, and looked at the couple in
the garden.

Well, what do you think of Philip's daughter
?" she said suddenly and sharply. " She is a
pretty child, is she not % "

I cannot compliment her more than by saying
that she is very like the portrait of yourself,
taken just after your marriage, Madame," said
Gaston.

Prettier," said the Baroness ; " but not so
attractive."

That would be impossible  doubtless."

"My dear Gaston, satire is a formidable

weapon when well used ; but it is not very powerful
in your hands. I suppose you did not need
it among the Asiatics ?"

No' said her son, with imperturbable composure
; "a revolver would have gone further."

And accordingly it has grown a little rusty.
I will tell you, if you will do me the favour to
listen, what Olivia wants : it is polish and experience.
She is as clever as she can be ; but
her mother has done her best to mew her up in
this country village and blunt the child's wits as
much as possible."

I thought she seemed bright enough. She
has a great opinion of the blessings of education."


Education ! Oh yes," said Madame Waldo
scornfully ; " she is a little blue-stocking in
her way. You know Felicia was always something
of the femme savante ; she was brought upon
all the sciences; and poor dear Philip encouraged
her and thought that she would prove
a second De Steel or Eecamier. I could have
told him better. Felicia never had a grain of
savoir faire ; she could not have been a great
lady to save her life."

VOL. I. 18

"Felicia seems to me exceedingly graceful
and dignified."

"Possibly; but you have been out of the
world for ten years, Gaston. Felicia is old-fashioned
and has old-fashioned notions, which I
am very much afraid that Olivia has imbibed.
She is a girl that ought to make a good marriage
I might say a great one. She is a beauty, and
she has social gifts : she must have a career."

Certainly, let her have one by all means."

I am glad you see it in that light," said
Madame Waldstein, with a bird-like turn of her
small head, and a covert smile ; '' for the matter
is in your hands."

"Mine?"

I suppose you know that you are the head
of the family?" said the Baroness, beginning to
wave her fan up and down before her face. " Or
perhaps your residence abroad has led you to
forget a fact of which we are  painfully 
aware."

For the first time Gaston winced a little, and
his mother was aware that he did so. It was in
his current manner that he replied :

It would be more to the point if you told me

what, as head of the family, you expected me
to do'

' Eeally, Gaston, you are too much of a lout,"
said the Baroness, with a laugh of the finest
scorn. "It is positively repellent to my feelings
to discuss any matter with you'

Because I refuse to beat about the bush ?
Because I prefer frankness and openness to deceit
?"

There is no deceit in the matter. You are
violent, Gaston," said his mother composedly.
'' Eemember that you are in a civilised country."

The man's eyes glowed like coals of fire, but
he spoke in determinedly low tones. " I may be
violent," he said; 'but I will not be false. I
come from the tribe of Ishmael, where I found a
companionship that suited me; for surely, like
Ishmael himself, I had found that my hand
was against every man's, and every man's hand
against me. But whose fault was that ?"

Your own," said Madame Waldstein, striking
a table beside her a smart blow with the closed
sticks of her fan  " your own, and no one's beside."
And she struck the table again, as if she
wished the table had been her son.

'' I think not," said he firmly. " It was early
in my life when I found out the difference that
you made between my brother and me  a difference
that embittered the years of my boyhood.
Then, when I came to later life, who was it that
alienated my brother from me but yourself ? Who
was it that drove me to take a step which was as
premature as it was rash, and which was as nearly
my ruin as it could have been ? You may not
have done all this knowingly, but you did it ;
and I defy you to wonder at my long absence
from home, or my coldness and violence, as you
term it, on my return."

Madame Waldstein's eyes glittered like hard
bright stones during this address. '' All that I
did was entirely for the best," she said haughtily.
'' You have not recited all the benefits that I conferred
upon you, however. I suppose your later remarks
refer to your connection with my maid, Lucy
Moore. It was owing to my proposition of informing
your brother of that very disreputable
love affair that you took her away from my service,
and went with her to Elmstone."

Gaston started and changed colour. " To
Elmstone ? " he said. '' I did not know "'

'* That I knew where you went ? I knew all
about you," said Madame Waldstein with complacency.
" But I did not betray you to Philip,
because I thought that you had sufficiently ruined
your prospects without losing the allowance that
he was kind enough to make you. I let the
matter go on quietly."

Her son, resting his chin on his hands, glanced
at her as if doubtful of her motives for this consideration.


I knew that the affair would transpire sooner
or later, and so I let it alone. But it went on
longer than I anticipated. I grew impatient.
It went on for four years, I believe. Part of the
time was spent at Elmstone and part abroad."

She glanced at him furtively with a little
smile, then looked away.

Well ? " said Gaston, with a mixture of impatience
and anxiety. " Anything more ? Poor
Phil's death put an end to the secrecy  and I had
had secrecy enough to last me all my life, God
knows !  and then, after all, there was nothing
to be told  nothing to be done. She died."

Yes, she died," said the old lady, with that
significant little smile which gave to her face

something sinister and unpleasant, in spite of her
delicate bloom, her snow-white hair, her handsome
features and sparkling eyes. *' She died 
but she left you first."

The colour forsook her son's face. A look of
fear and pain came into it. " Mother," he said
huskily, " you do not mean  you cannot say that
you  you  know more of the reasons for her
departure than I do ? "

What should I know ? " said the Baroness,
with a mocking laugh. " Suppose I wanted to
tease you  you are easily teased, you know, my
dear Gaston  I might say that I had managed
the whole business, that / had tracked you,
watched you, deceived you, separated you  deceiving
her as much as ever you thought she had
deceived you "

' If that were true," said Gaston, with a face
of ashes, in which his eyes seemed to be the only
live points, "if that were true, I never would
forgive you."

His mother took a rapid survey of his face,
then laughed aloud. " You are a fool, Gaston,"
she said contemptuously. " You were made to
be deceived."

'' Tell me whether it is true or not," he said,
starting to his full height and towering over her
with so threatening a brow that she shrank a
little in spite of herself

'not true, of course," she said hastily. ''I
know nothing about her." But as he turned
away she could not forbear sending after him a
Parthian shot. '' Even if it were true, I should
be loath to tell you so," she said with a sort of
scornful pity. ' Not for my own sake  oh no !
but for the suffering that I see I should inflict."

What suffering can you inflict \ " he asked
harshly, although his set stern face gave the lie
to his words. 'rit is twelve years since I lost
her. I am hardened now."

"Ah yes," said Madame Waldstein dr}ly.
So I thought when I sent Olivia to meet you
by way of Netherbyby Churchyard."

This was more than Kavenscroft could endure.
He stood bolt upright for a moment, with his
hand clenching itself at his side and the veins
swelling upon his broad forehead, then turned
and left the room without a word. The Baroness
followed him with her eyes and laughed to herself
significantly.

It would be easy still to make him believe
that she was false," she murmured to herself.
"Is it worth while to do it ? Hardly, perhaps.
But he is such a fool  so easily tricked  that one
is tempted to see how far matters could be
carried ! However, one must not try too many
things at once. It seems never to occur to him
to doubt our story about the boy's death ; but I
wish Richard Hervey would be more careful in
avoiding suspicion. Who would have thought to
see him so absurdly devoted to that lad as he has
been for the last five years ? If Gaston were not
blind he would certainly guess the truth ! "

MADAME WALDSTEIN's VIEWS.

Both Madame Waldstein and Gaston had said
more than they had intended, and also left unsaid
a great deal that they had meant to say.
Gaston had been irritated to a point that, a few
years earlier, would have impelled him to leave
his mother's house as he had done upon that day
of Vera Marlitt's unlucky visit; but he had gained
in stubbornness, if not in self-control, since that
time, and would not allow himself to yield to
the promptings of his own ill-humour. He contented
himself with avoiding another private
colloquy with his mother, and succeeded for a
day and a half ; at the end of which time she
sent him a peremptory message that she wished
to speak to him in her own room. It was Olivia
who brought the message, and she came in armed

with a racquet, which had a most business-like
appearance. Gaston had been out nearly all
the previous day, and had scarcely seen her that
morning.

"Where have you been all day?" he asked,
as he rose, looking rather reluctant, Olivia
thought, to leave the little library which had
been turned for him into a smoking-room.

I ? Oh, I am always busy in a morning,"
she said, as if surprised at the question. " This
morning I was reading German with mamma
from nine till ten, then I practised and painted
until lunch."

"Not out all day?"

I have a tennis-match to play this afternoon,
so I rested all the morning. Look, Uncle Gaston,
I won this racquet last year. Do you see
my name on the silver plate ? I was the champion
player of the neighbourhood ! "

Shall you win the prize this year too ? "

*' Oh, no. Lance is sure to win it. He has
been practising this season. In fact he might
have won it last year if he had chosen, for he can
play splendidly when he likes ; but he was too
lazy. He is waking up this year."

Gaston was silent, and watched the young
beauty as she flitted about the room, altering
the position of a chair here, a book there, and
seeming to put things in order almost without
knowing it. Her lissom figure was well displayed
in a tennis costume of white flannel,
embroidered Tith wild roses in coloured silks
round the neck and wrists and skirt. Presently
she turned round and lao-hed.

'uncle Gaston, I don't wish to hurry you,
but grand mamma is not accustomed to be kept
waiting, and she was ready to see you when 1
left her. Ah, there's the pony-carriage. I wish
you were coming with us, uncle. We are going
to bring my dearest friend home with me  lima
Zaranoff ; she is going to stay a few days with
us."

"Zaranofl*? I know the name. Who is
she ? "

'she was the daughter of one of grand-mamma's
friends in Vienna. She married a
Russian count; and she has lived a great deal
in Paris. She is so beautiful. Uncle Gaston ! "

*' And the Russian count, where is he ? "

Oh, he died soon after the marriage. But

do go to grand mamma ; she will say that I have
never delivered her message if you don't make
haste."

Eavenscroft went accordingly to his mother's
room. He found Madame Waldstein lying upon
an invalid couch, with a fretful, wearied look upon
her face, which, as yet, had not undergone the
' making - up " essential to her appearance in
public, and was therefore startlingly sallow and
wrinkled. She had many costly lace-trimmed
wrappings about her, and the curtains were
drawn so that the daylight should not shine
fully upon her face and show the ravages that
Time had made ; yet enough could be seen to
impress her son with the conviction that his
mother was an older and feebler woman than he
had thought, and to soften his tone and manner
towards her in no slight degree.

She was talking to her maid when he entered,
and also engaged in feeding a great white cat,
which had its seat on a cushion at her side. To
Gaston she vouchsafed, therefore, very little
attention.

'' I tell you, Alice, I will not have pink roses,
and that is enough. Do you imagine that I wish

to dress like Miss Eavenscroft ? Something rich
and simple is what an old woman ought to wear.
Mimi, my darling, will you not eat then ? My
precious, it is cream, not milk ; do not turn away
thy pretty little head. An aigrette, Alice, or the
diamond clasp which I wear with my gray satin,
or perhaps the beetles with ruby eyes  oh, what
an imbecile you are ! Am I always to repeat

that Mimi, my Mimi, you would not leave

me?"

I understood, madame, that you wished to
speak to me," said her son dryly. " If you are
engaged, I will come at another time."

"Ah, Gaston, sit down," said his mother carelessly,
as if she had but just perceived him. " Don t
be impatient ; I shall be ready directly. If you
had come when I sent for you  Alice, for heaven's
sake, do not put yellow and pink together.
And see, you have let Mimi upset her saucer.
Was ever anybody surrounded by such a set of
idiots as I am ? And there is Mimi going ! My
angel ! my Mimi   "

And I also," said Gaston. '' My dear mother,
I will come back when you are able to converse
with me."

You will do nothing of the kind," said the
Baroness peremptorily, dropping her querulous
tone at once. " Go away, Alice. Take the saucer
with you, and let Mimi out. What are you crying
about, little fool ? Pick up the ribbons and

go."

Alice, a pretty trim little damsel, whose eyes

were now dim with tears, groped rather feebly
after her belongings ; and Gaston, half compassionate,
half impatient, stooped to assist her.
She curtsied in a frightened way, and made her
exit with speed ; after which, Mr. Kavenscroft
shut the door after her, and returned to his
mother's side to find her watching him with half
shut eyes.

*' Don't interfere with my maids any more,
Gaston," said the terrible old woman with a curl
of malicious pleasure about her lips. " You did
that once too often. Lucy was the best servant
I ever had before you came across her."

You will put me under the necessity of
leaving your house altogether if you allude to
that subject again," said Gaston, with a sudden
light in his gloomy eyes. " I must request you
not to mention her name for the future."

'not a pleasant subject, is it?" said the
Baroness, charmed at being able to wound him
so easily, but with an air of spurious sympathy.
'' I do not wonder that you avoid it, poor Gaston."
Then, as a gesture told her that she was going
too far, she added hastily : " However it was not
of that that I wished to speak : it was about
Olivia. We strayed from the point a little the
other day. Will you not sit down, Gaston ?"

Thanks, no, I prefer to stand. It is about
Olivia that I also wish to speak."

'' How curious ! Well, dear Gaston, suppose
you say what you have to say first, then I will
tell you my little projects'

As you please. I thought of speaking to
Felicia, but feared that she might be distressed
by my question. Is it her T\dsh, or yours, that
Olivia should be so absurdly intimate with that
boy of Eichard Hervey's ?"

Lancelot Aylmer ? Eichard's ward ? " said
the Baroness, looking at him steadily, with
completely arrested attention, and some little
curiosity.

Eichard Hervey's son, whom he does not
choose to acknowledge," said Eavenscroft shortly.

Madame Waldsteio continued to gaze at him
for several seconds with an inscrutable expression
which might have been astonishment, perplexity,
or even amusement, and which Gaston
found decidedly vexatious. Presently, however,
she averted her eyes, took up her fan and began
to examine its feathery tips, while she said in a
tone of almost exaggerated interest :

Is that really true ? How very romantic!
How did you hear of it, Gaston? I suppose
Cousin Eichard Hervey did not tell you ? "

I heard it years ago from Marshall," said
her son, mentioning his solicitor's name. " Of
course I am not certain that the report is true ;
but if not, I should like to know who the fellow
is, and where he comes from. He and Olivia
seem to be like brother and sister."

"Indeed they do," said Madame "VValdstein,
sighing. " Eeally, I wish we had heard this story
sooner. A most unfortunate complication! "

It seemed to Gaston that she was half smiling
as she said the words. He turned upon her
angrily. "You do not want her to marry him,
I suppose. Is this the great marriage that you
planned for your granddaughter ?"

'' Do not speak so loudly, Gaston ; you make
my head ache. Marry him ! poor dear Olivia
knows better than to dream of such a things
they are both children, and he is
only Olivia's age. They have played together 
that is all."

And why did they ever play together ? It
is a most unsuitable acquaintance. How is it
that you are so friendly with your cousin now,
mother ? You were on very different terms in
the old days."

Madame Waldstein spread out her hands with
a gesture of repudiation. " I friendly with
Richard Hervey ! I detest the man. He is useful
to me sometimes, that is all. It is Felicia
you may blame, not me. She pities him, pities
the boy, pities everybody. I cannot control
Felicia's pitiful tendencies. Take care that you
do not have Hervey for a brother-in-law, Gaston.
I am continually expecting that announcement.
With a cousin it is always possible."

She could not care for Eichard Hervey."

She never cared for Philip, yet she married
him. You talk like a schoolgirl, Gaston, instead
of a man of eight-and-thirty. AVell, now that
VOL. I. 19

YOU know the dangers that beset your path, will
you take my advice and get those two women to
London, or somewhere ? Olivia ought to be
presented."

I have been too long out of England to
be able to manage such matters."

' A mere excuse, Gaston. All that I want
you to do is to tell Felicia what her duty is with
respect to Olivia. It will come with more effect
from you than from me. I am tired of talking.
If they decide on going, Lady Wilde will present
Felicia. I believe she is going up to town in two
or three weeks' time with lima Zaranoff."

Ah, by the by, who is she ?"

"lima Zaranoff? Her mother was Natalie
von Lowenstein, one of my dearest friends when
I was in Vienna. She died of a fever when lima
was two or three years old  a lovely little thing
the child was then : I was her godmother  and
her husband, Josef von Lowenstein died soon
afterwards, leavings the daughter in the care of
his friend, old Count Zaranoff."

I see  her future husband," said Gaston
carelessly.

Not at all : listen. He and his wife took

care of the little one, and in course of time
betrothed her to their son, Count Maurice  such
a handsome boy !  but very wild and eccentric
in his ways. He was first a page, then he
entered the guards, and we all thought that the
marriage would take place immediately, when
every one who knew them was electrified by the
news that he had mixed himself up in some
Revolutionary intrigues, particularly with a set of
Polish fanatics called Strolenski. Don't you
know the name, Gaston ?"

Not at all. Pray go on : I am very much
interested."

'' Countess Zaranofi" belonged to a Polish
family herself : I suppose that the son inherited
some of her opinions. He  Count Maurice 
concealed the Strolenskis in his own house, and
actually fired on the officers who came to arrest
them ! I believe that he killed one of them ! At
any rate, he was also arrested and exiled to
Siberia."

*sand she?  " Gaston's face expressed some
curiosity ; '' she  married him and accompanied
him, I suppose ?"

Madame Waldstein shrugged her shoulders.

My dear Gaston, you are  inconceivable ! "
she said.

Oh . . . Then the okl Countess was dead
and she married the father instead ?"

Pray allow me to finish my story ; I have
a good reason for telling it to you. The parents
were both dead by this time, and Maurice Zara-off
had inherited the estates. These estates
were forfeited. Of course you could not expect
lima von Lowenstein to sacrifice all her prospects
and marry a man in that position ! The engagement
was broken ; and she married shortly afterwards
a distant  very distant  cousin of Maurice
Zaranoff 's ; and upon the marriage the Emperor
settled upon them all Maurice Zaranofi's estates,
and made the cousin take the title of Count.
So lima became Countess Zaranofi" in spite of
Maurice's banishment."

Rather hard upon the exiled Zaranoff*," said
Gaston, musing a little as his mother paused.
"What became of him?"

Of him ! I suppose that he is still working
in the mines at Siberia," said the Baroness loftily.
' A happy release for lima*'

Was he so depraved ?"

He must have been odious to join those
abominable Nihilists. I think that he was a
little mad. She would have suffered tortures
had she married him. He was spending his
whole income on the Revolutionary party."

*' Vile stretch !" said Gaston satirically. Then
with a keen glance and a bending of his brows,
he asked, " You have no reason to think that he
has escaped from Siberia ?"

'' Not in the least. What makes you think
so?"

Oh, nothing. And  excuse me  but considering
that you have spent the last fifteen
years in England, you seem remarkably well
acquainted with the family history of these
Zaranoffs. Were they friends of yours ?"

"Yes, all of them. But I hear the news of
the world from various sources, although I am a
prisoner in Xetherby ! The Longmores correspond
with me still; they told me the history
of Count Maurice and lima von Lowers
lima has been staying with them in
London."

Who are the Longmores '?"

My dear Gaston ! You mxi>>t remember

Sir Adrian Longmore  the old General ! He
used to stay here in your father's time."

'' Yes ; I remember him."

"He was a great friend of the Zaranoffs  a
connection by marriage, I believe  guardian to
the young Count until he attained his majority.
Maurice Zaranoff used to spend half his time
with the Longmores when they were living at
Vienna and afterwards in London. If you had
been in town you would certainly have met
him*'

Ah, yes," said Gaston, who was becoming
weary of the subject, and certainly did not
attend as closely to the last few sentences as he
might have done. " Ah, yes ; but may I ask,
mother, why you take the trouble to relate tome
this interesting story?"

Madame "Waldstein looked him full in the
face and played with her fan. " Can you not
guess?" she said.

Gaston shook his head.

lima Zaranoff is a widow. She has a large
property; she is young and beautiful. I know
of no person whom I would sooner receive as a
daughter-in-law," said the Baroness.

I see. But I do not intend to marry again,"
said Gaston coldly. "And if I did, I would
not take a woman who lead broken off her
engagement to a man merely because he was
poor and in disgrace."

"' Bah ! that is your romantic side. I thought
we had had enough of that in old days. Your
travels in Asia have left you with as little knowledge
of the world as ever."

Her son made no answer. He pulled his
moustache and looked blankly out of the window.

Madame Zaranoff is coming here to-days'
continued the Baroness in a dryly suggestive
tone. " I shall be glad of her society and advice
for Olivia. I shall be obliged to you, Gaston,
at any rate, if you will pay her a certain amount
of attention. She is a person worth cultivating,
for she goes everywhere, and is greatly esteemed.
I think it is a compliment to Olivia that lima
has taken such a fancy to her."

Gaston shrusrsfed his shoulders and was silent.
The old lady, looking into his dark and dissatisfied
countenance, and feeling that he had been
worsted at more points than one, was seized
nth a fleeting' curiosity to know the real reason

of this return to England. She asked a question
sharply.

What brought you home, Gaston ?"

Anxiety to see my relations."

'' That is so likely ! What beside V

"No other reason. There was one relation
of mine, at least, whom I came to see."

'' And that was "

"Hervey's granddaughter, Vera."

Oh, that girl ! I remember her ; a little
wizened wretch dio shocked Felicia by singing
a vulgar comic song when you brought her here."

"She is now a beautiful woman and a fine
singer."

Indeed ? And you came home to see her f "

I regret that I did not do so earlier," said
Gaston composedly. " I had forgotten how
long it was since she came here, and fancied her
only seventeen or eighteen. She is now nearly
three-and-twenty, I believe. Yes, I came back
to see her, and to persuade Richard Hervey, if
possible, to do something for her."

Do you think you can persuade Richard
Hervey to do anything I "

I shall try."

You have great faith in yourself," said
Madame Waldstein ironically.

'' I have faith in my cause. Have you anything
else to say to me, mother ? If not, I will
ask you to excuse me. I have a good deal of
business to transact."

He took his departure, glad to get away
without a Quarrel, and Madame Waldstein was
left to her own reflections, which were not of an
unpleasing kind.

The old intriguer thought that she had managed
her work very well. She was delighted to
find that Gaston believed Lancelot Aylmer to be
Mr. Hervey's son, for it was she herself who had
caused a story to this effect to be conveyed to
Gaston's ears. Ever since Mr. Hervey had
insisted upon bringing the boy home from a
French school, where he had been placed for a
certain length of time, Madame Waldstein had
been devising plausible stories to account in
Gaston's eyes for his presence at Xetherby.
The supposed relationship between Lancelot 
or rather Bertram Eavenscroft  and Mr. Hervey,
was a very happy flight of her imagination,
especially as she could see that Gaston was

developing a strong prejudice against the lad.
If the Baroness could have lead lier own way, she
would not have allowed the boy to come within
a hundred miles of Netherbyby ; but Mr. Hervey
had taken the matter into his own hands and
declared that Lancelot (as they called him) should
be as a son to him, and should live with him at
Netherbyby Manor. Madame Waldstein was terribly
afraid lest Gaston should learn the truth
during his visit ; but she hoped that it would
not be a long one, and she did not intend to
make it particularly pleasant. A few more
scenes such as she already had with him, and she
knew that he would leave the house in a rage,
and perhaps return to it no more.

She did not want him to marry, and she
believed that her suggestion respecting Countess
Zaranoff's fitness for him as a wife would
decidedly prejudice him against that young lady.
The old Baroness knew her son's weaknesses of
temper exceedingly well. She Alas trying all
means to induce him to leave Netherbyby, even
while she seemed most anxious for him to stay.

The incipient love-affair between Olivia and
Lancelot must also be crushed before it went

any further. If Gaston were to take Felicia and
Olivia to London and remain there with them
until he left England for the East once more,
Madame Waldstein thought that she could sleep
in peace. She had set her heart upon Olivia's
becoming the heiress of Eavenscroft.

CHAPTER XVII.

PAGE

Sir Adrian's Son 1

CHAPTER XVIII.
Friends and Foes 24

CHAPTER XIX.

The Cottage by the Churchyard . 42

CHAPTER XX.
Netherbyby Manor 59

CHAPTER XXI.
A Woman's Vengeance 76

CHAPTEE XXII.

A LITTLE While a little Love " . .97

PAGE

Part IV.NETHEEBY.

CHAPTEE Xxii.

With A Gift IN HIS Hand ' . . .115

CHAPTEE XXIV.
Her OWN Kith AND Kin 133

CHAPTEE Xxi.
Mr. Hervey's Granddaughter . .151

CHAPTEE XXVI.
Gaston's Defeat 171

CHAPTEE XXVII.
A Drive Home 187

CHAPTEE Xxviii.
The Baroness' Garden Party 206

CHAPTEE XXIX.

PAGE

' Intolerable Presumption ! " 224

Chapter XXX.

A WOUNDED Spirit who can bear 1" . .239

CHAPTEE XXXI.
His Son and Heir 255

CHAPTEE Xxxi

Gaston Ravenscroft's Mother . . . .275

CHAPTEE Xxxii
Missing! 290

PART v. LOVE AND BATE.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.
A Man's Love 301

CHAPTEE XXXV.
A Woman Love 318

PART III, (em4>wrm)MA Brice.

CHAPTER XVII.

SIR Adrian SON.

Not going to ride to-day, Frank ? "

Not to-day, General. Going to look in at
my Club."

'don't forget that you dine at home this
evening, boy."

All right. General. Eight sharp, I suppose ? "
"Eight o'clock precisely," said the General,
Tvith a bend of his stately gray head. " Are you
ready, Jessie ? Come then, my dear."

General Sir Adrian Longmore and his daughter

rode slowly away towards the Park, and his son

stood on the door-step watching their departure,

and lazily drawing on an immaculate pair of

VOL. 11. 20

gloves. The father was a tall spare man, rather
bent, with a fine face, singularly mild thoughtful
eyes, grizzled hair and moustache. The son
was likewise tall and good-looking : he had
closely-cropped black hair and moustache, straight
features, and vivacious dark eyes. His attire was
faultlessly correct : he had a flower in his buttonhole,
perfect boots, cane and gloves, and 
crowning touch of all  an eye-glass, which was
perpetually tumbling down and requiring lengthy
and elaborate readjustment.

He buttoned his gloves, flicked an imaginary
speck of dust off his patent-leather boots, shook
himself a little, like a dog before he goes out
walking, and then prepared to descend the steps.
But before he had reached the pavement, a ragged
boy with a letter in his hand ran up to him and
demanded, with a pull of his forelock, whether
Mr. Longmore did not live '' somewhere abouts."
'' What do you want with him ? " said Frank
Longmore good-humouredly.

I've a letter for 'im, guv'nor."

' Give it me : I'm Mr. Longmore."

The boy assured himself by a rapid glance

into the gentleman's face that he was in earnest,

then put the letter into his hand, and scudded

away like a lapwing. Frank held the letter

delicately : it had not arrived by a very inviting
messenger ; lie made a slight grimace before he
opened it. The man in livery standing at the
door glanced at him, and was amazed by the
sudden change in his young master's countenance.
Frank turned violently red, then pale, then looked
so undisguisedly amazed, pleased, and excited,
that his usually impassive face was scarcely
recognisable.

Call a hansom, Peters  quickly."

The order was obeyed with some inward
wondering, and the wonder was redoubled when
Mr. Longmore turned to add,

'' If I am not back by eight o'clock, tell Lady
Longmore that I have been summoned away on
very important business."

Then he stepped into the hansom, told the
driver to set him down at the entrance of a
street near Lowborn, and drove away at a pace
which caused Peters to ask himself whether or
no Mr. Frank had suddenly gone out of his
mind. It was not a customary thing to see him
in such excitement.

Meanwhile Maurice Guyon was walking restlessly
up and down the bare attic-room in which
Davy's last days had been spent. His face was
pale, his brow knitted : occasionally he drew a

deep breath as if some heavy load of care oppressed
him. " Will he come ? " he said to
himself over and over again. 'swill he come,
or have they all abandoned me  as lima did ? "

A footstep on the stairs, a hasty knock at the
door, seemed to reassure him. He drew himself
up, smiled a little to himself, and said, " Come
in'' But there was still a look of nervous
tension about the muscles of his face which was
singularly unlike the serenity that usually distinguished
it.

The visitor entered and closed the door behind
him. Maurice stood still. But he could not
long maintain his impassive attitude, for Frank
Longmore seized him by the shoulders, and
almost hugged him in his delight. Maurice's
reserve did not last a moment : his face melted
into a responsive smile ; his hand sought his
friend's hand warmly, and the water stood in
his eyes, when at last he found voice to speak.

I have come back, you see, after all."

Frank wrung his hand again, looked into his
face, and burst into a somewhat unsteady laugh.

"Why, Maurice," he said, "Maurice, old
fellow ! don't you know that we thought you
dead?"

He put both his hands upon Maurice's

shoulders, and looked as if he would gladly
have given him a second embrace.

Maurice lifted his own hand and gave his
friend's a mighty grasp. His cheek was flushed
now and his eyes smiling.

Then you did not give me up altogether ? "

Give you up ? Why should I give you up ?
It is you that have given us up apparently !
Where do you come from, old boy ? and what
are you doing in this hole of a place % Why did
you not come to my governor's ?

"I have plenty to tell you, I see," said Maurice.

I should think you have ! Come home
with me now : everybody will be delighted."
Frank walked round and round his friend with
the air of a mastiff that has found a long-lost
master, and does not know how to express his
joy. " The General will be in to dinner at eight :
there are some people coming  my mother will
be charmed."

Maurice laughed. " I'm an escaped prisoner,
Frank, fresh from the wilds of Siberia."

"So much the better. Why, you'll be a
perfect boon to all of us. What a subject for
conversation! Count Zaranoff  just arrived
from Tomsk  all the women will make a hero
of you "

You don't realise the situation at all," said
Maurice rather impatiently. " And no wonder.
But I wish you would not be so dense."

Frank stopped in his peregrinations and stared
at him with a sudden consciousness that all was
not so well as it had seemed to him at first.
Why, what's the matter ? " he said, stumbling
a little over the words, and putting up his eyeglass
once more  an eye-glass which had the
property of considerably detracting from the
intelligence of his expression. 'anything

o J)

wrong h

Would you walk up Pall Mall with me at
the present moment ? "

Of course I would. Why not ? Oh, your
coat ! As if that mattered to me ! " said Frank
superbly. 'you are rather seedy, aren't you,
old man ? But an escaped exile and patriot and
all that sort of thing can wear what he likes,
you know. Why were you not an Englishman,
Maurice ? "

I ought to have been, ought I not ? Come,
Frank, I must explain things a little. Would
you mind listening to me % Can you spare me
half an hour % "

An hour  two hours  as long as you like.
What is the meaning of this sudden air of

mystery and conspiracy?" said Frank with
levity. " And what did you mean by saying
at the end of your letter that I was to inquire
here for Mr. Maurice Guyon ? Am I not to call
you by your own name ? "

Maurice Guyon ; nothing more nor less.
They are two of my Christian names, you know'

Just so ; but why ? "

'because if I were known by my own name
our paternal government might demand my
extradition. You used not to be so obtuse,
Frank," said Maurice tranquilly.

Frank Longmore's face fell. He dropped his
eye-glass, put his hands in his pocket, and
looked down. " I am sorry for this," he remarked
presently, with a gravity of which he
had scarcely seemed capable. Maurice shrugged
his shoulders slightly and did not answer.

Then you are in hiding ? "

'' I play the violin in the orchestra at the
Parthenon Theatre," said Maurice lightly. '' I
could find nothing else to do. It's not a bad
life if you give yourself to it."

"That's absurd, you know," said Frank
slowly.

'absurd? oh no. Evidently the only thing
for which I am fit"*

'Wlien you were with the Embassy in
Vienna "

' May I ask yon not to refer to that time ? "
said Maurice with the careless grace of manner
that was natural to him. "It is all over for me
now, and really the mention of it seems incongruous."
He glanced down at his shabby boots
and smiled.

By Jove ! " said Frank, giving to his voice
an indescribable intonation of disbelief in his own
senses ; " it's impossible ! To think what you
were then ! We thought you would have the
Embassy yourself sooner or later I Do you
remember that torchlight boar-hunt with the
Emperor ? And that fascinating little Countess
lima? She had hardly made up her mind
whether to prefer you or Prince Worlaski, had
she? She "

Frank," said Maurice gently, " no doubt
these reminiscences are brilliant ones, but you
must yourself conceive that there are circumstances
in which they may be disagreeable."

Frank looked at him with a start and saw
that his face had turned a little pale. " Why,"
he said bluntly enough, "you know that you
could have it all over again if you chose."

Impossible."

"Then I have been misinformed."

What have you heard ? "

Oh, that His Majesty was willing enough to
pardon you on one condition  that you should
simply acknowledge the truth of the accusations,
ask pardon, and give your word of honour to
mix yourself up no more in socialist conspiracies."

'' Pardon  I was never a conspirator."

"Exactly, that is what I was told you
said "

And you doubted my word ? "  Maurice's
eyes flashed fire.

Longmore hesitated, with a puzzled look.
Maurice turned away.

I regret that I troubled you," he said in an
unmoved voice.

Don't be in such a hurry, old man," returned
Frank. " You see yoa never gave me your
word about the matter. I never heard what you
had to say about it." He added, with perfect
composure, " I never doubted soil'

Maurice turned round and smiled with an
apologetic look. " I beg your pardon, Frank.
I'm afraid I am growing touchy."

"Not you," said Frank quickly. "You were
never touchy, and you never will be. Why did
you not write to me ? "

'' I wish I had written. But after that miserable
affair I did not know whether you were not
of Countess Ilma's opinion  that I had disgraced
you all, and you would rather see no more of
me."

' Did she say that?"

"Yes."

But my father never said it, Maurice."

Did he not ? Well, I misunderstood her."

Frank made a gesture of impatience. " Don't
you know the General better than that ? Don't
you know that he makes himself miserable for a
whole evening if he thinks that he has hurt the
feelings of some poor beggar in the course of
afternoon?"

I know that," said Maurice ; " that was why
such a message from him cut me to the heart."

He turned his back upon his friend and looked
out of the window. Frank exhibited every
sign of repressed vexation and impatience. He
drummed with his foot upon the fender, whistled
softly, frowned, and looked at the ceiling. Then
he came to Maurice's side, thrust his arm into
his, and spoke in a tone of inconsequent cheerfulness.


I'll cut that dinner at home," he said. " You
shall come and dine with me somewhere. At the

Club. No? Well, then, at a French restaurant
that I can show you : I'll make you open your
eyes at the cooking, I can tell you. I stick to
English cookery. But you  I know you of old ! "

Maurice laughed aloud. "" My tastes are
changed, Frank. Fm not a Secretary of Adoration
any longer. I dine on a mutton-chop and
a glass of ale  when I can get it'"

' So did Louis Napoleon when he was in
exile," said Frank easily. 'come along, old
man ; and when we have dined, we can talk."

Maurice yielded to his friend's solicitation, and
was borne away to a foreign-looking little eating-house,
which speedily justified its claim to Long-more's
commendation. The two men dined and
enjoyed their dinner, giving themselves airs of
connoisseurship over their French plats and excellent
wine ; and then they lighted their cigars
and, with elbows on the table and heads rather
close together, abandoned themselves to the pleasure
of the first confidential talk which they had
had since the days of Maurice Zaranoff's prosperity
in Vienna and St. Petersburg.

Meanwhile, the Longmore's dinner-party passed
off" successfully in spite of the mysterious absence
of the son of the house. When the visitors had
cone, the General said ofood-nigfht to his wife and

daughters, and retired to his favourite room, the
library. Here he lighted his lamp, and, seating
himself at the desk, opened a manuscript volume
of notes, spread out some maps and drawings
before him, and plunged into military history.
He had set his heart upon writing an account of
a great Eastern campaign in which he had been
engaged, and the work was very dear to him.

He was too deeply absorbed to notice the
opening of the door and the entrance of his son.
Frank stood on the hearth rug for a few minutes
watching the stately gray head bent over the
desk, the intellectual, kindly features, over which
the green-shaded lamp cast a mellow gleam of
light, the deeply veined hand that moved steadily
across the paper, pausing now and then when the
General cast his eye upon his notes, or traced
some line of march upon his map with one considerate
finger. Frank came close to him at last
and seated himself on the arm of his father's chair,
laying one hand on the General's shoulder and
causing him to look up with a sudden start and
friendly smile.

'' Eh % " he said. " You there, Frank ? You
gave us the slip to-night." And he went on
writing.

How's the book getting on, sir ? " said Frank

lazily. " Don't you want me to copy that map
for you ? I'm. a dab hand at maps."

The General smiled. " The book is progressing,"
he said. " When we leave town it will
progress faster."

Frank leaned forward and pretended to examine
the map. His father suspended his work,
quill in hand, and looked into his son's face, now
very near his own, with kindly keenness. When
Frank drew it away expressing a vague dislike
for the colours used and a suggestion that his
father was developing pre-Eaphaelite tastes, the
General mildly shook his head and laid his hand
on his son's arm.

"Never mind the map," he said. "There is
something wrong with you. What is it ? "

'with me ?" said Frank, as if he were considering
the subject. " Nothing wrong but that
peacock-blue. General. I always knew that you
would be demoralised when you took to visiting
the Grosvenor. Stick to the Academy and you'll
be safe."

Now, is it money this time, or is it disappointed
love ? " said Sir Adrian, quaintly soliloquising.
'' You are not haggard enough to have
been gambling. I should say that it tvs horseflesh.
Anything' wrote with Brown Mollv't?

fetlock ? Or have you lost what the young
fellows call ' a pot of money ' on the Derby ? "

Oh, hang it, governor," said Frank irreverently
; " you are quite too 'cute for me. I never
had a secret in my life but I was afraid to come
into your presence lest you should read it off my
face like a book. You take an unfair advantage,
General."

Oh, but you came to tell it to me," said the
General in his quietest way. '' Why else should
you bother me at this time of night ? You
always make your confessions when I get to my
book for half an hour's work, although you know
how busy I am with it, you rascal."

You're fonder of your book than your family,
any day," said Frank. And then he dropped his
eye-glass and did not pick it up again.

"What is it, my boy?"

Frank's face suddenly assumed a graver expression,
but he maintained his position on the
arm of the chair, while his hand lay affectionately
on his father's shoulder.

It isn't about myself at all this time, General,"
he began. ** It's about Maurice Zaranoff."

"Maurice Zaranoff! " repeated Sir Adrian ina
tone of extreme and rather cold surprise.
What about him ? Is he dead ? "

'* Not at all. Escaped from Siberia : turned
up in England : very much out at elbows, and
rather down in the mouth."

Is his escape known to the authorities % If
they chose to demand his extradition "

*' Just so : he might be arrested. He doesn't
think they wil, however, if he keeps quiet. He
has dropped his name, and nobody takes any
notice of him."

He is not safe. He should go to America."

'' I don't think he will."

'' Why not ? "

I don't know. He says that he should like
to see lima again."

\ " What business has he with her ? "

Frank shrugged his shoulders and made no
reply. Sir Adrian waited for a little time, and
then said anxiously :

sewell, Frank?"

'swell, Generall"

'' My dear boy, did Maurice ZaranofF attempt
no explanation of his past conduct ? "

"I don't know about explanation  because
that involves proof, does it not ?  he made
assertions," said Frank carelessly. " He said
that the whole story against him had been a
lie, that he was no more a Nihilist than you

were  wouldn't blow up the Winter Palace or
assassinate the Czar for worlds, you know  and
that his share in the conspiracy for which he was
condemned was limited to hiding two or three
of the conspirators and their belongings in his
own house because they had been his intimate
friends, and he couldn't go back on them, don't
you see."

That is a most extraordinary story, Frank,"
said Sir Adrian, who had given his son's burlesque
of an explanation his most serious hearing,
varied occasionally by a doubtful glance into that
young man's impervious countenance.

"Well now, General," said Frank cheerfully,
to say the truth, it struck me as odd too. But
Maurice Zaranoff* always could twist me round
his little finger when he chose."

*' Then do you not believe him % "

Oh, / believe him. But then "  with a
sudden twinkle in his eye  "I'm a fool."

Only when you choose to make yourself one,"
said his father significantly. He sank into a deep
reverie, while Frank whistled a tune, screwed his
eye-glass first into one eye and then into the
other, and beat a tattoo upon the table.

The General interrupted these proceedings
by saying :

Will you kindly give me your serious attention,
Frank ? Did Maurice deny all complicity
in that Nihilist plot for which he was arrested ? "

 Every bit."

*' His only concern with it lay in sheltering
and befriending the fugitives ? "

"Exactly so, General."

'' That, in the eyes of the law, is a crime,"
said Sir Adrian judicially. " And what about
Anna Strolenski ? "

His son looked blank. " Eh ?" he said.

"Anna Strolenski. The sister of Casimir
Strolenski, who was secreted in his house. Do
you not know that story ? "

"No."

"You must have heard something of it," said
Sir Adrian, his brow growing dark as he spoke.
Do you not know the real reason why Ilma's
engagement to him was broken off? "

I thought that it was because of his exile."

"Not at all. In that case Ilma's conduct
would not have gained my approval. It would
have shown a cold-hearted, faithless nature, such
as one abhors in man or woman. I should not
have been so ready to invite her here if she had
abandoned Maurice Zaranoff merely on account
of his changed circumstances."

VOL. II. 21

"Well?" said Frank in an interested tone.
What was the reason, then, sir ? I know that
there was a great deal which I did not hear. I
was in America at the time, and the trial was
very quickly despatched. What was it ? "

'' Simply this," said Sir Adrian gravely, " that
Anna Strolenski was Maurice Zaranoff's mistress."

Oh, I see." Frank was silent for a moment,
then asked if this fact had transpired at the
trial.

I think so, but the proceedings were secret.
Ilma's indignation led her to dissolve the engagement."


'maurice mentioned the Strolenskis," said
Frank thoughtfully, " but he said nothing especial
about Anna Strolenski. Do you know. General,
I shouldn't wonder if there was some misunderstanding
about that story ? It doesn't seem tome
that Maurice was ever that sort of fellow.
Why, he was mad about lima before he was
twenty, and would not believe that any other
woman was worth looking at 1 Did he ever
acknowledge the truth of this little report ? I
can well imagine Countess lima going wild with
jealousy if he glanced in another direction ! "

I do not know whether he acknowledged it
or not," said the General stiffly. '' All I can say

is that he never contradicted it, either to lima or
to myself  his guardian and his father's oldest
friend."

Frank shrugged his shoulders.

' You used to tell me to give a fellow the
benefit of the doubt, sir," he said. '* You were
not always so suspicious."

The General started. '* I am not suspicious,
I hope ; am I, my boy ?" he said anxiously. '* I
only wish the matter could be cleared up. It
strikes me that lima was once very fond of him,
and that if she saw matters in the right light 
and he were free from blame  eh, what do you

think ? " Sir Adrian broke off, and regarded

his son with a speculative look.

Frank's laughter was uncontrolled able. '  Matchmaking,
General ! It won't do : Maurice will
never forgive her for marrying Nicholas Zaranoff".
I fancy that we had better not interfere. By the
by, he wants some money''

'* Of course, there need be no difficulty about
that. How much ? " and Sir Adrian drew his
cheque-book towards him.

He will only take a loan. But he thinks that
he might without difficulty obtain the rents of
his mother's property on the Prussian side of the
frontier, if you would quietly make the arrangements

for him. That estate was not confiscated,
and belongs to him properly enough ; but his
steward passed into Ilma's service, and is probably
receiving and appropriating the rents. He thinks
that something might be done."

*' Certainly. I will manage the matter if possible.
He can always come to us for ready money.
And, don't you think, Frank, that he could be
persuaded to go to America ? He might find
some opening for his talents there."

"Poor old fellow! yes."

The General sighed. " Ah, poor fellow ! " he
repeated. " Yes. , No man ever began life under
fairer auspices than Maurice Zaranofi". He is not
yet six-and-twenty, and he is exiled, ruined, disgraced
! Possibly through no fault but a too
ardent sympathy with the men who desired freedom
for their own country and their own souls !
How long has Maurice been in England ? "

About eight months."

What has he been doing \ "

Frank hesitated a little. " He has been playing
the violin at a theatre for the last few weeks.
Before that, I fancy that he was  hard up."

'' Why did the poor lad not come to me ? "

"Why, you see, General," said Frank diplomatically,
" he thought  curiously enough  that

you had given him up and would not believe a
word he said ; and he was too proud to force himself
upon you. He won't eat humble-pie, let me
tell you ; he says he did nothing but what was
right, and plumes himself upon it. An 'twere todo
again, you would find him in the ranks of the
red-hot Republicans, I fancy."

"what has made him come to me now
then?"

' Not his own necessities. He wants to do
somebody else a service. Now, isn't that just
what you would have expected from him ? Can
you look me in the face. General, and say that
you don't think Maurice Zaranoff the soul of
honour ? "

Frank laughed as he made this challenge, and
Sir Adrian smiled in reply, but shook his head.

I should like to know the whole story,
Frank."

'' You don't deserve to have a Damon for your
son if you repudiate Pythias in that flinty-hearted
manner," said Frank quaintly. '' I can't stand
seeing you try to prove yourself the heavy father
of antiquated comedy. Come, General, say that
you believe him out and out, or, on my life, I
don't believe he'll take the money. I gave my
word for your faith in him."

The General was silent for a moment. " Honestly,
Frank, do you trust him ? "

Of course I do."

Well, I accept your judgment  and his word.
As regards Anna Strolenski, there is nothing
proven. It is his word against lima s apparently
if he denies the story of his liaison with her."

lima is a charming person, but not distinguished
for candour," said Frank, rising. Then
he fixed his eye-glass in his eye and gave his
father a sort of glare of satisfaction. '' I must
say, General, that you are a trump and no mistake,"
he remarked. '' Good-night. I'll see Maurice
tomorrow."

And he made his way out of the room just as
the clock struck one.

The General looked after him with an odd
smile, in which there was both tenderness and
humour, reflected a little, then shook his head
and murmured a few words to himself '' The
rogue has cheated me out of a good hour's writing
as well as of some misplaced sympathy," he said,
looking at the manuscripts strewn ujDon his desk.
' I wonder whether I am getting into my dotage
that I can be so easily wheedled into an opinion
by that scapegrace of a boy  with his eye-glass !
But I think he is right about poor Zaranoff ; I do



indeed. Maurice was a noble-hearted lad. I
thank God that I am an Englishman ! " said the
General in his devout and simple way ; and then
he replaced his papers in his desk, turned out the
lamp very carefully, and made his way in the
dark upstairs to bed.

FRIENDS AND FOES.

One of Frank's first questions to his friend next
morning, uttered in his lightest and easiest style,
ran thus 

I say, Maurice, who was Anna Strolenski ? "

Maurice looked up from a portmanteau which
he was packing with his very scanty possessions,
and changed colour.

*' Don't you know ? " he said.

No."

She was the daughter of a Polish patriot.
She went to St. Petersburg to study for the
medical profession,"  Frank raised his eyebrows,
* and there she and her brother embraced Revolutionary
views and occupied prominent places in
the movement. Her brother was a student when
I knew him first : through him I became acquainted
with the sister."

This explanation was given very dryly, as if
Maurice did not wish to enter further upon the
subject. But Frank pursued his inquiries.

'' What should a woman have to do sith a
Revolutionary movement ? " he said.

Maurice laughed and spoke more freely.
My good friend, women have been the life and
soul of the movement," he said. " Do you know
nothing of the Korniloff sisters, of Sophia Perov-
skaia, of Vera Sassuliteh, and Jessy Helmsman !
Without women our secret press would never
have existed, as it has done in the very face of
the police ! Half the prohibited books and papers
passed the frontier by the hands of women''

'' Why do you not keep those matters in the
hands of men ? "

'' Are women not human like ourselves then 1
Can you expect them to do nothing when their
brothers, lovers, and husbands, are arrested and
sentenced to ten or fifteen years of hard labour
for making speeches or lending books ? Would
your own mother and sisters do nothing if you
were imprisoned in that vile place KarkofF 1 "

And Anna Strolenski  she "

She did what other women of her age and
class have done. She worked in a factory for
fifteen hours a dav at one time, in order that

she might do the work of a propagandist of her
faith. Then she became compromised with the
Government, and joined in the attempt to blowup
the Imperial train at Moscow. She was not
actively concerned in it, but, by Russian law, a
person who knows even of an attempt upon the
Emperor's life and does not discover it to the
authorities, incurs the penalty of death."

You knew her well ? "

Very well. My dear Frank," said Maurice,
rather hastily, " if you have a good reason for
speaking to me about her and about those times,
do so ; but if you are asking questions merely
out of curiosity, pardon me for reminding you
that the subject is an intensely painful one tome."


*' I know it is. But I have a reason. Would
you sooner talk of it with my father or with me ?
because my father wants to ask you one or two
questions "

Frank paused in some embarrassment. Maurice
folded his arms and looked at him.

"You told me just now that the General
did not doubt my word," he said. " Why should
he wish to question me ? "

Well, he was your guardian, and he wants
to see through things clearly, you know. I told

him that I thought you would be quite prepared
to answer anything he liked to ask."

Certainly. I should like to have a conversation
with him very much."

'' May he come here and see you ? " said Frank
eagerly.

I should not like to trouble him. Let me
go to him. I would rather see him at the Club
or elsewhere, but I do not mind''

'' I'll go and arrange it TNith him this minute.
Stay here till I come back, will you? He's
awfully anxious to see you, Maurice. I won't
be long."

And before Maurice could answer, Frank was
gone.

He had no difficulty in persuading Sir Adrian
to return "th him at once. The old General's
heart was yearning over Maurice Zaranoff, who
had been to him almost as a son, and who seemed
to have suffered cruel injustice in his fatherland.
He came, therefore, very gladly. As Frank Long-more
guided his father through the dreary poverty-stricken
streets, and up the narrow stair to the
landing at the top of the house, where the afternoon
sunshine fell in patches upon yellow squalid
walls and stained ill-fitting doors, he was not devoid
of a hope that these surroundings would

impress Sir Adrian with a deep sense of Maurice's
present state of poverty. He produced an impression,
but not the one that he had intended
to produce. At the head of the stairs Sir Adrian
turned round, his soldierly figure drawn up into
military stiffness, his eyes sparkling with unwonted
emotion, and confronted Master Frank severely.

Why did you bring me here ? " he said. " I
had no notion that things were as bad as this.
Maurice might have seen me at a public place
or in my own house."

Why, governor," said Frank craftily, " I
did not think that you would object to the poor
old fellow's poverty ? "

Object ! " said the General in suppressed
tones. 'have you no delicacy of feeling, sir?
It is an unwarrantable impertinence to penetrate
where a man has not invited me. I feel myself
an insolent intruder : that is all. If it were
possible, I would relinquish the visit at this
moment and go straight home again."

Frank did not feel himself equal to the
occasion, and whilst he hesitated Maurice himself
came to the door of his room. The General's
wrinkled cheek reddened when he saw him, but
he paused no longer. He stepped forward,
greeted the young man very warmly, and

entered the room With a sort of hurry and
bashfulness of manner, as if he were not at all
assured of his right to be there.

It was like the meetings of two sovereign
princess' Frank said once, long afterwards, when
he had occasion to describe the interview to
Mrs. Eavenscroft. '' Each of them put on his
grandest manners for the occasion, and that is
saying a great deal ; for neither the General nor
Maurice ever suffered from a deficiency in that
respect. My father would not sit down until
Maurice seated himself also. Maurice expressed
himself honoured by the visit. The General
was secretly shocked at the bareness of the
place ; but looked utterly unconscious of his
surroundings, and asked a few harmless questions
about Maurice's escape and the details of his
imprisonment. When Maurice wanted him to
look at a little map to show the route by
which he had eluded the Russian guards, my
father strained his dear short-sighted eyes over
it and could not see it at the end, all because he
would not put on a pair of spectacles that he
generally carries with him and uses for small
print. When I afterwards asked him why :
My dear fellow,' he said very seriously, ' I
refrained from using my glasses because I felt

that they would make me appear more prying
and inquisitive than I really was ! ' And there
they sat, exchanging civilities, each of them
wanting to attack the real question in hand, and
neither of them liking to begin it, until I longed
to punch both their dear old heads."

What were you doing ? " Frank's interlocutor
demanded.

I ? Oh, I was sitting on a deal table, kicking
my heels."

' And who began the conversation \ "

'* Maurice. He looked at me once or twice :
then got up and said very quietly, ' I think you
have some questions to ask me. Sir Adrian.'
So my father rose too. Wouldn't sit when
Maurice was standing, you know."

And yet he did not entirely believe in
Maurice Zaranoff 's innocence ? "

"No. But the General is always nervously
anxious not to kick the man that is down," said
Frank. " Maurice had been so excessively unfortunate
that my father felt it his duty to be
preposterously polite. I have seen him behave
in the same way to a criminal condemned to the
galleys."

Your father is a man of exceptionally fine
manners," said Felicia.

' Yes' returned Frank placidly ; " I don't
know which are the finer : his manners or his
feelings. What makes it more touching is that
I have inherited both."

"' As is proved by the way in which you sat
on a table and kicked your  your feet "

''My heels!" interpolated Longmore decidedly.


Well  your heels, in the midst of a painful
and exciting interview, instead of trying to help
either Maurice or Sir Adrian."

 How do you know that I did not try to help
them ? You have not heard the end of my
story. Maurice had taken the bit between his
teeth, and would not have allowed any hand like
mine to hold him in. To begin with, that
question cost him an effort : he turned quite
white when he had asked it. The General
answered with some humming and hawing that
there were certain points upon which he should
like to be reassured ; and Zaranojff replied that
he would do his best to answer all his questions,
but was a little afraid that it would not be in
his power to do so.

The General looked queer at this, but he
recollected himself (and his role) and rejoined
politely that he was sure at any rate that

Maurice Zaranoff would never say one word to
him which was untrue. And then he looked
Maurice in the face with an eye like a hawk's,
and Maurice looked him back again, and said,
You are right, sir,'  and do you know, I think
Maurice had the best of it."

No doubt ; but go on."

Oh well, that was tantamount to a declaration
of war. They went at it then, tooth and
nail. It seemed to me that Maurice was not
quite sure of his ground, and did not know how
much to say without implicating other people ;
and that the General knew enough to enable
him to ask Avery ugly questions. For instance :
How far were you aware of Strolenski's plot ? '
and ' Had you any reason to suppose that Anna
Strolenski regarded you as more than a friend \ '
were very difficult things to answer. I sa-
Maurice wince at them."

"Then your father was not quite so kind to
him as at the beginning of the interview ? "

Kind ? Isn't that just like a woman !
Excuse me for saying so. He was terribly
polite, I tell you, and sometimes rather overcome
by his emotions and all that sort of thing.
But I can tell you exactly how Maurice regarded
the interview. My father took a chair,  it tires

him to stand long,  and begged Maurice to do
the same. Maurice refused. * No,' he said, in
an odd low voice, ' I am before a judge : prisoners
do not sit in their judge's presence.' The General
was a little hard upon him just then. He looked
at him and said nothing  simply waited a while
and went on to his next question. But 1
never saw Maurice nearer losing his self-command.
It struck me at the time that he was
thinking of the old days when the General had
been more of a father to him than a judge.

My father confined himself to political
matters at first ; and here Maurice cleared himself
in his eyes completely. He did not deny
that his sympathies were with the Liberals ; but
he had never gone the length of the Nihilists,
and he repudiated all connection with ' the
Terror.' He was so earnest and so conclusive
on this point, that the General was
quite satisfied. And then came the subject
about which I knew that my father felt ver'
strongly.

' Excuse me if I question you on a merely
personal matter,' he said. 'Will you tell me
now  as a friend  what was the real reason of
the Countess Ilma's rupture of her engagement
to marry you ? '

VOL. II. 22

'*'I don't think lie cared about going to
Siberia said Maurice coolly.

'' The General did not like that answer. He
thought it evasive. You know his way of
quietly and simply throwing a bombshell into a,
household of peaceful folk, without the slightest
notion of the mischief it may do "

'' No," said Mrs. Eavenscroft, smiling, "I don't.
I should think it the most uncharacteristic proceeding
of Sir Adrian's of which you have told
me yet."

Possibly, but people don't always act up to
their characters, you know. He said suddenly
and in his gravest, most ordinary tones, ' Is it
not true that the Countess lima refused to continue
her engagement on account of her well-founded
jealousy of Anna Strolenski ? ' He might
as well have thrown a lighted match into a gunpowder
magazine or anything of that sort."

Never mind comparisons. What did Count
Zaranoff do?"

Do ? He did nothing. Stood like a statue;
but his face turned scarlet. To tell the honest
truth, he looked horribly guilty. My father
gazed at him  unmercifully  there's no other
word for it. I expected him every minute to
produce his spectacles and put a climax to

Maurice's confusion by regarding him through
them with that air of mingled severity and
sorrow which always used to bring me to my
knees before him, metaphorically speaking,
when I had committed a misdemeanour in my
youth''

Well, for almost the first time Maurice fenced.
He had answered every other question with perfect
frankness; but one could see that this one
was a facer. He said, ' Do you not think that
that matter had better be left in abeyance,
General?' He did not say it offensively of
course, but it was just the sort of thing to put
the General's back up. I rather expected to
see my father rise and bow himself out of the
room. But you can't always prognosticate what
the General will do "

'' Except that it is sure to be the kindest and
most thoughtful action that can be devised under
the circumstances," said Felicia warmly.

Exactly," responded Frank as complacently
as if she had addressed a compliment to himself
"That was what happened of course. He was
not at all put out. He said almost affectionately,
'I know  and I regret  that I must seem intrusive.
But remember, my dear Maurice, that
your father left you in my guardianship, and

that I have a very great and tender interest in
you. Moreover, the Countess' story threw considerable
blame on you. Otherwise I should have
said that she had acted wrongly in refusing to
fulfil her engagement, even under the very trying
circumstances in which she was placed.
Whereupon Maurice answered : ' I beg your pardon
for my hesitation, Sir Adrian. I do not
quite understand you. May I ask you to explain
V

' Explain ! ' said my father. ' I have nothing
to explain. I simply wish to know who was
in fault  lima or you. In a matter where so
much is at stake it is very important that your
character should be free from every shadow of
blame.'

"who was in fault?' said Maurice in rather
a wondering tone. Then he hesitated : ' She
crave no reason for abandoning; me,' he said. ' 1
suppose that in her eyes / was to blame.'

He had turned pale, and lit his lip savagely
when he had done speaking. The General got
up. ' I am sorry for it,' he said. ' You have
exonerated yourself from any share in the
conspiracy ; but you certainly do not seem
able to assure me that you acted as a gentleman
should have acted towards your promised wife.

I am sorry for it, for I thought better of you,
Maurice.'

*' Zaranoff made no answer. My father was
turning towards the door when I, who did not
like to see them separate in this manner, got
down from the table and put my hand on the
Generals shoulder. ' Stop a minute,' I said ;
' you have given Maurice no chance of answering
you, for you have accused him of nothing
yet. Let him speak for himself.'

The General stopped short. Maurice looked
up with a defiant sort of smile. ' I have nothing
to say,' he replied. ' What should I say?'

'' I stared at him in astonishment. I knew
that Maurice was of a peculiarly sensitive temperament
; a sharp word from my father in old
days would have half broken his heart. And
the General had been rather hard on him; his
kind old face was so grieved and his voice had
such a disappointed ring that I wondered to
myself how Maurice could stand it; and there
he was smiling and declaring that he had nothing
at all to say. It looked a trifle shameless, did
it not'"

*' I think you and your father were very blind,"
said the lady. *' If I had been there "

'' [f you had been there, madam, you would

have seen no more than I did. I was deceived
for the space of one minute only. I stared at
Maurice, and it crossed my mind that those
smiling lips of his were just as white as death.
He had the look that I once saw in the eyes of an
animal which was being dissected at a hospital

in Paris, and couldn't cry out "

'don't go on, please, Frank. What were
ijoii doing there? It makes one feel quite
sick'

It made me. sick too. I went with a friend
a medical student  not knowing what I was
going to see. I don't deny that I had to come
out of the building in a very queer state. However,
the remembrance of that day saved my
opinion of Maurice Zaranoff  for the time
being. '

'what did you do?"

*' I put up my eye-glass and said: 'As you
please. It's no odds to me one way or another ;
but you might oblige my father' "

"Frank, you didn't say that?"

I did. And my father told me not to play
the fool, but to come away with him. He had
opened the door already. Maurice came forward,
held it for him, and bowed him out. For
once in a way the General was uncivil. His

finest feelings, you see, had received a shock,
and he couldn't get over it in a moment. He
walked past as if he had not seen Maurice. Filial
piety obliged me to follow, for the staircase was
dark, and the streets in that neighbourhood
narrow; and although my father is very good
at remembering the course of a river in the
Deccan or the direction of a mountain-track in
the Himalayas, he invariably loses himself in
the streets of London."

"So you went away?"

*' I did, but I said to Maurice, 'Bye-bye, old
man, I'll be back in ten minutes.' I went down
with the General, piloted him into a main
thoroughfare, put him into a cab, and gave the
driver the address. 'What are you going to do?'
said my father, suddenly Awaking up to the situation.
'Going back to Maurice,' I said. *No,
no,' my father said, 'no, Frank; come back with
me. I want you.' 'Thank you. General,' I said;
but under the circumstances I think Maurice
wants me more.' So I shut him into the cab
and departed."

And when you got back " said Mrs.

Kavenscroft eagerly.

When I got back," said Frank, " I felt like
Mother Hubbard 

She went to the joiner's
To buy him a coffin,

But when she came back
The doer was a-laughing.'

o

When 1 came back, my dog was smoking a
cigar."

'*I don't believe it!" exclaimed Mrs. Ravens-croft.


True, nevertheless. And then he said :
Well Frank, there is one point, at least, upon
which I don t seem able to satisfy the General.
can't do anything more. I will see lima as
soon as possible. In the meantime, don't ask
me to discuss the matter. Shall we go and dine
somewhere, and then look in at a theatre?' And
I agreed''

'* Where did you go ?"

"We dined at an Italian restaurant near
Leicester Square; and we had an exceedingly
good dinner. And then we went to hear Vera
de Lusisnan sins."

"What I do not understand," said Mrs.
Ravenscroft thoughtfully, "is Count ZaranoiFs
embarrassment when he was questioned about
this poor Anna Strolenski. Why did he evade
the subject and seem confused?"

"Why?" said Frank with a little laugh.

Have you not guessed the reason ? He never
told me you may be sure; but a compatriot of
bis own afterwards let me into the secret. All
the world of St. Petersburg knew that Anna
Strolenski was madly in love with Maurice
Zaranoff. And I suppose that he knew it too."

THE COTTAGE BY THE CHURCHYARD.

Maurice had taken care to ask his friend where
the Countess ZaranofF could be found. He was
surprised at Frank's reply.

She is staying with some people in Lincolnshire
 the Eavenscrofts of Netherbyby. What, do
you know them ?"

I have heard of them. Yes, I used to know
Baroness Waldstein in Vienna."

There's a very pretty girl in the family,"
said Frank carelessly. " I've seen her photograph.
My mother knows them. Her name's
Olivia."

The Baroness must be old now."

Old and lame, but as remarkable as ever, I
am told. She was a beauty and a wit, my
father says in his old-fashioned way. Not much
beauty left now, but plenty of wit."

Do you know the son, Gaston Eavenscroft %
What sort of a man is he ? "

'* Know nothing about him except that he is
a great Oriental traveller, and at present a sort
of lion. The curious thing is that he hates to
talk about his travels. My father is wild to
get hold of him." And then the conversation
dropped. Maurice was about to give up the
rooms which he had occupied for so many
months : he did not know for how long a time
he should be absent from town, and he could
not afford to pay rent for them in his absence.
He was sorry to give them up. The room that
he usually occupied was the one in which Davy
had died, the one in which Vera de Lusignan
had sung. He could close his eyes and recall
the scene in its minutest details ; the gaunt
crippled figure of the fiddler, propped up by
pillows, his dark eyes glowing beneath his
shaggy brows ; at his side the tall, slight girl,
her fair head touched with gold by the afternoon
sunshine, her slim white hands crossed
over a plain black gown, a knot of violets at her
breast  that night, when he reached home after
listening to Vera's voice once more, he paused
to think upon these things with a sort of regretful
fondness which was hard to analyse. But

presently he roused himself, and went about his
packing with a weary yet resolute look upon his
face  the look of one who would fain put away
such memories from him for ever.

On the following day he started for Lincolnshire.
He had sent a note to Vera, informing
her of his intended departure, and had received
a line in return. '' Pray let me know soon
whether your journey succeeds or not. I shall
be anxious for news." Armed with this word of
encouragement he set out, eager to accomplish
the task upon which he had been sent.

He made the mistake, however, of taking a
ticket for Mickleham instead of Netherbyby. He
did not know that the village was two or three
miles distant from the neighbouring town.

The railways station stood outside the town
of Mickleham, which was a quaint country place,
containing about five thousand inhabitants.
Maurice made some inquiries as to the distance
of Netherbyby from the town, and decided that it
was better to establish himself in Mickleham
rather than to seek for lodgings in the village,
where he would run the risk of encountering
the Countess Zaranofi* or Gaston Ravenscroft
face to face. He therefore took a room in a
quiet little inn, dined and slept there, and set

out next morning to pay his visit to Hester
Rowe. He had already ascertained that she
was living still in the cottage by Netherbyby
churchyard.

It was not much after eight o'clock when he
reached the village. He went down a shady
lane  the lane in which Davy had found his long-lost
love, and carried her home to die. What a
difference between that stormy night, as Maurice
pictured it to himself, with the wind rustling
amongst the branches and the cold rain-drops
beating in the traveller's face, and this soft
summer morning, when the leaves of the trees
were golden-green in the sunlight, and " melodious
birds " filled the air with madrigals ! There
had been a little rain in the night, and there
was a scent of reviving grass and sweet moist
earth : the drops still sparkled here and thereon
the long blades of the tall flowering grasses
and on the half opened blossoms of the dog-roses.
The hedges were festooned with honeysuckle and
travellers joy. This part of the country was
sufficiently sheltered to assume a very different
character from the waste strip of land by the
seashore : it lay low, and the soil was very
fertile. Damp indeed it might be, but the
marsh over against which the village had once

stood had been drained, and left little but a
memory behind.

At the end of the lane Maurice came upon a
low thatched cottage. Exactly opposite to this
cottage was a small gate which opened into the
churchyard. The church stood on a little eminence,
and the pathway between the graves
wound gently upward and away, until it was
terminated by the churchyard gate proper, leading
into the highroad. This pathway was often
taken by the villagers, and especially by those
persons who wished to reach Madame Waldo
house (the chimneys of which could be
seen from the lane), as it cut off a corner and
made the route to the next village and also to
Netherbyby railway - station much less circuitous.


Maurice paused before the cottage door. The
blue smoke curling from the chimney told him
that its mistress was at home. He had thought
it more likely that he should find her at this
early hour than in the afternoon, for he knew
from Davy of her wandering habits. Sometimes
she worked in the fields; sometimes she disappeared
from her home for days together. On
this occasion, however, she was to be found in
her own cottage, and while he waited she herself

came to the door and looked at him from head
to foot.

Hester Rowe was certainly more than eighty
years of age, but her form was very slightly bent
and her eyes were bright and piercing. Her
face, brown as a berry, was deeply wrinkled, and
her features were strong and harsh. She had
donned no mourning for her son, who had been
dead but a few days as yet ; and the tints of the
tawny handkerchief twisted round her head byway
of a cap and the skirt of dusky red were
as picturesque as those worn by the gipsy race
to which it was well known that she belonged.
In Maurice's opinion, the darting glances of her
wild black eyes would at once have intimated to
him that she belonged to a Bohemian tribe.

She made no curtsey or other sign of greeting
when Maurice approached her. She stood
on the threshold of the door with her arms
akimbo, and surveyed him distrustfully as he
spoke.

You are Mrs. Eowe,'"' said Maurice, raising
his hat as it was his custom to do in accosting
any woman. But the little act of courtesy was
evidently regarded by her with suspicion.

'what do you want with me V she asked in
no friendly tone.

I was your son's friend, and I want to tell
you about something that he wished me to do."

'' My son's friend ? " she repeated. Then she
looked him well over again, from head to foot.
How came Daw to have such a friend as
you?"

'ewe helped each other. We lived a good
deal together during the last few months of his
life."

You are a gentleman born." she said slowly
and with a distrustful air.

Does that make me the less fit to have been
Davy's friend ? " Maurice could not forbear to
ask. Then, in a graver tone, " David Kowe was
a good, true man. There are not many like him,
and I am proud to have been his friend."

The old woman's face perceptibly softened.
She took her left hand from her side and gave ita
wide backward sweep to the dark interior of
her house.

"If you were my son's friend," she said, "you
may come in. It's not often a gentleman wants
to make friends with the like of us. And when
he does, harm generally comes of it. But you
may tell me what you want."

She led the way into the cottage and pointed
to a wooden arm-chair by the window. Maurice

gazed curiously around him. He had often pictured
to himself in fancy the home in which
Davy and Lucy had spent so many years  the
house to which Lucy had been brought back to
die. Now he stood within it and found it very
unlike the place which he had imagined to himself.
He saw the ordinary front room of an
ordinary English cottage : the floor was paved
with red brick, the walls were yellow-washed,
the furniture was of deal, and, like the ceiling,
had grown brown with age and smoke. Very
little light came in through the diamond-paned
T\dndow, for an immense bush of clematis had
grown half across it and served as a sort of
screen.

Mrs. Eowe did not seem prepared to listen to
what her visitor had to say until she had finished
the preparations that she was making for her
morning's meal. Before long she placed a broT\'n
teapot and a loaf of bread upon the table, and
offered Maurice a share of her breakfast.

Malice accepted the cup of tea, recognising
in the invitation a touch of likeness to Davy
himself. How poor soever Davy might be, he
never failed to be hospitable to his friends ; he
had always been ready to share his goods with
another.

VOL. II. 23

When the meal was over, the old woman
seated herself upon a stool before the smouldering
fire and leaned her elbows on her knees and
her chin upon her hands. " Now," she said, " I
am ready to hear what you have to say."

'' Have you anything to ask me," said
Maurice, '' concerning your son David ? I was
with him when he died."

No," she answered ; '' I have nothing to ask."

You want to know nothing ? "

I want to know nothing," she repeated.
And then, catching sight perhaps of some look
of surprise or disapproval upon Maurice's face,
she broke forth in a tone indicative of resentment.
" Why should I want to know anything
? He is dead and that is enough for me :
I am left alone and desolate in my old age
and he will never come back. Why should I
want to hear what he said or how he looked?
Such things are only comforting to those whose
sorrow is less than mine."

She relapsed into silence when she had said
these words, and looked stonily into the fire.
Maurice changed his tone.

'' You had a letter, I think, from the young
lady who was so kind to him in his illness  Miss
Marlitt  had you not ? "

''Yes, I had. I couldn't read it myself; I
can't well read writing, but them as can, read it
out to me."

Did she tell you anything of Davy's money
matters ?"

'' Nothing."

"He had saved money, "said Maurice; "not, perhaps,
a great deal in some people's eyes, but a good
deal for a poor man. He had about three hundred
pounds laid by. Before he died he made a will
leaving his money  not to you, for he said that
you did not need it  but to a child who was once
in this house, the child of Lucy Moore  the child
whom you sent to the workhouse."

She dropped her hands and looked at him,
with an angry light in her keen black eyes.

So Dav} told you that tale ? " she said. " Ay,
he was always weak, was Davy. He never knew
how to stick to what he'd done and make the
best of it. I've seen him sit and grizzle for an
hour together when he came down here of late
years to see me ; all because of that child of
Lucy Moore's, and because he didn't saddle himself
with it instead of sending it to the place
where it ought to be  the workhouse. I never
had patience with Davy when he began to talk i'
that way."

Uw OF ILL LIB.

He was certainly very sorry to think that he
had lost sight of the boy," said Maurice gravely,
''and he commissioned me and another friend of
his to find out what had become of him. I have
the money in trust for this boy  Bertram. Can
you tell me anything about him 1"

"No," said Mrs. Eowe, relapsing into the
apathy nth which she had listened to his earlier
questions. " Old Hervey took him away to the
workhouse. That's all I know."

"You heard nothing of him afterwards ?"

No."

Then you cannot help me ?" said Maurice, ina
tone of disa]3p ointment.

She glanced at him and hesitated. " I can't
help you to find him," she said dubiously, " but
maybe I could tell you something about him 
something as Davy didn't know. Only  how am
I to know that you are what you say you are ?
Perhaps you're only a friend of Gaston Heavens
after all?"

'' I am no friend of his," said Maurice rather
quickly.

The better for you," said Hester Eowe.
'sewell, you've got a face that one can trust as
far as any face can be trusted, and a smooth
tongue too ; and if Davy left his money in your

charge for the boy, it's plain that lie thought you
might be trusted. I've something on my mind
that I'm bound to tell to somebody before I die ;
and as you are looking for that lad I may as
well tell it to you."

Maurice was listening with deep attention.
The old woman suddenly paused, rose and went
into an inner room, whence she reappeared after
a few moments' absence with a pocket-book in
her hand. She seated herself again, and laid it
before her on her lap.

'' I won't make a long story about it," she said.
'davy went away from me on the evening of
Lucy's funeral, and it wasn't long before Mr.
Hervey called and took the child. After they
were all gone I chanced to find this little case
lying in the long grass outside the gate. I suppose
that Lucy dropped it there before Davy
found her and carried her in. I knew it washers
as soon as I opened it, because of this." As
she spoke she opened the case and took from it a
gold locket and chain, wrapped in a soft fine
handkerchief. She opened the locket and showed
Maurice that it contained two miniatures : one of
a young girl, the other of Gaston Eavenscroft.
It was Gaston's face at twenty-five ; the likeness
was unmistakable. Then she took two or

three papers from the case, and held them in her
hand while she spoke.

I don't know for certain what is in these
papers," she said, '' because, as I told you, I can't
read writing easy, nor print neither, for the matter
of that. I've sometimes spelt over the print
here, and it seems to me that these were Lucy's
marriage-lines, or something of the kind, but I'm
not sure."

" Could you not have asked somebody to help
you?" said Maurice impulsively.

'' I could trust nobody in Netherbyby," answered
Mrs. Eowe. " I did not know what story that
paper in the handwriting would have to tell ; and
though I have pondered over it a good bit, I
don't rightly understand it now. It seems to say
that she wasn't married, and that he had deserted
her ; but I'm not sure. And I didn't want the
whole story talked over in the village by the
folks that knew Lucy when she was a girl, and
her father and mother before her, as would
have been the case if I'd spoken to the parson or
one of the gentry hereabouts."

"But you could have consulted Dav}?"

The woman looked at him with a flash of her
dark eyes. " Do you know why I couldn't show
it to Mm P " she said, with a little contempt in

lier voice and manner. " He was bitter enough
against Kavenscroft as it was ; but if I had told
him half that I heard Lucy say, or maybe if I
had shown him this paper, he would have killed
Eavenscroft  ay, killed him and swung for it
afterwards. I often wondered that he didn't. I
should if rd loved the girl as he did."

You must be very thankful that he did not."
"No'' she said. "I'd have liked him to
punish Eavenscroft. Still, I had enough of a
heart left me to be tender of my own child, and
to keep from him what I feared would hurt him.
I have hidden these papers ever since, meaning
to give them back some day to Eavenscroft himself,
or to the boy if ever I came across him ; but
I'm an old woman and I might die without doing
it after all. Now that Davy's dead, it don't
matter about keeping them a secret, and I should
like to know for certain what they are. You
may look at them."

Maurice took the papers eagerly from her
hand. Little as was his acquaintance with the
forms prescribed by English law, he knew that
the first paper which met his eye was the marriage
certificate of Lucy Moore with Gaston
Eavenscroft, and that the second was a record of
the birth and baptism of their son Bertram.

The third paper, which he read aloud for Mrs.
Rowe's benefit, was the anonymous letter which
Lucy had received on the day of her departure
from Elmstone, and a few words added by herself
at the close.

"I fear, Mrs. Eowe," he said, when he had
looked through the papers and made their contents
definitely known to her; "that you have
done this poor boy a great wrong by withholding
these papers from their rightful owners. It is
quite plain that he is Mr. Kavenscroft's lawful
son and heir."

*' In a workhouse," said Mrs. Rowe grimly.
She did not appear to feel much penitence for
the wrong that she had done.

These papers must be transmitted to Mr.
Eavenscroft at once," he said, "together with
the information that his child still lives. I am
afraid that he will not look upon you henceforward
with much favour."

He won't be troubled with me," said Hester
Rowe abruptly. " I've long meant to leave
Netherbyby and now I'll go, to save myself
being turned out  for this cottage belongs to
the Ravenscrofts. I'll tell you what you may
do for me, if you had any love for Davy  keep
silence till tomorrow morning. By that time I

shall be far enough, and you may send Gaston
Kavenscroft to look for this son in the workhouse
or the prison as soon as it may suit you."

Maurice was silent for a moment. " I will
wait till tomorrow morning," he said, "but
then I must tell the whole story. But what
will you do ? Have you money ? have you
friends ? "

Plenty. More than I need."

Have you no regret for the wrong that you
must have done  the suffering "

What suffering % Eavenscroft has not
suffered. If he had, he would have looked after
the child. It was by his Lavish that the child
was taken to the workhouse. Hervey will know
what became of it. Perhaps it is dead ; for it's
plain that they wanted it out of the way. If it
is dead, find out how it died. And if it is living,
tell Kavenscroft from me that I hope it lives to
be a sorrow and a disgrace to him. He cast off
the child, knowing what he did ; it was not my
place to run after him and give him back his
wife's papers, though he might have had them 
and the child too  for aught I cared. There,
take the papers and go ; I've got rid of them at
last and I'm glad of it. They've been like a nightmare
to me for the last few months and years."

Maurice rose to go. "I will do my best todo
what you have left undone so long," lie said.
'' Let me tell you one thing before I go, Mrs.
Kowe ; your son Dav} forgave Gaston Ravens
fully and freely before he died. He would
never have avenged Lucy's wrongs in the way
you thought that he would do."

Davy was always soft," repeated the old
woman. " I don't forgive so easily."

And then she buried her face in her hands
and would not speak another word.

Thus Maurice left her. He never saw her
again. Before night she had quitted her cottage,
and the little world of Netherbyby knew her no
more.

NETHEEBY MANOPw.

When Maurice had left the cottage, he seated
himself on a well-shaded bank in the lane, and
made a further examination of the papers which
he had brought away with him. He placed the
certificates by themselves in his own pocket-book ;
then he looked at the locket, which had been
wrapped in a fine embroidered handkerchief: it
was a massive gold locket with a diamond in the
centre. Zaranofi" closed it and covered it once
more with the handkerchief in which he rightly
guessed that Lucy had laid it first.

The other paper remained to be read : one
which Zaranofi" had not as yet well understood.
That was the anonymous letter. Maurice pondered
over its phrases for some time, wondering
whether the writer could have known their cruelty.
' This letter is from one who wishes you well and

is sorry to see you so deceived. . . . You are not
his wife, and that is why he hides you from the
world. . If you have any rights, claim them
at once."

At the end of the letter these words were
written in a straggling, uncertain hand (Lucy's
hand) :

I am going to Netherbyby to claim my rights.
If I am not Gaston's wife, let him tell me so and
let me know the truth. He is far away  I do
not know where he has gone. But whether he has
deceived me or not, I am sure that Davy will be
kind to me and Bertie, and I will go to him."

She had gone to him then ; and, at any rate,
she had never known that Davy's kindliness of
heart had been so far soured that he refused fora
time to help ,and protect the poor little boy
whom he thought to be Lucy's shame.

Maurice began to understand the story. The
one point upon which he was not reassured was Gaston's
conduct to his wife. Either he had deceived
her cruelly (so thought Zaranoff ) or he had been
wickedly careless of her happiness. If he had
loved her he would certainly have made inquiries
respecting her death and the boy's disappearance.
It seemed to Maurice that it would be a good
elinor to have the whole matter sifted to the bottom.

In spite of his better judgment, lie had
been somewhat infected by Davy's fear of the
influence that Eavenscroft was likely to acquire
over Vera de Lusignan. It would be well that
Vera should know for herself what manner of
man he was. A curious sequence of events had
placed Maurice Zaranoff in the position of an
inquirer into the facts of Eavenscroft's early life,
and he was determined to pursue the investigation
as far as possible. It was cjuite imaginable
that the child had been taken away from the
workhouse by Eavenscroft himself; if so, his
present position would be easily discovered and
the money left to him by David Eowe could be
placed at once in the hands of the boy's father.
But Maurice could not rid himself of the idea
that there was some mysterious obstacle in the
way of his discovering the lad, whom the papers
in his possession taught him to call Bertram
Eavenscroft.

He made his way at once to Mickleham workhouse,
where he saw the master and made the
necessary inquiries. No obstacle was here, at
least, placed in his way : books and lists were
consulted for him, old attendants and officials
questioned ; the result being that no record could
be found either of the child's admittance or of his

departure, and that all the persons concerned declared
with one voice that no boy of the name of
Bertram Moore (Maurice knew that it was useless
to mention the name of Eavenscroft) had ever
entered the Mickleham workhouse.

And yet Hester Eowe and David Eowe had both
declared that Mr. Hervey himself took the boy
away from the cottage ' to the poorhouse." Naturally
it occurred to Maurice that he had better
see Mr. Hervey and question him upon the subject.
He therefore, without hesitation, inquired
his way to Netherbyby Manor.

Mr. Hervey's house stood in an inclosure of
park and garden, which seemed intended to seclude
it entirely from the outer world, although it was
really within ten minutes' walk of Netherbyby and
of Eavenscroft Hall. It was a roomy, 
house, built of red brick and mantled
in three centuries' growth of ivy : the lawn,
shrubbery, and gravelled carriage-drive before the
door were all exquisitely kept, although the garden
lacked the adornment of ribbon flower-beds
and the brilliant parterres of red, yellow, and blue,
which would have been the delight of Madame
Waldstein's eyes.

Maurice rang the bell, and was admitted without
delay into a wide paved hall, with a carved

ceiling of which the owner of the house was justly
proud. Thence he was taken into a dimly-lighted
room, where he found himself, rather unexpectedly,
in the presence of Mr. Hervey.

The room into which he had been ushered was
one which commended itself to Maurice's artistic
eye. It was evidently a sort of study, for it
contained low bookcases and writing-tables, but
the look of exquisite order and precision about
the place made Maurice conjecture that very
little real work was done in it. Some fine
engravings hung upon the walls, and a little
blue china testified to Mr. Hervey's appreciation
of the latest fashion ; but his taste had not run
riot in that direction, for the decoration was of
the sober kind, even ecclesiastical in tone, the
curtains being black and gold, and the vases on
the well-draped mantelpiece of brass, and decidedly
suggestive of church festivals.

Mr. Hervey, a spare man, rather under than
over the middle height, severely dressed in black,
rose from his chair as Maurice entered and inclined
his head politely. At the same time, however,
he cast a rather scrutinising glance at his visitor.
He had a striking face, of which the paleness
was thrown into strong relief by the style of
dress that he had adopted, which made him look

like an Oxford professor or a schoolmaster of
the clerical type rather than a country squire in
his study on a summer morning. His features
had preserved the fineness and delicacy of
younger years : eyelid, nostril, mouth, the traits
which first betray the advance of approaching
years, were still as finely and sharply modelled
as those of an antique cameo. His hair was iron-gray;
there was none on his face, and that which
remained upon his head was rather scanty.

In what way can I serve you, Mr. Guyon ? '"
said Mr. Hervey graciously. His voice was low
and a little monotonous, but almost anxiously
conciliatory. His cold gray eyes dwelt on
Maurice with careful scrutiny for a moment,
and were then dropped upon his hands, which
were certainly remarkable for their beauty.
Maurice remembered afterwards that Mademoiselle
de Lusignan had just such long, slender,
exquisitely shaped white hands as these.

I have ventured to trouble you," said
Zaranofi", "with respect to a business matter in
which I am concerned."

Mr. Hervey slightly raised his eyebrows. '' Is
it not a pity, then," he said courteously, " that
you should apply to me in the first instance ?
I give little attention to business at present.

My solicitor acts for me. It is not my )aether
exactly."

I fear that your solicitor might not be able
to answer the question which I wish to ask.'

That is odd' said Mr. Hervey, leaning back
in his chair and surveying his visitor with a smile
which veiled a sort of cool contempt. '' Pray let
me hear your question, Mr.  er  Guyon. I
trust that I may be able to answer it."

I trust so too. It is an easy one."

"Then I may all the more readily express a
hope that your business may be stated sith as
little delay and as much lucidity as possible'
said Mr. Hervey. '' I am unfortunately very
much engaged at present." He laid his hand
upon a number of the Westminster Review which
stood upon a table at his side with a sheet of
notepaper protruding from its leaves, and looked
as if he were half inclined to reopen it. '' My
business faculties are not great," he continued in
the same tone. " I am a recluse, and have lived
for many years only in the world of thought."

Maurice was somewhat provoked by this
statement, but passed it over and came to the
point at once.

' I am one of the trustees for a sum of money,
Mr. Hervey' he said firmly, " which was left a

VOL. II. 1

short time ago to a boy who is probably known
by the name of Bertram Moore, the child of a
certain Lucy Moore who died in this village
about fourteen years ago."

Mr. Hervey raised his eyes from the Review,
and fixed them upon Maurice with an expression
of watchful attention. But his pale keen face
showed no other sign of special attention to the
subject.

"Yes, Mr. Guyon?"

Lucy Moore," continued Zaranoff, who did
not mean to divulge the fact of Lucy's marriage
until after a consultation with Vera, " Lucy
Moore died at the house of a Mrs. Kowe, near
the churchyard, and this boy was left in Mrs.
Rowe's care. Mrs. Eowe informs me that you
removed the boy from her cottage in order to
place him in the Mickleham Workhouse. It is
a very curious thing, sir, that although I have
made close inquiries at this workhouse, no trace
of the boy's entrance there can be found. I
suppose, therefore, that you placed him in some
other institution under the care of some other
person; and, as I am interested in tracing him, I
have come to you to know where he may be
found."

There was a pause  a very slight pause 

before Mr. Hervey spoke. A slight fine smile
crossed his face as he did so.

Your demand for information (it is scarcely
to be called a question my dear sir) has in it the
ring of a noble enthusiasm in the cause of others,
which smacks of youth and  if I may say so 
of inexperience. You can scarcely expect an old
man like myself to be interested so readily in
persons of whom he knows nothing. The circumstances
to which you refer must, I fear, have
slipped out of my memory."

You mean that you do not remember taking
the boy away from Mrs. Eowe's cottage ? "

Mr. Hervey mused, with his finger on his cheek.

'rit is curious how little one's mind retains of
events of that sort," he murmured reflectively.
And yet I have a good memory  but a
treacherous one. That may sound inconsistent
to you, Mr. Guyon ? "

Yes, rather," said Maurice.

'* * Consistency,' as Emerson has well remarked
Emerson  an American author, with whose
writings you, Mr. Guyon, as a foreigner (a
Frenchman, perhaps, if I am not mistaken : no ?)
may not be very intimately acquainted  ' consistency
is the hobgoblin of little minds.' I make
no claim to consistency "

"Pardon me," said Maurice, who believed that
the old man was talking merely for the sake of
gaining time ; " pardon me if I remind you that
I, like yourself, have many engagements at present,
and that consistency "

Consistency has nothing to do with the
matter in hand ? Exactly so," said Mr. Hervey
" I am much obliged to you for
reminding me of that fact, Mr. Guyon. I aman
old fool, no doubt, and love to talk about myself
as all old fools do ; but after all, what is it
that Pascal says ? ' Man is so much of a fool that
it would be a species of folly not to be a fool.' I
do not defend my folly. And, in the meantime,
I begin to remember the matter to which you
have alluded. But I am afraid I cannot be of
any assistance to you in the matter." He stopped
short, and eyed Maurice for a moment with what
seemed to be a calculating look.

You can be of very great assistance to me,"
said ZaranofF, " if you will tell me where that loy
is at the present moment."

Mr. Hervey's lips parted in a somewhat enigmatic
smile. " If I could tell you that, Mr.
Guyon," he remarked, " I should solve the problem
which has perplexed mankind from the time
of Socrates and Marcus aurelius to the days of

our modern Agnosticism, which always strikes
me, by the by, as so curious a rechmiffe of
philosophy after the manner of the ancients 

That undiscovered country, from whose bourn '

You know the lines ? "

Do you mean to say, Mr. Hervey, that the
boy of whom I speak is dead ? " inquired Maurice.


Mr. Hervey bowed. '' You relieve me of an
unpleasing task, Mr. Guy on. I was about to
mention the occurrence when you  so obligingly
interrupted me."

Then," said Maurice, unmindful of the sneer
with which these words were accompanied, "you
can no doubt inform me of the circumstances
under which he died, and give me some leo-al
proof of his death, as the money left him must
necessarily pass to another person, and I presume
that some such evidence will be required."

Is the sum a large one ? "

'not particularly."

'* Oh, well, Mr. Guy on, the boy of whom weare
speaking died, unfortunately, soon after he
left the Eowes' cottage. I did not take him to
the workhouse on the day when he quitted Mrs.
Eowe's cottage ; he had a bed here for a night
or two, and, before he could be removed, he was

taken ill. He was ill  not seriously so, but
slightly' ill  for some little time ; and I was
quite relieved when some friends of his made
their appearance and claimed him. They took
him away with them ; and I afterwards heard
from them that he was  as you very justly inferred,
Mr. Gruyon  dead."

Who took him away from you then ? " asked
Maurice in some astonishment.

At this distance of time," said Mr. Hervey
blandly, " I regret to say that I am unable to
give you the name of the persons who took him
away from Netherbyby."

Could you not ascertain, sir ? "

Mr. Hervey ruminated. " Possibly," he said,
as if in doubt. " Possibly. If you would call
again tomorrow, Mr. Guyon, I might perhaps
give you more information. I could consult old

papers  my servants  other sources " He

did not seem to finish the sentence, but stopped
rather suddenly.

Then I will call again tomorrow morning,"
said Maurice after a little pause. "I should
very much like to know the name of the friends
who took the boy away."

"I have no doubt you would, Mr. Guyon,"
said his interlocutor with another enigmatic look.

If you like to return at twelve o'clock tomorrow
morning, I shall be happy to tell you the
result of my investigations. Will you take some
lunch before you go, Mr. Guy on ? No ? Then
I must say good morning, I suppose''

Left alone, Mr. Hervey relapsed into meditation
of a somewhat subtle kind, which caused
him, by and by, to rise and search for a passage
in a book that had occurred to him as possibly
appropriate to the matter in hand. He found it
in a volume of Pope's prose works, and, being
fond of quotations, he immediately transcribed
it in his private notebook. " He who tells a lie
is not sensible how great a task he undertakes''
said the poet of Twickenham ; "for he must be
forced to invent twenty more to maintain one."
An apt quotation !

Meantime Maurice went to his inn to dine and
rest, for the heat of the sun and the fatigues of
the day had given him a remarkably severe headache.
Towards evening he felt slightly better,
and went out for a stroll about the town, striking,
after a time, into the highroad which led to
Netherbyby. The sun was sinking and a refreshing
coolness filled the air. He found himself in the
narrow lane which led to the lower end of the
churchyard. He passed by Hester Rowe's cottage.

It had a deserted look ; the door was wide
open, but neither light nor sound came from it.
He paused a moment, then turned away and
entered the churchyard. Here he spent some
little time in trying to discover Lucy's grave,
but his search for it was fruitless. He crossed
himself, however, as he jssed along the pathway
and murmured a prayer for her repose,  like
most Poles (and he was of Polish origin) Maurice
was a peculiarly devout man,  but he walked to
the other side of the churchyard, where a hedge
and a small gate divided it from a plantation of
fir-trees. Beyond this plantation there lay a
garden, which he could not see ; and beyond this
o-arden a trim white house with a broad verandah,
also invisible to his eyes at present, but
which, as he had taken care to ascertain, was the
home of Baroness Waldstein. Its chimneys were
just visible to him through the trees.

The scene was curiously lonely. Behind him
lay the sloping churchyard, with its lush green
grass, trimly-kept mounds, and upright gravestones
around the ivy-mantled church. He
turned and leaned against the gate with his back
to the plantation for some little time, in order to
contemplate the quiet place. The long summer
twilight was closing; in, the yew-trees and firs

stood motionless against a background of clear
evening sky. The colours of buildings, flowers,
fields, were beginning to blend in one harmonious
darkness of tinting; the lairds uttered a few
drowsy notes at intervals, and then where still.
Zaranoff yielded to the fascination of such a
calm ; he drew a deep breath, folded his arms,
and delivered himself ujd to quiet meditation.
In a few minutes he found that he was humming
to himself a few notes of some music to which he
had listened with Frank Lono;more two nights
before. He stopped short, smiled, then sighed
assail.

'''Amor mi cjidderaV he said to himself.
' ' Love will guide me '  'hope, thou wilt comfort
me ? '  is that her trust, poor child ? It is
not much. Amor mi guided : is it love that
has guided me to-day ? What ' spirit in my feet '
has brought me hither ? "

He turned and looked at the house that lay
behind the trees, measuring the distance with his
eye. " Not far away," he murmured. *' What
would she say if she knew that I was here ? "
Then he mused for a little time. " I have known
three good women in my life, at least," he said
presently. " Is not that enough to keep up one's
faith in womanhood ? Mv mother, Anna Smolensk,

Vera de Lusignan. It is unlucky when
a man's first love cannot be found in a list of that
kind."

His hand sought the fastenings of the gate.
Slowly, and as it were reluctantly, he opened and
passed through it. He left the pathway amongst
the fir-trees, and threaded his way over a carpet
of moss and fir-needles in which his foot sank
every moment, until he reached the edge of the
plantation which bordered upon the lawn. This
fir-grove was higher than the garden. He stood
upon a bank which descended several feet towards
the flower-beds and smooth-shaven sward.
He could see the lights of the house ; he could
hear a faint sound of music from the drawing-room.
The windows were open, and two or three
figures were moving upon the verandah.

Suddenly he paused. One lady had detached
herself from the others, and was pacing the garden
walks. She mounted steps that had been cut in
the bank, and advanced towards him as though
she had been aware of his presence, and wished
to meet him face to face. He drew back, anxious
to let her pass without being seen. But, as he
stood between the dark upright stems of the fir-trees,
she turned, and suddenly showed him a
white and startled face. Then she drew back,

uttering a half-stifled cry. But it was too late ;
she had seen him and he had seen her. It was
lima Zaranofi"  the woman who would now have
been his wife if she had not cruelly and shamelessly
deserted him in his hour of need.

A Woman VENGEANCE.

For a moment there was silence. Then Maurice
drew himself up, lifted his hat ceremoniously
and said :

I had not the least intention of forcing myself
upon you, madame. I will not trouble you
any longer. I was a fool to come," was his
silent comment, " and I should be a still greater
fool to stay."

Little could be seen of Madame Zaranoff, for
she wore a black dress and was enveloped in the
folds of a long black lace veil which she had
thrown over her head and wound about her neck
and waist, but from the little that could be seen
it was plain that she was in prey to some deadly
terror. Her face was white, her eyes looked
strained and wild as she grasped at the trunk of
a tree for support, panted and crossed herself

repeatedly. Much as Zaraiiotf desired to leave
her, he felt that he must reassure her first.

I am no ghost, lima," he said quietly. " I
have been in England some months and, although
I do wish for an interview with you, I should
not purposely seek it in this way. Accident
had brought me face to face with you again, and
I think that I had better say what I have to say
and then bid you farewell."

The Countess took her hands away from the
bole of the fir-tree and clasped them together
with a despairing gesture. She was a remarkably
graceful woman but not devoid of little
affectations, and Maurice knew her well enough
to feel convinced that by this time her continued
show of fear was somewhat artificial. Even the
trembling of her white hands did not move him,
nor the look of mingled supplication and terror
in her beautiful brown eyes.

Why are you here ? " she said at last in a
quavering voice. " I thought you were in Siberia.
Did you escape ? You are not  pardoned''

Oh no, madame, I am not pardoned," said
Zaranoff coldly. " I escaped. You need have
no fear about your estates : I do not think that
there is any chance of the Emperor's wishing to

restore them to  their original owner.'

But how did you escape ? I thought escape
was impossible."

I think I had better not tell you how. You
are in communication with many of our officials.
You might accidentally report some of the facts
in quarters which they are not intended to reach,
and others would perhaps suffer. At present I
believe that I am thought to be dead. It makes
little difference in our relation to each other : I
am dead to you."

Then why did you seek me out ? To
frighten me, I suppose."

I did not seek you out exactly, madame,
did I ? I never thought of meeting you tonight.
I wandered by chance in this direction ;
it is the old story of the candle and the moth, I
presume."

*' What ! " said Madame Zaranoff with a
vivacity which she seemed half afraid to exhibit
; " am I still the candle, and you the
moth ? "

As she spoke, she let the drapery fall back
from her face a little : a beautiful well-rounded
oval face, in which the eyes glowed like stars
and the colour burnt in two feverish spots.
Maurice took a step backward, and paused before
he answered.

You may still be the candle, madame, but
excuse me  I am no longer the moth."

She made a gesture of impatience. '' Ah,
that was always the way," she cried. " You are
too cold  too self-contained, too English in your
ways for me ! "

maurice bowed. 'rit is perhaps fortunate,
then, that we are separated by circumstances," he
said, with deliberate irony.

Perhaps." lima seemed to grudge the concession.
"At any rate," she said, " you must not
come here : we might be discovered at any
moment. ]airs. Kavenscroft thinks of the convenances;
she might send out the servants in
search of me at any moment if I disappeared,
and then what would become of my reputation !"

Ah, lima ! " said Maurice with irrepressible
bitterness, " you were always so careful of your
reputation ! "

She laughed. *' I had cause to be, when my
affianced husband perilled his  and mine  so
lightly ! Hush ! they are coming to look forme
 I am sure of it. I must go."

Maurice stretched out his hand and laid it
on her arm. " No," he said, " not yet."

What do you want ? " she asked defiantly.
'' Do you wish to detain me by force ? Don't

hold me : do not touch me : I am going back to
the house."

He simply said " No," and held her lightly
by the wrist, but the moment that she tried to
break away his grasp closed upon her firmly.

Maurice," she said, in a frightened voice,
using his name for the first time, 'you hurt me."

*' I am very sorry. If you keep still I shall
not hurt you. I have something to say before
you go."

'* Can t you come again ? " she pleaded. " If
we were seen, it would be so very  compromising."


'' I have no security that you ever would seeme
again," he answered. " You might deny me
admittance. Be silent a moment and we shall
be safe enough."

He added this counsel because voices and
footsteps were heard approaching. Still holding
her hand he drew back with her into the dense
shadow of the trees. Meanwhile two gentlemen,
both in evening dress, walked across the lawn
before the terrace and passed down the gravelled
walk between the lawn and the plantation. One
of these was Gaston Eavenscroft ; the other, a
much younger man, was a visitor, and a stranger
to Zaranoft'.

Where has she gone ? " said the younger of
the two. " The last thing I saw of her was
when she declared that she must go and look at
the glowworms on the bank. Madame Zaranoff !
are you here ? "

"Not likely," said Eavenscroft dryly. '' Madame
Zaranoff does not love the cold dews and
evening breezes of the English climate."

Where are you, Countess ? " said the young
man in a laughing voice. " Hiding, I expect ! 
Ah, there she is ! "

lima gave a nervous start, but the gentlemen
were both looking away from the grove in which
she was sheltering herself. Her hands closed
fiercely on Maurice's arm; he stood like a rock
and made no sign.

'she is not here," said the elder man. '' She
must have gone indoors again. We will send
Olivia to look for her presently. Shall we go
in?"

They bent their steps leisurely towards the
house. lima drew herself away from Count
Zaranoff with a great sigh of relief.

Thank Heaven ! " she said hastily. " I shall
have a little time free, then. I can give you ten
minutes. What do you want of me, Maurice
Zaranoff? Money?"

VOL. II. 25

'' None of your money, Madame. But I mayas
well mention to you that Sir Adrian Long-more
has consented to receive for me the money
from that little estate of my mother's on the
German side of the frontier. That could not be
confiscated by the Emperor."

She laughed lightly. " It is as I expected.
Really, you are too melodramatic ! In romances
the discarded lover always turns up and demands
money as the price of his silence. How conventional
you are, Maurice ! "

Pardon, madame," said ZaranofF very quietly.
I do not ask for your money or for anything at
all from you. I think that for the sake of old
days you ought to know me better than to think
that my silence could be bought."

Unfortunately, I found out that I never had
known you aright. Since then I have expected
nothing from you  nothing but treachery and
deceit."

Maurice was silent for a moment. ' ' Have you
indeed so little respect for me as that ? " he said
in a low, moved voice. " lima, ivliat have I done
to make you think so ill of me ? I have not deserved
this treatment : before God, I declare that
I have not."

So  little respect ' for you % " she said insolently.

'' Little ! I have none at all. Really,
you ask too much, Maurice. Money, if you like,
but  respect ! "

'' And why not respect 1 " he asked in a sterner
tone. 'eon whose side does the reproach lie?
What wrong had I done to you when you cast
me off? I am not sorry now for our separation,
lima, for I know well enough that we should not
have made each other happy ; but for you to reproach
me in the way you do is simply contemptible
and absurd. I will hear no more of it. Tell
me what you have been saying about me to Sir
Adrian Longmore, and then I will go."

I have only told the truth," she answered,
quailing a little beneath the sternness of his voice.

' What truth ? What do you mean  "

'* Go and ask him," she said, turning away her
face, but speaking haughtily. " You cannot expect
me to repeat it to you."

But I do expect it," he said, taking her by
her hands and holding them gently enough butin
such a way that she could not escape. '' I
must know before we leave this place. Sir Adrian
Longmore asked whether I was to blame for the
rupture of our engagement. I answered ' Yes,'
thinking of the shame and misery that my imprisonment
and exile would have brought upon

you ; refusing to blame you even to one who has
been to me a second father ; but his indignation
was so great that I knew  too late  that you had

accused me "

*' I accused you only of what all the world was
well aware," said lima, passionately snatching one
of her hands away, " of your connection with
Anna Strolenski  an insult to me and a scandal
to your whole family."

" What ! " he exclaimed, like one bewildered.
You thought that I  that Anna Strolenski and
\  good Heaven, lima, are you mad ? "

No," she answered bitterly, " I am only too
clear-sighted. I told Sir Adrian that the reason
why I gave you up was that I had discovered
your love for another woiaan. Anna Strolenski
was your mistress."

And you dared "  with terrible emphasis
on the words  " bijou dared to malign me so ? "

She was silent, biting her lip and trying to
free the hand that still remained in Maurice's
firm grasp. He paused, but, obtaining no reply,
went on with scorn and indignation vibrating
through every one of his clear low tones.

You dared  yes, you dared to say it in order
to cover your own faithlessness, your own cowardice,
your own fear of poverty and exile ! I was

far away in Siberia, and you might safely say of
me what you chose. And you have succeeded
well : you have saved your reputation and figured
as the deeply-injured blameless woman who had
a good reason for breaking with the exile  not
what you really were, lima, heartless, fickle, and
cold ! I did not come to bandy reproaches with
you : I could forgive the rest ; I could forgive
your cruel message to me after the trial, your
marriage, everything  but I cannot forgive you
for blackening my character in the eyes of that
upright, pure-minded, honourable old man, who
thinks me a scoundrel and a profligate. I understand
now what he meant. Oh, lima, you might
have spared me this ! "

He dropped her hand, turned away and leaned
against a tree with face averted that she might
not see the hot tears of rage and bitterness that
had gathered in his eyes. She watched him
steadily for a few moments and then began to
speak with a sort of wonder and interest in her
tone.

Why do you take it so much to heart ! " she
said. "What does it matter if General Long-more
thinks ill of you ? Besides, he will not
long think ill of you for a thing like that : no
man does. You injured me, no doubt ; and I

have a right to be angry about it ; but other
people do not think that you have done anything
very bad. That is the worst of it  for me. Sir
Adrian was very kind  very sympathetic, very
indignant with you of course ; but even I do not
expect him to carry his anger with him to the
grave. He is not my relation : if he were, of
course he would resent my wrongs. But a
woman's wrongs "  she shrugged her shoulders
contemptuously   are not of much account in
the world. I am not a schoolgirl, fresh from
the convent, now : I know what society demands."


'' And I know what right and truth and honour
demand," said Maurice hoarsely. * I used to
think, like you, of the claims of society and the
world ; now, lima, I think also of what God
demands."

She studied his face with curious, cold intentness.


'' Are you going to turn monk, Maurice ? Do
you know that you are very much altered?"

'' Probably, madame ; a man does not return
from Siberia as he went."

I suppose not. I suppose that it has changed
you from a boy into a man. I grew tired of you
in the old days, Maurice ; you were only a gay

callant lad, Yith a wild notion of instructions
moulins, while I was a woman grown. I grew
weary of the contrast between us ; but now 
now you are a man, in whom a woman might
find her match. What is it that has worked the
change ?"

She paused for a reply : but he vouchsafed
her none.

"Some woman has done it," she resumed
quickly, but in a very low tone  '' who ?''

"Yourself: lima von Lowenstein  lima Za-
ranoff.''

I wish it were," she answered, lifting her
eyes to his face with the same strange look, and
then dropping them as suddenly. ' If I had
done it, I should worship you."

I do not want you to worship me," he said
dryly. '' I want you not to slander me."

Oh," she said, changing her tone again to
that of contemptuous irony, "it is the old story.
You do not understand a woman's nature, and
you never will. What resource was left to me ?
Even if I had had no tangible cause of complaint
against you, I must have said something. You
outraged my feelings in every possible way by
your adherence to the ultra-liberal party. T
saw that you were bent on ruining; yourself and

me, and you expected me to hold my tongue !
You expect me now not to justify myself by
every means in my power. You might act in
that way, men are such miracles of virtue ; buta
woman when she is hurt cries out ; when she
is attacked fights ; when she is wronged avenges
herself."

"Not every woman."

Oh no ! your ideal, of course, was Anna
Strolenski." Then, as he winced and made a
gesture as if to silence her, she changed her tone
and attitude. She came close to him, placed one
hand on his shoulder and the other on his arm,
and looked up into his face with a lithe insinuating
grace.

Confess, Maurice," she said, '' confess the
truth and I will forgive you all the harm that
you have done. You are a man, and I can
understand how you were tempted. Tell me the
whole truth, and I shall be cured of any lingering
feeling of remorse or any foolish tenderness that
I may have harboured for yourself. WhM was
Anna Strolenski to you, and what were you to
Anna Strolenski ?"

He looked down at her quietly, but with a
sudden heaving of his chest. " You ask that,"
he said, '* after what you said to Sir Adrian ?"

I only said what I thought. He wanted to
know why I had left you. And that vxys the
reason  before Heaven that was the reason,
Malice !" said the woman, with a burst of passion
which made her quiver from head to foot.
'"' If I had thought that sou did not love her
more than you loved me, I would never have left
you  never, never ! You thought that I cared
for warmth and luxury and excitement ; and you
are right, they are like the breath of my life tome
; but love is more than life, Maurice, and
my place would have been at your side. If I
had believed that you loved me "

' If you had believed that I loved you, lima,
you would have acted precisely as you did then,"
said Maurice, with a passionless calm that no
words of hers were able to disturb. '' It is a pity
to deceive yourself or to try to deceive me. I
understand; I have always understood."

"" Oh no !" said lima, withdrawing herself from
him with flashing eyes and sobbing breath. '*' No,
that sou never did  you never T\ill !"

' Ah, well ; it cannot be helped now. I did
not mean to upbraid you for the past. But as
regards Anna Strolenski "

Yes," said the Countess, confronting him
eagerly, ''' as regards x\nna Strolenski  well ?"

'' To begin with," said Maurice seriously,
understand that she is dead."

"Dead! how?"

Am I to tell you how she died ?"

'' Of course ; were you with her ?"

I was present ; I was compelled to be present.
Anna Strolenski is a saint, a martyr,
lima. She died for her country and her friends."

"For7/(?2F"

'' No, not in the least for me. Listen, and
see whether you cannot resolve to abandon your
insane and utterly unfounded jealousy of Anna
Strolenski. Do me justice now, at least. Her
brother was my dearest friend. She and he both
held advanced views ; they were what the newspapers
call Nihilists of the most pronounced type
Nihilists of Bakunin's school, advocating the
destruction of all existing institutions. I did
not sympathise with these opinions ; but I admired
the pure and lofty characters of many
of the men and women who held them. After
the Moscow attempt I sheltered Casimir Smolensk
and his sister in my own house : you know
well enough with what results. Neither my rank
nor my official position protected me. We were
betrayed. . I never asked who betrayed

US. . . .

He stopped for a moment, but kept his face
averted. She did not move : he heard a sort of
catch in her breath, and seemed to listen as if
for a word from her, but none came.

Strolenski was taken, and I was arrested for
defending him. We were all imprisoned, as you
know. Strolenski was condemned to death.
Anna, being liberated through some mistake,
made, with her friends, a wild attempt to raise
the city on his behalf. She was taken in the
act  at bay, in a little room, defending herself
and others, nth a pistol in her hand. She was
flogged in the presence of the other prisoners at
Karkoff, as a menace and a warning : you can
guess the sequel. She was delicate in health,
lame and sickly ; the day was bitterly cold ;
when they released her she fell down with her
face to the ground of the courtyard  I saw her
fall ; when they lifted her up she was dead."

A shudder ran through the listener's frame,
but she did not speak.

"lima," said Zaranoff earnestly, "when I
heard just now that you had profaned her
memory by saying that she and I were lovers, I
knew that you could not know the story of her
life and death. Loyal as I was to an Emperor
whom I personally loved and trusted, her fate

almost made me a traitor ! But it was not his
fault : he does not know the truth. She died
under the lash, because she would not accuse her
friends : do you understand me, lima ? and you
you can traduce her now that she is dead %
Your sole excuse is that you did not know the
truth."

After a little pause, Madame Zaranoff spoke
again.

I know  your version of it," she said.

Do you in your inmost heart doubt me,
lima 1 "

''I only know this," she said bitterly, "that
if it was not Anna Strolenski, it was some other
woman who came between us."

No," he said firmly : " you cannot say that.
You and my mother and she were the only three
women in the world for whom I cared."

'' Then it was your mother who came between
us," she said blindly. " She whom you were
always quoting  always holding up as a model
to me  do you think I could bear it ? do you
think that I was not human ? I was obliged to
revenge myself in some way : and I made you
suffer, even as you had made me. And now 
supposing that I believed your story, what is
the use ? AVhat could I do ? "

'you could clear her name, at least, said
Maurice indignantly. " Let the world know her
as she was ; or, if not the world, at least those
friends of mine whose opinion is dearer to me
than that of all the world beside."

"And what should I say? Pretend that 1
had discovered something new ? I could only
say that I had your word for your innocence ;
and that we all know that you gave us long ago.
Why should I injure my own reputation to save
yours ? Foolish old Sir Adrian would say,
Marry him, now that the misapprehension has
been cleared up.' And naturally, monsieur, 1
do not mean to marry you, for, if I did, what
would become of the Zaranoff Palace, and the
land near Kieff", and the other estates in Livonia ?
The Czar would soon declare that he had found
a more faithful subject upon whom to bestow
them, and I should be recalled to St. Petersburg
and deported perhaps to Mesen or the Caucasus?"

Do not disturb yourself, madame," Maurice
rejoined. '' There is no likelihood that such an
event will ever come to pass."

How do you know ? " she said sharply. '' Is
there no one for whom I would peril my safety,
do you think ? "

I do not know. You did not peril it forme

 happily, madame. I trust that you will
never need to peril it at all."

She turned and came quite close to him.
'' Maurice," she said almost in a whisper, " do
you know that I could find it in my heart to tell
you something ? Shall I tell you ? "

He felt her trembling hands seeking his, but
at that moment he had not the strength to be
pitiful. " Go on, lima," he said coldly.

I could tell you if I thought that you would
ever forgive me ! But I do not think you know
how to forgive. Maurice ! Maurice ! '' She clung
to him with a sort of appeal in her voice and
eyes, which he could not quite withstand. " Bea
little kinder to me and I will say everything
you want."

'what can I do?" he sighed; but he put
his arm round her, yielding as he had often
yielded before to the fascination of her looks and
words. '' Well, lima ? "

"Tell me," she murmured, "have you  since
you left St. Petersburg  seen any woman whom
you loved as  as you loved your mother  or as
you loved Anna Strolenski ! I will not say  as
you loved me." She chose her words with care.

Since I left St. Petersburg ? " he asked, as if
he hardly understood her.

Yes : since she died. Tell me this  and I
will tell you  something that you do not know."

'* My love for my mother  my friendship for
Anna Strolenski  could not easily be given to
others, lima. As to my love for you  I know
that it is a bitter offence to tell a woman that
one's love for her is dead, but it is better that
you should know the truth. I loved you once, 
I shall love no woman in the way that I once
loved you,  but now you are no more to me than
any other woman. You are not even the adopted
sister that you were when I knew you first."

Can you look at me, Maurice, and say so
with all your heart ? " she murmured, leaning
against him and looking up into his face. But
he took away his arm, and put her from him.

You claimed your freedom some time ago,
lima; I claim mine too."

Her face changed. She drew back her lips
from her white teeth ; a fierce light came into
her eyes.

'' I knew it," she said. " If it was not Anna
Strolenski, it was some one else. I was right in
the main."

No, lima," he cried, with passion equal to
her own. " I swear that it was not so. I was
true to you in word and thought and deed."

But she, flinging the black drapery over her
head and holding it closely around her face with
Angers on which the diamonds glittered in the
moonlight, glided from him without another
word. He saw her cross the lawn like a black
shadow, and enter at an open door : then, with
a sigh, he turned away, crashed through the
brambles and tangled underwood of the plantation,
and thence passed into the churchyard and
the narrow lane beyond.

"a little while a little love."

After Maurice's departure Mr. Hervey remained,
as we have already noted, for some time absorbed
in thought. The sound of a fresh boyish voice
singing as its owner passed the open window
aroused him from his reverie. His brow cleared :
he rose from his chair and went to the window,
pushed back the heavy curtain, and looked out.

I beg your pardon, sir. I had forgotten
that you were there," said Lance apologetically.
He was standing in the garden with a tame
jackdaw on his arm ; he was trying to make the
bird eat something from his mouth. The sunshine
fell full upon his pleasant thoughtful face,
his pensive dark eyes, and waging brown hair.
Mr. Hervey did not look as though he found the
picture unattractive.

"Where have you been ?" he asked.
VOL. n. 26

At the Hall," said Lance, the colour rising
to his pale cheek. " There is a Kussian countess
staying with Madame Waldstein ; Olivia swears
by her."

'' One of the Baroness' foreign friends," said
Mr. Hervey, a little contemptuously. " Is Gaston
Ravenscroft at home?"

''No. He comes back in time for dinner.
There are some people dining there."

Whom you are not invited to meet," said
Mr. Hervey in his most sarcastic tone.

Lance turned crimson.

"Why should I be, Uncle Richard?" he said,
looking up with so clear and candid a gaze that
Mr. Hervey's eyes fell uneasily. " A fellow of
my age is not usually invited to dinner parties."

Richard Hervey smiled. "That depends,"
he said dryly.

Well, at any rate," said Lance, stroking the
feathers of his bird, " I am not likely to be asked
there much so long; as Mr. Ravenscroft is at the
Hall. It is quite evident that he detests me,
though I don't know why."

A gleam of mirth shot forth from Mr.
Hervey's cold gray eyes. "Do you detest
him ? " he asked.

I ? no ; I don't know that I do," said Lance.

I don't like him much ; I think he is very
difficult to get on with, but "

' But what?"

He attracts me. I should like to know more
of his Eastern life. I am sure that he must have
had some awfully interesting adventures. It's a
pity that he has such an antipathy to me, isn't if?"
He laughed as he spoke, but his brow clouded.

Mr. Hervey looked at him inquisitively.
My dear Lance," he said, " one of my principles
in life has always been never to care for
anybody who did not care for me."

Lance glanced up with eyes full of smiling
affection and gratitude. "No, that can't be,
uncle," he said, " for look how much you cared
for me when I was a little chap, and couldn't
bear you. Don't you remember ? "

"And do you suppose that I should have
done that without a motive ? " said Mr. Hervey.

"I'm sure it was a good one," said Lance,
with his sweet frank look. If Mr. Hervey
winced he did not show that he did so. He
smiled a little and seemed gratified.

I would not go too much to the Hall if I
were you," he said. " Gaston was never very
civil to me and mine. You had better keep out
of his way."

But Olivia ! " said the lad, and then

stopped short.

'' Well ! Olivia ! What of her T

Oh' said Lance, with his vivid ingenuous
blush, "it was only that I thought that she
would wonder why I stayed away."

She will soon leave off wondering," said Mr.
Hervey ; " she is going to town. She will make
other friends." Then in a sterner tone : " No
trifling, Lance, I warn you : do not think too
much of Olivia Eavenscroft; she is the last
person in the world for you just yet. You are
only a boy."

But when I am older " began the lad,

with downcast eyes ; but Mr. Hervey interrupted
him.

When you are older you will be quite at
liberty to make a fool of yourself in any way
you please. But this calf-love of yours  pardon
the phrase ; it is rough but expressive  is not
worth a serious thought. Let me see no more
of it for the present, if you please." Then he
moved back from the window. " This heat is
terrible," he said. ' Do have the goodness, my
dear boy, to come out of it, and try to exist in a
civilised apartment. You may read to me; I
know you like reading ; "and all things considered,

you don't read badly," said Mr. Hervey,
as he dropped the curtain, which softened the
blaze of daylight in his room, and relapsed into
his comfortable chair.

Lance was not anxious to read aloud ; he had
had his own plans for the afternoon ; but he renounced
them without a word, and seated himself
in the shaded room, which he hated, and
read aloud the Westminster, which he hated still
more, with not even a shadow upon his brow.
He treated Mr. Hervey with tenderness almost
more than filial ; it was mingled with a graceful
courtesy, which might have seemed artificial had
its simplicity not shown it to proceed from the
impulses of a loving heart. The boy's nature
was dreamy, poetical, romantic; he had not been
trained in the habit of reserve by mixing with
ordinary boys ; and his affections for his guardian
flowed forth as naturally as that of a girl
for her mother. To him Mr. Hervey showed himself
in a very different light from the one in which
he had appeared to Count Maurice Zaranoff.
The old man took evident pleasure, although
sometimes of a sardonic kind, in the ways and
workings of the fresh young life beside him ; he
seemed to exert himself to speak without irony
and without harshness to the lad ; and when

habit became too strong for him, and satire or
ill-humour would have its way, Lance listened,
wondered, and apparently escaped unscathed.

When the reading was over, he went out of
doors again ; and betook himself down the road
to Netherbyby for a stroll before dinner. The lane
to the churchyard was one of his favourite
walks ; and it was here that he came face to
face with Olivia, who had been visiting an old
woman in the village. Of course he offered to
carry her basket for her, and walked by her side
as she went on her way.

How meditative you look!" she exclaimed
by and by. " What are you thinking of,
Lance ?"

I was trying to remember some lines of
poetry."

"And what were they?" said Olivia heedlessly.


Lance's sweet boyish face reddened, after its
wont ; but he fixed his soft dark eyes very
earnestly on Olivia's, as he answered her with
the words which he had been quoting to himself 

A little while a little love

The hour yet bears for thee and me,
Who have not drain the veil to see
If still our heaven be lit above."

I don t understand poetry," said Olivia with
lier brilliant smile. " Vhy can't people say
what they mean ?  at least, that kind of poetry
always puzzles me."

Lance went on quietly :

A little while a little love

May yet be ours who have not said
The word it makes our eyes afraid

To know that each is thinking of.

Not yet the end : be our lips dumb
In smiles a little season yet :

I'll tell thee, when the end is come.
How we may best forget."

"Ah! that is not the ending I should have made,"
he said, interrupting himself. " They are sad
verses, are they not ? They don't apply to us."

"No," said Olivia honestly, 'they don't apply
to us at all."

Yet, the first part does, surely ?" said Lance,
with a tremor in his voice. '"A little love the
hour yet bears for thee and me '  that is true :
is it not, Olivia ? "

He leaned towards her and laid his hand very
lightly on hers. She hesitated, looked rather
disconcerted, and coloured a little. "Of course,
Lance," she said with some softness of tone ;
you are one of our friends  one of my friends,
I think I may say."

'*A friend now, Olivia' said Lance, "but
something more by and by ? In days to come,
when we are both older "

And wiser," she interpolated with an arch
glance.

Older and wiser  you will then give me
leave to love you in a different way, will you
not V

Ah," said Olivia with an intonation of
playful scorn, ' if you wait for leave to do it !"

I won't wait then, I will do it now," returned
Lance, possessing himself of the pretty
white hand and kissing it with reverential
tenderness. " I dared not say all that I had
already dared to wish for  if not to hope  before.
Oh, Olivia, don't you know that I love you better
than all the world ? I care for nobody but you
my beautiful lady, my queen Olivia ! If I
could make you a queen, dear, and I were your
slave and could serve you night and day, don't
you think that I would do it ?"

Lance, you are very foolish," said Miss
Olivia. 'you ought not to talk in this way:
you are only a boy."

I am older than you are, as you know,"
said Lance. '' What has age to do with it ? I
love you, here and now ; and I am quite sure

that my love will never change. I could die
sooner than cease to love you, Olivia."

Oh, hush," said Olivia, looking troubled.
But she let her hand lie lightly in his and did
not move away.

Can you not say something to give me a
little hope, Olivia? Tell me that you love me,
just a little ; and then I will be patient until the
day comes when I may ask you to be my wife,
and claim you from anybody who would try to
come between us. Say something, dear, or I
shall despair."

This pretty boyish love-making had brought
the dimples to Olivia's cheeks and the laughter
to her eyes ; she was not displeased by it, but
neither was she very much moved.

'' What shall I say ?" she asked him with a
smile. '' We are very happy as we are, Lance ;
there is no need to think about the future. I
shall never forget you ; I shall always care for
you. That is enough, is it not 1"

Enough, perhaps, for Lance's hopefulness at
present ; but sadly insufficient for the future, if
this where all. But the boy had no misgivings.

"Dear Olivia!" he said. "I should be
ashamed to ask you for more."

He did not try to kiss her cheek or to obtain

any furthercknowledgment from her : he simply
stood, holding her hand in his, and gazing with
a young lover's eyes into the beautiful face which
he hoped one day to call his own. She smiled
back at him bravely and innocently : there was
no trouble in her eyes, no bashful rise of colour
in her cheeks. Few maidens could have been
elevated to the position of dream-mistress, idol
and queen even of a boy's heart, with less self-consciousness
and unconcern than Olivia Heavens
at seventeen.

Mr. Hervey's words had only fanned the
flame. There had been no absolute disapproval
indeed, a tacit consent had been given to
Lance's wishes in one sentence : " When you are
older, you may make a fool of yourself in any way
you pleases The objection had been all on the
score of youth ; and Lance thought this objection
a very ineffective one. It gave a delicate zest
to his courtship : the implied doubt of his constancy
spurred him to more decided manifestations
of love. He was too unworldly to dream
that his want of wealth and connections might
drove a serious barrier between him and Olivia
Eavenscroft, sole heiress of a proud and wealthy
house.

He accompanied Olivia across the plantation,

but no farther : and having watched her out of
sight, returned with a quick light step and a
contented mind to the society of Mr. Hervey for
the rest of the evening.

It was later in the course of that same evening
that Maurice Zaranoff met the Countess almost
on the very spot at which Lance had parted from
Olivia.

Zaranoff could not betake himself quietly to
rest after his interview with lima. He had
much self-control ; but his nerves must have
been made of iron to be unaffected by what had
passed. Wound up to the highest pitch of excitement
 his whole being shaken to its depths
by cruel memories of the past  he wandered
about the quiet roads and over the lonely beach
until midnight had confounded from the
Mickleham steeple (with quaint chimes which
had a curiously weird effect as they floated on
the night-air down to the desolate sea-beach and
mingled sith the plashing of the waves); and
when at last he strayed back to the quiet hostelry
where he had taken up his quarters, he was spent
with fatigue and exhaustion. And yet he could
not sleep. The night was passed in tossing and
turnings on his pillow ; then came a period of
nightmare dreams and feverish fancies : last of

all, in the morning hours, a heavy stupor which
betokened illness rather than restful slumber.

Finding that he did not appear or respond to
any summons at the door, the landlord himself
made his entrance, and found his guest apparently
unconscious, uttering only a few incoherent
words when an attempt was made to rouse him.
doctor was summoned, and gave it as his
opinion that the stranger was seriously ill ; the
brain was affected and the fever running high.
A touch of sunstroke might be suspected ; if
not sunstroke there had been, at any rate, overexertion,
over-excitement, and a long and continued
strain upon the constitution. And the
next question was. What was to be done with
the patient ? for, if he had to be removed to the
hospital, the removal must take place at once.
In fact, the doctor hoped that it would not be
necessary to move him, for such a removal
might be attended with very bad results.

The landlady and the landlady's daughter
both came to see the young and handsome man
(whose fair moustache, grave blue eyes, and air
of distinction they had much admired), now lying
helpless and unconscious on a sick-bed. Both
of them declared that it would be a shame to
turn him out, and that they would nurse

him themselves rather than send him to a
hospital.

The landlord had made a little examination
of Maurice's effects before sending for a doctor.
He had found money sufficient to justify him in
believing that the expenses of the illness would
be defrayed, and he was not averse to doing a
kindly action if it could be done at little cost ;
but he was rather surprised to find no clue to
the stranger's name. Fortunately, when Zaranoff
returned from his late walk, ill and tired as he
was, he had not rested before securing the papers
which he had received from Hester Eowe in a
packet, and sealing this packet with his signet-ring.
This packet the landlord did not feel at
liberty to touch, and placed it in the doctor's
charge, as well as the money which he had found.
He gave a somewhat reluctant consent to the
proposition of his wife and daughter ; but when
his consent had once been given he waxed as
hearty and as anxious as they in his goodwill to
the sufferer and in arrangements for his welfare.

In putting away his clothes Mrs. Kirby, the
landlady, made an important discovery  that of
a notebook in one of his coat-pockets. The
notebook, being subjected to minute inspection
with that mixture of curiosity and real interest

in their guest which might have been expected,
Mrs. Kirby and her daughter found a few memoranda
in a language which they could not read,
and then in a bold English hand, this name and
address: "Frank Longmore, No. 99 Belgrade
Square, London, W.," which they rashly concluded
to be the name and address of the young
man now lying before them.

' They're fine houses in Belgrade Square," said
Mrs. Kirby with bated breath. " I thought he
looked like a real gentleman. Not but what he's
dressed poor, and real gentlemen don't usually
come to hia; but he has that sort of way with
him that you can't be mistaken."

No, indeed," said her daughter ; '' I never
saw any one so gentleman-like  except, mebbe,
Kavenscroft of Ravenscroft Hall. He's more my
style, dark and tall ; but this one, he's a regular
aristocrat, he is."

'' I think ril write to this address," said the
mother slowly. '' It mayn't be his name, of
course ; but they may be friends of his. You
write it, Jane ; say that there's a fair gentleman
been took ill here, and this name and address is
the only one we can find on him. Direct it plain
Mr. Longmore, and it'll reach somebody's eyes,
no doubt."

And so it happened that on the following
Monday Frank Longmore sought his father, with
a very long face and an open letter in his hand.

I say, General," he" said, '' will you listen to
this letter ? " And he read aloud Jane Kirby's
rather flowery description of the fair-haired gentleman
who had been taken ill under her father's
roof, and in whose pocket-book they had found
the name of *' Frank Longmore." ' Of course,"
said Frank, 'sit is Maurice."

Evidently. What was he doing in Lincolnshire?"


Frank plucked at his dark moustache and
made no answer for a few moments. "Don't
you see, father," he said at last, rather uncertainly,
"that  well, that the Countess Zaranoff
is now staying at Madame Waldstein's, close to
Mickleham, from which this person writes ?"

Oh," said the General. And he said nothing


Frank Longmore was on his way to Mickle-ham
by the next train. Here he took possession
of Maurice and Maurice's belongings, and informed
the landlord and his wife of his own
name and that of the patient. " I shall stay till
Mr. Guyon is better," he said. And if Miss
Kirby had before admired Maurice's blue eyes,

she admired still more the expressionless eyeglass
and the cropped hair and moustache of
Mr. Frank Longmore.

Frank devoted himself entirely to the service
of his friend, until, after many days, Maurice
woke up, weak indeed, but clear in mind and on
fair way to convalescence. He could do little
at first, in his waking intervals, but exchange a
passing word or smile with Longmore ; but at
last one day he seemed to bethink himself of the
outer world, and asked anxiously after his papers
and other possessions. The sealed packet was
delivered over to him, as well as his notebook,
and at the sight of these he grew quieter ; but
presently Longmore heard him inquiring in uneasy
tones whether there had been no letters
or messages of any kind for him. There was,
indeed, one letter ; and this was immediately
placed in his hands.

Maurice knew the handwriting, and made
haste to tear open the envelope ; but this proceeding
was sadly impeded by his weakness.
Frank watched him furtively, and was vexed to
see the changes of colour and expression that
swept across a face which illness had left sadly
thin and haggard. The letter was dated a week
back, and was signed "Vera de Lusignan."

Maurice had written her a note on this first
arrival at Mickleham, and given lier the name
of the inn at which he was staying.

*' My dear Friend," she wrote, falling naturally
into a style of address which she had learned
from her German friends, 'rit is now three weeks
since you T\Tote to me, and I am anxious to hear
the result of your efforts. If you are not at
Mickleham you will probably have left the
address to which this letter must be forwarded.
I have news for which you will not be prepared
not with respect to poor Davy's wishes, only
concerning my poor self, and therefore, you may
think, not worth hearing. But it is wonderful
news to me. I am not altogether friendless any
longer ; I have even had a quiet, peaceful,
English home offered to me. My mother's father
has found me out, and begs me to make his house
my home. To this I shall not consent, though I
shall visit him gladly. But what will you say
when you learn my grandfather's name ? You
have heard of him already, as I too had done ;
perhaps you have even seen him while making
your inquiries in Lincolnshire. It is Mr. Hervey
of Netherbyby Manor. My dear mother's name
was Mabel Hervey ; she left her home against
her father's wish to many a German musician 

VOL. II. 27

Ernst Marlitt. I am sure that you will understand
what a delight it is to me to know that I
am not quite alone in the world. Will you not
write to me soon and assure me of your sympathy ?
Your sincere friend,

'vera de Lusignan."

CHAPTER XXIII.

'*WITH A GIFT IX HIS HAND."

Vera de Lusignan had by degrees gathered
round her a small circle of acquaintances whom
nobody need have disdained to know. Some of
her German friends had given her introductions
to countrymen of their own in London : her
talent, her beauty, and her stainless reputation,
as well as a large-heartiness and benevolence of
disposition, which enabled her to do many a kindness
to persons less favourably situated than herself,
made her popular in other circles. She soon
found that she might know almost as many people
as she chose ; also (which was more important)
that she might know the people whom she hushed
to know. But she had little time for general
society ; and it was only on Sunday afternoons

that she devoted herself for a few hours to the
task of receiving guests. On Sunday, from four
until seven, Vera's little drawing-room was generally
well filled.

It was on one of these Sunday afternoons then
a sunny summer afternoon about y o'clock 
that Vera, busily engaged in talking to her friends,
was startled by the announcement of " Mr.
Eavenscroft." She had not seen Mr. Eavenscroft
for full three weeks, nor had she received any
letter from him. She knew that he had gone
into Lincolnshire not long before the day on
which Maurice had also gone thither, and she
had been fervently hoping that they would not
meet. She had had no word from Maurice since the
letter written on his arrival at Mickleham ; of his
illness, of course, she knew nothing ; and she
was full of uneasiness at his long silence. He
must be ill, she thought ; some accident must have
happened to him, or he would have written.
Perhaps Mr. Eavenscroft might tell her something
about his movements.

She saw at his entrance that he was ill pleased
to find her the central figure of a gathering of
friends. It might be flattering, but it was not
always pleasant to Vera to mark how much impatience
he showed of her intercourse with anybody

but himself. He cast a keenly inquiring
glance at the gentleman sith whom she happened
to be conversing  a theatrical and musical critic
and a sayer of smart things ; then his eyes roved
rapidly round the room with an expression of
haughty scrutiny before they returned to Vera's
face. There were present some six or seven persons
besides Mrs. Cradock and Vera herself  her
friend, the critic, Mr. Heron ; a rising artist named
Wynter; a German professor whom Vera had
known abroad; and one or two younger men, remarkable
for nothings but their o-ood looks and
irreproachable costume. There were two lady
visitors. Miss Helen Maxwell, a young pianist
and composer, who was often to be found in
Vera's company, and a German girl, the daughter
of Professor Sturm. There was a slight movement
amongst some of the visitors when Heavens
name was heard. Professor Sturm made
his way to Vera's side a few moments later and
asked in an apologetic tone whether this were not
the Herr Eabenscraft who had so long in the
East remained and such perilous journeys in the
desert undertaken." Vera instantly offered to introduce
him to the great traveller, and did soin
spite of a look of abject entreaty from Gaston's
eyes to be spared the infliction. In five minutes

they were deep in conversation about the Kirghiz
steppes ; and if Mr. Eavenscroft looked unutterably
bored, the professor at least was happy.

Is that the Oriental traveller ? " said Mr.
Heron, whose remarks would often have been
termed audaciously rude, but for a flavour of
geniality and sunshiny good-humour about him,
which made one think that he only half believed
the cruel things he said. He was a big, fair,
burly man, with mocking eyes and a pleasant
smile, a man whom many people liked but few
entirely trusted. 'ris that the traveller, Mademoiselle
Vera ?" For it was by this form of
address that Vera was generally known in private
life. " Now be merciful and don't introduce me;
I detest travellers ; I detest the East. From all
that I have heard I think that I detest Mr.
Eavenscroft. I hope he isn't a dear friend of
yours, by the by ?"

If he were it would not signify," Vera said.
We are all well aware of your habit of detesting
people, Mr. Heron."

Their voices had been lowered ; but Mr. Heron
now looked round him with a laugh and appealed
to Ernest Wynter, the artist. '' Mademoiselle de
Lusignan accuses me of detesting people," he said.
Let Mr. Wynter arbitrate ! Is it not much

easier to detest people than to like them ? and
generally more reasonable too 1"

I do not find it easier," said Vera.

"Nor I more reasonable," said Mr. Wynter,
smiling.

Happy persons. Do you mean to say that
when you meet a stranger you have not an immediate
instinct of dislike to him ? I have a
decided prejudice against every one I see for the
first time, and every man must show good cause
for my liking him before "

Before you condescend to honour him with
your friendship V Vera said, not able to refrain
from smiling.

"When I meet a stranger," said Mr. Wynter,
I consider him, I fear, professionally. I make a
note of him, if he is worth it, for a study  a sketch."

This is interesting," returned Mr. Heron.
Are we all down in your notes, Wynter ? Have
you got us one and all ? I shall henceforward
examine your pictures with an interest they have
not previously excited in me  to see whether I
recognise my friends''

Where do you sketch us, Mr. Wynter ?" said
Helen Maxwell, looking up at him with a smile.
"Do you use your thumb-nail or your cuff", like
schoolboys in church ? "

Or young army men when they are going in
for examination V said Mr. Heron, with an
oblique glance at one of the youths present.

'' I must confess," Mr. Wynter answered, with
a modest air, " that I have not, as yet, availed
myself of these methods. My memory is fairly
good ; I often retain faces and forms for a considerable
time ; therefore I j&nd it best to record
my impressions every evening  in fact, I keep a
sort of draughtsman's diary, in which," he added,
with a quaint upward glance at Mr. Heron (for
he was a little man), " most of my acquaintances
have at various times figured."

' In characteristic attitudes, no doubt."

'* Why, yes ; but sometimes," said Mr. Wynter
adroitly, "it is a little difficult to decide on
exactly a characteristic attitude. Miss Maxwell,
of course, should be a sort of St. Cecilia; our
friend, the Professor, naturally figures as a
lecturer, and Mr. Lilywhite over there recites ;
but as for you. Heron, I can think of no attitude
or character for which you are quite appropriate
though I have tried many times  except 
pardon me  that of a middle-aged Mephistopheles
respectably married, and rather inclining to grow
stout."

Mr. Heron was the first to laugh at this

rejoinder ; but declared \\ to be so unflattering
that he must instantly take his departure  he
could face his friends no longer. As he shook
hands with Vera, be bent forward to make a
confidential remark in his usual jocose but
friendly manner.

I am going, Mademoiselle Vera, because I
foresee that I shall be drawn into a vortex of
Orientalism if I remain. I notice that the
traveller has fixed his glittering eye upon me,
and marked me for his next prey. Wynter once
spent six months in Cairo, and made my life a
burden to me in consequence. Do you see how
one after the other has succumbed to the fatal
attraction ? First the Herr Professor ; now Mr.
Lilywhite and Mr. Nevil ; and there is Wynter
addressing himself to the task of making your
lion roar as softly as any sucking dove ! "

He is claiming acquaintance," said Vera.

Exactly so. Everybody knows everybody
else in the East. I'm glad you haven't been in
the East, Mademoiselle de Lusignan ; it is a
great comfort to talk with somebody who has
visited neither India nor Egypt, China nor Japan.
No doubt Mr. Eavenscroft met Ernest Wynter
in Beloochistan or Siam or somewhere  my
knowledge of geography is very limited. I congratulate

you od your acquaintance with the lion
of the day. The Geographical Society asked
him to go and lecture to them the other day,
and he refused. Fancy refusing those respectable
old gentlemen ! "

He departed, laughing as he went, and carried
off Mr. Lilyhite. The others shortly afterwards
followed his example ; Helen Maxwell
stayed to play to Vera a Reverie which she had
just composed, and then retired in company with
the Storms. But Mr. Eavenscroft remained ; he
had given Vera a significant word and glance
once when she was passing. " I have something
to tell you," he had said. " May I stay ? "
She gave him a sign of assent : she had no time
for more. But in spite of her outward calm
her heart began to throb violently. AATiat had
Gaston Eavenscroft come to say? What news
had he brought her of Maurice Guyon and of
Davy's bequest ?

At a hint from Vera, Mrs. Cradock invited
Mr. Eavenscroft to dinner, or rather to the
nondescript meal at eight o'clock, which went
by that name on Sundays. Until this meal was
over he showed no disposition to tell Vera the
reason of his visit. Indeed, he bantered her a
little, both before dinner and afterwards, respecting

her numerous friends in an unusually light
tone.

I thought you told me that you had made
no English friends ! " he said. " I come here
and j&nd you queen of an admiring circle. I did
not know that you held your court on Sunday
afternoons ! "

His dark brows were smoother than Vera had
often seen them : there was a pleased light in
his eyes. It was not till after dinner, when
they were alone in the drawing-room, that his
face grew moody and his jesting words less
frequent.

You have so many people to admire you,"
he began gloomily at last, *that you would not,
I suppose, be easily persuaded to quit a public
life and vegetate in a country village ? '"

No, I think not," said Vera.

This answer seemed to irritate him. 'you
value the smiles of your brilliant circle, then, so
much," he said, "that it is nothing to you to
miss the joys of a home life, of kindred and
association ? What are you smiling at ? "

I am smiling at such a question from the
lips of a man who has lived for ten or twelve
years in Central Asia."

I have not lived all the time in Central

Asia. But what is there in that to make you
smile?"

I was thinking how great your appreciation
of the 'joys of a home life, kindred, and association
' must have been."

I am not a woman."

'* I am a woman  and an artist too."

He rose and stood before Vera, his deep-set
eyes blazing as they looked into hers. 'rare
you so utterly without feeling, then," he said,
'that an artist's life is more to you than that of
an ordinary woman ? "

Her eyes fell before his. " There is a French
proverb, Mr. Eavenscroft," she said, "which
holds true in this case as in many others : ' Si
Ton n'a pas ce qu'on aime, il faut aimer ce qu'on
a.' If I cannot lead the ordinary woman's life,
I must content myself with the artist's. But
that is putting the matter on too low a level. I
love my life as a singer, and I would not readily
give it up."

Mr. Eavenscroft turned away and began pacing
the floor with slow uneven steps. Presently he
paused and looked out of the window : in this
position, without turning his head, he spoke.

'' I said I had something to tell you. Vera."

Yes, Mr. Eavenscroft."

"Will you come here and look at the stars
while I tell it to you ? "

His voice was very gentle. Vera went up to
him trembling, she knew not why. He had
drawn the curtains aside, and was looking into
the garden at the back of the house  a larger
and pleasant garden than is often found in that
part of London. The dim shapes of trees and
shrubs were hardly distinguishable in the starlit
darkness ; a soft breath of perfume reached their
nostrils from below. Ravenscroft unfolded his
arms and took the girl's hand in his.

I have a gift for you," he said, '' for which
1 am not sure that you will thank me. You
have spoken of yourself as friendless and lonely.
Friendless in one sense you are not, but you
mean that you have no relations living ? "

'none of whom I have ever heard."

Look at the stars, Vera. I want you to be
soft and tame and gentle before I say what I
have to say. I wish you could see the glory of
the heavens as I have seen it ; the boldest heart
bows beneath its influence. Well, Vera, should
you be glad if you could find your own relations?"

Vera could not answer him. A certain
dizziness came over her. iV vision of possibilities
of which she had long; ceased to dream suddenly

turned her sick and faint. In another moment
she found his arm around her and heard him
speaking tenderly.

Poor little one ! so brave and yet so weak !
How could you think of standing alone in this
rough world, Vera? You have kith and kin,
child ; you are not so lonely as you thought. I
come from your mother's father, who has made
me the bearer of a message to you. Look up,
Vera. Will you not own that you are a little
glad?"

Vera drew herself away from him and pushed
back her hair. " I may be glad when I have
time to think," she said breathlessly, " but now
I cannot understand "

*' Ah ! it must be difficult to believe at first.
I can assure you that relations are not always
the most desirable possessions in the world.
Well, are you ready to listen ? Your grandfather
is living ; he deeply regrets the long
separation between himself and you and your
mother, and he begs you to go and see him as
soon as possible."

"Where? AVho "

'who is he? His name, my dear Vera, is
Richard Hervey; he lives in Lincolnshire ; and 
such is the curious coincidence !  he is my

mother's cousin. Consequently, little as you
have thought, but as I have long known, you
are a relation of mine, fair lady ; second cousin
once removed, or something of that sort, I
believe."

"It is not possible ! " Vera said faintly. " You
cannot be in earnest, Mr. Eavenscroft ? "

In sober earnest, child, and only sorry that
I cannot introduce you to a pleasant set of
relatives. You will make friends with Olivia,
however ; you and she have a trifling third
cousinship between you ; but you have a dragon
to face in the shape of my mother, and a sort of
learned ogre in the person of mr. Eichard Hervey.
Wel, are you pleased ? "

' No," said Vera briefly ; and sitting down
she hid her face in her hands.

'' I hardly thought you would be," he answered,
beginning to pace the room in his old impatient
fashion. This action presently brought Mademoiselle
de Lusignan to herself; for, seeing his
discomfiture, she begged him to come and sit
dowTi beside her and explain how these things
came to pass.

'' They are easily told," he said, accepting the
seat she offered him, but without banishing the
frown from his face. '' Your mother's name was

Mabel Hervey. She ran away from home with a
German music-master, and when he died, after
your birth, she fell into poverty. Your grandfather
refused to forgive her "

"And yet he expects me to go and see
him!"

He says he had no notion of her real distress,
and when she was led into that marriage with
Stanger, of which lie took care to inform old
Hervey, he cast her off completely. But afterwards
his heart softened  or so he says ; you
must not expect me to be very respectful towards
your grandfather. Vera ; all that I can say is
that I never saw much trace of its softening 
and now he wants you to go to him." Then
Gaston gave in as few words as possible a
short account of the way in which he had
discovered the fact of Vera's relationship to
Mr. Hervey and his reasons for withholding it
from her.

So you knew all the time ?" said Vera in a
bewildered way. " You helped me because I was
one of your family  not out of pure kindliness
"

Not at all," said Gaston promptly. " What
a Don Quixote I must have appeared to you all
these years ! Divest your mind of the superfluous

gratitude with which you seem to have
regarded me, my dear child, and learn the true
name of your benefactor. It was your grandfather
who sent you to school and to Germany :
I was only his steward  a very insignificant
person. You can judge now why I objected to
your letters of thanks."

Vera covered her face with her hands and
made no reply.

"I told Hervey," Gaston proceeded coolly,
"that he ought to have taken you home to
Netherbyby years ago. 1 pointed that remark the
other day, when he brought himself to inquire
about you, by observing that I was particularly
struck by the tender feeling that had made him
decline to see you so long as you were in need of
help, and seek you out as soon as you were successful
and admired."

Oh, Mr. Eavenscroft ! you did not say
that : "

Indeed I did, and more. Never mind : he
paid me back in my own coin. A bitter tongue
has Eichard Hervey. Poor child ! " he said,
suddenly regarding her, ' I am not giving you
a very pleasant impression of your nearest
relation, am I ? The notion of your being old
Hervey's granddaughter. Vera, always had in it
VOL. II. 28

something inexpressibly droll to me. You are
so unlike him, and yet you have some of his
traits, as your poor mother had  the delicate
features, the fair hair and complexion, the broad,
low brows."

"" Do you remember my mother 1 " Vera said
in a stifled voice.

He was silent for a moment.

Very slightly, Vera," he said more gently.
I wish  for your sake  that I remembered
her better." Then he sat beside her for sometime
without speaking.

Vera," he said at last, leaning forward so as
to see her better in the dim light, and touching her
hand with his own, " I have told you this matter
roughly, bluntly, not remembering how greatly
it must move you. If I could have done it
better I would. But by and by, when you have
thought over it, will you not forget the roughness
and the bluntness, and be glad of the home and
the friends that are offered you ? "

I do not know. I have never seen my grandfather."


'' I wonder, then, whether you will be glad to
think that there are others related to you beside
your grandfather ? I am your cousin, Vera.
May I be glad of that, if you are not ? "

"You  glad?" Vera repeated. Her senses
were in a whirl, and lie could hardly understand
what he meant, until she found that her hand
was imprisoned and carried to his lips.

Yes, glad," he said. " My proud Vera, who
scorned my gifts ! I am glad that you are of my
race and kindred, and that I have some little
right to care for you apart from any dearer right
that I hope to earn. Some day  surely some
day. Vera  you will tell me you too are glad
that we have found you and claimed you as our
own."

He spoke so tenderly and yet so impetuously
that she did not dare to interrupt him. But a
great terror fell upon her. His own % It seemed
to her as though Davy's voice resounded in her
ears and bade her once again '' beware of Gaston
Kavenscroft," as if a dead woman's form rose
threateningly between her and the strong man
at her side.

'No, no!" she cried, scarcely knowing what
she said. " No, I am not glad. I am sorry 
and shall be sorry all my life."

She lost control over herself and burst into a
passion of tears. Mr. Kavenscroft rose and stood
looking down at her, as if suddenly startled and
perplexed.

' Child," lie said presently, " you will think
differently by and by. I will come again tomorrow.
Believe me, Vera, you may still be
glad of the news that I have brought."

Ho went without waiting for a reply.

HER OWN KITH And Kin.

Perhaps he was right. On the morrow Vera
had begun to take a certain satisfaction in the
knowledge that she had friends  English relations
of her own. When Ravenscroft saw her he took
her by the hands, looked into her face and
smiled.

How is it with you this morning ? " he said.
Have you rested ? Do you repent of all the
unkind things you said last night ? Or do you
still repudiate with horror the notion of a relationship
between us ? "

'I did not repudiate it, Mr. Eavenscroft."
Mr. Ravenscroft ! " he said, with an odd
look. 'ram I not to be favoured with my
privileges, then ? Don't you know. Vera, that
in England cousins call each other by their
Christian names ? "

*' But I am not an Englishwoman."

He drew his lips up as if he were going to
whistle, then dropped her hands, and surveyed
her from head to foot.

So that is the line you are going to take, is
it ? Very well, Mademoiselle Vera. You will
soon alienate your grandfather's heart, if you
express that sentiment so strongly."

"I do not know that I shall express it
strongly," Vera said. " I feel it strongly. My
either was a German, and I am of his race. I
have not been a great deal in England. I love
England  yes ; but if my grandfather had
wanted me to feel as an Englishwoman should,
he should have found me and my mother earlier,
and saved her from the miserable life she led 
and from a broken heart. Do you think I did
not know of her unhappiness ? Did I not know
what sacrifices she made for me ? I ought not
to say this to you, or perhaps to any one ; but if
Mr. Hervey tells me to forget my father, I shall
say it all to him."

Be reasonable. Vera. Your grandfather is
an old man. Remember that he had been disappointed
 disobeyed : it is hard for a man to
forget such treatment from an only child."

I think you ought not to say that to my

mother's daughter," said Vera, walking away'
from him.

Oh yes, you are very proud, Vera : one
knows that already. But you can confer an
obligation now. You can let him have the
pleasure of feeling that he can treat you at least
as he ought to have treated your mother ; that
he can love you as he loved her ; that through
you she forgives him "

Does he need that love and forgiveness ? "
Vera asked. '' If he is old and feeble, if he wants
me to be a help and comfort to him  yes, then
for my mother's sake I will be ready. But I do
not know my grandfather. Is he ill or weak,
or in need of anything that I can give \ "

Mr. Kavenscroft's face changed singularly
whilst she was speaking. Impatience, scorn,
amusement, flitted across it in turn ; and when,
after a moment's pause, he answered, it was with a
sarcastic laugh and in a harsh and grating voice.

' I know precious little about your grandfather.
Vera. He has never been anxious for my
acquaintance. You had better go and see him,
and then you can judge for yourself."

He has not written to me."

He never writes letters. He sends you
every kind of gracious message that can be

devised ; and particularly wishes you to understand
that if you will come and live with him,
you will be the mistress of his house and of
course the heiress of his fortune  which is considerable."


Does that mean that he wishes me to leave
my profession ? "

"Why, yes," said Mr. Eavenscroft coolly.
'' Old country gentlemen  even with Hervey's
artistic tastes  do not care about having a granddaughter
singing in public "

You ask me to be reasonable," said Vera,
rising to her feet. *' This is reasonable indeed !
He casts my mother out of doors, he leaves me
to be supported by charity; and when I have
made my own position and have learned to love
my art, he says to me  ' Come away : leave the
work to which you have been trained for so
many years until it is like a second nature to
you, until it is as your life, and as the very blood
that flows in your veins : leave it and I will give
you a comfortable house, a soft bed, good dinners,
and, at my death, perhaps a fortune  and then,
when you have renounced all that is most dear
to you, and buried your powers and your success,
I shall feel that I have atoned for the cruelty
that let your mother toil and strive and die

without lifting; a fino-er to save her from life that
was worse than death.' No, Mr. Eavenscroft :
Mr. Hervey's offers have no charm for me. Once
and for all, I decline them"'

He argued with her ; upbraided her for her
obstinacy, as he called it ; talked himself at last
into a very bad humour, and said some things
which galled and cut the proud girl to the quick.
He was never very careful to spare Vera's feelings
; but he overstepped the limits of prudence
when at last he accused her of an unwomanly
love for independence, of a wish to set the
ordinary laws of society at defiance, of a preference
for a life where she was not bound to choose
her friends from her own station  " but mioiit

o

fraternise with any adventurer or Bohemian who

took her fancy "

This is too much," she said. '' I have no
desire to listen to you any further. There is the
door : you will oblige me by going out of it, and
not returning until you have learned what are the
things that you ought not to say to a woman
with any self-respect. None of the ' adventurers '
or ' Bohemians,' as you choose to designate my
friends, would dream of employing towards me
such insulting  such grossly insulting  words as
Mr. Gaston Eavenscroft has thought fit to use

in speaking to a ' friendless ' and ' unprotected '
girl."

Heroics, Vera % " he said with a cold smile.
"I should not have expected them from you."

Evidently he did not intend to go. But Vera
had rung the bell sharply : . Janet appeared at
the door to show him out. He had no alternative.
He made a low, mocking bow, to which
Vera returned a very slight bend of her head,
and then departed.

He came next day, but she was angry still,
and would not see him. On the Wednesday she
had a bad headache, and was again denied to
him. In the evening he sent her a magnificent
bouquet of hot-house flowers. The season was
nearly over : she had one or two concert engagements
to fulfil, and then she made up her mind
that she would leave town. One thing onh*
held her back from making this decision. She
could not go until she had heard from Maurice
Guyon.

Another call, another bouquet, and a penitent
note, induced Vera at last to receive her offending
cousin. He found her engaged in arranging
flowers and ferns in a little open basket. At first
neither spoke. He stood beside her gloomily, and
looked at the exotics in her hand.

What are you doing this for ? " he asked at
length.

I am taking your stiff bouquet to pieces," she
answered. 'you will see that the flowers look
prettier when they are separated. The ferns come
from my tiny conservatory. When the basket is full
I am going to take it to the Children's Hospital."

'' Is that the way you treat my gifts % "

Am I a child that you have been trying to
propitiate me with gifts during the last few days ?
Here is your bracelet : I found it ingeniously
fastened round the stems ol the stephanotis.
Give it to some one who values gifts made in
such a spirit."

"Ah, Vera," he said, looking at her with
wonder, " you are not like other women. These
pretty toys "  he took the bracelet on the tips of
his fingers as he spoke  " are the things for which
some women sell their souls."

I should very much doubt, then," said Vera
sharply, '' whether they had souls to sell ! "

He laughed a little, and his brow cleared.
Do you not forgive me. Vera ? " he said.

If my forgiveness is worth anything, I give
it to you," she answered him.

"Wear this bracelet in remembrance of the
forgiveness, then."

Oh, no. No more gifts if you please, Mr.
Ravenscroft."

Then what am I to do with it ? " he said ina
bad-humoured tone. " I suppose you are aware
that it is not very useful to me."

'take it to Miss Eavenscroft," said Vera, laughing.
" And now  I am not inclined to quarrel
with you again this morning  can we drive you
anywhere ? Mrs. Cradock and I are going to
take flowers and fruit to our little friends in Great
Ormond Street. You have never been into the
garden : come and see the mulberries. The fruit
trees are all laden this year."

She led the way into the garden, and showed
him the lawn and the one great mulberry-tree, the
plots of flowers and fruit-bushes, and the sunflowers
standing in a row against the lichen-stained
red-brick wall. She did not want him to
reopen the subject of her relations with her
grandfather, and therefore she talked on every
possible subject with much more volubility than
was her wont. But once he interrupted her to
say with a scrutinising glance,

'you are not looking well. Vera. Are you
working too hard '? "

Not at all. My work is almost over. I am
going away for a holiday very soon. And then

I have had two offers : one to go to St. Petersburg,
and one to remain in England and sing at
a series of concerts during the inter."

Which shall you accept ?"

I do not know. The St. Petersburg offer is
the more lucrative, and I should like to see
Russia. But I want to stay in England too."

"And your holiday  why not spend it at
Netherbyby, and learn to know your relations ? "

Vera started. The idea was a new one, but
not altogether unpleasing. " I will think over it,"
she said slowly. "I might do. that, perhaps."
And then, with more tact than Ravenscroft
usually showed, he changed the subject by remarking
on the beauty of the geraniums.

He seemed determined not to leave Vera alone
that day. He lunched with her and Mrs. Cradock,
drove with them into town, insisted upon largely
adding to their provision of flowers at a florist's
shop, went with them even to the hospital. Here
Vera would gladly have dispensed with his presence,
for she had promised to sing to the convalescent
children, and she would rather have had
no other listeners. But he haunted her footsteps,
observing her curiously as she went with her little
presents from one bedside to another, listening,
looking, now and then asking a question of the

attendants, which showed that he was interested
in the sight.

One poor little man, to whom the prettiest
flowers and the best toy had been given, because
he was in pain, murmured to the nurse,

** I wish the gentleman would come too."

AVhat gentleman \ " Vera asked.

"It's a gentleman who has been here a good
deal lately," was the answer. *' He sits and talks
to the children, and amuses one or other of them
for an hour at a time some days. A Mr. Guy on,
T believe."

Vera felt her cheeks flush, and glanced involuntarily
at Gaston Ravenscroft, knowing how
much he disliked to hear that name ; but his face
was turned aside.

'has he not been here lately?" she asked,
stooping down to lift a wooden soldier that had
fallen to the floor.

Not for three weeks or a month. I suppose
he must be out of London, and Micky is always
asking when he is coming back. I was told that
he came first with a child who had been run over
in his arms ; and he has often been since then."

Vera sang with a light heart that afternoon.
Was it not good to hear of kindness and gentleness
silently bestowed on little children ? There

was one thing, at least, of which Vera henceforth
felt certain  that Maurice Guyon's unexplained
absence did not come from any coldness or hardness
of heart. The thought of his visits pleased
her more than an announcement which she saw
a few days later in a newspaper, that " Gaston
Eavenscroft, Esquire," had made a handsome
donation to this hospital.

For the moment ]Mr. Eavenscroft's brow was
very gloomy. He refused to be driven back again,
refused to dine with Vera, and strode away impatiently
when he had bidden her farewell. '' My
dear," said Mrs. Cradock, looking after him with
some amaze, "your cousin, Mr. Eavenscroft 
how odd it is that you should be his cousin ! 
is kind-hearted, but he does not possess the blessing
of a good temper."

Vera laughed, and agreed with her.

Mr. Eavenscroft's ill-humour lasted, in fact,
until Sunday, when, having obtained the general
invitation which was all that was necessary for
Vera's informal receptions, he made his appearance
in the course of the afternoon. The day "was
remarkably inclement for that time of year : the
rain was falling fast, the wind howling. A brisk
fire burned in the grate ; there were many flowers
in the room, which looked bright and cheerful.

Mr. Kavenscroft drew a low chair near the fire,
and sank into it with a sigh of relief.

AVhat a pretty room you have, Vera ! " he
said. " To come here out of the wind and rain
and turmoil outside is to enter a veritable paradise."


That is high praise from you' said Vera, as
she brought him his tea, which he took carelessly
from her hand like one accustomed to attention,
with scarcely a word of thanks. " How many
houris do you expect to minister to you when
you get there ? "

He looked up, laughing, but a little confused.
'" I beg your pardon," he said. " I did not notice
that you were bringing me my cup of nectar.
Do you hope to see many of your friends on a
day like this ? "

'' No, one or two have been and gone. You
are the last comer."

' I brought you no flowers to-day ; I did not
dare. What flowers do you like best of all,
Vera?"

"Violets, I think."

'' Yes, you are as fond of them, I notice, as any
Bonaparte. Well, may I bring you violets ? "

Thanks, I have plenty. I would rather not
trouble you."

There are violets in the garden," said Mrs.
Cradock, sleepily, from a distant corner, " and in
the greenhouse too  Russian violets."

There was a momentary silence. " What
were you reading ? " said ]mr. Kavenscroft with
some chilliness of tone. " A French book ? "

A translation only." Vera surrendered the
volume to his hand rather apprehensively, and
saw his eye sparkle and the veins on his temple
begin to throb as she did so. The book was a
version of the poems of the Russian author,
Poussin.

'russian! Russian! always Russian!" said
her visitor, turning over the leaves with a scornful
air. " Why do you read such trash ? How
honos is this Russian craze sfoino to last ? '' And
then he threw the volume contemptuously to the
ground, open, face downwards, with some of the
leaves starting out. '' Why were you called by
a Russian name, too ? That is what I have
often wanted to know."

When you have restored to me the poor
book that you have treated so badly, perhaps I
will tell you," said Vera with indifference which
ill masked her resentment.

Instead of answering, he got up, went to the
tea-table and presented his cup to Mrs. Cradock

VOL. II. 29

for more tea. He drank it standing, replaced
his cup on the table, and came back to the fireside
wiping his long moustache and saying,

*' Upon my word ! so I am to fetch and carry
for you now. Mademoiselle Vera ! '

Vera sat motionless and silent, with a mutinous
look on her fair face. He smiled, gathered
up the scattered leaves, smoothed them and put
them into their right places, then restored them
to her with a low bow.

Your serenity would be incomprehensible tome,"
he said, seating himself beside her with a
friendly air, " but that I know whence you derive
it. And what about the name ? "

Another time ; I had forgotten something
that I meant to ask you, Mr. Eavenscroft "

Are you never going to acknowledge our
relationship, mademoiselle ? "

I want to know what led my grandfather to
think of me after so many years. You say that
he does not read newspapers."

Oh, your name was casually mentioned to
him," said Gaston, in an offhand way.

By you ? "

"No, by a visitor."

'' What visitor ? "

' How should I know ? " said Eavenscroft.

You do know. Your eyes don't meet mine
truthfully. It is not your nature to be deceitful."

Thank you, Vera, for the compliment. Well,
if you particularly dsh to hear," he said carelessly,
'* it was a person with whom you are
acquainted  one Gaston Eavenscroft, who has
made your name pretty familiar to your grandfather
for some years."

I have to thank you then "

Not at all. You never thank me for anything
from your heart."

*' I do indeed, Gaston," said Vera softly.

It was a difficult matter for her to pronounce
the name, but she was repaid for the effort by
the undisguised light of pleasure that broke over
his dark face when she had said it.

'' At last ! " he said. " Why, this is an improvement,
thank Heaven ! I began to think
that I should never hear that word from you. I
never liked the name so well before."

He stood upright and looked down at her
with a wonderful softening of the stern features
of his face.

'rare you beginning to relent. Vera?" he
said. " Is that remarkable coldness of demeanour
going to give place to something a little
warmer ? I think it is. Come, let me take advantage

of this happy moment ! When will you
go down with me to Netherbyby ? "

Vera yielded. She promised to write to Mr.
Hervey and propose a short visit at the end of
the month. He gave her no time for reflection ;
he made her write the letter there and then, and
took it away with him to post.

In a day or two there was an answer. Mr.
Hervey wrote politely, not tenderly, begging
Vera to come at her earliest convenience. So
she fixed the day for a visit to Netherbyby Manor.

But on the same day she wrote a note to the
address that Maurice Guyon had given her at
Micldeham. She felt as if she could not bear his
silence any longer.

When she left London for Netherbyby a few
days afterwards, there had been no answer to her
letter.

Mr. Eavenscroft travelled north with her, and
took pleasure in providing for all her wants.
Vera asked him once what had become of Franklyn.
He seemed surmised by the question.

'franklin?" he said, and paused. "Oh.
he has married and settled somewhere  at a
public - house, I think. I should not have
thought that you would remember Franklin'"
he added.

I remember him very well," Vera answered,
thinking of the other strangers to whom she had
been introduced on the day of her first journey
to Netherbyby  the Baroness, Mrs. Philip Heavens
Olivia. The remembrance of that evening
amongst them had power even then to dye her
cheeks scarlet and to make her veil her eyes.
Mr. Ravenscroft, who had been watching her
closely, divined her thoughts. They were alone
in the railway carriage. He leaned over from
his seat, and spoke energetically.

You had better forget those old days. Vera.
If you do not recall them, nobody else will."

Vera looked at him helplessly and said nothing.

If my mother questions you, say as little as
possible about me. If she is insolent or unkind,
tell me at once. You will make your own
way with Felicia and her daughter. As to your
grandfather"  he shrugged his shoulders  "I
must leave you to your own devices there. I
have neither advice nor assistance to give. Except
 there is one thing  don't make a pet of
that young scamp, Lance Aylmer. It would be
useless to pretend that you have a very easy part
to play ; but you are a brave woman, Vera, and
a woman with brains, and you are not likely to
lose either heart or head because you meet with

difficulties. For my part," he added, drawing
back, and looking at her with a critical cool
smile, " I am rather curious to see what line you
will take. I must confess that at present I have
not the faintest idea."

MR. hervey's granddaughter.

At Netherbyby Station Mr. Hervey's carriage was
drawn up in waiting for Mademoiselle de Lusignan,
side by side with Madame Waldstein's phaeton
for her son. It was Lance Aylmer who came
forward to greet Vera, and to tell her that he had
been commissioned to escort her to the Manor,
and to make j\Ir. Hervey's excuses to her for not
meeting her in person.

Gaston Kavenscroft's brow contracted at this
message.

And he sent you instead," he remarked in a
curiously dry voice. ' Well ! " The contemptuous
displeasure of his manner was so obvious that
Lance's cheek reddened with confusion, and he
glanced at Vera in troubled and ingenuous
apology.

'* I am very sorry," he said, " but Mr. Hervey

wished me to come. I hope that you do not
mind ; he was afraid of the heat, and thought
that you would excuse him."

I do not mind at all," she answered, frankly
giving him her hand, and wondering whether he
were an inmate of her grandfather's house. " I
should have been sorry if he had inconvenienced
himself at all for me."

And yet her heart sank a little at this sort of
reception.

You are coming with me, are you not ? " she
asked, seeing that Gaston held back when she
was seated in the carriage.

'' Hm, no ; I think not."

' Mr. Hervey is expecting you," said Lance,
who was still standing in the road. " Madame
Waldstein is there, and Mrs. Eavenscroft and
Olivia."

Gaston turned his head sharply as if something
displeased him in this address ; then seemed
to recollect himself, and answered with stiff
civility :

'' Thank you, I will come."

He took the place beside Vera, and was very
silent during the drive. Occasionally his eyes
rested with an expression of distaste and dislike
upon the boy before him ; but Lancelot seemed

to take no notice of these glances. He was occupied
in talking to Vera in an easy, graceful way,
which she found peculiarly attractive ; there
was a pretty, chivalrous deference in it which
was charming. The boy's brown eyes and sweet
smile were so winning that she marvelled at Mr.
Ravenscroft's hardly concealed aversion to him.

But when they reached Netherbyby Manor, Vera
forgot all about Lancelot in the intensity of her
excitement. She sat erect, clasping her hands
before her ; her heart beat loud and fast ; she
could scarcely hear the remarks that her companions
made.

The door flew open ; servants appeared as if
by magic on the steps and in the hall. Gaston
helped her to alight, and gave her his arm as
they entered the house. Vera felt that curious
eyes were upon her ; but the self-possession induced
by training came to her aid. Her eyes
indeed swam, her ears tingled, her heart throbbed,
as it was not wont to do in public ; yet she
walked and moved and spoke with the dignity of
a princess.

Mr. Hervey met her in the hall. Gaston led
her up to him, and allowed her to take her hand
gently from his arm. She raised her eyes to her
grandfather's face, and saw therein something

sufficiently like her mother's to make it easier for
her to receive his proffered welcome than she had
ever thought that it would be. He kissed her
considerately and delicately, first on one cheek
and then on the other, and did not speak until
this greeting was concluded.

'My dear granddaughter," he said, "I am
23roud and happy to welcome you to the house
which I trust will henceforward be your home."

There was more gallantry than affection in his
manner ; it was the perfection of courtesy ; but
there was not the slightest trace of feeling in it.
He gave the tips of his fingers to Vera as if he
were about to lead her out in a minuet, and said
politely :

'Let me conduct you to the drawing-room.
There you will find other relatives and friends as
anxious as myself to make your acquaintance."

I shall be glad to see them," Vera said gently.
It was the first time that she had opened her lips
in his house, and she could see that he paid
special attention to her voice when she spoke.
They passed through a softly - carpeted corridor
into a large room with windows and fireplace at
either end ; so large a room that the little group
of people who received them looked curiously
insignificant.

Allow me to present my granddaughter to
you, Baroness," said Mr. Hervey in his most
polished tones to a lady in an armchair. *' I am
sure that you will receive her with affection for
her dear mother's sake. My first cousin. Vera,
Madame Waldstein ; your cousin also  twice
removed."

He dropped the girl's arm. Vera made the
little half foreign curtsey to which she had grown
accustomed in Germany, but she did not offer
her hand. It was the same fairy godmother ina
wheeled chair whom she remembered of old ;
it was the same shrill, imperious little voice that
spoke as it had spoken to her years before.

Do you think I need an introduction to her?
I have seen her before, remember. And a queer
little thing you were, my dear. Do you still sing
the very highly-flavoured songs with which you
favoured us when you were ten years old ? "

If Mr. Hervey's politeness had silenced Vera,
Madame Waldstein's aigre-doux question had the
effect of restoring to her both her self-possession
and her powers of speech.

Madame," she said, meeting her eyes fearlessly,
" if I sing to you again, you shall select
my songs."

The old lady seemed amused. ' It is well not

to be over-confident of one's own taste, certainly,"
she said, looking the girl all over with her pitiless
bright eyes, '' and as long as any doubt remains,
my dear, you do quite right to be prudent."

' Pardon me, madam e, if I say that in such a
matter, and under your discerning eyes, mere
prudence would avail me very little."

Madame Waldstein raised her eyebrows, half
turned round and nodded significantly towards
Mr. Hervey.

She has got the family tongue, this girl ! "
she ejaculated. ' She bears that resemblance, at
least, to her grandfather, Eichard."

She bears several others," said a fresh clear
voice ; and then Olivia came up and took Vera
by the hand. " Can you not see how much she
is like Cousin Eichard, grand mamma ?  I beg
your pardon for talking about you in this way,"
she said with a frank and friendly smile. " You
do not remember me, though I have seen you
once; I am your Cousin Olivia."

I remember you very well," said Vera, feeling
glad to see a friendly face. Olivia drew her
forward towards the other ladies in the room.
' This is mamma," she said, " and my great
friend Countess Zaranoff"."

Mrs. Eavenscroft kissed her newly-found

relation kindly, but with a certain reserve of
manner. The Countess Zaranoff oreetecl hero



with a cordiality that seemed effusive in contrast
with Felicia's coolness. It was noticeable
that Olivia assumed the lead on this occasion
with a tranquillity that showed that she was
accustomed to reign over the household.

Vera was placed in a large low armchair, and
drank tea, in a conveniently central position,
while her relations looked at her a good deal,
rather furtively, and talked to her a little, in a
somewhat constrained and uncomfortable way.
Mr. Hervey treated her with marked distinction,
as if she were an honoured guest. Madame
Waldstein put up her eye-glasses and surveyed
her keenly from time to time as she conversed
with Gaston, who stood behind her chair and
behaved as though he had never seen Mademoiselle
de Lusignan in his life before. Mrs.
Ravenscroft was silent, gentle, observant.
None of these four gave Vera much held in what
she felt to be an exceedingly difficult position.

Presently, however, Olivia asked Mr. Hervey'
if she might take Vera to her room, and then
Madame Waldstein remarked that she ouo-ht tribe
going home.

"So I will say good-bye to you for the present,

Eichard," she said. " I have done my duty now,
I think. Good-bye, my dear," she added, holding-out
her hand to Vera. " You may come to seeme
tomorrow. Yes, Olivia is right, you are
very like your grandfather  and your mother
too ; but I suppose you inherited your black
brows from your father? Don't you know,
Eichard, that it is said that persons with hair
and eyebrows differing in colour are never to be
trusted ?  You are very nicely dressed, my dear ;
quietly too, that is one comfort "

Your compliments are difficult of appreciation,
madame ; they are caviare to the general,"
said Mr. Hervey coldly. "Vera has evidently
inherited taste from me, if nothing else's'

His eyes rested approvingly on her dress ashe
spoke. It was as simple and quiet as gray
and black could be ; but she had taken care that
the texture should be fine, and the cut as perfect
as an English dressmaker could make it ; also
that all smaller details of her costume should be
absolutely irreproachable. Vera was always
careful about her dress ; she had bestowed fastidious
pains on the choice and arrangement of
the one in which she was first to meet her
grandfather. Her choice seemed to have met
with a kind of success.

' I think that you and grand mamma are both
very rude," said Olivia boldly. " Who likes to
be discussed to one's face \  or even to be complimented
! I shall take my cousin away to her
own room."

"Wait a minute," said Madame Waldstein, still
holding Vera by the hand and examining her
face with her brilliant dark eyes  so like those
of her son, which were also bent upon the stranger
in a keen unsmiling gaze; "how long are you
going to stay at Netherbyby Manor, my dear ? "

"I have not yet been able to decide that
question, madame."

For ever, I hope," said her grandfather, not
unkindly. " For as long as she chooses, at any
rate."

She won't stay," said the Baroness dryly.
She has too much spirit for that, Richard. You
may kiss me, child. I am your relation, after
all, and I don't think you are very unlike
myself"

Vera gravely kissed the delicate old cheek
presented to her, and then retired with Olivia,
who darted the sauciest of glances at her
grandmother and at Lancelot as she left the

room.

She linked her arm in Vera's as they went

upstairs together, and spoke to her with the
careless outspokenness which was one of her
characteristics.

The ordeal is over," she said. " You will
not find grand mamma so terrible at a second
interview. Cousin Vera. I assure you that I
tried to rebel ; I said that it was positively inhuman
to make you face us all in a crowd ; but I
had nobody on my side at all except Lance. Even
dear mamma could not see that there was anything
alarming in the solemn reception of our
newly-found relation. She called it 'a welcome
!

I will accept it in that spirit," Vera said
with a smile.

"And allow me to tell you that you won
grand mamma's heart  I could see that you did 
by not being afraid of her. I expect you to
supersede me in her affections altogether, because,
although I am never afraid of her myself, I often
have to look as if I were, in order to please my
mother, who cannot bear madame to be thwarted.
I place you on a family footing at once, you see,
by instructing you in the family politics. Here
is your room."

It was a very pretty room, with a view from
the window of the village and church. There

was also a sitting-room opening out of the bedroom,
and a tiny dressing-room on another side.
The luggage had been unstrapped, and a maid
was in waiting to unpack the boxes, but Vera
declined her offices, rather to Olivia's wonder,
and took off her bonnet and cloak without assistance.


"Can I do anything for you?" said Miss
Ravenscroft, who was standing with her hands
behind her in an attitude which possessed a somewhat
boyish grace. '' Can I not help you?"

She looked so pretty, so frank, so confident,
at that moment, that an impulse of admiration
and affection overpowered Vera's gravity and
reserve. She turned and laid her hands upon
her cousin's arm.

'you have helped me already. Help me
again," she said. " I want somebody to love ;
let me love you."

Olivia threw her arms round Vera's neck and
kissed her.

'* I love you already," she said decidedly.
"You will be a sister to me, will you not? I
have wanted a sister all my life."

The alliance thus made proved a useful one
to Vera. Olivia told her cousin as much as she
could recollect concerning the arrangements of
VOL. II. 30

the house, the different members of the family, the
neighbours who might be expected to call. She
gave some shrewd hints respecting Mr. Hervey's
tastes and habits, and finally helped to select the
dress that Vera was to wear that evening.

Mamma and I are going to dine here," she
said. " lima Zaranoff and Uncle Gaston will stay
with grand mamma." Then, catching a look of
surprise, perhaps of disappointment, on Vera's
face, she added quickly and lightly, " You need
not expect to see Uncle Gaston here very often.
He and cousin Eichard don't agree very well.
The fact is. Vera dear, your arrival has been
the signal for a general family reconciliation ; today
is the first time that grand mamma has
entered this house for years, and hitherto Uncle
Gaston has been only on business. Mamma does
not approve of family feuds, so she has always
made a point of calling regularly; and I  well,
I come now and then to amuse Lance."

"And who is Lance?"

A ward of Mr. Hervey's; the son of somebody
who is always vaguely alluded to as ' Ayl-
mer of the Guards,' you know," said Olivia, with
a touch of mimicry in her tone. " A dear boy 

not at all like other boys of his age " and

there she stopped short and blushed, j

*' A boy!" said Vera. " I suppose that he is
older than you ? "

"Oh no,"  a little consciously,  "he is some
months younger ; and a girl is much older thana
boy at that age, don't you think so? At least,
so people say."

She turned her back to Vera, and looked at
herself in the mirror, with a pretence of arranging
the rebellious little curls upon her forehead.
" I think that I look older," she said,
assuming a critical air. " I look twenty at the
very least."

Eighteen," said Vera.

' Do you think so  really ? " Then she turned
round and caught her cousin smiling. "I am
very silly, am I not ? " she said penitently.
Mamma often tells me so ; and madame la
grandsire says that I shall come to a bad end 
what end can that be, I wonder? unless it is
breaking one's neck over a bad fence on a huntingdon.
Did you ever ride to hounds. Vera?"

Never. I cannot ride."

"Really? You don't mean it? You would
look so well in a habit, too. Have you never
ridden at all?"

I think that the only time that I was ever
on a horse's back was the day when Mr. Ravens-croft

took me away from Madame Waldstein's
house before him on Black Auster's back."

Olivia eyed her cousin curiously for a moment.
You say that quietly, Vera," she remarked,
'' but you say it bitterly too. Ah yes, if my
mother had not been carried away by her anxiety
for me, you would have found your place in this
house long ago. If you had stayed with us,
your grandfather would have grown fond of you
when he returned from France. He had started
a week or two before. As it was, we drove you
away, when you came to our doors, and helped
to prejudice him against you. It was very hard
on you, and I have often told mamma so."

"Dear Olivia," Vera said, feeling her eyes
grow dim, " Mrs. Eavenscroft was perfectly justified.
You don't know what a neglected, untrained
little creature I was. She was very
kind to me. Do you know that I still have the
coral necklace she gave me ? I have often worn
it and thought of you  the fairy-girl, I used to
call you to myself."

"You darling!" Olivia exclaimed quickly; "1
don't believe that you ever would do anything
that was not sweet and good ! Oh, Uncle Gaston
has talked to me about you ! If I were not very
magnanimous I should be madly jealous of you

by this time ! But mamma was to blame ; and
she thinks so now. I must admit"  with a
little shrug of her shoulders  '"' that her conversion
is mainly due to my arguments."

A\niat does ]mr. Eavenscroft say about me?"

''What does he not say? Of course, you
sing divinely, we know that ; and you are very
much liked and esteemed by your numerous acquaintances
: all that goes without sang, does
it not ? But Uncle Gaston adds (in confidence
to me, you understand) that if anybody beside
Evelyn Hope was ever made of * spirit, fire, and
dew you are ' that great, that inexpressive she.'
I supplied him with the exact words of the
(potation, but he had implied as much beforehand."


Vera shook her head. Olivia looked at her
and laughed.

I see that you are incredulous. You know
Uncle Gaston's curt and fiery style. I asked
him once what you were like. He answered,
The loveliest woman I ever saw.' (Don't blush,
Vera.) 'Yes,' I said; 'but what is her character
\ ' ' Saint Cecilia and Don Quixote,' he
answered, ' with a touch of Queen Titania into
the bargain ! ' And he maintained that he really
could not improve upon that description."

A description that shows what I have long
believed  that he has not the slightest insight
into my nature," Vera answered with some
indignation.

"Ah, never mind," said Olivia amazingly;
he admires if he does not understand."

"But I would rather that he understood,"
murmured Mademoiselle de Lusignan.

Vera dressed herself in white, according to
Olivia's bidding,  lie was arrayed in yellow,
which became her exceedingly ; and together
they descended to the drawing-room. The
dinner passed off quietly. Mr. Hervey gave
his arm to Vera when they went into the diningroom,
remarking quietly that on this first night
she was a guest, but that later she should assume
her rightful position. Vera began to see that
she would have to endure much opposition and
inflict some disappointment when she made it
clear that she did not intend to renounce her
own profession.

"Will you sing to us, Vera?" Olivia said
after dinner, as they stood by one of the open
windows of the drawing-room, inhaling the
sweetness of the summer air.

Vera liked the unconcerned frankness of her
request better than Mrs. Kavenscroft's low interposition

 '' Perhaps Vera would rather not sing,
Olivia ; " kindly as she knew that it was meant.

'' I should like to sing to you very much,"
she answered, " if you  if my grandfather 
would like it."

"Certainly' said Mr. Hervey, stretching
himself luxuriously in an easy-chair, and closing
his white eyelids with a look of bland enjoyment.
'' There is nothing that I like better than good
sinner. I heard a o;reat deal of music at one
time. Open the piano, Lance, for your  for
Vera."

He corrected himself nth unusual haste, and
opened his eyes to survey the others with a keen
look, as if he defied them to think that there
was anything laughable in his slip of the tongue.
Vera went to the piano, preferring to accompany
herself, although Mrs. Eavenscroft was a ver'
good accompanied.

She sang in rather a low voice, such as she
thought would suit the capacities of the room
and the delicate sensibilities of Mr. Hervey; and
she sang a little German song of which she was
particularly fond ; then an Ave Maria by Gore
and then a setting of two of william
Blake's " Songs of Infancy," arranged by Helen
Maxwell, and never published. And then she

paused, and, wondering if lie should sing again,
glanced at her hearers.

Mrs. Eavenscroft had dropped her work upon
her lap, and was listening with a dreamy lookin
her pathetic brown eyes, which at that moment
told more of the hidden sadness and blankness
in her life than perhaps she would have
cared to put into words. Olivia's bright face
was ablaze with vivid interest and enjoyment.
Lance had drawn close to the piano, and stood
listening intently with his head upon his hand.
Never had a singer a more appreciative audience.


But Vera's grandfather ? His face was in
shadow, for the wax candles on the piano only
were lighted, and the rest of the room was
dark. He spoke presently, in his usual suave
and courteous way.

'We are greatly obliged to you, my dear.
Your singing is a real enjoyment to the hearers.
Your voice, though more trained than that of
of any other member of our family, has in it
still some tones  with which  I seem to be
familiar." He waited for a moment and continued
with a little uncertainty of voice :
"Possibly you do not sing old English or Scotch
songs ? I myself value them only on the score

of their national character  there is something
quaint in them  something melodious, though
unscientific "

"Vera has been out of England so long that
perhaps she has not had the opportunity of
learning those simple airs," said Mrs. Ravens
gently.

I am very fond of them. I know some of
our English ballads," said Vera.

There is a volume at your side," Mr. Hervey
returned, speaking rather hurriedly, " where you
will find the more attractive melodies. There is
one which I have often wished to hear  although
perhaps it is not so old as some of them : do you
know it ? ' The Queen s Maries ? ' "

'' I know it well."

Vera did not need the music-book ; she sat
down and played the air of which he spoke, and,
for the first time, threw all the force and fervour
of which she was capable into words which can
scarcely be read even in cold blood without a
tear. Clearly and wildly rang out the plaintive
lines :

Yestreen the Queen had four Maries,
To-morrow she'll hae but three :
There was Mary Seaton and Mary Beaton,
And May Carmichael an' me."

At the end there was a pause. Then Mr.
Hervey rose very quietly and went out of the
room without a word. Had Vera found a soft
place in his heart after all ? For " The Queen's
Maries " had been her mother s favourite song.

GASTON S DEFEAT.

Vera had been three days in her grandfather s
house ; she had been called upon already by
half a dozen families, all eager to report upon
the appearance of Mr. Harvey's granddaughter.
And on the fourth day after her arrival, she satin
Madame Waldstein s drawing-room, drinking
tea, and answering to the best of her ability the
searching and cynical questions with which the
Baroness occasionally favoured her. The Hall
was a cheerful place, the resort of many persons.
Some came out of their liking for the Baroness'
society (she could be both witty and charming
when she chose) ; some out of friendship for
Felicia Ravenscroft, who was beloved and rather
pitied in the neighbourhood ; some out of admiration
for Olivia's fine eyes. Gaston was courted
and flattered ; but he seldom responded to the

overtures made to him, although, when he chose,
he could smooth his brow, soften his speech, and
show that he was the true descendant of a race
that had been renowned for its hospitality and its
courtliness in days of old.

Vera had sung for Madame Waldstein, who
graciously deigned to say that she approved of her
voice and style. " It is rather a pity, surely,
that you should leave the stage," she said, looking
at the singer with her bright eyes and
mocking smile. '' You are probably very fond
of it?"

Yes, I am fond of it."

I knew a singer once  a Danish girl," pursued
the old lady, " who married a Count  what
was his name, by the by ?  and became an Ambassadress.
His family would not receive her at
first, but after a time they treated her very civilly.
She was exceptionally fortunate, of course."

Why" said Mr. Ravenscroft, who had joined
the party as she spoke. " Because she married
into a family which  after a time  treated her
civilly ? Should you have called her fortunate,
Vera ? "

Vera smiled, but did not answer. The Baroness
put up her eye-glass and dexterously shifted the
subject.

'' Child, is all that hair your own ? "

'rit isj madame."

It is uncommon hair ; and your eyes are
very good too. But you are not half the beauty
that your mother was. She had blue eyes and a
bright complexion. Don't you think so, Gaston?
You must remember Mabel."

' I prefer Yera's style," he answered, giving
Yera a cool appraising look, which annoyed her
even more than the Baroness' words. She rose
on the pretext of replacing her cup on the table ;
but he was beforehand with her and took it from
her hand. At this moment, however, a diversion
was effected. A gentleman was announced and
admitted  Mr. Frank Longmore. Gaston raised
his eyebrows and glanced at Yera as if he thought
that the visitor had come to see her ; but he was
wrong. Mr. Longmore's start of astonishment
when he saw Mademoiselle de Lusignan was unmistakable.
He coloured and looked thoroughly
embarrassed for a minute or two ; then forced his
eye-glass violently into his eye and began to talk
to Olivia. Once or twice, however, Gaston detected
the straying of his eye towards Yera with
an expression of uneasy watchfulness which verged
upon anxiety.

Olivia, Lance, and two of their friends went

out to play tennis ; Mr. Longmore seemed inclined
to attach himself to Vera's side. They
conversed a little on the topics of the day, and
walked at last to that side of the garden bordered
by the plantation. He cast so quick and curious
a look at it that Vera offered to show him the
view of the church from an opening in the trees
on the bank.

There they stood silent for a moment or two.
He was pulling at his moustache in the same
strangely puzzled manner that Gaston had previously
noticed, and when he spoke it was with
a good deal of hesitation.

You would perhaps be surprised," he said,
if I told you that I came here this afternoon
chiefly in order to get news of you."

Of me, Mr. Longmore ? "

Yes, of you, Miss Marlitt." He used Vera's
name with some hesitation. '' I did not know,
I had not the faintest idea, that you were staying
at Eavenscroft Hall. But I thought that I
should hear from your relations whether you were
in London or not."

Vera looked so much astonished that he added
a sort of apology. " I must seem very impertinent,
and I know that I am blurting out my
mission most abruptly, but my excuse must be

that I am not acting on my own account but fora
friend of mine : the dearest friend I have in the
world too  Maurice Maurice Guy on."

'* Where is he \ " said Vera hurriedly. Her
heart leaped like a wild thing at the sound of a
name that she had longed for weeks to hear.
'' Is he here with you ? "

He is in Mickleham," said Mr. Longmore,
quite at ease, apparently, now that the ice was
broken. " Let me ask you, first of all, however,
kindly to keep the fact of his presence there a
secret to your friends in this house just now. I
am sorry that I cannot explain why."

Oh, I understand," Vera said, recalling the
object of Maurice Guyon's visit, and wondering
why her ready assent brought another shade of
perplexity to her companion's brow. " I shall
certainly say nothing about him here. But will
you tell me why  how it was that he "

'* That he has been silent so long \ That is
what he wishes to explain. He read your letter
yesterday only, and it immediately occurred to
him that you might be in this neighbourhood,
and that I ought to ascertain that fact before he
wrote to your address in London."

'' But why did he not read my letter sooner?"
Vera asked, with impatience which she could not

restrain. The answer was curt and significant
enough.

"He was too ill to read it before."

"Ill he has been ill?"

He has been dangerously ill  almost dying
of fever."

It seemed to Vera as if the words sent a sharp
thrust of pain through her heart. For the
moment her voice failed her. Then she called
herself to order. Why should she feel so deep
an interest in a man whom, six months before,
she had never seen? She felt that her hands
were trembling and that her face was growing
cold. But she commanded herself sufficiently
to say, with tolerable firmness, ' I hope that he
is better "  although in her own ears her voice
sounded unnaturally harsh.

Oh yes," said Mr. Longmore briskly, " considerably
better. I came down to nurse him,
you know, and I hope that he will be soon strong
enough to do what I want him to do  leave
England altogether."

Leave England ? " she repeated blankly.

It would be best for him. But of course he
is not yet able even to leave the ' Dragon,' where
he is staying."

' When can I see him ? "

Mr. Longmore looked at her. " I suppose
that when he is better, he will call upon you, if
you will permit him to do so, Miss Marlitt."

His eyes were observant and keen. Vera
flushed hotly beneath their gaze as she replied :

" No ; he cannot do that  at least until I
return to London. I am not in my own house
now. Will you ask him, ]mr. Longmore, to Tite
me an account of  of  the business upon which
he was enoaoed for me ? "

Certainly. You are visiting Madame Waldo
? "

'' No ; I am nth my grandfather, Mr. Hervey."

And there the interview ended.

But early next morning: there came for Vera
a little note, T\Titten in a hand which she had
seen only once before. She tore it hastily open
and read. It was Written in French, and ran as
follows :

"Mademoiselle  I have tried to do your
bidding and have only partially succeeded.
What I have learned cannot be told in a letter.
When I am stronger, and when you return to
London, I will tell you all. I congratulate you
upon your happy fortune with all my heart. 
Your humble and devoted servant,

Maurice Guyon."

VOL. IL ' 31

The writing was unsteady, and, towards the
end, almost illegible ; the traces of weakness
and fatigue were visible in every word. Vera's
heart swelled with pity. She took a sudden
resolution and shut her eyes to its possible
consequences.

Mr. Hervey breakfasted alone. She did not
therefore disturb him until noon, when she knew
that he would have established himself in his
study, in the midst of his books in sumptuous
bindings and draperies of ecclesiastical character.
He looked somewhat surprised by her entrance,
and greeted her frigidly, though with great
courtesy. For the glimmering of tenderness
which he had shown upon the night of her arrival
had vanished, and left him, to Vera's thinking,
even less lovable than he seemed at first.

'' Can I do anything for you. Vera ? " he
inquired, with his finger between the leaves of
his last new quarterly, and his eyes fixed somewhat
coldly upon her face. '' My time is quite
at your disposal, but "

"' I have a petition to make," said Vera
hastily. '' I hear that a friend of mine is staying
at an inn in Mickleham, and that he has been
seriously ill  almost at the point of death. I
should like to call and ask after him : indeed, I

want to see him, if possible, as I have business to
transact nth him when he is able to attend to it."

'' Is he an intimate friend of yours  this gentleman
? " said Mr. Hervey, lifting his eyebrows.

I have not known him long. We have
business together  but I know him very well, I
think," she answered with careful honesty.

'' Business. Oh  what is he then ? A singer
actor  something of that sort ? "

''A musician."

Where is he staying ? "

'eat the 'Dragon'"

A poor little place," said Mr. Hervey meditatively.
" A poor man, I suppose. Well, my
dear Vera, I am sure that I can trust your discretion.
You would no doubt like to take this
man some fruit or flowers from the houses,
would you not ? Let Lance drive you down in
the pony-carriage  or take the victoria, if you
like. Don't distress yourself another time about
my permission, dear Vera. The house is yours ;
the garden is yours ; all that I have is yours, asa
Spaniard would say. Give your own orders ;
consult your own convenience ; manage your
o\\Ti business, whilst I, a recluse, sit apart from
the world and the world's affairs."

He smiled and bent his head as if to intimate

that the interview had come to an end ; and
Vera left him very Willingly, feeling sure that
his only anxiety had been to get her out of the
room as soon as possible. She went at once in
search of Lancelot, whom she found in the
garden, having just returned from his morning s
work with a tutor at Mickleham.

Where do you think that Mr. Frank Long-more
is stapng ? " he said, before she reached
his side.

'eat the 'Dragon Lm.' "

Oh, you knew ? Such an odd place for
him to stay at ! I spoke to him at the door this
morning ; he told me that those were his headquarters."


Yes," Vera said, " he is nursing a sick friend.
And Lance,"  she placed her hand caressingly
on his arm as she spoke, " I want you to drive
me there this afternoon. My grandfather says I
may take some flowers and fruit to this friend
who has been so very ill."

"Oh, certainly. But who is the friend?
Some one Uncle Richard knows ? "

I know him. He is a friend of mine."

I see. But, Vera,"  twisting himself round
so as to look at her, while the colour in his face
deepened, " would it not be better if you sent

the things by a servant ? or had I not better go
alone ? "

"No," she said, '* because, Lance, I wish to
see him  to speak to him. He has had business
of mine to transact, and I must hear this report
of it."

Does Uncle Eichard know that ? "

I think so. I meant to tell him so, but I
am not sure whether he understood. But he
gives me complete freedom to do as I please."

'' I'm not at all sure, Vera (though I beg your
pardon for saying so), whether you ought to go,"
said Lance, with his winning grace of manner,
unless your visit is absolutely necessary."

*rit is absolutely necessary  for my comfort.
Oh, Lance, do help me ; I want to go so
much."

''Of course I'll help you," said he, throwing
conventionality to the Tvind at once. '* We'll
go together, and take grapes and peaches. Come
away to the houses ; we'll make old Foster cut
them."

They went in the direction indicated, and
teased old Foster into cutting his best fruit for
them ; then the two lunched with Mr. Hervey,
subduing their high spirits as best they could.
Lance ordered the pony-carriage for four o'clock.

and in the meantime they chattered, sang, picked
flowers, like two happy children. At half-past
three, or a trifle later, to Vera's dismay, Gaston
Ravenscroft was announced.

He held a short colloquy with Mr. Hervey,
then came out into the hall where Lance and
she were busy packing a basket with flowers and
fruit. He glanced at Yera's occupation, and
smiled. " You were arranging flowers for a
hospital when last I saw you do this," he said.

These are for the same purpose," said Lance.
*' For the sick." And he cast a wicked mischievous
look at Yera.

"What is the matter?" said Mr. Eavenscroft
suddenly. " Your face is very much flushed,
Yera ; your eyes are much too bright. What
are you so excited about ? "

I am not at all excited ; I am warm."

'' What have you been doing ? "

Gathering flowers chiefly. AYill you have
a rose, Mr. Ravenscroft ? I will pin it into your
coat."

She saw his eye soften at the unusual attention.


She arranged the flower, while he stood silent
and apparently unresjDonsive.

Am T to have no thanks ?" she Said at last.

''No/' he answered. "Not while you call
me what you did just now."

Vera's lips do not easily accustom themselves
to Christian names," said Lance. Gaston threw
a stormy glance at him, but made no remark.
Vera hastened to smooth matters to the best of
her ability.

I really forgot ; I did not omit your Christian
name on purpose. Do you hear, Gaston?"
she said, looking up at him.

Lance had moved away ; Gaston Eavenscroft
caught the girls fingers in his and carried them
impulsively to his lips.

'' If that meddling lad were out of the way,"
he said, '' I would have "

But what he would have had. Vera did not
hear. Lance had accidentally thrown down a
heavy flower-pot, and both turned involuntarily
towards the scene of the accident. Gaston
uttered an exclamation of disgust at the boy's
clumsiness. Vera fancied, from the flush upon
Lance's cheek and the hurt look in his eyes,
that he had heard both exclamation and previous
remark.

The pony-carriage had driven up to the door.
Lance said nothing, but placed the flower-basket
in its place, then went round to the ponies, and

patted their necks, with his back to the others.
The hurt look did not leave his face.

Vera turned rather coldly from Mr. Heavens


Good-bye," she said, but she did not hold
out her hand.

He helped her carefully into the carriage, inspected
the harness, found a buckle loose, and
said a sharp word to the groom, without taking
the least notice of Lance, who still stood at the
ponies' heads. The groom went off to the stables
for something needed, and Mr. Eavenscroft asked
another question.

Where does your sick man live ?"

In Mickleham."

'' Mickleham. Who is ill at Mickleham ?"

"My grandfather knows where I am going,
Mr. Eavenscroft," said Vera clearly, with a look
of remarkable decision upon her face.

"Does your grandfather know how much smallpox
is prevalent in Mickleham, that he allows
you to drive about the place so unconcernedly ? "

"Lance goes to Mickleham every day. He
can take care of me."

Mr. Eavenscroft glanced at Lance with mingled
contempt and anger. "An efficient protector,"
he said sarcastically.

'' Quite efficient for this purpose, sir," said
Lance with spirit.

So Miss Marlitt seems to think," returned
Gaston icily. He never used Vera's English
surname unless he were angry about something.
' Be kind enough at least to say in which direction
you are going, so that I may tell you what
streets to avoid."

We are going to the ' Dragon.' "

"And I think I know which streets should
be avoided," said Lance, who was crimson by
this time, yet evidently anxious to keep his
temper.

To the 'Dragon!" repeated JMr. Eavenscroft
very slowly, fixing his eagle eyes upon Vera and
Lance in turn. " And what in the name of
wonder takes my cousin to the ' Dragon?"

'' Your cousinship gives you no right to
question me in this way," Vera answered, flashing
out in ire, which nobody could awaken in
her so readily as Gaston Eavenscroft. *'* Get in,
Lance, please ; we shall be late. Open the gates,
James''

Lance was at her side, and James opening
the gates before the words were well out of the
girl's mouth. They drove off, leaving Gaston
to pocket the affront as best he might. He

stood with bent brows and folded arms, watching
their exit in no tranquil spirit. As they turned
out of the drive, Vera looked over her shoulder,
and saw him walking slowly back into the house.
Certainly they had defeated him ; but Vera
almost trembled at the victory ; he was not a
man, she knew, tamely to accept defeat in any
matter on which he had set his heart.

A DRIVE HOME.

At the " Dragon " Vera asked for Mr. Longmore.
He came at once, looking a good deal surprised
at her appearance, and said that his friend had
been able to move that day into a sitting-room,
where he was then lying on a sofa. " In that
case," Vera said, " I should very much like to
see him for a few moments."

Oh, certainly," answered Mr. Longmore, with
a vague air of not understanding what she wanted.
I'll tell him so. He will be pleased, I am sure."

As he went away to announce her arrival,
Vera turned to Lance.

'' Don't wait at the door," she said. "Drive anywhere
you like for  for half an hour : then come
back for me, and if you do not find me waiting, goto
Narrow's, the draper's shop. I want to make
some purchases, and you can wait for me there."

Vera," said Lance, '' don't you think that
you are doing rather an unusual thing ? "

"Yes. But I am in unusual circumstances."

Mr. Eavenscroft "

' Oh, Lance, don't talk about it. You know
nothing : you cannot tell. It is for Gaston that
I do it rather than for myself."

Vera spoke truly. The more she saw of her
cousin, the more anxious she was to clear away
the cloud of secrecy and mystery that in some
manner darkened his past life ; and she could do
nothing until she had learned the result of Maurice
Guyon's mission. She had seen Lucy's grave,
and prayed and wept beside it : was she to be
kept from fulfilling Davy's dying Welshes by a
trifling obstacle of conventionality ?

She was used to hiding her feelings behind
the decent veil of circumspect reserve ; but the
feelings thus hidden were passionate and impetuous
enough. Nothing in the world would, at
that moment, have shaken her resolve to see
Maurice Guy on. It was the one thing on which
she had set her heart.

Lance yielded to Vera's wishes. Mr. Long-more
returned with the intimation that his friend
could see Mademoiselle de Lusignan. The carriage
drove away, and she followed her guide

upstairs. He ushered her into a small parlour,
where she saw the worn and wasted lineaments
of a face which had looked brightly enough upon
her when she beheld it last. Even now the blue
eyes smiled, and the sunken features were irradiated
by a flush of pleasure ; but the change that
had passed over them was so remarkable that
Vera's throat ached with an emotion which she
dared not allow to be visible.

He had been lying upon a sofa, covered with
a cloak, but when she entered he tried to rise.

' Do not move, pray do not move," she said
hastily. " I am so sorry to see that you have
been ill."

She gave him her hand, and did not notice
until afterwards that he detained it, and laid his
left hand upon it for a moment, as he replied,

'You are too good, mademoiselle. I can
never be sufficiently grateful to you for your
kindness."

Then he relinquished her hand and sank
back upon the couch. The transparency of his
features made his hollow blue eyes look almost
ghastly. The veins stood out upon his temples,
and on his long white hands ; yet he smiled
with a trustful pleased content that showed how
little he was disposed to pity himself But a

glance only was sufficient to show how near he
had been to the dreadful " grave and gate of
death."

Mr. Longmore brought Vera a chair. She
found it difficult to speak, and Maurice seemed
eager to spare her the necessity.

"Your visit is not meant as a personal
honour, I know," he resumed with a quiet smile.
' We have much business to transact, have we
not, mademoiselle ? But your flowers and your
fruit are tokens indeed of kindness."

"" I am afraid that my visit is ill timed," said
Vera with some compunction. " You do not
look able to transact business yet."

"Yes, indeed, I am strong enough for anything.
Frank, can't we give Mademoiselle de
Lusignan some tea ? "

' It is here," said Mr. Longmore, but without
any great alacrity. " May I "

"" No, thank you : nothing," she cried earnestly.
'' I cannot stay. I came only to ask how Mr.
Guyon was, and to hear if  if he had any news
for me of "

' But do try my tea, mademoiselle," said
Maurice in his persuasive tones. 'sit is made
in Russian fashion with a slice of lemon instead
of cream. My friend Mr. Longmore gives it

me under protest, but I think that you will
like it."

"Don't you prefer cream, Miss Marlitt ? " said
Mr. Longmore, as he prepared the cup for the
visitor after Maurice's fashion. '' I think this
way atrocious, but Maurice likes it."

Yet let me tell you, mademoiselle," said
Maurice, "that my friend took the trouble of
Titinsf to London for some rare Russian tea and
a genuine samovar, that I might drink my
national beverage in my national way."

Vera drank her tea, and then Mr. Longmore
quietly brought to his friend a small sealed
packet, and as quietly turned to leave the room.
'' You will want to talk business now I suppose,"
he said in a lazy manner. " I'll come back presently.
You won't let him knock himself up,
will you. Miss Marlitt ? "

Maurice Guyon wasted no time as soon as the
two found themselves alone. He opened the
packet, and placed before Vera a locket, containing
the miniature of a beautiful woman with
pathetic brown eyes, which seemed to her
strangely familiar. " That," he said, " was
Lucy."

There was another likeness ; the portrait of a
young, handsome reckless face  a man's face,

with wild, brilliant eyes and a significant look of
pride and daring on the well-marked features.
It was the very representation of her cousin,
Gaston Eavenscroft, as she had seen him first
upon the Elmstone Downs.

Then Maurice put the papers in her hands,
and told her all that he had ascertained and all
that he had guessed. Gaston's marriage, the
birth of a child, the flight of Lucy and her boy,
Lucy's death and the boy's disappearance, these
were the facts of which at least they could be sure.

I cannot help thinking," Vera said at last,
that the poor child is dead."

I think not, mademoiselle. And now what
shall we do ? "

"Now," said Vera, " we will tell ]mr. Heavens
everything."

He looked at her earnestly, doubtfully.
'' Mademoiselle," he said, '' let me do that."

*' Certainly not, Mr. Guyon. Forgive me, but
I cannot let you take all that trouble. Besides,
in some ways it would be easier for him to listen
to me than to a perfect stranger." .

Maurice sighed. " I suppose so," he said in
rather a distressed tone. " But I am sorry that
you should have so unpleasant a task imposed
upon you."

I shall be glad for him to know the truth'
returned Vera.

And if you want further help, mademoiselle,
you will remember that I shall be only too glad
to give it."

I will remember, Mr. Guyon. But you must
not exert yourself. Do not risk your health. It
will be some time yet before you are strong."

"Not very long, I hope. But when I am
well my friends counsel me not to stay in London."
He hesitated a little and looked down.
'' They tell me to go to America."

Again Vera felt that sensation of darting pain.
"It is a long way off," she said in a low tone.
You would not be able to help me if you were
there."

Ah, mademoiselle," he said, with a quick
short sigh, "you will never want for helpers."

I want them often."

He looked at her wistfully, but did not speak.

Vera resumed somewhat sadly. " I have wellwishers,
acquaintances by the score, but I am ill
able to spare a friend."

Have I been a friend, mademoiselle ? " he
said gently. " I wish I better deserved the name.
A poor, penniless wretch, disinherited, disowned,
exiled, and disgraced. Do you know that I am

VOL. II. 32

all this, and more ? I would gladly do anything
for you that lay within my power ; but now I
have no power, no dignity, no name. Mademoiselle,
I have nothing but the will to help you
the weill and the heart "

Was there not a suspicious moisture in those
hollow eyes beneath their heavy blue veined lids ?
He was so weak still, and in such trouble and
perplexity of mind, that possibly tears had
risen unawares. He did not finish his sentence.
He took Vera's hand, and held it silently for a
moment, then leaned back with a heavy sigh and
a startling change of colour. She thought that
he was faint, and offered him smelling-salts and
sal volatile ; but he declined them with a word of
thanks.

'' I have something to tell you about myself,"
he said presently ; " but I am afraid I cannot do it
to-day. I have not the strength as yet. Will
you kindly remember, mademoiselle, do you think,
that I have something about myself to say V

' I am not likely to forget."

I want to tell you a little of my real life, my
real history, some day when you are at liberty to
hear it, and I am strong enough to speak. I
think," he added with a smile, " that something
more than physical strength will be required."

' I shall be glad to hear it when you are able
to tell it to me."

I should soon be able to do anything if I saw
much of you, mademoiselle. Do you know what
your visit is to me ?  a draught of fresh water to
a thirsty man, a cup of wine to one who is faint
with weariness. I thought at one time, not long
ago, that I was going to die ; and I wondered in
the midst of my delirious dreams whether you
would be sorry. Would you have been sorry,
Vera?"

His utterance of her name thrilled her with
emotion. He had used it only once before, and
that was when he led her away from Davy's
deathbed. Vera could not speak, but her brimming
eyes perhaps spoke for her. Her hand lay
in his once more ; his thin fingers had closed on
it so tightly that it could not easily be withdrawal.
She did not want to withdraw it ; she could not
have wished it in another place.

The sound of a footstep recalled them to themselves.
Vera gathered up the papers that he
had given her, and placed them with the locket
inside her dress. It was understood between
them that they should write to one another from
time to time. She dared not promise him another
visit.

Mr. Longmore's entrance caused their farewells
to be of the shortest. Vera made her
way downstairs, ceremoniously accompanied by
Maurice's friend (who was not at all charitably
disposed to her at that time) ; but on reaching
the door she found herself confronted by the
stern and haughty countenance and towering
height of her cousin Gaston.

The pony-carriage was at the door, but Lance
was nowhere to be seen. Mr. Longmore exchanged
a very cool greeting with Gaston, who
immediately offered Vera his arm, and led her to
her seat with an air of proprietorship of which
she did not approve.

'' Where is Lance ? " she asked.

Gone. I will drive you home," said Mr.
Kavenscroft, gathering up the reins and flicking
the ponies' ears with the lash of his whip.

But where has he gone ? " she repeated somewhat
anxiously. '* He promised to meet me at
Narrow's."

I sent him back," said Gaston with a masterful
accent.

You?"

"L Why not?"

"Because," said Vera, irritated by his manner
almost beyond endurance, " he is not under your

control, but under that of my grandfather, who
placed me in his care for the afternoon."

'' Fine care," said G-aston, emphasising every
syllable with cold distinctness, ' which allowed
you to plan and carry out an assignation with
Maurice Guyon."

You must withdraw that word," Vera answered
proudly, " if you wish me ever to sneak
to you again."

'* It was not arranged with Frank Longmore
yesterday ? "

Most certainly not."

"I withdraw the word. I apologise," said
her cousin with no abatement of the haughtiness
of his manner. " And now allow me to inquire
whether you think it a right and fitting thing that
a young lady should pay a visit to a young man
at the inn where he is staying, and remain in
private conference with him for upwards of half
an hour \  a conference from which she emerges
with pale cheeks, reddened eyes, and a general
appearance of agitation, sufficient to set all curious
observers (of whom there were plenty) talking
about her ? Is it rioht that she should choose to
set conventionalities at defiance in that way ? "

"Once for all," said Vera resolutely, "I will
give you my answer to the kind of remark which

you seem to be fond of making. You speak of
me as 'a young lady.' A lady I trust I am in
thought and feeling, if in nothing else ; but not
in the sense that I am either unable to work or
to act for myself. I am a public singer, Mr.
Ravenscroft, not a young girl who has been
brought up in a quiet home, tenderly nurtured,
delicately reared, and spared the knowledge of
anything dark or evil. I know good from bad,
and I mean to choose the good. But if the good
that I choose leads me into paths which your
conventional rules do not sanction, then it is the
conventionality that I shall sacrifice and not the
good."

"You speak rashly, Vera. No woman is safe
out of the beaten track  least of all you, with your
love of romance and your enthusiastic nature."

I would rather be unwise than ignoble'

You mean that you would rather peril your
reputation than deny yourself a passing caprice !"

I value my reputation as much as any other
woman," she replied. " But I will never be so
cowardly as to let the fear of perilling it keep me
from doing an act of kindness or of justice to a
fellow-creature. I am not imprudent, indeed;
and I have never found that scandal was very
busy with my name ; but I will continue to be

my o\TL judge as to what is right and wrong forme
to do. If people speak against me I will bear
their calumnies patiently. Calumny is what we
singers are trained to expect."

''A singer, indeed!" Mr. Eavenscroft exclaimed
with impatience. " You are not one by
necessity. You are a young Englishwoman, wellborn,
well connected ; the grandchild of a large
landed proprietor, and the presumptive heiress of
a fortune. Why not lead the life to which you
are called by your birth and by your prospects ?"

Well connected and well born, am I ? ' Vera
said ironically. *' Did you never hear my father's
history ? I have been at some pains to find it
out. He was a poor musician who gave lessons
on the violin, the son of two strolling players
who used to sing and play in the streets on
summer nights. I have an inheritance of music
and of vagrancy, and I am prouder of my descent
from the Marlitts, who represented the jongleurs
and troubadours of an earlier day, than of my relationship
to all the Hervey and Eavenscrofts of
Lincolnshire."

"You say so, but you know very well that
you are treating me to a bit of stage clap-trap
and sentiment."

Far from it. I am a child of the people on

my father's side ; not a young lady who shrinks
from the impropriety of visiting a sick man who
has been her comrade and friend, just when he
is returning from the very verge of death."

' But Maurice Guy on "

I have done no more for him," Vera broke
in impetuously, "than I have done for others 
not so much ; for I have not visited him and
helped to nurse him day by day as I have done
with many another of my friends. I am a woman
as well as a singer ; and those whom I can help
I will."

'* "What help did you afford this afternoon ? "

This afternoon I had business to transact
with him."

Mr. Eavenscroft gave the ponies a sharp cut
with the whip, and made answer in a way which
effectually checked the course of Accra's rapid indignant
speech.

"Tell me," he said, "that this man is not
your lover, Vera, and I shall be satisfied."

For a moment Vera was too much astounded
to reply. Before she had recovered her self-possession,
some remembrance of certain words
and looks on Maurice Guyon's part brought the
hot colour to her face and caused her tongue to
falter as she replied.

If T had thought him so, I should never
have gone to see him," she said with coldness.
But the answer was given too late ; her hesitation
and blush had borne a meaning to Gaston's
mind which she never meant them to convey.

For some moments he did not speak at all.
From a glimpse that she caught of his face, she
knew that he was in a towering rage. She herself,
hurt and offended, resolved not to utter
another unnecessary word.

It was at this point that they overtook Lance.
He was walking languidly enough, and looked
weary and dejected, but he took off his hat and
smiled at Vera as she passed him by. Gaston
vouchsafed him neither word nor look. Vera
waved her hand to the boy, and glanced back at
him once or twice : a manifestation of sympathy
which did not escape her cousin's attention.

You think I treated him badly ? " he said
with apparently an abrupt change of subject.

Yes."

You think I am unjust to you ? "

Always."

And you wish me to believe that you are
not in love with Maurice Guyon ? "

She was silent. Such a question, she thought,
deserved no answer.

He gave her a hasty glance and then resumed.

*' I do not mince matters. It is better that
one man, at least, should tell you the truth. I
know that those are the three topics uppermost in
your mind at present. I can offer you a solution
of every difficulty. I promise to treat Lancelot
with consideration and respect. I vow most
solemnly to trust you, to believe in you  nay,
what am I saying ?  to make manifest in every
word and deed the faith in you that I already
have, and would not lose for worlds ; I will never
interfere concerning any further token of friendship
that you may show to Mr. Guyon (and that
is saying much, Vera), if you will silence the
slanderous tongues of the world, and make yourself
a refuge from misconception by taking a step
which will place you in a safe and honoured English
home. Become my wife. Vera. Do I need
to tell you how much I love you ? "

Am I dreaming ? " Vera said. " Is this the
voice that has accused me of unworthiness and
romantic folly so often ? Be serious, Mr. Ravens-croft,
if you please : this is no subject for your
scornful jesting."

 ' Scornful ? " he said, turning round with his
eyes alight. "It is you who scorn me, who
irritate me almost to madness, Vera, bv your

light rash words ! Can you not see that my
impatience has arisen simply from the desire
that I have to set you on a higher pedestal than
other women, the dislike to see you descend
from it, and the intolerance of the claims of
others upon your attention ! I have not been
amiable, I acknowledge ; but were you once
my wife, Vera, you might lead me where you
would."

Impossible. I will not listen to you, Mr.
Eavenscroft. Pray do not speak on this subject
again."

Vera tried to speak in a tone of indignation,
but in spite of herself her voice quivered. She
was amazed and offended, but she was also a
little alarmed at Gaston's tone. He himself
laughed comically.

So easily said !  ' No more on that subject.'
Not so easily done, however. I fancy that you
are destined to hear a good deal more on that
subject, Vera. I have obtained you* grandfather's
permission to address you, and I do not
mean to be content with one demand or one
refusal. Think over the matter. We will talk
of it again by and by. I think that mine is a
prior claim to that of anybody else."

Would you have me become your wife out

of gratitude for what you did for me when I
was a child \ I have not the shadow of a
warmer feeling towards you."

I would have you become mine for any
reason, on any pretext," he said, again turning
upon her those' dark eyes that seemed to glow
like fire when they gazed into Vera's face. " Do
you think that if you were mine, my own, mis
Vera, I could not make you love me ? You do
love me. Vera ; you will give me your heart at
last ! You will never let me plead to you in
vain {

His voice had town soft : a strange emotion
was visible in his strong dark features. He took
his hand from the reins  they were driving
slowly along a shady lane  and tried to draw
her to him with his arm.

"Vera," he said, "my sweet, brave Vera, it
will not be you who can say me nay ? Do you
know what a bitter life I have had that you can
refuse to bring a gleam of brightness into it ?
All my hope is in you, my darling ; you shall be
my sunshine, my liege-lady, my queen. Vera, I
have never sued to man or woman as I sue to
you now for your love. Be merciful, and give
me a little hope : I have waited long enough."

I would if I could," she answered, her eyes

filling with hot tears. " But I have no love to
give you."

"None, Vera?"

"None."

Ah, my sweet, you are not sure. Listen :
I will say no more ; I will not accept an answer
now. I have spoken in haste ; but I am not
sorry that I have spoken. You will remember,
and you sill relent."

Never."

"Don't be too confident. Vera. Something
in my heart tells me that I shall win you yet."

They turned in at the gates of Netherbyby
Manor, and to Vera's great relief the interview
came naturally to an end.

THE baroness' GARDEN PARTY.

Mr. Hervey was especially gracious to Vera at
dinner, but a little colder and more sarcastic
with Lance than it was his custom to be. When
Vera was alone with the boy she begged him to
tell her what had happened between him and Mr.
Eavenscroft.

You know' he said, " I drove up to the
Dragon' to see if you were ready ; and as soon as
I stopped, I saw Mr. Eavenscroft talking to the
barmaid "

It was unjustifiable interference," said Vera
warmly.

Well, when he saw me he left off talking to
the barmaid, and came out with a countenance
as black as night. He stood by the carriage fora
minute or two without speaking, and then said :
I suppose you know what you have done.' 'What

have I done?' I said. you were trusted to
drive Mademoiselle de Lusignan to Mickleham/
he said, speaking almost in my ear, ' and you
have been fool enough to allow her to visit a

man whom ' Vera, you will be angry with

me if I go on."

'' Not with you, dear Lance. Go on. ' A
nian V

'' ' A man whom all her friends have been
desiring to keep from her presence for the last
six months ; an escaped convict of notoriously
bad character.' Was it true, Vera ? "

Not in the least ; but go on."

' You see what mischief you have done,' he
said in his cold stern way. ' Now go home, and
leave me to repair it. Settle the matter with
Mr. Hervey as best you can ; he will hold you
accountable.' 'But Vera will expect to find me
here,' I said. ' I will explain the matter to her,'
he said. ' Get down. If I have to tell you a
second time, you will repent it.' And so, Vera,
you may think me very spiritless if you like, 
but I could not enter into a contest with him
then and there, and I came away."

His dejected tone touched Vera. "He was very
unkind and very much mistaken; but never mind,
Lance. My grandfather was not vexed, was he ? "

He said nothing to me about it  exactly."
And it was after a little hesitation that Lance
proceeded to recount that Mr. Hervey had looked
at him with curiously twinkling eyes on his
return, and said : " ' So you've been getting into
hot water with Gaston Eavenscroft, have you ?
Mark my words, boy; don't do that once too
often.' And that was all."

Vera was reassured. She wished, however,
that Mr. Hervey would be frank with her ; she
did not like the notion of his giving permission
to Gaston Eavenscroft to ask her in marriage
without consulting her upon the subject. She
thought of speaking to him about it ; but Mr.
Hervey was difficult to approach upon a serious
matter, and she shrank from making the attempt.

Gaston's proposal made her task with respect
to poor Lucy's relics very distasteful. She resolved,
however, to speak or write to him on the
day after her visit to Maurice Guyon ; and for
that purpose she went to the Hall, where a
tennis match was to be played that afternoon, at
a somewhat earlier hour than usual. She knew
that she could not decline the Baroness' invitations
without good reason : otherwise she would
have sent an excuse and begged Gaston to come
to her ; but Madame Waldstein's questions and

remarks were not to be contemplated without a
shudder. Besides, the Countess Zaranoff was
leaving Netherbyby next day and carrying Olivia
with her to London, and Vera knew that duty
required her to go and say farewell to both.

As soon as she arrived at the Hall she found,
however, that she was not likely to have much
chance of speaking in private with Gaston Heavens
for the Baroness immediately beckoned her
to a seat, put up her eye-glass, and surveyed her
leisurely from head to foot.

'Eeally/' she said, "you look remarkably
quiet for the character I hear of you. Is this
behaviour on your part a development of professional
life, my dear, with which we have yet to
acquaint ourselves?"

I do not understand you, madame."

I am sorry that I express myself so badly,
my dear. I only want to know about this man
at the ' Dragon ' who is so great a friend of Frank
Longmore and of yourself."

The Baroness was sitting in her great easy-chair
beside the window. The Countess Zaranoff
was standing on the verandah in low-toned conversation
with Gaston, but as Madame Waldstein's
words reached her ear she paused and turned
round. Gaston also looked in the direction ref

VOL. II. 33

his mother's chair with an expression of decided
annoyance.

Madame Zaranoff's appearance was very striking.
She was still in mourning for her husband;
but the brilliancy of her beauty seemed to be
enhanced by the sombre hues that she was wearing.
A yellow rose in her bosom formed the
only spot of colour in her dress. Her face was
pale, with the creamy paleness which is more
lovely than a rosy hue ; her dark eyes were soft
as velvet in their depths of lustrous brown ; her
features regular and beautiful. There was, however,
a certain squareness of the jaw which one
did not at first detect ; the curved lips were not
tender or amiable in repose ; but the harmony of
colouring was so perfect that it was difficult to
convince oneself of this slight defect in contour,
and the red lips smiled so graciously that their
real want of sweetness passed unobserved. Such,
at least, was the impression of lima Zaranoff's
appearance made upon Vera de Lusignan ; and
the faint distrust produced by that artificial
softness and graciousness was not easily dispelled.


Although Frank Longmore had been in 
for two or three weeks or more, he had
not presented himself at any of the houses in a

neighbourhood where he had many acquaintances,
and it was only in consequence of an accidental
meeting with Madame Zaranoff in the
street that he had been persuaded to call upon
her at the Hall. As he was the son of so old a
friend this avoidance of her house had seemed a
little odd. Hence, perhaps, Madame Waldstein's
curiosity, and the Countess' sudden manifestation
of interest.

A friend of Frank Longmore's ? " she asked,
coming forward. " I am always interested in
Frank's friends. Who is that \ "

"Vera knows him; I do not," said the Baroness.
As wx have already heard, Mr. Longmore has
been in the town for nearly a month, in close
attendance upon this dear friend of his."

So he acknowledged the other day. Who
is this friend. Mademoiselle Vera ? Can you tellus
his name ? "

His name is not an English one," Vera
answered. ' He is called Mr. Guy on."

"Gruyon?" The Countess started; a slight
Hush tinted the paleness of her beautiful face ; she
continued laughingly. " It is a friend of whom I
have never heard. Guy on ? It is a French
name ; I have heard it before. From what country
does he come then  ce Monsieur Guyon ? "

It was one of Ilma's affectations that she preferred
the use of the French language to any other.

'' He is a Kussian, madame. His full name is
Maurice Guy on."

Some feeling of resentment at this continued
questioning added especial distinctness to Yera's
utterance. She woidd not be accused of wishing
to conceal her friend's name. She looked calmly
at Gaston's ill-satisfied countenance as she spoke,
neither seeking nor avoiding the fiery glance "dth
which he sought to overawe her.

]madame Zaranofi" gave a slight start. She-laid
her hand upon the window-frame as if to
support herself, and Vera noticed that the slight
fingers had grown tense and rigid in their grasp.
The smile still played upon her lips, but they
were now deadly pale.

And may I ask," said the old Baroness, waving
her fan backwards and forwards as was her
habit when she was about to say something particularly
disagreeable, " what is the nature of the
friendship between this unknown Russian gentleman
and my young relative, Vera Marlitt  or
De Lusignan ? "

A queen could not have asked the question
more superbly. Vera smiled to herself and made
her answer very slight.

"Iliad business with ]iim,madame; that was all."

Mr. Eavenscroft made an impatient gesture ;
Vera looked away, refusing to meet his angry
eyes. Madame Waldstein broke out irately :

How often am I to tell you to call me your
aunt, Vera ? You are a relation of mine ; and I
should be glad to hear you acknowledge the relationship."


'' Vera does not value the ties of relationship'
said Gaston in a suppressed tone.

' If we have acknowledged it, it is not for her
to be so backward," said the Baroness haughtily.

'' I beg your pardon, aunt ; I will try to be
more worthy of the honour," said Vera, not very
seriously, for a mocking spirit had taken possession
of her, and this assumption of having
bestowed an immense benefit upon her by recognising
the tie of kindred seemed to her somewhat
arrogant.

'' And your business, what was that ? "

' Private business, connected with matters
which I am not at liberty to name," Vera answered
coldly. Then she added in a tone which she tried
to render more gentle, " I am sorry to be obliged
to give you so unsatisfactory an answer, aunt."

Private business with a man of that kind ! "
said the Baroness scornfully.

"You forget, madame, that I am a professional
singer."

Ah, true," said lima ZaranofF suddenly, " we
had forgotten that."

The exclamation drew general attention to her.
She was still standing in the same attitude, with
her head a little bent and her eyes fixed upon
Vera's face. There was a look in her face which
caused the Baroness to say quickly,

What is the matter, lima ? Are you not
well?"

Oh, perfectly well, madame, I thank you,"
she said, immediately changing her position and
throwing back her head with a light jarring laugh ;
but I was trying to imagine how Mademoiselle
de Lusisnan had made a friend of a Russian
patriot !  for I am sure he was a patriot, was he
not, mademoiselle ? Bah ! how I detest the russians
! " This last exclamation was couched in
French, and uttered in a lower tone than the
other part of the speech. " Did he raye about
his country and those abominable Nihilists, mademoiselle,
or did he simply beg for charity and
assistance ? "

Neither, madame. The gentleman of whom
we are speaking was far above both expedients.
I do not think that either IMr. Long-more or myself

would choose for a friend a man who raved
or who begged for assistance." Vera softened
the words by a very amiable smile, but said them
with careful slowness and distinctness.

"Eeally, this becomes interesting," said the
Baroness, regarding her 'young relation" through
her eye-glass. " And what sort of person is this
gentleman whose battles you are so ready to fight.
Vera?"

I can describe him better than Vera," interposed
Mr. Eavenscroft. " A good-looking adventurer
with a glib tongue and a smooth manner,
who has probably imposed upon her as he seems
to have imposed upon Mr. Longmore ; who, be
it said en passant, does not strike me as troubled
with any superfluity of brains."

Shall we tell him your opinion of him, Gaston
? " said Madame Waldstein maliciously. 'ewe
invited him to play tennis with Olivia this afternoon,
and, if I am not mistaken, I hear him at
the door."

She had the quickest ears of any old lady ever
known. Almost before the words were out of her
mouth, the door opened and Mr. Longmore was
announced. Gaston made a sudden move towards
the garden ; but he was obliged to stay and greet
the visitor. The Baroness put out her wrinkled

white hand with a triumphant little smile ; lima
gave him a quick and rather troubled look as she
saluted him. Mr. Longmore himself wore a vacant
and unintelligent air ; Vera glanced at him and
wondered how Maurice Guyon had come to make
a friend of this perfectly-dressed and foolish-faced
young fop ; she quite agreed with Gaston in his
estimation of Mr. Longmore's powers.

Mr. Longmore," said the Baroness, without
circumlocution, '' we have been talking about your
friend Mr. Guyon."

Indeed, madame ? "

We think it an unusual sign of friendship
that one young man should come all the way from
London in order to nurse another who is ill."

''I hope  not unusual," said Mr. Longmore
with a stammer.

"We think you must be very old friends,"
said Madame Waldstein, turning upon him her
smiling face and inquisitive bright eyes.

Very old friends indeed," Frank Longmore
repeated in a tone which had as little meaning in
it as a tone could possibly have. But suddenly
Vera saw him raise his eyes anxiously to Ilma's
face and then let them fall to the ground. Following
that glance, she noticed also that lima
Zaranoff had turned very pale. She moved abruptly

and went out into the garden. Vera was
puzzled by that interchange of looks.

The subject of Maurice Guyon's illness and
of Frank Longmore's friendship for him dropped
when other visitors were announced. Vera
stayed until nearly seven o'clock, and then took
her leave. Almost all the guests had gone : Lance
and Olivia had disappeared, Madame Zaranoff and
Frank Longmore were strolling about the garden,
seemingly absorbed in very interesting conversation.
Vera walked towards them, with Gaston
at her side. The Countess was speaking more
vehemently than she knew, and her words fell
upon Vera's ears with startling significance.

''Why was he here at all? Why cannot he
leave England ? It was always so with Maurice
he is mad ! ''

Some word or gesture from Frank Longmore
made her pause. She turned round and looked
straight into the face of Vera de Lusignan.

Ilma's lips were white still, but her velvety
brown eyes had a yellow gleam, which gave them
an indescribable fierceness of expression. It
seemed to Vera that the look was one of deadly
enmity, and yet what had she done to provoke
the enmity of lima Zaranofi" ?

But in a moment the fierce look went out of

her eyes, and her face settled into its usual expression
of smiling amiability. She held out
both her hands to Vera ; it would seem as if she
desired nothing upon earth so much as to call
Vera her dearest friend.

I may hope to renew my acquaintance with
you in town, may I not ? " she said. " If you
are in London this winter you will come to see
Olivia and myself? I should not like to think
that I had seen the last of ' Mademoiselle Vera.' "
She gave a caressing pressure to Vera's hand as
she spoke.

Vera mentioned her own address in town in
reply. The Countess looked at her with her inscrutable
expression and remarked softly,

You will be there for a short time only,
shall you not ? "

*' I think of remaining there for the winter,
unless I accept an engagement at St. Petersburg'"
said Vera frankly.

Gaston frowned. A vivid light came into
Ilma's face. *' St. Petersburg ! ah, you would
like St. Petersburg. It is a beautiful place' she
said. " But  excuse my asking the question 
I thought that you were going to reside here for
the future ?  at Mr. Hervey's house, here, in
Lincolnshire ? "

''My grandfather and I have scarcely yet
discussed that question'" Vera answered with
some coldness.

Pardon ! pardon ! I did not know that it
was yet undecided. Farewell, my dear Vera.
I may call you Vera, may I not ? Farewell."

She made a movement as if to kiss Mademoiselle
de Lusignan ; but Vera was taller than
the Countess, and contrived to avoid the proffered
salute without discourtesy. The four walked
back to the house together, and then Gaston
found time for a word in Yera's ear.

'well done I" he said, with a laugh in his
eyes and an amused look upon his face. " That
parting embrace was cleverly avoided. That
woman's air and graces are intolerable, pretty
as she is ; you would make a better countess.
Vera."

I have something to say to you," Vera said,
looking straight before her and speaking hurriedly.
" When can I say it ? "

He cast an eager glance at her, and stopped
in the middle of the gravelled walk. " Say it
here," he said abruptly, "here and now."

Oh, no, I could not do that. It does not
relate to myself, Gaston  only to a story that I
have heard "

"Oh, then, it will keep," he said indifferently,
resuming his walk.

No, it will not. Indeed, Gaston, I must tell
it you to-day."

"Why so earnest. Vera ? Are you sure that
it does not affect yourself, child ? There are some
things that I would listen to from you all day
long."

It is nothing of that sort. It relates to your
past life."

Ay ? " said Gaston, raising his eyebrows.
'' Then "  with a reckless look  " I am sure that
I do not want to hear it."

'* You must hear it, Gaston ! "

' My dear Vera, I know what it is. You have
heard some hash of a story about my  my earliest
romance. Of course I had one ; every man
has. But mine is buried in a grave. Vera ; you
need never fear that it will revive or give you
any cause for discontent. When we are married
I will tell you the whole story. I don't think I
could do it now  certainly not with my mother
looking on from the windows."

** Will you come and see me, or shall I write
what I have to say ? "

'' ril come and see you, my sweetest and best.
Do you think I ever lose a chance of doing that 1

especially as I am going off to London tomorrow
to escort her ladyship and Olivia. But I shall
soon be back again."

"Will you come to-night  after dinner?"
said Vera, who had tried in vain to silence him
during the earlier portion of his speech. 'rand
do not talk to me in that way ; I do not like it
at all."

I will come at nine o'clock and talk to
you in any way you please. Where shall this
private conference take place ? "

In the library. There we shall not be interrupted."


Vera made her adieux to Madame Waldstein
as expeditiously as possible ; then walked home
with Lance, who had returned, in company with
Olivia, from a walk in the churchyard. He was
full of merry talk and laughter on his way to
Netherbyby Manor ; so full of it, that Vera once
looked at him in astonishment.

Lance," she said, '' you are what the Scotch
call 'sey.' You should not be so merry; it is an
ill omen  at least an old friend of mine would
have said so."

She was thinking of Davy.

"You are not usually such an ominous bird.
Vera," said Lance brightly. " You are a nightingale,

not a raven. And you must not be melancholy
either  at least no more than the moon
is melancholy  for you shine like her."

foolish boy !''

"Yes, you shine, and Countess lima sparkles,
and Olivia "  the lad coloured and smiled as he
said her name  " Olivia glows .''

Vera laughed at his fanciful expressions, but
liked him for them at the same time. To her
there was something about Lance which was particularly
attractive. He possessed a remarkable
transparency of nature, one which had a certain
(quality of truth and purity about it not often
found in boys of his age ; and his refinement of
thought and feeling removed him far from that
category. Passionately fond of music and poetry,
full of romantic enthusiasm for all that was
beautiful and good, tinctured with a dreamy
religious sentiment which he had certainly never
learned from Mr. Hervey or the Eavenscrofts, he
seemed  to Vera, at least, sometimes  to be
too bright and good " for common life, of too
fine stuff to make a happy or a successful man.
But as *' spirits are not finely touched but to
fine issues'' Vera hoped that he would find his
happiness and his success in some career in which
he would not have to contend with commoner

natures, and where his own powers could find
their full development. Lance was not formed
for contention  of this she was very sure ;
he was a poet born, though as yet he knew
it not.

INTOLERABLE Presumption.

'* Mr. Longmore is unbearable ! " said Olivia.
His eye-glass alone reduces bim to the level of
an inferior race, and his drawl is insufferable."

Dinner was over at the Hall. Felicia bad
been summoned to the Baroness' room. lima
and Olivia were talking to Gaston Ravenscroft.
Tbe Countess was half reclining, half sitting in a
low cushioned chair by the fire, wbicb a touch of
autumnal coldness in the air made acceptable.
Its light was fitfully reflected from time to time
in the diamonds wbicb adorned her pretty hands
as they lay, soft and white and warm, upon the
velvet of her lap. Gaston stood in one' of his
favourite positions, with bis elbow on the mantelpiece
; now and then his foot touched the spaniel
that lay upon the hearth rug. Olivia seemed
restless. She glanced occasionally at the clock

upon the mantelpiece, and flitted impatiently
about the room as if she were waiting for someone's
arrival or for some appointed hour.

Mr. Longmore does not always drawl," said
lima, smiling.

''No, but then he is worse. Then he talks
of horses."

I thought that you yourself liked horses ? "

*' So I do ; but I don't like a man whose soul
never rises above his betting-book. 'No-o, I
don't read,' "  with a fine imitation of Mr.
Long-more's most artificial manner, " ' too much
exertion, don't you know ? Newspapers  Bells
Life, Field, Sportsman  about as much as I can
get through in a week.' "

You will have enough to do, madame, if you
are going to keep this skilful girl in order," said
Gaston.

"I am not afraid," replied lima. 'you will
not summon her home before Christmas, will you,
Mr. Kavenscroft ? "

Gaston shook his head. " I do not rule the
arrangements of my relations. Countess. My
mother is queen ; I am vicegerent only  eh,
Olivia ? "

Dictator," said Olivia saucily.

When Mr. Eavenscroft desires a thing he
VOL. II. 34

generally contrives to obtain it," said lima, lifting
her beautiful eyes to Gaston's face.

I am glad to bear it, madame. All that I
have to observe with regard to Olivia's stay in
London is that my mother is pleased for her to
go, and says that if she feels 'lonely she shall
send for Vera to bear her company."

Grandmamma took a great fancy to Vera,"
said Olivia complacently.

'' She does not let her ' fancy ' appear in conversation,"
murmured Gaston between his teeth.

Oh, but you don't understand grandmamma.
I beg your pardon, Uncle Gaston," said Olivia,
recalling what she had said and colouring somewhat.
*' I know that I am only her granddaughter,
but I have lived with her all my life,
and you have been away so many years "

'' I think I understand my mother pretty
well," said her uncle.

But you don't always hear her talk of Vera
behind Vera's back. She does not praise her to
her face. ' She has a very pretty spirit, my
dear,' "  and Olivia assumed her grandmother's
voice and manner with the readiest grace in the
world. "rand she is clever; not like poor
Mabel Hervey, who never cared for anything but
music' Then again, 'Ask Vera for her dressmakers

address, my dear. She dresses like a
Frenchwoman.' And, lastly, 'You would do
well to notice Vera's manners, Olivia ; she comes
into the room T\ith the air of a queen  not a
tragedy queen either. Really, the girl is presentable.'
" Then Olivia's flexible voice sank
into its natural key. ''' If you call these remarks
no testimony. Uncle Gaston, I shall be sorry."

' Your love of mimicry will lead you into
trouble some of these days," said Gaston with
rather a displeased air.

'' You won't be angry, dll you. Uncle Gaston,
if I say that you remind me of Mrs. Malaprop \
' Let me tell you, miss, that so much levity
does not become a young woman.' It is what
dear mamma has repeated from my earliest days,
and grand mamma has been trying to teach me
'' ingenuity and artifice ' ever since. Excuse me
for a few moments, will you, lima ? I am going-out
for a little fresh air."

She ran away singing. lima and Gaston thus
left alone were silent for a few minutes. Then
lima spoke in her softest tones.

That young gentleman  that ' ward ' of Mr,
Hervey's, who was here to-day  is he, then, todo
nothing in the world ? to have no career, no
fortune, no ambitions \ He is a charming boy."

I am not aware of Mr. Hervey's intentions
with respect to him' said Gaston coldly.

But you know  you must know  that your
niece is deeply interested in his welfare," said
lima in a peculiarly silky and caressing tone''
Dear Olivia ! she is so frank, so amiable. I
think she hardly knows how much she betrays ! "
The Countess' voice sank almost to a whisper,
as if she spoke to herself rather than to Mr.
Kavenscroft.

Gaston took his elbow from the mantelpiece,
left off teasing the dog, and stood erect.

'' May I ask if you have anything to tell me
concerning Olivia that I ought to know?" he
said in a perfectly quiet voice, but with a decided
darkening of his countenance.

Nothing ; oh, nothing ! " said lima sweetly.
"There is nothing to tell beyond what you and
her mother know. Their intercourse is conducted
in a charmingly English fashion. But Olivia is
very beautiful, and poor dear Lancelot Aylmer
is romantic and susceptible. Who knows ? "
She finished by a shrug of the shoulders.

''I understand," said Gaston shortly. " Thank
you." Then, after a pause, "Where is she

lima spoke almost in a whisper. " Gone to

meet him," she murmured. '' Gone to say goodbye."


Nonsense  pardon me !  impossible ! "

*' If you cross the fields and go into the lane
you will meet them. I am sorry for dear Olivia,
but  it is such a pity for her to engage herself to
anybody yet ! Pray, dear Mr. Eavenscroft, do
not tell her that it was / who guessed the
truth."

' I think it can hardly be the truth, madame.
If you will excuse me I sill go and see. I think
still that there is some mistake."

And Eavenscroft want upon his way.

Meanwhile Vera was wondering why he did
not come to her. Nine o'clock had struck, and
there was no sign of him. At last she donned
her hat and cloak and walked down the road
towards the village. This road would lead her,
as she knew, into the lane by the churchyard.
The church and the Hall, as well as the village
of Netherbyby, lay like an island between two
roads, an upper and a lower one, these roads
converging near the railway-station on the one
hand and in the village itself upon the other.
Mr. Hervey's house stood near the station, and
it was almost as easy to reach the Hall by one
road as by the other ; but Vera took the lower,

as it was the one by which Gaston usually came
to the Manor.

In this sheltered lane, not far from Hester
Rowe's deserted cottage (for the old woman had
never been seen in Netherbyby since the day of
Maurice's visit to her), Vera noted three persons.
There was Olivia, with head aloft and a scarlet
colour in her cheeks. At her side stood Lance,
holding her firmly by the hand, paler than usual,
bit prouder than Vera had ever seen him look
before. There also was Gaston Ravenscroft, a
tall and threatening figure, with frowning brow
and voice which was none the less stern and
angry for being preternaturally calm. His
shoulder was turned to Vera ; she was close
upon him before he observed her. Olivia shot a
pleading glance at her; Lance seemed to see
nothing but Mr. Ravenscroft's dark face.

Your intolerable insolence passes all bounds,"
Gaston was saying deliberately. " Once and
for all, there shall be a stop put to this nonsense.
You marry my niece, indeed ! Let Miss Ravens-croft's
hand go, sir. Olivia, go home."

*' I shall not go home without Lance, Uncle
Gaston," said Olivia very decidedly. ''My
mother knew that I was out with him. You have
no authority to speak to him as you are doing."

'eat any rate, I have authority to speak to
you' said Gaston in a tone of stern displeasure.
I stand in your father's place, Olivia, although
you choose to forget the fact. Let me have no
more of this absurd folly. Go home and see if
your mother mil not agree with me in all that
I have said. I will speak to this young man
alone''

He started a little as he saw Vera, who had
advanced to Olivia's side, but his brow did not
relax. Lance turned to Olivia as if he cared nota
whit for what her uncle said, and put his arm
round her waist.

"My darling," he said, and the chivalrous
deference of his manner, as well as the tenderness
of the epithet, made Eavenscroft grind his teeth
with rage,  ''my darling, will you go home now
with Vera % " Gaston almost stamped as he
heard the Christian name. " I want to speak to
Mr. Eavenscroft: and whatever he* may say, I
shall be true to you, dear, and you  you will be
true to me ? "

There was a usefulness of tone about this
question which indicated some doubt in his own
mind as to the answer. Olivia answered frankly
and proudly :

*' No one shall be unjust to you, Lance ; no

one shall separate us without our own consent.
You may be sure of that."

She allowed him to kiss her, which he did
quietly and manfully, with neither haste nor
trepidation, although Mr. Kavenscroft was looking
daggers at them both.

"Olivia, go home," he repeated authoritatively.
Then, with a slight softening of manner, he
added, "Vera, will you go with her? I will
come back presently-T-when I have disposed of
this foolish boy. Well, what is it ? "

Vera had laid her hand on his arm. "Be
kind to them, Gaston," she said in an undertone,
as she looked into his angry eyes.

I have no wish to be unkind. Take Olivia
off my hands : that is all. I will manage this
youngster."

Come, Vera," said Olivia quickly. " It is of
no use pleading with Uncle Gaston for me.
Neither Lance nor I need pleading for ; do we,
Lance ? We trust each other."

"Always  for ever," the lad answered, with
a fervent look in his great brown eyes. His face
had flushed all over and was full of ardour and of
hope.

The two girls went away hand sin hand.
Kavenscroft and Lance remained behind. Gaston's

arms were folded on his breast; his dark gaze
was bent haughtily upon the slight and graceful
lad, who braced himself for an inevitable struggle
as he met that look of scorn.

" Now that the two ladies have gone," said
Gaston with bitter emphasis, " I can more freely
tell you my opinion of your conduct. It has
been disgraceful, dishonourable, and underhand
to the last degree, such as I should think that
even you might blush for when you reflect on it."

Lance's blushes were tingling in his face
already ; but they came from indignation and
not from shame.

'* I do not know, sir, in what way my conduct
can be called dishonourable," he replied.

'* Do you call it an honourable thing to take
advantage of your admission into my mother's
house so far as to inveigle my niece into a
clandestine engagement ? "

*' We are not engaged. I love Olivia, and I
think that she loves me."

Is the matter mended if we call it a clandestine
love-affair instead of a clandestine engagement?"
said Gaston. *you had no right, sir,
to breathe a word into her ear upon the subject
until you had ascertained whether she would
be permitted to listen to you."

"That is not a very natural view of the
matter ; excuse me for saying so," returned Lance.
Did you think in that way, sir, when you were
young ? "

"Your question is an impertinent one. I
was not in your position."

"You refer to my future prospects, I suppose
1" said Lance respectfully, but with spirit.
"It is true that I have no great fortune ; only
what Mr. Hervey calls ' a modest competence.'
But with that, and with the career that I hope
to make for myself  if Olivia will wait forme
"

What right have you to ask her to wait for
you ? Why should she waste the years of her
youth on 2/om' account?" said Mr. Ravenscroft,
whom this answer evidently exasperated. " It
is intolerable presumption. However, I will put
a stop to it. I will talk to Hervey myself. Remember
that I forbid your speaking or writing
another word to my niece. If you disobey me,
I shall take Olivia abroad."

Your precautions are needless," said Lance
proudly, though with a paling cheek. " I shall
not address her again for the present without
your permission ; but we shall Avait for one
another."

'' Shall you indeed ? She is eighteen, and
you, I think, barely nineteen or thereabouts. I
should scarcely have interfered with your childish
amusements, but for the necessity of repressing
such insolent pretensions on your part at once.
You ought to see that they are inconsistent with
your position."

That is the second time that you have alluded
to my position. How is my position inferior to
that of Miss Eavenscroft, sir?" said Lance, with
a directness worthy of Olivia herself. " Personally,
of course, I feel myself beneath her:
and I am not rich ; but my social position 
is "

He hesitated. Eavenscroft stared at him,
swung round and walked a few steps in an opposite
direction, then stopped again and seemed
to reflect for a few seconds.

I suppose," he said at last, in a tone that
indicated some half-suppressed emotion (though
whether of anger, indignation, or pity, Lance
could not exactly tell), " I suppose that Mr.
Hervey has brought you up in ignorance. I am
sorry for it, but it is not my place to tell you 
what all the world knows. Go home and ask
Eichard Hervey ; then perhaps my objection to
you will become intelligible."

' You have no personal objection to me, then?"
said Lance in utter bewilderment.

Kavenscroft's temper seemed suddenly to have
cooled. He turned towards a low country stile,
the entrance to some meadows by which he could
reach home more quickly than by the road ; here
he halted for a moment, and drew out his cigar-case.


'' Personal objection ?" he said coldly. " No ;
I suppose not. I know nothing of you personally.
I object to you as a suitor for my
niece's hand. That is all."

"But why? You say that all the world
knows ; surely I may know too !"

The colour was coming and going in Lance's
sensitive face ; his brown eyes wore an expression
of doubt and dread. Eavenscroft glanced at him
once ; frowned as if he saw something that he
did not like ; then silently lit a cigar.

"Ask Richard Hervey," he said after a
lengthy pause.

No, sir, I will ask you. If you have a
reasonable objection to my position, I have a
right to know what that objection is."

Eavenscroft, with one hand on the stile and the
other grasping his cigar, shrugged his shoulders
impatiently.

It does not follow that I must tell you
what it is. Well  if you ii)ill know  it is to
be summed up in few words. You must see 
if you have the ordinary share of brains  that
your position has always been an anomalous one.
The Eavenscrofts have prided themselves for
centuries on the traditions of their family and
their race. I do not say whether their pride
has been a worthy or an unworthy one ; I can
only admit that I possess it in some degree myself
I for one, therefore, do not choose that
my brother's daughter should ally herself with
a man who lies under any disadvantage of birth.
There, surely I need say no more."

'' You have said too much or not enough."
said Lance with quivering lips. " I  I  do not
understand

"Are you a fool?" said Ravenscroft, again
losing control over his temper. " My meaning is
clear enough ! Who were your parents ? What
is your name? Your reputed father has not
chosen to give you his ; and Heaven knows
whether you have any right or not to the one
you bear. I do not know. Judge for yourself
whether the unnamed son of an unknown father
is a lover whom I should welcome for Olivia
Ravenscroft."

AN OPEN FOE.

He cleared the stile with a leap, as he spoke,
and began to make his way across the fields,
without once looking into Lancelot's stricken
face. He was not a mild man, not a merciful
one ; but even he shrank from meeting the
incredulous despairing eyes of the boy, whose
youthful happy dreams he had that day done
his utmost to crush out of existence.

A WOUNDED SPIRIT WHO CAN BEAR ? "

Mr. Hervey was sitting alone in his study, making
neat and careful notes in a morocco-covered
volume which was supposed by his intimate
friends to contain a resume of the opinions and
conclusions at which he had arrived after a lifetime
of profound study. It was thought that he
would one day publish the contents of this little
green notebook ; in which case, as he himself
sometimes vaguely hinted, a great revolution in
the philosophical world might be expected. In
the meantime he posed, to himself and his friends,
as a great moral sage and a refined cynic, dissatisfied
with everything in this world or out of
it, including religion and ordinary morality, the
standards of which he desired, like many another
man, to raise (or to reduce Vj to his own level.
' Come in," he said, with a faint gesture of

annoyance, as Lancelot's hesitating knock came
to the door. " Is that you, Lance ? Do you
not know that I am never disturbed by anybody
at this hour ? However, I am delighted to see
you, of course. I presume that you want something,
as you come at so unusual a time. And 
as you are here  tell me whether you think that
lamp  the one with the reflector  ought not to
be moved an inch or two to the right in order to
throw the light a little more fully on the Corot.
Vera thinks not ; but Vera, with the best intentions,
has not always a correct judgment in such
matters. Move the lamp and let me try the
effect."

Quietly, obediently Lance did what was
desired, then stood with his back against the
wall behind Mr. Hervey's chair whilst the old
man made his observations.

"Nearly right. Yes. A little more to the
left. That is right. Your eye is tolerably good :
of course you have had advantages  hem ! "

He murmured something which was inaudible
to Lance, then leaned over the arm of his chair,
and inspected the picture sideways through his
eye-glass. The flicker of the small wood-fire in
the grate rather interfered with the effects of
light and shade. Absorbed in contemplation,

he almost started when Lance's voice, rough and
broken with emotion, broke upon the silence.

''I have had advantages, you say, sir. That
is true. I want to know why you gave me these
advantages."

Mr. Hervey's gold-rimmed glass fell from his
hand. He turned to look at Lance ; but the
boy's face was in shadow. He was standing in
perfect quietness beside the window. But his
voice had vibrated with a new pain, a new emotion,
which made his guardian uneasy.

Ashy I gave you these advantages ? " he
repeated in a tone of some surprise and even of
offence. ' It was surely natural that I should
wish you to be brought up like any other gentleman
? Living with me, of course you drank at
the Pierian spring, as the old-fashioned poet calls
it  you are not deeply read in the old English
authors, are you, Lance % There is an edition,
pound in calf "

I beg your pardon, if I interrupt you, sir,"
said Lance, who was determined not to be
diverted from his point by LIr. Hervey's well-known
habit of slipping away from any topic
which did not happen to please him ; " but I must
ask you a plain question. How did I come to
live with you at all \ ''

VOL. II. 35

How, my dear boy ? In the natural course
of events. You were left  orphaned ; and I became
your guardian."

By my parents' wish, sir ? "

Well : hardly." Mr. Hervey smiled to himself,
leaned back in his chair, and folded his hands
lazily one over the other. " They were hardly ina
position to arrange the matter ; your mother
died suddenly."

' And my father? "

"Your father's history, my dear boy, would
scarcely edify you. He lived abroad during the
greater portion of your life. I will tell you more
about him when you are a little older  say, one
and twenty : one and twenty would be a very
good age for hearing any interesting family
details."

I beg your pardon, sir, I think that I am
old enough to have my doubts set at rest on one
or two points, at least. Why should I wait and
suffer the torments of suspense for two years
longer?"

Who has been talking to you. Lance ? You
have taken some new crotchet into your head, I
see that," said Mr. Hervey. " What idiots people
are! Well, I will gratify you. Ask what you
wish to know, and have done with it, but remember

that I do not promise to give you any
answer."

What was my father's name ? "

That, my dear Lancelot, is a question which
1 most decidedly decline to answer before the
proper time. Some person has been vaguely
indicated to you, no doubt, by the name of
Captain Aylmer : Mitchell has spoken to you of
him, I believe, not I : he was a connection of
yours, certainly, but not your father. You have
never asked me this before ; if you had, you
would have heard what I tell you now  and
nothing more."

One thing I must ask," said Lance passionately,
" and I must be answered. Have I a
right to bear my father's name or not ? "

"I think I never gave you any reason to
conclude that you had not," said Mr. Hervey
thoughtfully.

No, you did not ; but I have been told today
that all the world, except myself, knew
my history  knew what I do not want to know
from any one but you "

Lance's voice broke : he could say no more.

"So it has come at last," said Mr. Hervey
below his breath. "It is a little hard on him
certainly  harder than I thought. Lance," he

added, "who has been talking to you about
this?"

It was with a sort of gas) that Lance made
answer : " Mr. Ravenscroft."

Gaston Ravenscroft ? " repeated the old man
with a sharpness which he seldom showed ;
'' G-aston Ravenscroft ! and what has he to do
with you ? Come here, Lancelot : do command
yourself, and let me hear the truth of all this.
Why did he speak to you about that, of all subjects
? Come here and sit down."

Lance came nearer, but stood with his arm on
the mantelpiece and his head on his hand. He
was ashamed of having been betrayed into any
exhibition of emotion, and struggled hard for the
self-command which his guardian advocated. It
was with a tolerably firm voice, but changing
colour, that he at last gave an account of his interview
with Mr. Ravenscroft. He was astonished,
and somewhat hurt, at the conclusion of his story,
to hear a short sardonic laugh from the listener.

"Ha, ha !" Mr. Hervey muttered to himself
in the depths of the great arm-chair. " Ha, ha !
Ravenscroft said that, did he ? I have a rod in
pickle for Master Gaston one of these days,
hypocrite that he is ! I shall make him lower
his crest vet, Lance."

'Is he mistaken, then? Is his story untrue?"


Mr. Hervey looked up at him, then clown at
his white hands with a curious change of expression.
" What does it signify, my boy ? " he said
half pityingly, half carelessly. "In these days
a man is what he makes himself, not what his
ancestors make him. You must found your own
family."

"It is true then ? I am a " The lad in

his sensitive pride choked over the word that he
had been about to utter, flushed crimson, and
then grew deadly white. Mr. Hervey continued
as if he had not heard the interpolation.

I never myself saw why illegitimacy of birth
should be considered a disadvantage, so long
as it does not entail the usual disadvantages of
want of education and refinement. In your case,
Lance," said Mr. Hervey pleasantly, " these disadvantages
were, through my efforts, spared to
you. All things considered, you have not so
much to complain of as most men in your
position. I will not tell you the whole of your
history, as the knowledge of it would embarrass
you considerably at the present juncture ; but I
will make this remark, that you have lost little
through your ignorance of your father's name ;

in fact, your chief loss lies in the absence of a
legal claim upon his property, which is considerable.
Doubtless he will not let this absence of
claim affect your prospects in the future."

I thought," said Lance in a low pained
tone, " that I  that some one had left me
sufficient  I must have misunderstood you, or
Mr. Mitchell, in some way."

"Mitchell is responsible for what he made
you believe," said Mr. Hervey dryly ; " I told
him only that you would receive a competence
upon your coming of age. And so you will ; I
have provided for that already."

"You, sir?"

"Yes, I. Don't run away with the notion
that I am your father, Lancelot; if I were, I
would have told you so by this time."

Then I owe you great gratitude," said Lance,
trying to speak firmly.

I suppose that the world would say so,"
Mr. Hervey answered cynically. " Gratitude is
a debt not often paid. It is a lost virtue."

May I ask why you took this interest in
me, sir ? "

You may ask, my dear Lance ; ask anything
you please ; I use my own discretion as to my
replies. Why I took an interest in you ? You

were a pretty little fellow  destitute and so
forth ; I had a fancy for you, and thought that
you would be a pet and a plaything. You have
answered your purpose excellently well," and
Mr. Hervey surveyed the lad's lithe and graceful
figure with some complacency. His face he
could not see.

If Lance had been more skilled in the art of
reading countenances, and less blinded by the
crushing sense of his new position, he might
have guessed from the expression of Mr. Hervey's
lips and eyes that there had been other motives
at work beside the one just mentioned. That
one alone would have been totally insufficient to
account for his crafty smile of triumph and half-malicious
satisfaction. There was a pause, which
Lancelot broke by saying :

' Will you add one more to your favours, sir ?
Let me go away from Netherbyby. It is impossible
for me to stay here any longer."

' Impossible to stay here any longer ? " said
]vir. Hervey. " Think better of it. Lance : all
things are possible."

It is impossible," repeated the lad with a
strange determination in his voice. " I wil not
live upon charity : I have no right to your home
and your money, sir. I thank you for all that

you have clone for me ; now I must go into the
world and earn my living for myself."

In what way mil you earn your living ? "
said Mr. Hervey with cold derision. " What
paths are open to you ? AYhat are you fit for ? "

Not much, I am afraid," Lance answered
humbly. " But, if I can do nothing else, I can
enlist."

Throw away your chances in life ? your
chance of marrying Olivia ? Are you a fool
then, Lancelot ? "

'' Do you think that I would ask Olivia to
marry me now ? " said Lance, whose impulses all
lay in the direction of a Quixotic generosity
which was sometimes very far from wise. " I
would rather fly from the place and never see
her again. I cannot ask her now."

' When you are older, you will be wiser  a
truism, my dear boy, which you would do well
to remember. As for your project of enlisting,
it is ridiculous. Have you a soldier's physique {
have you the martial instinct? When I have
decided what you are to do and to be, I will let
you go ; but on the whole," said Mr. Hervey,
with another odd smile, " I do not think that I
shall decide for the next two years ; and so
you may make up your mind to remain here.

face the matter out, and devote yourself to
Olivia."

'rit is impossible, sir," said Lance, in a tone
of extreme agitation. ''Do you not see how
terrible a life it would be ?  to see her always
and know that I cannot speak  cannot ask her
to be my wife ! to know that every one  oh, I
can't do it, I can't bear it : I will not stay."

There is a virtue  a much overrated virtue
to my mind  ," observed Mr. Hervey, parenthetically,
"which is known by the name of
manliness. This virtue, my dear Lancelot, you
are not exhibiting upon the present occasion."

I know that I am not," said Lance bitterly,
letting his head sink upon his folded arms upon
the mantelpiece. "And yet I never thought it
an overrated virtue."

There was another silence.

Well," said Mr. Hervey at length, " has this
very unpleasant interview come to an end ? Half
the happiness of life, Lance, lies in a refusal to
fret over the inevitable. Why should you concern
yourself about a name, a shadow ? Would
the world be more beautiful if the blood of all
the Towards ran in your veins ? Is life less
rich, is art less consolatory, I ask you, because
you were born out of wedlock ? You are unphilosophical

: I might almost say that you
are absurd. Look your destiny in the face, and
you will conquer it."

Lance lifted his head. A gleam of firelight
flashed upon it and showed it to be so white,
so drawn and aged with pain, that in spite
of his cool sentences Mr. Hervey winced and
frowned.

You speak well, sir," said the boy, in a tone
of bitterness which no one perhaps had heard
before from Lancelot's lazy smiling lips, "but
either you do not understand what this information
is to me, or, understanding it, you choose to
treat me cruelly."

Cruelly ! " Mr. Hervey 's tone waxed sternly
contemptuous. '' How many years is it since I
saved you from that peaceful abode of poverty,
the workhouse ? If I thought that you knew
what you were saying I might show you some
displeasure for that speech, but you are raving,
my good lad, simply raving. Let me hear no
more melodramatic speeches, I entreat ; they are
in bad taste as far as you are concerned, and
excessively trying to my nerves. Don't you
think it is almost time that you went to bed ? "

Lance moved towards the door as if he scarcely
knew what he was doings : then, suddenly collect -

ing this thoughts, he turned back to Mr. Hervey
nth a very pale and downcast face.

I beg your pardon, sir," he said almost inaudibly,
" if I have displeased you. Indeed, I
am grateful to you, and I will try to follow your
advice."

"That is right, my dear boy. You have
always been perfectly satisfactory in your relations
to me hitherto ; and I see no reason why
matters between us should be changed ! May I
trouble you to ring the bell ? And  Lance,
another request : I must ask you not to reopen
this subject. When I have anything to say I
will let you know."

"Very well, sir."

If Lance had looked for some sympathetic
pressure of the hand, some kindly reassuring
word of affection, he looked for it in vain. Mr.
Hervey leaned back in his chair and closed his
eyes. Lancelot took himself out of the room, he
hardly knew how ; he went slowly upstairs and
locked himself into his own room.

Am I right or wrong ? " the old man considered,
as he awaited his servant's arrival. His
face looked like a waxen mask as it lay with
its closed white eyelids and colourless features
against the deep-red background of his high-backed

chair. The scene had agitated him more
than he liked to confess. " Am I right or wrong ?
The boy takes it sadly to heart. Still, he must
know the truth sooner or later. But that it
should be Gaston to tell him so much of the
truth !  meddlesome fool ! if he does not want
the boy for himself and his niece, why can he
not leave him to me ? Gaston has behaved
abominably  but then he always does behave
abominably, as far as I can see. Poor Lance ! I
hope that he will be reasonable. There would
have been a fine uproar if I had told him his
father's name." And Mr. Hervey laughed once
more to himself, but wished that he could forget
poor Lance's miserable face.

Lancelot's physical constitution was not a
strong one : it was easily jarred. At present it
seemed to him that every nerve in his body
throbbed with pain : he was dizzy and sick as
though he had received a frightful blow. Henceforth,
then, he must feel himself an outsider, an
intruder, in the very house which he had called
his home ! Never again, he said to himself, with
the painful exaggeration to which youth is prone,
could he look his friends in the face without remembering
the cruel words in which Gaston
Eavenscroft had pronounced his doom.

He was almost beside himself with misery.
The poor lad could see nothing at that moment
in its proper light, or call anything by its proper
name : for the time being joy and hope had left
him, and his strength lead ebbed away.

One can hardly wonder if some few hot and
bitter tears escaped him in the solitude of his own
chamber. Their very bitterness assisted him, perhaps,
to make a resolution, the carrying out of
which afterwards proved to have been the 
in his career.

He set to work quietly enough to select such
articles of clothing as would have been necessary
on one of the holiday expeditions of which he
had once been fond : he packed a small Slack
bag with these  not forgetting some precious
manuscripts which he hoped might be of service
to him ; then he changed his own clothes and
examined the contents of his purse. He had five
pounds in his possession ; this money he would
keep and refund to Mr. Hervey as soon as he
was able to do so. Then he sat down and wrote
two letters, both short, although they took him
some time to compose : one to Olivia Ravens
and one to Mr. Hervey.

When the house was silent he crept quietly
down the stairs. He entered Mr. Hervey's stud

and placed the letters in a conspicuous place
upon his little table. Then he unbolted a side
door, by which he had often made his way into
the garden at untimely hours, and left the house.
His powers of endurance had failed him ; he had
quitted Mr. Hervey's roof with the full intention
of never returning to it until he had gained for
himself a name and standing in the world. Some
day, perhaps, he said to himself, he should come
back to claim Olivia.

There are so many who have wrecked their
lives by yielding to some impetuous impulse,
some mad impatience with their destiny, such as
swayed the actions of this poor lad Lancelot, that
it behoves us to be merciful in our judgment of his
conduct with all its rash passion and unreasoning
pride. We have no need to be hard upon him :
he suffered the full penalty of his folly in the
days that were yet to come.

HIS SON AND HEIR.

There had been no conversation possible between
Vera and Gaston Ravenscroft on the
evening of his interview with Lancelot. He
had absolutely refused to listen when Vera
touched upon the subject on which she wished
to speak. "Not to-night, Vera, for mercy's
sake," he said in a vexed tone. '' I can't listen
patiently to anything. I'll come and see you
tomorrow before I go. No, I won't listen
now." And she was forced to relinquish the
attempt.

She breakfasted alone next morning, wondering
that Lancelot did not meet her as usual
in the dining-room. Mr. Hervey always breakfasted
at a later hour in his study. Scarcely
had she finished her meal, when a tremendous
peal of Mr. Hervey's bell alarmed the whole

household ; and in a few minutes she received an
unwonted summons to his room.

She found Mr. Hervey in an extraordinary
state of excitement. It was perhaps the tint of
his violet velvet dressing-gown, which gave his
face that look of yellow pallor; but his hand
shook as it clutched the letter that Lance had
left behind, and his voice, usually so smooth,
was husky and strained with emotion.

Do you know anything of this mad proceeding
V he began.

''I know nothing. What has happened,
grandfather ?"

Happened !  he has left the house  runaway,
the young fool ! the idiot ! After all that
I had done for him, all that I expected, he has
gone off in the night leaving a few lines of farewell,
saying that he means to make a name and
a career for himself, silly boy ! Head the letter
and you will see for yourself what a fool he is."

Mr. Hervey's twitching features, trembling
hands, and wandering, furious eyes, showed so
much more agitation than mioiit have been expected
from a man of his temperament, that
Vera stood aghast.

Can nothing be done ? Can he not be
followed ?"

I have sent Marsh to the station, and James
has gone for Eavenscroft  I'll tell him to his
face what he has done. It is his fault, sneering-coldhearted
scoundrel that he is !"

"Gaston?"

Yes, Gaston. Gaston, who wants to marry
y(m : he shall not have you until he brings the
boy back, I promise him. It is he that has
driven Lance to desperation  he and I between
us, for I have been a fool too !" said Mr. Hervey,
turning away with a gesture of despair and fury.
"How was I to tell that he would take the
matter so much to heart ? It is Eavenscroft's
cursed pride and love of meddling that are to
blame; if he had held his tongue the secret
might have been kept until it suited me to
reveal it. But now  now  I will tell him what
he has done, and see whether he can blush for
shame or not ! "

His voice died away in inarticulate muttering.
Vera meanwhile perused Lance's letter,
which ran as follows : 

"My dear Sir  You say that you cannot
allow me to leave Netherbyby. Your decision
drives me to take the only course which seems
possible to me in my position. I will stay no
longer in a house where I am a dependant,

VOL. II. 36

tolerated as ' a toy and a plaything nor in a
neighbourhood where, as Mr. Eavenscroft tells
me, ' every one knows my story but myself If I
have no name or fortune of my own, I will make
both, and return when I have won the right to
ask Miss Eavenscroft to be my wife. I thank
you for your great kindness and generosity towards
me, and beg you to forgive me for my
sudden departure."

Here the letter ended abruptly. There was
no signature.

'' Did you ever read so wild a production ? "
said Mr. Hervey, as Vera laid down the letter
without speaking.

*' Poor boy !" she answered. Her eyes were
full of tears. " He was very miserable when he
wrote that letter, grandfather. But  I do not
altogether understand it. There was some other
reason for his going, then, beside Gaston's refusal
to allow his engagement to Olivia?"

Of course there was. Does he not say so ?"
exclaimed Mr. Hervey angrily. " Of course
there was the question of his parentage  though
how Gaston had the insolence to cast that in his
teeth I cannot imagine ! As for every one's
knowing his story, I shall call Eavenscroft to
account for that statement. Eavenscroft does

not know it himself. Nobody does know it but
Leonora and myself." By Leonora he meant
Madame Waldstein.

Is he not your ward ? Not the son of a
Captain Aylmer?"

'' No, he is not," retorted Mr. Hervey, '' though
Aylmer has been a very convenient stalking-horse
when I chose. Neither is he my son, as Gaston
fancies. Oh, I have a very pretty surprise in
store for Gaston."

Vera turned upon him suddenly. " Who was
his mother ?"

You will not be much the wiser if I tell
you," said her grandfather. ' His mother was
Lucy Moore. He is the boy whom a certain
foreign fellow was looking for this spring, in
order to hand over a sum of money left to him
by the fiddler, Davy Eowe. The amount, as I
gathered, was not so considerable as to make it
worth my while to put anybody on the track of
identifying him. I can't congratulate that man
Guyon on his success as a detective, though he
did give me something of an alarm when he
came."

Oh, grandfather ! what have we done !"

"Done? nothing but what was for his good.
The boy has repaid me with the vilest ingratitude,"

said Mr. Hervey, walking up and down and working
himself into a rage again. '' He lias ruined
his own prospects : I will have nothing more todo
with him : I wash my hands of him once and
for all. But for Gaston Ravenscroft's unbearable
temper, Lance would have been here now."

But' said Vera, with a look of bitter regret
and consternation, " Gaston never knew that
Lancelot was his own son V

Know ! of course he did not. And how do
you know ?" said Mr. Hervey, suddenly stopping
in his walk. " How do you know that Gaston
had anything to do with the matter ? "

Because I have in my possession the 
of Gaston Eavenscroft and Lucy
Moore," said Vera steadily.

"You  you  have what?" Mr. Hervey
stared at her as if he thought that she had
taken leave of her senses. '' Do you know what
you are saying, Vera ? "

'' Perfectly. Gaston married her in London.
If Lance is Lucy's son then he is also Gaston's
son and heir."

"Impossible!" said Mr. Hervey harshly.
"Gaston's mother assured me that they were
never married. The boy was about to be sent
to the workhouse when I "

I know you took him from the Roses'
cottage, promising to take him to Mickleham
Union, where he never arrived : you kept him
and brought him up as your own ward," said
Vera quickly. " But, oh, grandfather ! why did
you not tell Gaston ? He thought that his son
was dead."

And for aught I know Gaston's son ivai
dead," said her grandfather fiercely. "This
child  a waif and stray  arrived with Lucy at
Hester Rowe's cottage. I own that I thought it
likely that the boy was her child ; but you must
remember that if you undertake to prove that
Ravenscroft had a legitimate son, the question of
identity will at once be raised."

It seemed as if Mr. Hervey was unwilling to
allow that Lancelot's legitimacy was a thing
possible to be proved.

I have proof," said Vera.

Proof, have you ? " He looked at her for a
few moments and then uttered a deep groan.
Good God 1 " he said ; " what will Ravenscroft
say ? And the poor boy ! the poor boy, who
has suffered all this misery for nothing ! "

He sat down and shaded his eyes with his
trembling hand. It was so seldom that he gave
any sign of human tenderness that Vera's heart

was moved at the sight of his emotion. She had
never loved him so well before. But she stood
mute, for she was certain that he would resent
sympathy as the direst insult that could be
offered to him.

She was also terribly disturbed. She blamed
herself severely for delaying so long to give
Gaston the papers and the information to
which he certainly had the right, although,
as a matter of fact, the delay had been caused
by Gaston's unwillingness to listen rather than
by her own tardiness ; after all, she had possessed
the papers only for a day and a half at
most. But she regretted that short delay most
bitterly.

'you know, Vera," said Mr. Hervey, after a
long pause, in almost a pleading tone, "I thought
that I was doing the boy a service. I thought
that nobody wanted him, and that Gaston had
acted badly to that girl  the whole matter was
in bad taste, too, according to Leonora's version ;
and I fancied that it would be a pleasure to
bring up the child, as I had none of my own,
and give him the education that I thought
Gaston would have denied him. Besides, 1
always disliked Gaston, and I  well, well ! the
matter has been bungled. Whether I meant

well to Lance or ill to Gaston, my plans have all
failed now."

'* Did you mean ill to Gaston ? "

I meant some day to punish him through
his son ; I meant to wrest from him a suitable
provision for the lad  either by fair means or
foul "

Gaston would never have hesitated to provide
for him, grandfather. And if you wanted
to punish him for what you thought wronging
his conduct, you have certainly succeeded.
Lance might have been with him for the last
fifteen years, and made his life far happier than
it has been."

' It signifies very little to me what Gaston's
life has been," said Mr. Hervey coldly. " I am
thinking of that boy. It is really extraordinary "
with a slight return to his usual cynical
manner  " that at my time of life I should take
his departure so much amiss. One would have
thought that I should be accustomed to desertion
by this time. But one does not readily accustom
one's self to such things. I do not suppose that
he fancies that I  that I care  particularly
whether he goes or stays."

"You were very kind to him," said Vera
softly.

'' Kinder than I was to you, my dear," said
Mr. Hervey, with sudden gentleness. He held
out his hand to her ; she was sorry to feel it
tremble in her grasp. " I suppose that the
world  with its crude ideas of right and wrong
would say that I had better have taken you
to my home and given Gaston his own son to
manage ; but I  I thought differently."

'' Gaston must be told' said Vera after a
little pause.

Yes ; I feel myself in a somewhat embarrassing
position in view of the facts that you
have imparted to me," said Mr. Hervey with an
uncertain smile. "He will not appreciate my
difficulties  my motives. He is violent sometimes
in his expressions. I hardly know
how "

Will you leave the task to me, grandfather ?
I have a good deal to explain to Gaston : I will
tell him everything."

My dear Vera," said the old man, looking
relieved, '* I shall be much obliged to you. It
is odd to think that though I have anticipated 
not without pleasure  for many years the task
of informing him that I had rescued his son from
a workhouse and brought him up out of charity
(that will gall Gaston a little too !), I feel now

almost as if I had been to blame, and am glad
to lay the burden on a girl's shoulders. Vera,
my dear, if you really choose to tell him the
whole story, allow me to leave you. He shall
be shown in here ; and in the meantime I will
dress, and drive over to Mickleham in order to
make further inquiries respecting that boy's
foolish flight."

He shuffled away, looking very worn and old,
while Vera acknowledged to herself that the
courage which seemed to fail him was at a low
ebb with her too. But she was a brave woman,
and she nerved herself for an interview which
would task her powers to the utmost.

Gaston knocked at the door and entered unannounced,
looking surprised to see Vera instead
of Mr. Hervey, who had sent for him. He went
up to her with an exclamation upon her paleness.


You tired yourself last night. Vera," he said
reproachfully. " Confess that you were fretting
over the woes of those silly young people ! And
what is the news I hear ? that the lad has taken
himself ofi" in the night % "

'eyes, Gaston."

''A very good thing too  for us. Remarkably
foolish, as far as he is concerned."

'' Be a little sorry for him, Gaston," said Vera
wistfully.

He looked impatient, but smiled as he met
the glance of her anxious eyes. ''My dear," he
said caressingly, " I wish the boy had been at
the Antipodes before he troubled you. I can't
profess to pine for him myself : I am even glad
that he is out of the way. Being out of the
way, I will acknowledge that I think he has had
rather a hard fate. And now, where is your
grandfather? I suppose he wants to thunder
anathemas at me ? "

He was so determined to treat the subject
lightly that Vera found it difficult to reply.

''He wishes me to speak to you first," she
said. " There is something that I have to tell
you. Will you promise to hear me to the end,
Gaston ? and will you forgive me if I vex you ?"

"I will forgive you anything."

He had placed her in Mr. Hervey's great armchair,
and now leaned over the back of it and
touched her cheek with a gentle hand.

"You are too white and worn to-day," he
said. "You have been awake half the night,
Vera. Come, tell me this wonderful piece of
news and then go out into the garden : the air
is warm and sweet this morning. Do you know

that I actually plucked some autumn violets for
you on my way here ? Gathering flowers is nota
speciality of mine either ! "

He held them before her. " It was kind of
you to bring them' she said gently. 'they
are very sweet."

'' If you like them I am content," said Gaston,
laying the flowers in her lap. " And now, what
is it, Vera ? You have some shortcoming or
iniquity to charge me with, or else you would
not look so grave. Tell me my sins roundly ; I
like to be rated by you, and would not miss your
sharp sayings for a great deal. What is it \ "

There are some papers that you must read.
I have them here  with me. I will leave you
to read them and come back in half an hour."

Nonsense ! why should you leave me ?
Stay where you are. I will read them with
you."

*'No, no. Let me go away, Gaston," she
said, pleadingly. " It will be better ; you yourself
will like it better in the end."

I shall do nothing of the kind. There are
no papers relating to you and yours that I shall
not like the better for your company."

'but they do not relate to me," said Vera,
with a steady light in her grave gray eyes.

They are about you and yours. Gaston, will
you please forget  for a little time  that I am
anything but a bearer of some very important
tidings ? Forget that I am Vera ; forget that I
am your cousin ; remember only that I am your
friend, and that I have known you for very
many years ?"

'' You are the sweetest of remembrancers ; but
you ask what is very nearly impossible. Vera.
However, to gratify you, I will make the attempt."

Will you tell me then, Gaston, why you have
never spoken to me of your marriage with Lucy
Moore?"

The light and the joyousness which had been
rendering Eavenscroft's face unusually attractive
vanished like a dream. He drew himself into
an erect posture and moved away from Yera's
chair with a haughty look.

Oh," he said, after a moment's pause. " Now
I understand who told you to ask that question.
Hervey ?"

Gaston," she entreated him ; "I should have
a so much easier task if you would only trust me."

I trust no one," he said coldly.

And yet you asked me to be your wife ? "
she said, colouring.

His manner changed. His eye softened ; he

drew a chair close to hers, sat down, and laid his
hand upon her slight fingers. '' I trust you as
I love you  above everybody in the world," he
said. " If I have told you nothing about that
unhappy marriage of mine it has been because
I did not like to reopen an old wound. I should
have told you all  when we were married. But
now I want to know who said anything to you
about that story, Vera % My mother ? "

Before I was taken to your house, as a little
child, I heard poor old Davy speak about you,
Gaston. He said ' that you were a wicked man,'
that you were not to be trusted,' and, though I
did not know why, I guessed that you had some
strange story which I was not to hear. But I
understood what he had meant  what he had
thought  when I knew more of your story. He
was much mistaken."

Gaston pushed his hair off his forehead and
frowned. "From whom did you hear more?"
he asked.

'from David Kowe himself. I think you
knew him."

Yes ; I knew him well. He was the son of
Hester Eowe, who brought up  Lucy." Gaston
uttered the name with a lowering of his voice,
then rose and began to walk about the room.

There seems to be a sort of fate on me," he
said irritably ; "a doom that I should never be
allowed to forget that wretched mistake of mine.
The consequences of it have dogged me all my
Kfe. They drove me out of England ; they
nearly made me end my days upon the downs
at Elmstone. I suppose you know, Vera, that
I was on the very point of killing myself when
you found me?"

I know."

'' I was nearly driven mad by grief and desperation.
I loved her wildly  madly. We had
a boy, Vera ; a fine fellow with eyes like hers ;
and we had lived in peace and happiness for
years. We kept the marriage a secret, because
I was so poor and feared lest my creditors should
come down upon me. Philip's death set me free
from that fear ; but, just when we might have
announced the marriage, just as I was thinking
of bringing her back to Netherbyby in peace and
honour and happiness, she  died."

"How, Gaston?"

How ? I don't know what you mean. She
died here in Netherbyby. For some reason which
I never could understand she left Elmstone
(where we had been living for a few months)
during my absence in Germany, and made her

way  against my wish ; indeed, I may say,
against my express orders  to the house of the
person who had brought her up, Hester Eowe.
On my return from Germany I discovered her
absence, made inquiries, and heard  yes, heard
suddenly, without the least preparation, Vera 
that my wife and child were dead  dead and
buried in Netherbyby churchyard. Do you wonder
that my mind and my body both gave way
for a time beneath the shock ? I asked for no
details ; I left England before I could bear to
talk to any one upon the subject ; even now I
would rather avoid it."

'' One moment, Gaston. It was after your
illness that you came to Elmstone?"

'' Yes. We had been happy together at Elm-stone,
in a cottage outside the town. It was
there that my misery overpowered me ; and but
for you, Vera  you, who came to lead me back
to life and love and hope  I should have blown
my brains out ujDon the downs."

'' Forgive my asking this question, Gaston ;
have you ever considered the possibility of your
son's being still alive ?"

Vera spoke tremblingly, for she feared the
effect of her words. Eavenscroft started ; the
blood rushed into his face until it was almost

purple ; this eyes flashed beneath his Overhanging
brows.

'you torture me by the supposition. Why
do you ask me such a question % '

It might be possible, Gaston ; stranger
things than that have happened. Now, will you
read this paper  the first of several that I have
to show you ? ''

She handed him Davy's statement of the
manner of Lucy's death. He took it hesitatingly.
His eye lightened as he glanced at her
face. At first he seemed inclined to speak
again ; but, controlling himself, he walked away
to the window, and there, with his back to her,
began to read.

The time that he spent over this paper seemed
like an eternity to Vera. He read it twice, then
brought it back and laid it on the table at her
side. His face was pale, and his lip was nearly
bitten through ; it was in a hoarse low voice
that he compelled himself to say 

That proves nothing."

"Yes, Gaston," she said, not daring to look
at him. " That child  lier child  did not die.
It was only her little baby that died. But your
Bertie  your boy  was taken away from the
cottage."

Ah, yes ; to Mickleliam Workhouse. My
son a workhouse boy ! What became of him
then?"

"Think, Gaston. Eemember who took him
away from Hester Eowe's cottage. My grandfather
never sent him to the workhouse. He
liked him ; took him abroad ; sent him to school
for a time ; then  brought him home."

Eavenscroft's eyes were fixed on hers with
the look of one who expects a blow; his lips
were pale. * Go on," he said sternly. 'what
else?"

My grandfather did not know of your marriage
to Lucy. He gathered  from Madame
Waldstein, I believe  that she had never been
your wife, and that the child was a homeless waif
and stray. He brought him up here, in his own
house, and he called him  Lancelot Aylmer."

Gaston looked at her for a moment longer
with an expression of incredulous pain and
horror. Then he turned away, threw himself
into a chair beside the table, and buried his
face in his hands. He could not speak.

Vera drew near and laid her hand upon his
arm.

Dear Gaston'' she said ; " you will learn to
love him yet  and to be glad "

VOL. II. 37

Love him ? be glad ? " lie said, lifting up
his head and showing her a dark, discoloured
countenance, inflamed and distorted almost
beyond recognition by his passion of grief and
rage ; " love that boy whom I have driven from
the only home that he had left ? I only know
that I shall never forgive those who have brought
this thing upon me  that I shall never forgive
myself ! Do you suppose that my son will ever
see in me anything but an open foe ? I have
been nothing else to him since I came back to
England. It is intolerable ! And the worst is
that nothing I can do, or that anybody can do,
will make amends for the misery of it all ! "

Gaston RAVENSCEOFTS MOTHER.

Madame Waldstein had composed herself for
her afternoon's siesta. The blinds were all drawn
down, the house was silent ; Alice, the maid, sat
with her work in the dressing-room outside her
mistress' door. Olivia and her mother were together
; for, on hearing of Lance's disappearance,
Olivia had openly refused to go to London with
Madame Zaranoff, and the Countess, declaring
herself unfortunately unable to remain a day
longer, had left Netherbyby without her. Gaston,
after starting early in the day for Netherbyby
Alanor, had not reappeared ; all arrangements
seemed to be overthrown and all ordinary work
suspended. The Baroness alone took the matter
quietly, and slumbered peacefully in the seclusion
of her own apartment.

But into the midst of the stillness there came

suddenly the sound of a hasty man's footsteps
upon the stairs. Alice started at the sound ; Mr.
Kavenscroft was usually careful not to disturb
his mother's slumbers. Had he forgotten that
she rested at this hour ?

He tapped impatiently at the dressing-room
door, then pushed it open. " Is your mistress in
her room ? " he said. " I must see her."

She is asleep, sir."

I cannot help it ; let me pass. I will take
the responsibility." And while Alice was still
protesting, Gaston had knocked sharply at his
mother's door and penetrated into that sacred
domain.

'' What is it, Alice ? Is it four o'clock ? " said
a somewhat drowsy voice from the couch. Then,
with a start of surprise and in a much more
wakeful tone  " Gaston ! "

*' I am sorry to disturb you," said her son,
but my business will not wait. I am going to
London by the i o'clock train, and must speak
to you before I go."

He drew the curtains aside, and allowed a flood
of light to pour into the room. Madame Waldo
uttered a scream of protest. She was prepared
neither for sunshine nor for visitors. Her
complexion, untouched by rouge or pearl powder.

had lost its usual bloom ; her eyebrows were un-darkened,
and her hair hung in uncurled wisps
over her forehead. Thus taken by storm, as it
were, the Baroness felt herself decidedly at a disadvantage.
She seized a lace shawl that lay
beside her and flung it over her dishevelled head ;
then sat up and glanced at her son with no very
well-pleased expression of countenance.

'AYhat do you want?' she asked crossly.
'' I do wish that you would be considerate, Gaston.
Sit down and don't look larger than you can help).
Your height is quite startling."

Gaston's face was very pale. There were lines
on his forehead and beneath his eyes ; his mother,
in glancing at him, thought that she had discerned
a touch of gray in his black moustache
and cropped dark locks. A momentary misgiving
seized her, but she vanquished it with a
little laugh.

"You look tragic," she said boldly. "What
is the matter now ? Has Lancelot eloped with
Olivia 1 He is just the romantic boy who would
do it."

Have you not heard ? " said her son. " He
has left Eichard Hervey's house, and no one
knows whither he has gone. Mother, what did
you know of his history ? "

I ? " said Madame Waldstein, lifting her eyebrows.
" What you and Eichard were pleased to
tell me, of course ; no more."

' What / told you," said Gaston, a deep red
Hushing his brow, " was a mere guess on my part,
derived from a hint of that scoundrel Mitchell,
Hervey's agent in Mickleham, who spoke as if he
knew all about the matter. Hervey knew, though
I did not, that this boy was Lucy's son, whom I
thought dead."

Lucy Moore's son ? Oh, I knew that ! But
the father "

Lucy was my wife," Gaston interrupted her
sternly. "The boy Bertram  Lancelot as you
have been in the habit of calling him  is my son."

"Your wife? Eeally. Why did you never
announce that fact to us before ? "

You knew it," said Gaston, in a tone which,
though fierce, was little above a whisper. '' You
knew that Lucy was my wife. You never denied
it when you spoke to me on the subject."

"Well," said the Baroness, beginning to fan
herself negligently, " I certainly acknowledge that
you always called her your wife in conversation ;
but my impression was that there had been a little
informality as  regarded the marriage ceremony ;
that, in fact, you left yourself a loophole of escape."

You thought that I was an utter villain, in
short?"

Nothing of the kind. My dear Gaston, you
have not brains enough to be a villain," said his
mother, recovering her self-possession all the more
completely because she fancied him likely to lose
his own. '' If you had been a little cleverer, there
would never have been all this absurd mystery.
I thought that you had treated the girl rather
shabbily, and Hervey thought so too ; but I concluded
that the deception made matters comfortable
between you "

Was there a single moment after hearing of
her death," said Gaston vehemently, '' when I
kept you in ignorance of her relation to me ? "

"You said very little about her, as a matter of
fact, Gaston. I broke the news of her death to
you as gently as I could, because I knew that you
had been fond of her ; and you fainted away at
my feet  like a girl," said Madame Waldstein
contemptuously, " upon hearing it. I never asked,
and you never gave me any formal explanation.
The subject seemed to be painful to you, and we
avoided it."

I spoke to you of her as my life ; I told you
to let the world know. I thought every one
knew."

"1 differed from you on that point," said his
mother with perfect composure. " I considered
it better that the world should know nothing
about it. If you had disclosures to make, you
should have made them yourself."

Gaston was silent for a moment. " I told you
to send a proper announcement of my wife's death
to the daily papers ; did you do that ? "

'' No, I did not."

I spoke of her to Felicia, I believe  to the
doctor and others  as my wife  how did you
explain that to them % "

I told them what I thought : that you were
either labouring under a delusion, or that you
did it for appearances' sake."

And yet you knew that that was not the
case."

Certainly not : I knew nothing of the kind.
I believed all the statements that I made," said
the Baroness, with a cool air of conscious rectitude.
" She was dead, and there was no need
for us to make ourselves the nine days' wonder
of the county about her, thank Heaven ! I
certainly expected that when you recovered from
your illness you would make a great deal more
fuss about the matter than you did. I believe
you would if she had been your wife. Your

silence proved to me what I always thought :
that you were ashamed of the connection, and
wished to bury it in oblivion."

'' Could you not see that I was silent because
her death was a great shock and grief to me ?"

'* Silence is a very inexplicable thing," said
his mother. " If you had put up a monument
to your wife and child in Netherbyby Church I
might have believed in your marriage. At present
there is a miserable little stone in the churchyard,
with the word ' Lucy,' and a date upon it 
that is all."

'' I went abroad as soon as possible, without
thinking of those details," returned Gaston rather
sadly. 'you yourself remind me of the other
matter that I have against you. Why did you
tell me that my son was dead ? "

Was not your son dead ? Is it not your son
that is buried with Lucy in the churchyard here?"

Is it not true," said her son sternly, " that
you sent Eichard Hervey to Hester Kowe's
cottage with instructions to take my boy Bertram
to the iMickleham Workhouse ? "

"Certainly not. I gave no instructions to
anybody."

We need not wrangle over words. You
know Avhat I mean. You know that you have

separated me from my son for fifteen years. You
and Hervey have both been aware that the boy
at Netherbyby Manor was my son  my Bertram ;
and you have left me ignorant all these years.
Hervey I can to some extent excuse ; he was
deceived ; but you  say what you like, but you
knew that Lucy was my wife, and that Bertram
was my lawful son ; and knowing this, why did
you practise this monstrous deception on me ?"

You ask a foolish question," said Madame
Waldstein, looking at him steadily, " and one
which I decline to answer."

But you must answer me," said Gaston with
equal steadiness of gaze, '' and you shall."

Madame Waldstein's eyes fell. She toyed
with her fan : for a moment a look of indecision
passed over her face.

Do you think," she said, " supposing that I
lead known of your marriage, that I would not
have moved heaven and earth to prevent Lucy
Moore's son from succeeding to my son Philip's
inheritance ? Or if Olivia had been a boy, do
you think that I should have cared whether you
married Lucy Moore or not ? Supposing  which
I don't acknowledge  that I had known the true
story all along, do you think I should not have
speculated on the possibility of your casting your

life away in some wild expedition in the East, or
even of putting an end to it deliberately in your
first paroxysms of rage and grief, and thus leaving
the way free for Olivia after all ? Did all
this in your wisdom never occur to you \ "

No," said Gaston slowly. " It never did.
The thought would have been too hideous "

To occur to your innocent mind. Taut
mieux. Then suppose we drop the subject,
Gaston. I do not see why we should recall these
old memories : they are neither entertaining nor
profitable."

I have not finished with them yet," Heavens
answered, with a darker look than ever.
'' 1 have something to show you. To-day I have
learned  what I never understood before  the
reason of her anxiety, her jealousy, her causeless
distrust of me, poor child ! I find that she
received anon}TiLous letters, which insinuated
all sorts of suspicions into her mind. This is one
of them : I hold it in my hand, you see. Have
you any reason to guess whence these anonymous
letters came ?"

As he spoke he spread before her eyes the
letter which Lucy had received on the day of her
departure from Elmstone.

Madame Waldstein shook her head. '' I know

nothing," she said, pushing away the paper.
'' Why should I know anything about it ? "

I cannot tell. I cannot believe that you
do. I should find it hard to believe," said Gaston,
dropping his head with something of a sigh,
that it was my mother who poisoned our lives,
and broke her heart  and mine."

'* Your heart ! Pooh ! your heart is not broken
at all," said the Baroness, averting her eyes from
the sight of his face, and taking up her smelling-salts.
"You have got over it, as we do get
over our love troubles in course of time. After
all, the abrupt conclusion of your married life
may have been for the best. I do not think that
even you would have expected me to receive my
former maid on an equal footing in my own
drawing-room."

My wife would have been the equal of anyone
in England for beauty and goodness ! " cried
Gaston fiercely. " If only I could find the person
who made her believe me such a brute, such a

villain, as to have deceived her ! oh, it is

horrible to think that her last moments should
have been embittered by a doubt of my truth to

her ! " and he struck the wall against which

he had been leaning with his clenched fist, as
though unconscious of what he did.

The Baroness quailed a little. She watched
him furtively for some moments, and twisted her
fan between her fingers with a nervous motion of
the hands. She moved it rapidly backwards and
forwards, and laid it over her lips as if to conceal
their expression as Gaston turned to her and
spoke. His face was deeply flushed : the veins
upon his forehead swelled and throbbed as he proceeded
; but by a great and evident effort he made
his voice tolerably calm. Husky indeed it was,
and unsteady, but free from the passion of which
even his mother stood sometimes in awe.

I must say what I shall never be able to
forget if I do not say it now," he began. " Mother,
you once dropped a word which has haunted me
ever since : ' what if I had been deceived all
along ? ' you said. I have been deceived, I find,
most cruelly deceived ; what made you use that
expression, mother, if you knew nothing of my
story ? Surely you could not tell me who was
the person that poisoned her mind with foul suspicions,
and led her to think of me as if I had
been her deadliest enemy? Who did this,
mother ? If you know, tell me for Heaven's sake,

and I will try " he stopped and almost

choked in uttering the words  " I will try  to
forgive you  for what you have done''

There was a pause. Madame Waldstein's face
was very pale, but there was a strange glitter in
her eyes. She looked half afraid to speak, and
half contemptuous of her own fear and of Gaston's
passionate appeal. Something in her silence orin
her face caused her son to cast his self-control
to the winds.

You do know ! ' he thundered, suddenly
advancing towards her with a threatening gesture
which caused her to shrink back a little  although,
in truth, he meant no harm to her by that gesture,
and never knew that he had made it  * you know,
and you have known all along ! You shall speak
now. I will hear the truth  at last. Who wrote
those letters ? "

But Madame Waldsteins spirit was equal to
his own. " What if I do know ? " she cried ina
shrill excited voice. " What if you do hear the
truth ? What can you do to me ? You look as
if you could kill me  do if you dare. Yes, I
knew all about it  it was I who pulled the wires
all the time, to make you play, you pair of puppets,
with your stupid show of love-making and happiness
! Do you think that / would have received
Lucy Moore in tny house and seen Lucy Moore's
son inherit Philip's lands and stand in Philip's
place ? As long as you were the younger son I

let you alone : when Philip was likely to die, I
separated you ; and I wish the boy had died with
her. Do I know who wrote the letters ? Yes,
I myself  wrote the letters which made her
believe that she was not your wife. But for
Richard Hervey's sickening folly you would never
have heard that story or seen your boy again.
And now what are you going to do ? Assault
me ? strike me ? murder me ?  a woman and
your mother ? Advance one step nearer and I
will ring the alarum-bell and rouse the neighbourhood."


She need not have added those last sentences.
Gaston stood as if turned to stone by her confession.
His hand was still slightly uplifted and
clenched : he looked as if he had neither the
power nor the will to move it. His face was gray
with a pallor more terrible than even the ghastliness
of death. Madame Waldstein, undaunted
and unscrupulous as her nature was, shivered as
she met the look of mingled horror and aversion
in her son's blanched face.

He stood confronting her, without a word.
After a time he lowered his head and let his hand
fall to his side. "My God!" he said, without
looking up ; '* and yet you are a woman ! " He
turned away, caught at a heavy piece of furniture

for support, and buried this face in his hands.
Strong man though he was, he trembled in every
limb.

The Baroness watched him as if fascinated by
the spectacle of his suffering. It frightened her
more than his previous violence had done. She
dared not speak, and yet she longed for the silence
to be broken. But how would he break it ?

He lifted his face at last and glanced at her.
I should not have thought it possible," he said
with broken and difficult utterance, " that you,
even though you hated me, could be guilty of
such a crime ! I wonder that you dare tell me
this story. You must know that if it had been

any one but you  any one but my mother

But it is no use speaking about it," he broke
off abruptly, letting his voice sink so low that
she could scarcely hear the words. " I can do
nothing  say nothing more : I can but leave you
to your own conscience  if you have one  and to
God's justice  if there be any justice anywhere.
One thing only I can do  I will never enter this
house again Whilst you remain in it. You have
spoilt three lives  the guilt of that will lie upon
your head, but you shall never see me here
again."

He quitted the room quietly enough, but when

Alice went back to it she found her mistress lying
insensible upon her couch. She was recovered
from her swoon with some difficulty, but she made
light of it to Felicia, and never revealed the cause
of her agitation. Gaston's words were not, however,
to be lightly heard nor easily forgotten.

VOL. II. 38

MISSING.

Eavenscroft spent the night at the village inn.
In the morning he sent a note to Mrs. Heavens
desiring her and Olivia to meet him at
the railway-station at a certain hour  not to
accompany him, he added, but to hear something
that he had to say before he went to
London.

The two women obeyed his bidding with
some wonder. As yet they knew nothing of
what had passed : perhaps they knew less than
any other two persons in Netherbyby, for the news
of Gaston's visit to Netherbyby Manor, and of Mr.
Hervey's agitation at Lance's flight, had flown
like wildfire about the village. When they
reached the station they found him standing on
the platform with Vera at his side.

He hardly raised his eyes as they drew near.

Olivia held aloof : her face bore traces of tears
and sleeplessness. But these were as nothing
compared with the haggard look of trouble upon
her uncle's face. He looked ten years older than
when she saw him last.

Come in here," he said, opening the door of
the one little waiting-room, which he had taken
care should be empty. " This is an odd place to
meet in, but I had not time to find a better. I
am sorry to have made you come so far. Felicia,
has Madame Waldstein told you anything of her
conversation with me yesterday ? "

'' Nothing, Gaston."

"And Vera has told you nothing. Well, I
must let you know the facts as quickly as
possible. Come forward, Olivia, they concern
you. I could not meet you at the Hall, because,
as long as my mother lives, I shall never cross
the threshold of her house again. It does not
signify why : that is the fact."

He paused, glanced at Vera and at Olivia.
Then he looked doT\Ti and resumed in a dry tone,
as if he were repeating a lesson learned by rote.
' I find that I have made a mistake, Olivia  I
withdraw my opposition to your engagement."

"What, Uncle Gaston?" Olivia could find
no other ejaculation by which to express her

astonishment. She thought that she must have
misunderstood him.

"' I withdraw my opposition," said Eavenscroft
distinctly. " When we have found him  Lancelot
 you may marry him as soon as he is of age,
as far as I am concerned." He shot an impatient
glance at Vera. " I shall have to leave the rest
of the story to you, I think," he said. " I can't
tell it. The air of this room is suffocating. It
stifles me ! "

He flung open the window and leaned out.
Mrs. Eavenscroft looked at Olivia in consternation.
There was a moment's pause : then he
turned round again and spoke.

I must go through with it, I suppose, now
that I have begun. Some years ago, Felicia, I
married  you have heard the story of Lucy
Moore, no doubt  I married and had a son.
This son, I was told, died while away from home,
when he was not four years old ; I now find
that he was not dead : I was deceived. He was
stolen away from me and brought up under
another name by persons who did not scruple to
cheat and trick me. Eichard Hervey knew 
Madame Waldstein knew  I alone did not know
until yesterday that Lancelot Aylmer was my
own son, Bertram Eavenscroft."

Felicia made some exclamation of surprise.
Gaston turned upon her sharply.

You at least did not know it '? You did
not share in my mother's plots? You know
now for the first time why she wished for a
marriage between my son and your daughter ?
It would have made matters straight so very
easily ! "

"You need not insult my mother by those
questions, sir," said Olivia's young impetuous
voice. '* You know that she was as ignorant as
myself." Then she eyed him with haughty
indignation. " You Lance's father ? " she said
hotly. "You who have hated and thwarted him
ever since you came back to England ! I don't
I can't  believe it."

She turned her back upon him. Felicia would
have remonstrated, but Gaston only smiled.

"Let her go on," he said. "It does her good.
What else have you to say, Olivia ? "

"I will say this," answered Olivia, 'that I
am exceedingly sorry for Lance, and that there
is no one in the world whom he would not
sooner have chosen for his father than yourself.
My poor Lance ! " She ended by hiding her
face on her mother's shoulder and bursting into
passionate tears.

"You are hard to please," said her uncle
coldly. " I refused my consent to your engagement
yesterday : do I refuse it to-day ? You
are a foolish child. AYhat more do you want me
to do or say ? "

"I want you to regret the injustice that you
have done him," said Olivia, lifting her face and
hastily drying her eyes. "You know well
enough, Uncle Gaston, that you have been
unkind and unjust to him in every way."

Vera, looking into Gaston's face, and reading
pain in every line of it, opened her mouth to
rebuke the girl's keen-edged words. But Gaston
silenced her by a glance.

If I feel any such regret, it is to my son
and not to you that I shall express it, Olivia.
I am now on my way to London : I hope to
bring him back with me in a few days at
furthest. Then perhaps you will give me credit
for better motives."

Olivia, your uncle is very generous," urged
Felicia.

Oh no, mamma," was the girl's prompt
reply. " He is only repairing an injustice."

Quite right," said Gaston. " It is all that
I wish you to say, Olivia. Let me mention one
thing to you both : I do not wish Bertram's story

to be talked about more than is inevitable. 1
wish you not to write accounts of it to your
friends, Olivia. Above all, I caution you not to
trust your friend the Countess Zaranoff. Perhaps
you will be less inclined to do so when
I tell you that it was she who told me the night
before last where I should find you, and what
you were likely to be doing. I have put you on
your guard. Now I must go ; I hear my train.
Good-bye, Felicia : I may tell the boy that you
will be glad to see him, I presume ? "

The whistle of the approaching train was
heard ; the station-bell rang loudly. Gaston
turned aside from Olivia, who stood immovable
at her mother's side, with lips compressed and
hands tightly grasping her pocket-handkerchief,
and took Yera's hands in his.

"My dear," he said, ' I shall soon come back.
Don't forget me, Vera, and don't forget my
claim. When I have found my son, I shall
come to you for help in the task that I have
made so difficult for myself. I now you'll
help me."

He said the last words very hurriedly, then
bent and kissed her forehead before he hastened
away. Vera had no time to protest.

He had singularly few doubts as to the success

of his search for Lancelot. He placed himself
in communication with the detective police-force
; the superintendent assured him that a
lonely lad of Lancelot's age, appearance, and
education, was sure to be discovered in a few
days. And yet day by day went by, and nothing
was heard of him.

Advertisements were inserted in the newspapers
; a reward was offered ; a description
printed ; but in vain. Scores of boys and young
men presented themselves, some calling themselves
by the names or initials under which he
had been advertised, but nothing of the real
Lancelot Aylmer could be seen or heard. The
boy had disappeared as utterly as if he had
vanished from off the face of the earth.

Mr. Hervey now figured as the aggrieved
party. He had received Gaston's son, he said,
into his own house because he was apparently
destitute, and he had done the best that he could
for the friendless, nameless boy ; it was not his
fault that he had never heard of Gaston's marriage
with Lucy Moore. If Madame Waldstein had
known of any such marriage, she ought to have
informed him of it. At which remark Madame
Waldstein merely shrugged her shoulders, and
intimated to her friends that she had known no

more than Richard Hervey himself had known, and
that no blame could possibly be attached to her.

But, as days and weeks passed on, and
brought no tidings of the boy, affairs took a
sombre aspect. Madame Waldstein grew silent :
Mr. Hervey uneasy and anxious. Olivia's bearing
became less proud, her eyes more wistful
than of old. And Gaston  ah, there was the
greatest change of all  Gaston began to look old
and haggard ; the frown was seldom absent from
his brow nor the brooding sadness from his
eyes ; not seldom he seemed completely worn
out by his incessant journeyings from one end
of the kingdom to the other, by the sudden
alternations of hope and fear, when by chance
he heard of some new-comer to a far-distant
town or village who bore a faint resemblance to
the brown-eyed lad whom his own words had
goaded into flight from the only home that held
him dear.

When September was over Vera left Netherbyby,
and returned to her house in London. Mr.
Hervey greatly opposed this step, but Vera, sorry
as she was to leave him, thought it wiser to let
him know that she could not always stay with
him. She promised to return at Christmas, and
with this promise he had to be content.

She had refused to go to St. Petersburg. She
could not consent to separate herself for so long
a time from her friends in England. She was
anxious to see Lancelot once more, and to know
that he was safe at home. She trusted that
when he was found, Gaston's bitterness of soul
would pass away, that he would learn to love
his son and to forgive the mother who had
wronged him. She saw little of him at present,
this search for Lancelot left him small time for
visits even to her. But when he saw her, he
never failed, to her extreme distress and confusion,
to remind her of the claim that he believed
himself to possess upon her pity and affection.

Maurice Zaranoff had left Mickleham very
soon after Lancelot's flight. Frank Longmore
took him away to Scotland almost against his
will, and there he recovered strength and spirit
every day in the fresh, free mountain air. It
was November before he returned to London
with his friend and presented himself to Vera.

Frank Longmore escorted his mother and
Madame Zaranoff one December night to a performance
at the Lyceum. They did not leave
the theatre until long after eleven o'clock, when
rain was falling, and a good deal of delay occurred
in reaching their carriage and getting out

of Wellington Street. Even after they had
started, one or two pauses took place. It was
during one of these pauses that lima was suddenly
heard to utter a slight stifled cry. She
leaned forward and touched Longmore's knee
with her hand, without attracting the notice of
Lady Longmore or her daughter. Frank looked
at her, then turned towards the window which
she had silently indicated. He was just in time
to see Maurice Zaranoff on the pavement, evidently
parting from some one inside a carriage.
Frank could not see the person to whom he
spoke, but he fancied that lima saw.

"Who was it?" said Jessie Longmore, catching
the intent expression in his eyes.

It was lima who made answer. '' The singer,
Mademoiselle de Lusignan," she said. Then she
leaned back and passed the remainder of the
drive in cold and gloomy silence. As she had
hitherto been the gayest of the gay little party,
the change was striking. Frank thought it
ominous  though of what he could not tell.

He was startled when she bent forward to
bid him farewell, and the light of the lamps fell
full upon her face. There was an unnatural
spot of colour on her cheeks, but her lips were
pale, and her eyes wore an angry look. She

.scarcely spoke, and the unloved hand that she
tendered to her friends before the carriage took
her to her own house was cold as ice.

Frank Longmore was perplexed. " I never
saw so sudden a change from sunshine to storm,"
he said. " Did she not like to see Maurice with
another woman ? My father thought she was
glad of her release : but her face told a different
story  and so did her passionate interest in his
movements at Netherbyby. I wish Maurice well
out of the business, for I think it's very plain
that Vera de Lusignan will marry him as soon
as he asks her ; and I rather wonder that he has
delayed asking her so long. I'll tell him so tomorrow."


CHAPTEE XXXIV.

A Mans LOVE.

It was December. A cold and pitiless wind was
blowing. A steady soaking rain, mingled-sith
sleet, had fallen from three o'clock in the afternoon
until half-past seven in the evening, and
at half-past seven there was not the least apparent
chance of its coming to an end. Maurice
Zaranoff, as he strode hastily along the London
streets With his coat collar turned up to his ears,
assured himself that English cold was nothing to
Kussian cold, but shivered in spite of this assurance.
The night was chilly and unpleasant, and
there was nothing to be said in its favour.

He hastened through many small and narrow
streets in the East End, until he found himself
before a red-brick building, brightly lighted with

gas-lamps, and bearing an indefinite outside resemblance
to a public-house. A few men and
lads were loitering about the open door. On a
large coloured lamp over the doorway could be
read the name of the place : " The Albert Coffee
Tavern." Two or three large placards were
fastened upon the walls and on the door : as
Maurice took shelter from the rain he began to
read the announcements on them with some interest.
He listened also to the talk that went
on amongst the men and boys around him.
There was a violent dispute going on as to
whether sixpence was too high a price to pay
for seats at an entertainment about to be given
that night in the Albert Coffee Tavern.

'Taint worth paying for, I tell you," said a
recusant. " 'Tis this 'un with a fiddle and 't'other
with a pianny, and not a good honest rousing
song as I'd give a halfpenny for. Nor a pot of
beer neither. I'm going round to the 'Blue Boar,'
I am. Come along."

But, to the credit of his friends be it spoken,
this invitation met with an indignant refusal.

"What / think," said a pale lad with an
intelligent face and bright eyes, "is this, that
these gentlemen and ladies put themselves out
for us to bring us a little pleasure, and we ought

to thank 'em, and not stand out for a penny or
two. They don't put it in their pockets : it
goes to keeping up of this place, you know. So
we get the benefit."

If you call it a benefit," said the man, moving
slowly ofi". Here Maurice turned round.

' I should call it a benefit'' he said to the
boy, in the cool clear tones which could be heard
farther than many a louder voice, " to hear for
sixpence a singer whom gentlemen and ladies
give guineas night after night to hear. It's not
often that either you or I have a chance of hearing
any one like Mademoiselle de Lusignan."

He pointed to a name on the placard, and
succeeded in detaining the would-be runaway to
Hasten. "''AVhio's she V he said sulkily. But
others where not so ignorant. '' She sings well,
don't she ? " said one man, coming round to look
at the name. " I've heard tell of her. What
does she do coming here, I wonder."

'* Gets well paid, I'll warrant," said the
grumbler.

I'll tell you why she comes," said Maurice.
She comes because she is sorry for the dull
hard-working lives many of you lead, and she
wants to do all she can to give you a little
brightness and pleasantness. I have heard her

say that she was once poor herself, and knew
what it was to hunger for bread, and meet with
injustice and cruelty. She would be sorry if you
did not come and hear her to-night," he added,
turning especially to the man who had murmured
at the cost. " I think you will enjoy it more
than your glass of beer."

Are you a friend of hers, sir ? " said the boy
with keen interest. The man meanwhile read
the placard with a surly hesitating air.

"I am an acquaintance  hardly a friend,"
said Maurice. Whereat the boy looked at him
with a sort of reverent awe, and the men drew
together, eyed him curiously, and were silent.

At this moment a carriage drove up to the
door, and two ladies  a young and an old one 
got out. Maurice made a step forward as if to
assist them, but his help was unnecessary : secretary,
manager, friends, came pouring out of
some inner office to welcome the charitable
young vocalist who had promised them her help
for that evening's entertainment, simply out of
kindliness, and not in the least from love of
applause or notoriety. The concert had not
even been widely advertised : it was given for
the benefit of the working men and women of
the neighbourhood, and they were not likely to

appreciate the fact that Vera de Lusignan was
considered a remarkable singer. And if any one
wants to know how Vera became aware that
there was any such place in the East End requiring
help, it must be answered that Maurice
ZaranoiF had found it out and told her.

Maurice Zaranoff himself, now living quietly
on the income afforded him by the small estate
whicli remained confiscated on account of its
position across the frontier, had of late occupied
himself chiefly with two objects. One was literature,
and the other a minute inquiry into the
condition of the working classes in London. He
went about slums and alleys as if he had been
to the manner born : not for the sake of charity,
although he was never slow to help both with
kindly words and alms when occasion offered,
but because he wanted to learn for himself what
where the essential differences between Russian
moulins and English working men, between a
nation that cowered beneath an iron despotism,
and one which had raised itself above oppression
and won its way to be the noblest and the freest
country in the world. Maurice Zaranoff found
plenty of vice and crime and misery in the
homes of the poor ; but he did find also a spirit
of independence, a love of liberty, a rough sense

VOL. IT. 39

of justice that lie acknowledged to himself could
not be found in a Russian Commune, the home
of the down-trodden moujik, laden with taxes
and burdened with requirements which he did
not understand.

When Maurice saw Vera de Lusignan stepping
down from her carriage amongst a little crowd
of " horny-handed sons of toil' the sweet singer
with her heart full of compassion for the hard
and weary lives which she wished so much to
brighten, his mind went back involuntarily to
the memory of the two women whom he had
loved  both now numbered with the dead.
There was his mother, a gracious stately lady,
who used to gather round her the serfs of his
father's household (in the days when serfdom
existed), teach them to read, to Write, to sew,
and talk to them and pray with them herself ;
not the only Russian lady of those days who
looked upon her servants as her brethren. There
was a woman of a very different type : the eager
and passionate Pole, Anna Strolenski, with her
ardent revolutionary aspirations, her terrible,
beautiful devotion to her people's cause, her
martyrdom at the last. And now he looked
upon a third : no great lady, no fanatical enthusiast,
but a woman of genius, strong, calm, and

thoughtful, who also said : "/ will not hold myself
aloof from my brothers and my sisters
because I am rich and they are poor : rather let
me share my gifts with them, for they are my
people and their God is also mine'' Three
nations had produced these three women, dissimilar
in position and in temperament indeed,
but alike in this that they held it true that God
had created '' of one flesh and blood all nations
that are upon the earth."

Maurice kept himself in the background ashe
followed the singer and her companions into
the large hall which was used as a concert-room.
He sat in a quiet corner, and watched the proceedings
of the performers and the audience
with observant sympathetic eyes. It pleased
him to see that some of the men had come in
their everyday suits, and that the careworn
mothers in the twopenny benches had brought
their babies with them under cover of shawls
and tattered umbrellas. He was not offended
by the proximity of giggling shop-girls and
supercilious young salesmen ; but he was more
interested by a very grimy old cobbler in the
greasiest of suits, who beat time to the music,
and said, " Eh, mon ! but it's like listening to
the angels ! " at the end of Vera de Lusignan's

first song. Maurice would gladly have shaken
hands with him there and then.

He looked up at Vera when she began to sing,
and wondered why she was so beautiful. Her
face was not perfect, and it was undeniably too
pale ; but it possessed that harmony of tint and
line, that indefinable haunting charm which
lovelier women sometimes miss. Those sweet
dark eyes, with their slight touch of melancholy,
those curved and drooping lips, that still figure
with the folded hands ; were there ever eyes and
lips that would seem to him so sweet ? was there
anywhere in all the world a figure that would
haunt his dreams as hers had lately done ?

He turned aside and shaded his eyes with his
hand, leaning his elbow upon the back of the
bench as he did so, as if to keep that vision from
his sight while he listened to her exquisitely
pathetic voice.

For the great characteristic of Vera's voice
was this pathetic quality : a melting, searching
tenderness that easily touched the springs of
tears.

She sang the two ballads for which her name
was down upon the programme ; then came an
encore. What would she sing now ? Ah ! something
that Maurice had heard before :

My heart it is sore and the cold wind is driving,
In the grave with my mother I would that I lay ;
To be done with the hunger, the toil, and the striving.
The comfortless night and the desolate day."

Maurice looked instinctively towards his friend
the cobbler. The man's face was turned to the
platform still, but two great tears were making
their way down those rugged grimy cheeks. He
forgot to conceal them, forgot even to wipe them
away until the singer's voice sank into silence at
the end of the last line :

And there with the angels and you be at rest."

Then he rose to his feet. " That's eno' for ae
night," Maurice heard him mutter, rubbing the
salt drops out of his bleared old eyes. " I'll
nae bide. I'll just hear naught to beat that if I
stay till the New Year's in, I reckon."

And he went away, although he had not had
his full twopenny worth : a great tribute to a
great singer's powers  for the cobbler was a
Scotchman.

The concert was over at half-past ten, and
the audience was dispersing when Vera came
out. She had to pass through the hall itself
before she could reach the door, and Maurice
watched her approach as if it formed part of a
scene in a play. At the door of an inner room.

which had been appropriated to the performers,
she stood for an instant, talking to the secretary
of the institution, with a bright interested look
on her face. Then she drew her fur-lined cloak
over her shoulders, and fastened it with great
chased silver clasps at her throat. Her dress
was of black velvet  she had chosen to dress
carefully for the occasion  with fine white lace
at neck and wrists, and silver ornaments. There
were purple and white violets in her hair and on
her bosom. The gaslight fell from above full
upon her fair head, and tipped with gold the
short curling hairs which always stood up around
her brow like a coronal, in spite of Vera's efforts
to make them lie in straight and decorous order.
She looked very happy, very sweet; and yet
there was something about her at that moment
which sent a pang to Maurice Zaranoff's heart.
What would be the fate of this fair and beautiful
girl, he asked himself, with the tender hopeful
light in her smiling eyes, and the radiance of
womanly sympathy on her face? She was a
creature so full of delicate instincts, of quick and
generous impulses, of almost impossibly high
aims, that she needed, of all things, a wise and
protecting love, a guiding hand, a strong arm, in
order that she might not wreck her whole life

by the fulfilment of some mistaken so-called
duty. It seemed to Zaranoff that a possibility
of this kind was already dimly foreshadowing
itself; and he wished with his whole heart and
soul that he had the power and the right to
avert it. Had he the power ?  he believed so.
Had he the right ? That was the question which
he had never dared to ask himself, and which in
that moment he vowed that he would never ask
of her.

He drew back, meaning to let her pass him
without seeking for a recognition, but when she
was near him she quietly turned and held out
her hand with a friendly smile.

*' Why have you been sitting down here, Mr.
Guy on ? " she said. ' It is very cold in this part
of the hall. I saw you a long time ago, and
tried to beckon you up to the platform, but you
would not see me."

I heard you, mademoiselle. You gave us
all great pleasure. And you touched the hearts
of the people too ; and that does good."

"We drive past your lodgings," said Vera.
Will you let us set you down there ? " It was
thus that she thanked him for his little speech.

They were at the door as she spoke, and, when
she had taken leave of the coffee tavern authorities,

Vera stepped forward to the carriage in
which Mrs. Cradock had already seated herself.
It was then that a woman suddenly touched her
and spoke.

'' You don't remember me, do you ? " she said.

Vera turned and looked. The woman must
have been between thirty and forty ; she was
dressed in flaunting colours, and the paint was
thick upon her face ; but the rouged cheeks were
painfully thin, and the fierce dark eyes shone
with a feverish light. One of the gentlemen
interposed and tried to thrust her away, but
Vera stopped him.

'' One moment ; let her speak please," she said.
' I know the face  and yet "

You remember Julia Stanger, don't you ? "

Vera's face turned pale and then flushed
vividly. "Is it you?" she said. "0 Julia, I
am so sorry ! "

"You needn't be sorry," said the woman.
You needn't take out your purse either. I
heard you sing to-night  that's all ; and I remembered
the night when I last heard you sing
that song. Do you remember what you said
to me then % Your words have come true, so
you may think yourself avenged."

I should be sorry to think anything of the

sort. I am sorry I said what I did, Julia.
Don't remember it any longer, and let me help
you if I can''

Mrs. Cradock here began a nervous expostulation
; Vera was standing on the doorstep
still, bare-headed, in the cold and wet. The
painted, over-dressed, bedraggled woman on the
pavement, to whose miserable yet flaunting figure
the girl's serious and gentle face was slightly
bent, was the central point of the scene ; the
light fell full upon the two dissimilar heads, the
bystanders and the carriage were in shadow.
Maurice thought of some picture that he had
seen in Germany, of a saint or angel relieving
the distresses of the poor; there was no more
repulsion or scorn in Vera's face than there had
been in that of the pictured saint. Yet Vera
was no saint ; she could be cold and disdainful
enough to vice when it came too near her 
Maurice knew in what cloak of impenetrable
reserve she held herself aloof from some of her
professional companions ; but now a softening
sense of pity gave new tenderness to her eyes,
new gentleness to the lines of her fair face.

"This is all that I wanted to say to you,"
said Julia, bringing her tawdry finery closer to
Vera's pitying eyes, " I've come to a pretty pass

now, as you see, and my own sister won't speak
to me  she's married and living away from the
profession, quite the lady. And I don't suppose
I shall last for very long ; so "  her voice
sank almost into a whisper  " if you're as good
as you look, tell me that you don't bear malice
for the times when I used to bully you, for, assure
as I live, Vera Marlitt, if there is a God in
heaven, He has punished me for all I ever did
to you ! "

Don't talk in that way, Julia. I am very
sorry that I said those foolish, wicked words.
But I was only a child then  forgive me and let
me help you," and Vera pressed her purse into
her old companion's hands.

Forgive you ? that's a good 'un," said Julia,
recovering something of the brazen audacity of
her old days. "You're a good soul and you

always were. Vera  and  as for your money "

She held the purse in her hand and looked at it
as if considering whether she should give it back,
while a curious look of greed and hunger came
over her pinched face. " Well," she said at last,
I'll keep it in memory of you, and because 

because " Again she hesitated, and the

tears rushed into her handsome hollow eyes.
God bless you ! " she said with a sudden hysterical

sob. " I haven't tasted food since yesterday."


She burst into tears, threw off Vera's detaining
hand and fled away in the darkness of the
streets.

' Follow her ! follow her ! '' said Vera quickly.
Oh  will nobody go and find her "

She looked at Maurice. In a moment he had
started in pursuit, but he speedily saw that pursuit
would be all in vain. Julia Stanger had
vanished down one of the dark side - streets,
whither it would be useless and even dangerous
to follow. He had to return and explain this to
Vera, who mournfully acquiesced in the wisdom
of his decision. " If only I could help her ! " she
repeated, forgetting utterly how great had been
her detestation of Julia in olden days. '

Maurice took his seat opposite her, and as the
carriage passed under a gas-lamp he saw that
there was a tear upon one delicate cheek. Involuntarily
he leaned forward and spoke.

I will find her. I do not think it will be
difficult."

She lifted her eyes and thanked him gently.
But she said no thin 2; more.

The bunch of violets in her dress had fallen
into her lap. Her fingers toyed with it from

time to time. Maurice watched the movements
of the white hand with a sort of fascination. He
could not see her face, for she had drawn back
into the darkness.

The carriage stopped at the street in which he
lived. He held out his hand as he bade her goodbye.
Mrs. Cradock saw nothing but a quiet meeting
of the fingers  and yet there was something
more. When he left the carriage, Vera's violets
were hidden in his hand. And at that moment
of parting he had looked into Vera's eyes and
they had spoken as they had never spoken before.
He was not vain, but he did not think that Vera
would have let her eyes rest with that lingering
tenderness upon a man whom she did not love.
At this consciousness his heart beat loud and
fast, and the blood rushed to his brow. What
had he done ? Had he won Vera's heart ? And
if he had, would not its possession give to his
life all the beauty, all the completeness, that of
late it had somewhat lacked ?

He had never told her his real name and
history. Since her return to London late on in
October they had met but little; and it must
be confessed that Maurice had a touch of the
constitutional indolence of the Kussian nature,
and had shrunk from a disclosure which it would

certainly pain him to make, and wliicli when made
might lead him on to say what she perhaps would
never pardon  that he loved her. But now, if
she loved him too, should he not tell her all ?

For, as he well knew, he had nothing to offer
her. He was poor, in exile and in disrepute ;
his name was branded as that of a traitor, his
hand stained, though unintentionally, with innocent
blood. How could he ask her to share
his poverty and his disgrace \

And yet  if Vera loved him, would she not
love him for himself and not for what he could
give ? It would have lowered his ideal of her if
for a moment he could conceive the ]possibility
of y era's rejecting him on account of his circumstances.
If she loved him  what a blessed
possibility was that !  he would be wronging her
not to tell her that he loved her too.

At any rate he resolved now to tell her all 
his name, his history, his position and  last of all
his love. Would she banish him from her presence
and tell him never to see her more ? Ashe
raised the violets to his lips, he said to himself
that he thought not. For he trusted her ashe
had trusted no woman since the days when
his mother had been to him the embodiment of
all that was good and pure and true.

A WOMAN S LOVE.

A SIMILAR train of thought was passing through
Vera's mind. After Maurice's farewell she awoke,
perhaps for the first time, to full consciousness of
the meaning of her own feelings and, as she
thought, of his looks and words. Ah, there was
no mistake about it now. Maurice loved her:
never else would he have drawn away her violets
and held her hand in such a gentle clasp, or
looked into her eyes with that strange new
tenderness of expression which she had never
seen since the day of her visit to him at Mickle-ham.
Motionless as she sat in her corner of the
carriage, her pulses were throbbing, her veins
tingling with emotion as she recalled his look,
his touch. She dared now to acknowledge what
she had tried, ever since the days at Mickleham,
to disguise from herself, that there was no man

in all the world who was half so dear to her as
this unknown, nameless exile ; this adventurer,
as the world called him ; this man without
family, without prospects, and with a history
which as yet she had not heard.

But she trusted him. She was sure that disgrace
and exile were undeserved misfortunes ;
she was prepared to hear the story, which some
day he would tell her, of political error and
failure  easy to be forgiven because it would
prove him of nobler aims than other men. She
had been reading books about Eussia ; she had
already heard many details respecting Polish,
Nihilist, insurrectionary plots ; if Maurice had
been concerned in one of these, she should trust
him not one whit the less  because she loved
him.

She was almost afraid to feel how much she
loved him  how little had all other considerations
but that of love become to her. Any sacrifice
would be light if made for his sake ; any toil
should be gladly undergone. She was proud to
think that for once the usual positions of man
and wife might be reversed : that she might bethe
breadwinner and the worker of the two.
Although, she added to herself, with a quick
pressure of her hands together if he wished her

to leave her profession she would leave it ; she
would go where he wished, live as he lived, do
what he liked and nothing more. Her identity
should be swallowed up in his. What was fame
to a woman who had all her life desired nothing
so much as the sacred ties of love and home ?
Fame was a great thing ; music was greater still ;
love was best.

It would be a sacrifice to give up her profession
even for love and for Maurice's sake ; but
she could make it. She did hope that he would
let her continue her present mode of life ; it
suited her, and she did not believe that she
should be happy if she could not exercise her
musical powers. But he knew best. He would
know  he would understand. If he loved her
she could afford to be generous ; his love was a
gift for which she would gladly barter all the
work  " the kingdoms of the ivorld and the glory
of them"

She was startled at the intensity of her own
feelings. She had thought that her love was in
its infancy and could be strangled like a small
poisonous thing whenever she desired ; but now,
without her consent or knowledge, it had grown
into a giant creature that entrapped her whole
being in its folds. Before long she delighted in

its strength. Nothing makes a woman prouder
than the first discovery of her sower to love ;
she is often as much in love with love as with
the avowed object of that love. Her nature
has asserted itself, and she acknowledges its
royalty.

She could not sleep for happiness. Life was
so beautiful that she hated to lose consciousness
in sleep : no dream could be more beautiful than
the waking reality. What was she that such
happiness should come upon her '? For she not
only loved  love was in itself a poignant bliss,
akin to pain, but she was loved (she was almost
certain that she was loved) in return. When
woidd the day dawTi ? the day that was to bring
back to her the sight of that face, every' lineament
of which was dear ?

In later days she recalled this impatience for
the morrow with a sort of horror and amaze.
Never in all her life would she again long for the
coming day as she did then without a doubt and
without a fear. Ever afterward, in the full
course of joy, she would dread some unforeseen
disaster, some little cloud in the horizon of which
she had not dreamt  at first no bigger than a
man's hand, but soon to cover the whole heaven
of her life. Just now she was blind and deaf to

VOL. II. 40

all but the future, apparently as bright and as
serene as any summer's day.

She came downstairs next morning in a dress
which she usually reserved for gala days. It was
dark green, with buttons and waist-belt of oxidised
silver. A little bunch of violets was fastened
into her belt. She was slightly flushed, and, in
spite of her almost sleepless night, her eyes were
very bright.

'' You are not tired, then. Vera ? " said Mrs.
Cradock, regarding her. " I was afraid that last
night's expedition might fatigue you. But you
look well."

I am very well and not at all tired, auntie.
There is a rehearsal this morning. Then I shall
drive back as quickly as I can."

' Do you expect visitors, my dear, when you
come back ? "

"Yes, auntie. Or perhaps they will come
before I go. But that is not likely."

She half expected Maurice to appear very
early that morning. He knew at what hour she
generally went out ; he might come before she
went. For this reason she had donned her pretty
dress, her silver ornaments, her bunch of violets ;
but the time went on, and still he did not come.
She had to set out upon her drive into town with

a very faint feeling of disappointment in her
heart.

She went through rehearsal as quickly as
possible, and returned home with a beating
heart. It was past noon when she reached
Kensington.

'' Has any one been ?"

Yes, miss ; Mr. Cluyon. He said he would
call aorain."

Vera turned away her face to hide the disappointment
depicted thereupon. The maid
continued 

*' There is a lady, too, miss, waiting for you
in the little drawing-room. She would not oiye
me her name ; she said you knew her."

Vera was surprised. She collected herself,
however, and, after a moment's pause, entered
the room in which her unknoT\TL guest awaited
her. She saw a lady in black, whose face was
so closely veiled that recognition was impossible.
But when the door was closed, the lady raised
her veil, and then Vera saw that her visitor was
lima, Countess Zaranoff.

She said her name by a sudden impulse of
amaze, then tried to greet her in a more ordinary
manner : but lima repelled the proffered
hand, and turned upon her a face that showed

that something was terribly amiss. For the
creamy tints of her complexion were merged
in a strange pallor, and her yellow-brown eyes
seemed to burn like fire. Vera looked at her
in silent surprise, and waited to hear the reason
of this unexpected visit.

Madame Zaranoff was not slow to speak. Her
voice was husky, but her manner was calm and
self-restrained. It was only her face that told
its tale of excitement and of suffering ; and there
was one sure sign of agitation. She could not
remember her English : twice or thrice she
tried to sneak it ; and, before the sentence was
finished, relapsed into French  the tongue to
which she was most accustomed. Happily
French was as familiar to Vera as German or
English ; and not a shade of meaning, not a
turn of expression in Ilma's speech escaped her.

Mademoiselle," began the Countess, "I come,
believe me, with no unkind motive. I will not
say what has made me resolve to tell you my
story; you will see its object soon enough. Will
you listen to me for one little moment ?"

"As long as you please, madame. Will you
not be seated ? "

Madame Zaranoff sank into the chair which
Vera gave her. Int without a word of thanks.

Her hands and lips moved nervously ; her face
was still very pale. " I must ask you to hear
something of my earlier life. Forgive me for
the intrusion of my private affairs upon you ;
they have to do with you more than you
imagine." She paused a little, biting her lips
as if to moisten and redden them, and not looking
Vera in the face; then said suddenly: '' You
know Maurice Guy on V

"I do."

'you know that Guyon is not his name 
at least that it is his Christian name merely ?"

Madame "

He has not told you his own, naturally.
It is left for me to enlighten you. Hush, let me
speak."

Vera rose in orreat indignation. " Pardon me;
Mr. Guyon himself will tell me his secrets if he
chooses "

He will not choose," said lima sharply. " He
will never tell you his real name and station, if
he has not told them to you already. Maurice
Guyon  yes, he is that, indeed ; but he is also
Count Zaranoff  and my husband."

Vera's face changed to stone. "What?" she
said with sudden emphasis. '' He is  what ?"

'' Mv husband," said lima steadily ; and then

the two women looked for the space of a minute
or two into each other's faces, and were silent.

Vera was stricken to the very heart ; but her
pride forbade her to show her pain. She had
turned as white as lima herself, however, when
at last the Countess spoke :

Of course it is difficult for you to believe
me. He kept his secret  and I kept the secret
also  because  because wee had quarrelled." She
averted her face as she spoke, and the red spot
of colour came out upon her cheeks. " He associated
himself with conspirators ; it was said
that he conspired also  I do not know. He was
untrue to me,  I was sure of it,  and wee separated
in anger. I have had reason since then
to think that I was mistaken, and that he never
deceived me. If that were the case, then it was
my doing that wee were separated for a time 
and I might hope  I might still dream of a
reunion." She paused and then added with
pitiless distinctness: ''If no other woman came
between us."

Vera, still standing l3y the table, shrank a
little. "I would never be that woman," she
said in a low clear tone.

"I thought not," said lima; "I did not suspect

Again there was silence ; then Vera spoke :

"If you did not suspect me," she said, "why
did you come here to tell me this story?"

"Because I suspected /a'??2," said Madame Zara-off
passionately. " Because I knew how ready
he was to admire a beautiful face  and yours
is beautiful, doubly beautiful to him, perhaps,
because it is so unlike my own. I know his love
for music; I know the thousand ways in which he
can be attracted and allured. When I met him at
Netherbyby before he was taken ill  yes, we met
in that plantation between the church and Madame
Waldstein's house,  I told him that he
was more changed to me than ever he had been
before. ' Some woman has worked this change,'
I said ; but I did not know that that woman was
Vera de Lusignan, the singer."

The bitterness of her accent called up no resentment
into Vera's eyes. She answered calmly,
but in a sunken voice which lima could scarcely
hear.

You may rest assured, madame, that I shall
never again disturb the relations between you
and  your  your husband. If I had known 

if I had known " she said, and there the

words became inaudible altogether.

I did not think you knew. I did not believe

that you would have tried to take him from
me. I was sure that he could not have told
you all."

Tell me more," said Vera with a visible
effort. " He was exiled ? "

exiled to Siberia."

ind you  you had quarrelled before he
went ? or else you would have accompanied him

ah ! " She caught her breath quickly, and

turned her white face to the half frightened
woman who had come to wreck her life and
peace. It seemed to lima that she suddenly
made herself taller and lowered her eyes upon
her with a look of illimitable and majestic scorn.
'' Why did you not go with him in the hour
of his sorrow and shame?" she said. "Where
were you f It was your place to be at his side.
He told me a story once of a man exiled to
Siberia whose promised  ah yes, his promised
wife, he said, refused to see him, sent him
a cruel message that she would not share his disgrace
 as if that message did not disgrace her
sufficiently in the eyes of every generous woman
and large-hearted man ! Were you the woman
of whom he spoke ? Answer : I have a right to
know."

You have no right," said lima slowly ; ' but

I will answer your question. Yes, it was I who
sent the message  and I thought that his conduct
justified it''

You thought so ? You were not even
sure'' said Vera. The impetuous blood mounted
to her cheeks and forehead as she proceeded. '' I
though only the poor singer, Vera de Lusignan
I would have done better than that, madame. I
would have known whether he was guilty before
I sent him such a message. And," she added
in a low voice, " I will know now. I will take the
warning. I sill not condemn him unheard."

Xo," said lima ironically, 'hear by all means
everything that he has to say. I should be curious
to hear it too  curious to know how he denies
the fact that he has a wife living, or how he
will explain his silence on the point. But if you
do listen to him, beware of listening too long.
Eemember that his wife's place is taken. For
your own sake I warn you, Vera de Lusignan.
What ! do you know nothing yet of the morals
of a Kussian noble that you look so outraged and
indignant ? "

I know Maurice," said Vera proudly, '' and
I know myself."

If you are so sure of both," answered lima,
risings, " I can have nothings more to sav. But

are you sure that you know Maurice Zaranoff
as well as you thought you knew Maurice
Guyon ? "

Vera was silent. lima came closer and laid
her hand on the girl's arm. '' You trusted him ;
I know I trusted him once, and he betrayed me.
Let me save you from the same fate while there
is time."

He is your husband' Vera breathed rather
than spoke, with a mute appeal for mercy in her
eyes.

*' My husband % Yes ; the worse for me."

Then  you do not love him ? "

Again they confronted each other. Vera was
trembling from head to foot ; lima was tranquil
and composed, although the cruel vengeful look
still spoilt the beauty of her eyes.

Love him ? " she repeated very slowly.
Why should you ask me that ? I suppose because
you would like to console him for my coldness
and my cruelty ? You shall not have that
satisfaction. I will say to you what I have never
said to him, that  in spite of the insulting indifference
with which he has treated me, in spite
of his falseness, his cruelty, and his abominable
hard-heartiness  I have the weakness, as his
wife, to love him still. Have I answered you ?

And now I will bid you farewell, for I have done
my errand."

Thus abruptly she brought the conference to
an end. Vera had sunk into a chair, but she
rose and rang the bell for the maid. Countess
Zaranoff lowered her veil and bowed coldly ;
Vera returned the salutation with mechanical
courtesy. The front door opened and closed
again. Then the girl dragged herself upstairs
with slow and weary steps, and locked herself
into her own room. She gave none admittance :
she neither ate nor drank ; she lay for some time
with face and bosom pressed against the floor in
dull deep agony too deep for words or tears.
Her husband," she repeated from time to time.
her husband ? hers ? Oh, cruel, cruel." And
once with a sort of sob she cried upon his name.
'' Maurice ! Maurice !" she said. '' Oh, my love,
my love ! " And then, although she did not faint,
a stupor of grief came over her, and for sometime
she knew nothing of the world around.

It was late in the afternoon when Mrs. Crack
came to her door. *' Vera, will you not let
me in ? " she said. ' Mr. Guy on is here and
wishes to see you."

There was a little pause. Mrs. Cradock heard
a movement in the room and knocked assail.

Presently the door was opened, only an inch or
two, and Yera's voice came through the opening.
It sounded dull and strained, as if all the
power and sweetness had gone out of it.

'' Tell Mr. Guyon that  that I cannot see him.
Say I am ill. Say anything ; only let him know
that he must go."

'dear Vera, do open the door. Can I do
anything for you ? Are you really ill ? "

Yes, I am ill," said Yera in the same apathetic
way. '' But it does not signify  I shall
be better when  when he is gone. Oh, make
haste, make haste and tell him to go."

Mrs. Cradock did as she was bidden, and conveyed
to Maurice's mind an impression of Yera's
.state, which made him seriously uneasy. He
had no notion, however, that her illness was far
more mental than physical. He left the house
reluctantly, saying that he would call again, and
leaving a large bouquet of sweet violets for Mademoiselle
de Lusignan.

When he was gone, Yera rang the bell for a
servant and ordered her to fetch a cab. Mrs.
Cradock came in to expostulate and advise, but
was silenced by the decision of her manner as
well as shocked by the look of illness and sorrow
upon her face.

'drink something, dear, at least," she said,
carrying a cup of tea into the room and setting
it before the girl whom she loved dth almost
a mother's love. '' You will be ill if you neither
eat nor drink."

Vera carried the cup to her white lips and
then put it down untasted. '' I can't," she said
faintly, ' I can't swallow."
- " My dear child, is your throat sore ? "

"No," said Vera. "But I don't want an}hino\ ''

"You will never be able to sing to-night,"
said Mrs. Cradock, almost wringing her hands
with anxiety.

Vera made no answer as she fastened the warm
furs round her neck. There were dark circles
round her eyes, and a wild wan look upon her
face. She looked abbacy like a woman with a
broken heart. But there was a decision in her
movements which showed that some set purpose
was actuating them.

She took a cab and drove vdih. Janet, her
maid, to Sir Adrian Longmore's house. Here
she felt certain that she should obtain confirmation
or disproof of Ilma's story.

But Sir Adrian and Frank Longmore were
both out, and she could not wait. She had an
engagement for that night.

As she drove away from the Longmores' house
she remembered various trifles that gave reason
for belief in Ilma's story. She remembered the
Countess' words to Frank Longmore in Madame
Waldstein's garden, and Ilma's look of bitter
enmity. She remembered that Maurice had
spoken with agitation of the story of his life
which he had not had courage to tell her at
Mickleham. After all, there could be no mistake.
She had loved and trusted blindly, and Maurice
Guyon had abused her trust. She would never
see him more.

CHAPTER XLL

PAGE

Forgiveness 93

CHAPTER XLII.

"Alive or Dead!" 110

Fast VL REPARATION.

CHAPTER Xlii
Bertram Ravenscroft 129

CHAPTER XLIV.
"Ha3IE, Hame, fain would I be!" . . . 149

CHAPTER XLV;
The Captive 169

CHAPTER Xlvi
A Secret Tribunal 186

CHAPTER Xlvi

Father and Son 206

CHAPTER Xlvii

PACK

Justice 224

CHAPTER XLIX.
In the Shadow of Death . 247

CHAPTER L.
For Bertram's Sake " 276

CHAPTER LI.
The Rest is Silence " 297

PART V. (Continued) LOVE AND HATE.

CHAPTEE Xxxvi

Vera CHOICE.

Vera looked ill enough upon her arrival at the
concert-room to excite the gravest apprehensions
in the minds of her companions. Some one
brought her food and wine : she contrived to
swallow a little of both, and thus tokeep at bay
the deadly sickness and faintness that threatened
to render her incapable of exertion. The conductor
tried to dose her nth brandy ; but she
assured him with a strange little smile that she
did not need it  she should be better soon. .

It was her time to sing. She turned towards
the audience : the glare of the gas-lights seemed

VOL. III. 4to

blind and confuse her. The opening bars of
her song were played  there was a pause, a rustle,
the sound of a hiss even amongst some of the
more impatient of the auditors. And still she
stood  a beautiful woman, with a strange fear, a
strange despair, growing in her wild wide eyes 
and still there came not the sweetness of the voice
that the listeners knew so well. Why did she
not sing %

Who knows how terrible was the effort which
at that moment she forced herself to make ? The
result was a strained, hoarse cry, more like the
wail of a dying animal than a woman's voice.
And then her strength failed her ; that supreme
effort to raise her voice had exhausted all her
overstrained powers ; she threw up her hands as
if to hide from her dimmed eyes the crowd of
staring faces and the glare of light, and fell
heavily to the ground.

There were two or three doctors in the room ;
without delay they presented themselves behind
the scenes and proffered their assistance. Mademoiselle
de Lusignan showed no signs of recovery :
some one had to come forward and apologise for
the singer's indisposition and the interrupted

performance. Vera was taken home, still almost
insensible, and some hours elapsed before she
regained full consciousness.

Mrs. Cradock expected a serious illness to follow,
but on the morrow Vera, although very weak,
was decidedly better. But it was soon painfully
evident that though her general health did not
seem to be gravely affected, her beautiful voice
was gone. The doctors spoke of some great
nervous shock, and said that care and quiet might
restore her voice in course of time ; but for the
present the cherished gift which she had once
fondly hoped would be her comfort and stay
through all the adversities of life, the exquisite
power of song that had made her name and fame,
had vanished as completely as it had vanished
once before in the days of her childhood after a
period of prolonged excitement and distress.

Frank Longmore had been in the concert-room
on the night of Vera's failure, and had hastened
to carry the news to two persons whom he thought
likely to be interested by it. He found Maurice
in grief and anxiety which he did not attempt to
disguise. He found lima  whom he vaguely
suspected of having " made mischief," as he expressed

it  sweetly and amiably interested in his
account of Vera's illness ; but be caught a gleam
of smiling satisfaction in her eyes which he did
not like to see.

Gaston Eavenscroft hurried up to London as
soon as he had read the newspaper report of
Mademoiselle de Lusisrnan's sudden loss of voice ;
but he was not allowed to see her for many days.

In the quiet shadow of the sickroom there
came to Vera full knowledge of all that she had
lost, of all the misery that she was still to suffer,
the weariness of life that was sure for a time to
be her portion. As she lay for long hours silent
and motionless upon her bed, her mind was busy
with the past. She recollected one by one the
words and looks by which Maurice had led her
to believe in him and in his love ; she thought
with shame and loathing of the gentle encouragement
which she had given to his advances ; she
wept in anguish over her vain dreams, her ruined
hopes. By and by pride and resentment came
to her aid : she said to herself that she had been
wronged, and that Maurice was not worthy of her
love ; but against this conviction there wrought
in her the bitter-sweet remembrance of words and

actions that still seemed so generous and so good
that she was forced to add : " Either he was a
finished hypocrite or I have made some terrible
mistake." But after a time she came to the conclusion
that the mistake had been all on her side 
that he had offered her nothing but common
civility and she had misconstrued it into love.
It took much suffering to bring her to this lowest
degradation of a woman's pride. So she raged
and pined and wept by turns ; and the doctors
wondered why her recovery was so slow, and at
last recommended change of air.

Before she had left her room she heard one
day by chance that Mr. Guyon had called to inquire
after her. She signed to Mrs. Cradock to
approach her, for her voice was still almost
inaudible at a little distance, and whispered :

'I don't want to see him."

You shall not see him, my darling. You are
not strong enough to see anybody."

No, but will you give orders, please, auntie,
that he is not to be admitted ? I do not think,"
said Vera, turning her face to the pillow, " that I
shall be strong enough to see him for a very,
very long time."

Mrs. Cradock promised that the order should
be given, and was concerned, some little time
afterwards, to find that the girl's pillow was wet
with tears. All this she told to Mr. Eavenscroft
as Vera's nearest relation at hand, and thereby
she did not increase Mr. Eavenscroft's affection
for Maurice Zaranoff.

Change of air ! The best place for Vera was
undoubtedly her grandfather's house in Lincolnshire.
Thither, then, was she removed as soon
as she could bear the journey ; and with her
went Mrs. Cradock as her companion and friend.
Eavenscroft travelled with them, and rejoiced
to think that she was leaving London and the
concert-room and "that Russian fellow" far
behind.

Mr. Hervey received her with more affection
than he had ever previously shown. The thought
that she had lost her voice did not cause him any
regret. In fact, if she regained her health and
her good looks he felt that he should be thankful
for an illness that robbed her of any pretext for
not residing with him in Lincolnshire. It was
a great vexation to him to know that his granddaughter
sang in public If she lost her voice

of course she would be content to stay quietly at
home and lead the life of an ordinary woman ;
marry, bear children, and devote herself to her
relations  a consummation devoutly to be wished.
And he made observations of this kind to Gaston
Ravenscroft, who in substance agreed with them,
but was keen-sighted enough to see that the
existence that he desired for Vera was the last
that would suit that high-strung, passionate
nature, which so ardently craved a full and
complete life in which all its energies should
have scope and all its capabilities find expression.
Vera met with nothing but kindness and even
tenderness from the relations to whom she had
come for refuge. The old Baroness sent her
gifts and kind messages. Felicia shared with
Mrs. Cradock the task of nursing her, and was
won over by her helplessness to be really fond
of the stranger whose presence she had so greatly
dreaded. Olivia brought warm, honest love and
the brightness of her sunny nature with her
whenever she entered the sickroom. Mr. Hervey
did not know how to do enough for her comfort
and welfare. It was the one balm to her
wounded spirit that she was thus lapped in an

atmosphere of peace and gentleness in which it
had seldom been her lot to dwell.

And what of Gaston Eavenscroft and his
claim upon her hand ?

It must be said that he showed great thoughtfulness
and consideration for her at this time.
He fancied that he knew the history of that
shock to the nerves of which the doctors spoke.
He believed, after all that he had heard from Mrs.
Cradock, that Maurice Guy on had in some way
deceived her or trifled with her affections, and if
he had had the faintest possible pretext for interference
he would have inflicted punishment on
that gentleman with the greatest readiness. But
he knew nothing definite ; so he waited until
some opportune chance (or Vera herself perhaps)
should put the desired weapon into his hand.
In the meantime he showed himself merely an
affectionate friend. He subdued the restless
energy of his nature to meet her present depression
patiently. He asked for no return beyond
that of tolerance of his presence and of his care ;
and he had his reward. Vera was more grateful
to him, more gently disposed to him, than ever
she had been in her life before. He gave her as

much of his time as he could spare from his
search for Lancelot, and she began to take
pleasure in his presence.

There came a day in spring when the soft,
warm air tempted her into trying her strength
on the sunny lawn behind the house. Gaston
was there with his strong supporting arm and
that unwonted tenderness in his stern, dark face.
She liked his kindliness and was glad that he
more often than not walked by her side in silence
and did not try to make her smile.

I am tired now," she said at last, turning
towards him her wan face with the weary, dark
eyes that his heart ached to see. '' Will you let
me sit dowi ? "

Come inside," said Gaston gently. " You
will find the air too cold."

No ; it will do me good. I have something
to say to you, and I can say it better here than
in the house."

He placed her in a garden-chair and wrapped
her in furs and shawls, then drew another seat
close to hers and seated himself, waiting for her
to speak.

She looked about her a little first. She looked

at the blossoming trees, the blue sky, the flowerbeds,
in which the narcissus and the daffodil had
begun to display their fragile, fleeting beauty ;
then her eye fell upon the strong man at her side.
He was leaning forward with his elbow on his
knee, his hand playing with his moustache, his
dark face slightly averted from hers ; and as she
looked she sighed.

Gaston," she said at length, and at the sound
he turned round quickly, for it was very seldom
that she called him by his Christian name, 
Gaston, I have something to tell you."

Yes, Vera ? "

I have done two things that you did not wish
me to do."

Have you, dear ? What were they ? "

She looked at him with her large mournful eyes.

'* I tried my voice yesterday," she said softly.
And then I spoke to Doctor Pearson about it."

Gaston gave his moustache a savage pull and
sat erect. '' I do not think that you were wise,"
he said.

No ? But it was hardly a question of
wisdom," she answered. " It was time that I
knew the truth."

The truth, Vera ? "

'' You know what I mean. My voice is gone
lost : I shall never have it back again."

"That is surely not certain," said Gaston,
looking away from her uneasily. " No one can
be sure : in time  with care "

The doctors think not. And I think not.
The upper notes are injured. I shall never sing

again-then

what shall you do, Vera \ "

I do not know," she answered without looking
at him. '' I have my violin still ; and I
could teach singing, although I cannot sing myself.
I believe that my method is good "

Vera, Vera ! " he interrupted her reproachfully.
" Is this how you would treat us \ "

She looked at him now, uncertainly, inquiringly.
He went on in a shaken voice, with
glistening eyes and knitted brows, and impetuous
eager utterance.

Would you throw us off and go from us
again into the wide world alone ? We stood by
I stood by and allowed you to do as you
would, because you had a rare and beautiful gift,
and it was hardly fair to expect you to renounce

it; but now that you yourself say that it has
gone from you, why should you devote yourself
to a life of toil, perhaps of penury and failure,
when homes are open to you, and hearts longing
to make you happy ? Vera, I think I have been
patient : let me speak now. Here am I, ready
to give you my whole self, my whole life : you
know that you may do with me what you will,
if only you will give me the right to shelter you,
to protect you from danger and anxiety and
sorrow. You know that I do not speak hastily ;
you are the only woman in the world who can
make me happy ; don't, for Heaven's sake, deny
me the one hope that remains to me on earth,
and rend my heart by going away from me to
earn your bread amongst strangers, when you
might make me feel my life worth living once
and for all."

'* Would it do that? You would soon be
weary of me," said Vera with a sigh. " I am
not even what I once was : all that made me
different from other women is Q:one."

"Your voice is gone, but to me your voice
was always the least part of you. It is you
yourself that I want : not your voice, nor your

fame, nor even your face, sweet as it always was,
Vera. I do not know whether I can make you
understand, but you bring a sense of life and
strength to me when you come near : there is a
zest in my life when you are With me which I
do not feel when you are away. I like to hear
what you say, to wonder what you will do ; even
when we disagree, I am pleased with every word
you say and every tone of the voice in which
you say it. In short, you charm me, Vera ; you
lighten my gloom when I am disheartened, you
soothe me when I am irritated, you rouse me
when I am depressed. What will my life be
worth to me without you ?  nothing. There is
nobody on earth who can fill your place ; will
you leave it empty % Even my son  supposing
that he had been to me all that he might have
been  would not satisfy all my needs. You
only can do that."

*' There are others  more worthy"  she began,
but he interrupted her almost angrily.

"Don't talk platitudes, child. Worthiness
has nothing to do with the matter. It is you
and only you whom I want. You had the
power that you have now when you were a little

neglected girl, Vera, although neither you nor I
exactly found it out. You had a fascination forme
then,  little wild bird that you were,-  but T
was afraid to take you to my bosom ; I thought
that I had been betrayed, and I feared that you
would let me cherish you and then betray me
too. Forgive me, Vera, that I obeyed the
cowardly instinct and fled away to other lands,
leaving you to think that I had a cold, hard
heart that despised your innocent gratitude.
Child, I was afraid  afraid ! "  and then he
paused, with a quick short sigh, which was almost
like a groan. "And then  when you gave up my
help  I thought that I had not been mistaken."

I did not understand," said Vera in a low
voice.

"No, how should you ? When I saw you
again, I found that the child's power of charming
me had grown greater than ever in the woman.
And now, Vera, do what I will, I cannot escape
from you : you haunt me night and day like a
ghost. Exorcise this unquiet spirit. Give yourself
to me in flesh and blood, and then it will lie
still. At present, Vera, it never leaves me free."

She turned her eyes Ripon him and noticed

how haggard and worn his face had grown.
With a faint gleam of sympathy she made a
movement of her hand towards him ; then, withheld
by a sudden recollection, drew it back.

'rand suppose I were to tell you," she said,
with a look of trouble in her eyes, '' that I am
also haunted  that I have been foolish enough
to give my peace into another's keeping 
although against my will : would this not disgust
you ? would you not say that I could never
satisfy your heart ? For indeed, Gaston, I
cannot love you as you love me, but if "

She broke off with a sob, and would have
covered her face, had not Gaston seized her
hands with a look of almost incredulous joy in
his eyes.

Disgust me ? not satisfy me ? " he repeated.
If you will let me love you, I shall be satisfied.
My sweet, my darling, give yourself to me, and
you shall love me in spite of all."

She shivered a little, but did not withdraw
her hands. He, meanwhile, looked up from his
low seat with that same expression of delight
and triumph which made her afraid to look him
in the face.

Is it true, Vera ? Do you really belong, tome
? AVill you try to love me, rough and harsh
as I seem to others, and even at times to you ?
Do you not love me a little now ? " There was
a suppressed eagerness in his tone.

She drew her hands away. "Not yet," she
said. " Not as you wish. Do not hurry me,
Gaston. Indeed I will try  I will do my best."

The sadness with which she spoke, the drooping
patience in which she sat, certainly gave
little assurance either of present or future
happiness. But for the moment Gaston Heavens
was content.

I will not hurry you," he answered, with
great tenderness, but also, as Vera fancied, with
something of proud professorship in his manner.
You shall be shielded from all trouble, my Vera
my own ; I will not even ask you if you love
me until I am sure beforehand of the answer."

Thus Vera promised herself in marriage to
Gaston Eavenscroft. And the spring passed
and the summer waxed and waned ; August
came, but brought no tidings of Lancelot Alberto
his father, nor any word to Vera of Maurice
ZaranofF.

FATHER IGXAZ.

Aee you in ? " said Frank Longmore, one evening,
as tie walked unceremoniously into Zaranoff s
rooms after one preliminary tap. " I have not
seen you for about six months."

Maurice lifted his eyes from his stating and
smiled. '*' I am in, as you see, and just wishing
for somebody to speak to. I am tired of my
evening's work ; " and he stretched his arms and
yawned.

His present rooms were tolerably pleasant
ones, though far from luxurious ; and yet he
looked less cheerful than in the days when he
lived with old Davy in an attic. His table was
strewn with papers and writing materials, in the
midst of which stood a small vase of flowers. He
himself had a worn and wearied expression ; even
VOL. III. 42

Longmore noticed that he was looking older; but ashe
spoke his smile was singularly calm and sweet.

 I scarcely deserve your visit," he said. " I
have been too much occupied lately to seek you
out. But you don't desert me nevertheless''

'' What are you writing. ? " said Frank, turning
over the papers on the table. " Proudhon,
Lassalle, Marx  what's all this about ? "

Only a paper on Socialism in Eussia. Your
father sent Lloyd Bennett to ask me for one."

Under your own name ? "

' Well, yes. I don't want any more concealment
about my name."

*' All right, old fellow ; but don't compromise
yourself with your government any further."

Do you think that I write in the style of the
Kolokol ? " said Maurice with lazy scorn.

I don't know what the Kolokol is."

Do you think that I am emulating Herzen
and Bakunin then ? "

I don't know anything about them, except
that they were revolutionists run mad."

There was method in their madness, my
friend. But Bakunin begins with asserting that
our first care should be to tear out of our hearts

the belief in a God. I don't agree with him myself.
Have you read Herzen's narrative of his
escape from Siberia ? "

The narrative of your own contented me. I
don't read your Nihilist literature."

Here is Herzen's story ; it would interest
you. And here's a report of a speech of Baku-in's
at a congress of the International at Berne.
I have held aloof from the International so far ;
but my friend Kriloff wants me to join it. I
think I shall go and live in Switzerland, Frank."

Do  in a nest of red-hot conspirators. We
shall hear of you soon in the newspapers : attempted
Assassination of the Czar by Count
Maurice Zoranoff. It would sound well."

'' This is the sentence that I was copying from
Bakunin's speech," said Maurice with a slight
smile. *' In the event of our ' eradicating from
our minds the conception of a God you see, ' the
remaining chains that bind us, science, civilisation,
property, marriage, morality, and justice, would
snap asunder like threads.' A desirable end."

*' And a pleasant person to make such a
speech," said Longmore frivolously. "A friend
of yours, Maurice ? "

"I never met him. He died in 1878. But
you need not think that he represents the whole
of our party. He led the extreme section  one
that was formally repudiated and proscribed by
a congress at the Hague in 1872."

What does your party want ? What do yov
advocate, for instance ? " said Frank curiously.

'' Want ? " repeated Maurice, beginning to
walk up and down the room with some excitement
of manner. " We want the things that areas
common to you as the air you breathe. We
want freedom of speech, freedom of the press,
liberty of the subject. We want a constitution.
We do not want to see our best men exiled to
obscure provinces or languishing for years without
a trial in dungeons because of an incautious
word repeated by a spy to the head of the police.
We do not want to hear of tortures inflicted on
delicate women, nor of educated men being entombed
in mines, and working chained amongst
gangs of the vilest criminals in Siberia. When I
knew Ossinsky "

Well," said Frank, as Maurice paused, '' what
of him ? "

It would not interest you. Never mind."

Longmore was silent. But presently Maurice
burst forth again with a deeper note of emotion
in his voice.

No ; I confess it. I do not form one of the
noble band of heroes and martyrs who venture
life and happiness upon one stake  I have held
myself back, and I would to God that I had not !
If I have ever another chance to work for my
country's freedom  for here I can do nothing  1
\\ill keep nothing back. I will give myself to
my people as hundreds and thousands have done
abbacy, and we shall triumph in the end. But,
do you know our Polish poet, Ujieski, Frank 1
Let me see, I can give you a translation. This
is what we say in our exile, we who are not
anarchists, but believe as our fathers did : 

* Dans notre exil nous t'adorons encore,
Nous te prions comme jadis :
Comme Toises fuit distinct vers I'aurore,
Au nid natal son paradis !

' Lorsque la foi du monde se retire,
Ends-lui sa force et sa clare ;
En donnant la palme au martyre,
Donne a nos fils la liberty.' "

His voice faltered as he said the last two lines.

He went to the window and looked out, as if to
hide his face. Longmore moved restlessly about
the room waiting for him to turn before he spoke,
but presently Maurice took up the word without
looking round, and in a determinately cheerful
tone.

What news of your own movements this
spring, Frank ? " he said. " Has Sir Adrian got
you that appointment of which he was speaking ?
I am so out of the world up here that I know
nothing."

I have got no appointment yet  I wish I
had. Maurice, can you tell me where the
Countess Zaranoff is at present ? "

'' At her estate near KiefF  my father's old
country-house there. She wrote and told me
that she was going last November."

Wrote to you ?"

'' Yes, she wanted to see me. But I thought
it better not to go. Why do you ask about her ? "
said Maurice, turning round.

'' Because Miss Eavenscroft, who is staying
with us at present, wanted to know. I think
they are not quite on such good terms as they
used to be. Some woman's squabble," said

Frank vith a transparent attempt at cynicism.


' You have heard nothing of that young-fellow,
Lancelot Aylmer, have you ?  Heavens
son, as he turns out to be, after the fashion
of an old Surrey melodrama, " Mis longest
child, come to my arms ! At last ! "

Would that be Mr. Ravenscroft's manner of
welcoming his son, do you think ? "

'' Don't know, can't fancy him embracing
anybody in particular. I say, Maurice, I suppose
you know "

'' What ? "

*' I suppose you have heard," said Longmore
hesitatingly, '' that Mademoiselle de Lusignan is
eno;ao[ed to him ? "

Maurice was silent ; his hand fell heavily on
the papers with which the table was covered.
'' No," he said, after a short pause, " I had not
heard." His face had turned very white.

I don't believe that she cares a straw for him,"
said Frank, without looking at his friend. " She
has quite given up her profession, they say ; probably
she is engaged to him 790 wr passer le
temps.' '

Maurice moved uneasily but still said nothing.

'' They are to be married in May, Olivia tells
me," Frank went on remorselessly. " And then
they will go abroad. I always thought that
you Avere the favoured suitor, Maurice ? After
that visit at Mickleham, more particularly."

That visit was merely on business," said
Maurice, seating himself witli a determined air.
His lips were still very pale. " Mademoiselle de
Lusignan and I were interested in the same
jDCople  that was all. My dear Frank, excuse
me if I seem inhospitable, but I have a great
quantity of work to get through to-day, and "

*' And in short you wish that I would go.
Very well, old fellow," said Frank, who had
come with a mission, and, having discharged it,
was not sorry to depart. " See you again in a
day or two. Good-bye."

Good-bye," said Maurice, taking up his pen.
But before he had dipped it into the ink, he felt
Frank's hand on his shoulder. He glanced up,
and saw Frank's face expressing sympathy that
he dared not put into words.

"Can I do anything for you about it, Maurice?"
he said.

Maurice did not ask what he meant. His
white lips quivered a little as he replied. " No,
thank you, Frank. It can't be helped. Only
leave me alone just now  I shall be myself tomorrow."


He wrung Longmore's hand and walked with
him to the door, closed it after him carefully,
then came back to his writing-table, seated himself
and buried his face in his hands with a long-drawn
sigh.

So he had lost her after all ! There was a
mystery about her conduct which he could not
fathom. He had tried again and again to obtain
admittance to her while she was still at Kensington
; he had written to her after her departure
into Lincolnshire : all his attempts had been made
in vain. Mrs. Cradock had written a few lines
in reply to his letter which showed very plainly
that Vera did not desire any further communication
from him. She was now the promised wife
of Gaston Eavenscroft  the man who had shown
himself Zaranoif's open and determined foe.
What hope was there for Maurice ?

Some wild notion of forcing a way to her
presence and demanding an explanation crossed

his mind; but it seemed to him impracticable.
And yet he must see her once again, he thought,
if only to bid her a last farewell !

A tap at his door disturbed him. He started
up and walked to the window as he said " Come
in." He expected no visitors ; the servant-girl
had perhaps brought him a newspaper or a letter,
but her shuffling tread and Cockney accents
were not those that reached his ears. A singularly
calm, well-modulated voice accosted him
with a greeting in his native tongue  a voice
for which his heart had often yearned, for it
belonged to a man with whom the saddest and
perhaps the sweetest memories of Maurice's life
were indissolubly linked.

Maurice wheeled round with startled swiftness.
Before him stood an old priest of the
Woman Church, in long soutane, ample cloak, and
broad-brimmed beaver hat, who saluted him first
with words of blessing and then with a respectful
obeisance.

Maurice seized him by both hands and uttered
an exclamation of surprise. " Father Ignaz ! "
he cried. ' What good fortune brings you hereto
me ? "

This Father Ignaz was a pale, insignificant-looking
little man, with thoughtful refined features
and a pair of deeply-sunken bright dark
eyes, which wore a singularly sweet and kindly
expression. He had been for many years the
chaplain of the Lowenstein family, but when
lima von Lowenstein was taken, after her
parents' death, by old Count Zaranofi" to St.
Petersburg, he had accompanied her and had
remained with the Zaranofis ever since. Maurice's
mother, of Polish birth, had never relinquished
the Woman faith in which she had been brought
up, and she found comfort and pleasure in the
society of a priest of her own creed. Maurice
Zaranoff" had been brought up as a member of the
Orthodox Church in Eussia ; but his sympathies
had always gone rather nth his mother's church
than with his own, and of late he had indulged
these sympathies more unrestrainedly than he
had done in his own country. He had the fervent
Polish nature, not the apathetic temperament
of a Russian ; and in so far as he believed
at all in churches, he believed in his mother's
church. This turn of thought had endeared him
very greatly to Father Ignaz, and the misfortunes

which had fallen one after another upon Maurice's
head had wellnigh broken the old priest's loving
heart.

What brings you to England ? " said Zara-off.
" And how did you know where I lived.
Father ? "

I have seen General Longmore, Herr Gras,"
said the priest, speaking in German, as he had
been accustomed to do in earlier years. " He
told me where you lived. I came to England to
see you."

'* You have no good news to bring me, I
imagine."

' What would your Excellency consider bad
news ? " said the priest slowly. '' I cannot tell
whether my news is bad or good : it comes from
the Countess Zaranoff."

He was seated in the only arm-chair that
Zaranoff possessed : his white hands loosely
joined by the finger tips, his elbows resting on
the arms of the chair. His fine, meditative,
delicate head was slightly inclined forward ; but
his eyes were raised keenly to Maurice's impassive
face.

I have not heard good news for many a long

day," said Maurice, with a half sigh. " Has the
Countess married again ? I have been expecting
to hear that piece of news. Whom ? "
Do you jest, Maurice ZaranofF? "
Far from it. She has my best wishes."
The priest looked down at his hands and shook
his head. " Times change, and we change with
them," he said in his deliberately gentle tones.
'' A few years ago I believed that you and your
betrothed had as fair a life before you as chanced
to most. Young, prosperous, loving, were you
both ; sprung from illustrious houses, eager to
make your name renewed. I have seen ruin and
desolation fall upon the home that I prayed God
to bless  and yet I do not think that I prayed
in vain. These reminiscences pain you, my son :
forgive me if for a moment I proceed. At the
time of your father's death, one cloud only seemed
to rest upon the horizon of your happiness  the
hereditary ill feeling between the Russian and the

Austrian "

Hereditary and well grounded," said Maurice
suddenly. " The Austrian race is a cruel one  a
treacherous one sometimes."

None know it better than I," said the priest,

with an emotion which made him pause before he
resumed the thread of his discourse. " Was not
my mother a Venetian % And yet I have learned
to love the people who oppressed my own  to

love and to forgive But there were other

causes for the disunion between you and the
Countess. Political questions need scarcely have
separated you for ever."

"If we had a chance of happiness we lost it
by our own folly : that was all."

Your own folly ? " said Father Ignaz in a
meaning voice. "So I have heard. And you
would doubtless rejoice if I brought a message of
forgiveness from the Countess lima for your

folly r

Maurice's eye flashed, and a dusky red crept
over his fair face ; his brow seemed to gather
blackness. He took a step backward, but did
not speak a word. The priest smiled as he
watched him.

Count Zaranoff," he said, " I bring you no
such message. You would doubtless consider it
the direst insult that lima Zaranoff could offer
you."

For a moment a look of inquiry came into

Maurice's eyes, but it disappeared as quickly as
it came. The very quiescence of this features
gave them an expression of severity : they were
colourless and calm as though they had been
carved in stone.

The message that I bring you," said Father
Ignaz, still earnestly regarding him, *' is of a very
different nature."

Then Maurice spoke  a little stiffly. " I cannot
imagine what message the Countess can
possibly send me with propriety. If it has todo
Tith the income that I draw from the farm in

L , I should prefer to transact business with

her business people."

'* You desire nothing further ? "

' Absolutely nothing further."

The priest held up two warning fingers.
'' Listen. Three weeks ago the Countess, who
was staying at her country-house near the frontier
 the Chateau Zaranoff as it is always called
the Countess lima, I say, went into the woods
with a hunting party. There were many guests
vith her. The stag suddenly turned upon its
pursuers. A huntsman was killed ; Count Waldemar
von Falconer was wounded slightly ; a

lady of the party was thrown from her horse and
dragged along the ground. That lady was the
Countess ZaranofF."

Maurice had turned his back to the light. He
now moved slightly, but did not speak.

They thought at first that she was dead.
Later on they found that she was seriously
injured; not dead  nor dying. But she will
never rise from her bed again : she will never
leave her room until she is carried thence to her
grave. And for that time she has not long to
wait. It was my mission to you. Count ZaranofF,
to tell you this."

These were your bad news," said Maurice,
after a very long pause, during which he had remained
perfectly still. He spoke in a low muffled
tone, as if he were greatly shocked. " Bad news
indeed ! " He gave a sort of groan as he turned
away to hide his face from the priest's keen gaze.
It is inconceivable ; it is terrible," he said.
She who enjoyed so much  so young, so bright,
so strong  poor lima."

He was too deeply moved to add another
word.

A MESSAGE.

' It is indeed sad news," said Father Ignaz, " and
yet not altogether sad' Maurice made an involuntary
gesture of surprise. 'not altogether
sad," the priest went on in peculiarly soft yet
penetrating tones, "inasmuch as the welfare of
the body is less than the welfare of the soul ;
and if, by the ruin of the earthly tabernacle, the
spirit is purified and ennobled, who are we that
we dare murmur? Do we rail at the furnace
into which God casts our gold ? Ah, my son,
the day is drawing nigh when you and she shall
bless the Divine hand that has stricken her  the
Divine sill to which we must bend unless we
would be broken ; a day when you shall say,
Before I was afflicted I went astray ; but now
have I kept thy word.' "

VOL. III. 43

Maurice seated himself and bent his forehead
upon his hands. He could not tell why the old
man's words caused a sudden thrill of emotion
(was it hope or was it fear ?) to run like fire
through his veins ; he knew only that he felt
himself strangely moved by the thought of the
helplessness and suffering of the fair woman
whom he had once loved. A sort of fear of the
priest's next words possessed him; he could have
found it in his heart to ask for a few minutes'
respite before he heard them. But shame of his
own weakness withheld him, and Father Ignaz
was permitted to deliver in slow and weighty
accents the message with which he had been
charged.

"Lying thus upon her dying bed, she begs
you with all her heart and soul, and as you yourself
hope to be forgiven for your sins, to have
mercy upon her and forgive her the many wrongs
that you have suffered at her hands. Some of
these wrongs you know ; of some you are ignorant
; for all, she repents and humbly asks your
forgiveness."

Forgiveness, poor soul ! for all that she has
done to hurt me I freely forgive her," said Maurice,

from beneath the shade of his clasped hands.
' Poor woman ! has she sent you to ask me ihat'
It was not necessary. She knew  she hieiv 
that I forgave her."

Indeed she did not know. She could scarcely
believe my assurances when I said that I was certain
that you would pardon her. She said that
you did not know all." He paused, and then
added in a low and shaken voice, " It was true ;
you do not know all''

' What do I not know ? " said the young man
lifting up his face, which was very pale, and dashing
a tear away from his eyes. " Why should I
know anything ? If she has done wrong she is
sorry for it ; I do not want to hear anything
more. She herself might tel me ; I could listen
to it from her, but not from another person's lips
not even from yours, Father Ignaz, kindest and
truest of our friends as you have always been."

'you must listen," said Father Ignaz impressively.
*' I promised her that I would tell
you what she wished you to know; remember
that I am here at her request. First, she wishes
you to be aware that her cousins and friends have
promised to present to the Emperor a petition

which she has drawn up for your pardon and reinstatement."


'what use can that be T'

Of great use under the circumstances."

Circumstances ? "

'you have promised her your forgiveness,"
said the priest, rising and fixing his eyes steadily
upon Maurice's face ; " remember your promise.
The Countess herself accused you to the Government,
and betrayed the presence of the Strom
when they were hidden in your house."

Maurice sprang to his feet with an expression
of horror and dismay. " Impossible ! " he
said, stammering with agitation. " She was delirious
 raving, when she said it. I will not
believe it. I will not believe that any woman
could be so base." He stopped short, his whole
frame seeming to quiver as he met the priest's
calm and silent gaze, and felt a conviction that
what he had heard was all too terribly true.
She was cold  heartless  cruel," he said passionately,
" but she could not have been so vile
as to betray another woman into the hands of
justice ! It would have been murder  murder,
I tell you ! And, good God ! I told her myself

how Anna Strolenski died 1 " He sat down and
buried his face in his hands. '* Could she listen
and make no sion ? '

"Eemember your promise. You forgave her
for all that she had done."

' Against myself  yes, yes. But she injured
others beside myself." He raised his head and
spoke vehemently : " Anna Strolenski was tortured
to death; Alexander Micailoff is now working
in the mines in Siberia ; Casimir|Strolenski
died in my arms upon the road thither. These
might all have escaped if she had but kept silence.
Oh, for myself, I do not care ; I would have borne
anything and never reproached her. But for
them  my friends  my brothers  the noblest
souls that God ever made ! must I always remember
that it was she who gave them up to
torture and to death, or to suffering worse than
death ? "

Father Ignaz was for the moment doubtful
how to deal with an agony of generous sorrow,
for which his previous experience had not prepared
him.

You love her still ? " he asked in an anxious
tone. ' ' You grieve still that she is not your wife 'I "

'* I can remember' said Zaranoff bitterly,
that I loved her once. No ; rather I thank
God that she is not my wife. If she were, I
would cast her off from this moment  I would
never see her face again  I would "

Have you so soon forgotten what you promised
? "

Maurice gave an impatient groan. "I did
not know. . . You had no right to entrap me
into any promise. . . I said that I would forgive
her for her conduct to me ; that was all."

"And you think that that is no unworthy
subterfuge ? "

Zaranoff did not answer. The priest let the
question do its own work, and kept silence for a
time.

Need I remind you," he said at last in a
low and even tone, " that the woman ' whom you
loved once,' if she still lives, is lying upon a bed
of suffering, expecting her last hour, and consumed
by remorse and terror which will not let
her die in peace ? God's judgments have surely
descended upon her ! She prays to Him night
and day for a little respite from her pain, although
she knows that respite from pain means certain

death. For pardon, she says, she dares not hope ;
and when I pray with her she moans and tells
me that ' Malice will not forgive her, and God
never will ! '  God forgive her for that doubt !
And when I bid her hope in His great mercy, she
answers that only if you forgive her shall she be
able to trust in Him. Can you wonder that I
have sought you out in a strange land in order
to entreat you to give her a last hope, a last aid
to her salvation ? Her soul is almost in your
hands."

Zaranoff's face was hidden : he could not
speak. The priest took a loftier tone.

'' What right," he said, " have you, a weak
and erring mortal, to deny her the pardon that
she seeks ? Think of your own sins : have you
done nothing which should place you on your
knees beside her at the throne of God ? Are
you the judge of her poor, wandering, misguided
soul ? There is One Who hath loved you with a
love beyond all human love : One Who bore shame,
and scourging, and spitting for your sins : have
you never turned your back upon Him, never
buffeted Him with the mocking soldiers, never
helped to crown Him with thorns, and nail Him

to the cross ? Has He turned upon you with
indignation when you implored His pity ? He
it is who bids you lay yourself in the dust beside
the penitent whom you despise, abase yourself
before her, forget your pride in viewing her
humility ; of the two she ranks above you in His
eyes : her sins, which were many, shall be all
forgiven her, for she has loved much ; and she
shall indeed depart in peace, for her eyes have
seen His salvation !"

His voice quavered and sank, and the tears
rolled down his cheeks. Maurice, to whom his
words appealed with all the power begotten of
fervent faith and profound devotion, felt his soul
stirred within him to its depths. It was with
difficulty that he found voice to utter the decisive
words 

"I forgive her. God be my witness  I
forgive her as I hope myself to be forgiven."

But even while the old priest blessed him,
Zaranoff turned round with an almost fierce expression
of impatience.

Heavens ! can nothing be done ? Must
these men rot in prison, and I lie here in hiding,
and nothing be done to help them  because of a

woman's jealousy ? Is there nothing that I can

"I do not know' said Father Ignaz after
a moment's pause, " whether the rest of the
Countess' message will help you to answer that
question. I have not told you all that she said
to me. I tried to dissuade her from sending
this message, but she would not listen. She
threatened to send another messenger  one who
would not perhaps have been faithful to the trust.
She bids me tell you that if you value the
happiness of your friends you will go to her yourself
 this moment  and hear what else she has to
say. There is still a secret with which she would
not charge me. And if you hesitate she bids me
name one name to you  Vera  and she says
that you will come."

"Vera!" said Maurice. "Vera! What can
she mean ? What can she want me for ? "

Father Ignaz shook his head. " She has not
told me. She implores you to come to her ; and
that is all I know."

Maurice bit his lip. ' ' Can I cross the frontier ? "
he asked.

' If you really wish to go," said the priest,

with some hesitation, ' and will accompany me
to Vienna, where a nephew of my own is living,
a disguise can be procured for you. The officials
will be bribed if necessary : I think that you might
go and return without much danger. Care must
be taken, of course ; but I think that you might
run the risk. Not," he added hastily, " that I
would for one moment counsel you to take this
step ; I think it a rash one ; but if you decide
upon going, I can provide the means for your
journey thither."

' Tell me Ilma's message once more. Father."

The priest repeated it word for word. Maurice
listened with downcast eyes and changing colour,
then looked up. ' Did she say no more ? Did
she give no clue as to the nature of her secret ? "

'' She said only, my son, that you would
endanger your own happiness and that of another
who was very dear to you if you did not come,"
Father Ignaz replied with evident reluctance.
I know nothing more."

Maurice hesitated no longer. ' My mind is
made up," he said suddenly. " I will go." Then
he looked keenly into the old man's face. " You
vouch for her sincerity ?" he said. '' Pardon the

suspicion ; but I cannot forget that she betrayed
me once."

*' Is this your forgiveness ?" said Father Ignaz
reproachfully.

Maurice sighed and turned away. " When
can we start, Father 1 I am ready now," he
said.

'' When the rest of my mission has been accomplished.
I require your help here, Herr Gras. The
Countess brought with her from England last
November a young gentleman as her secretary.
But our bleak winter has not suited him : he has
fallen ill, and must be removed to a warmer place.
We call him Herr Elmer, but the Countess speaks
to him as Lenz  Lanz "

Lancelot Aylmer ! "

'' The very name, gnadiger Herr. The Countess
met him in the street just before she left
England. He then looked ill and poor, and she
gathered that he had had some disagreement
with his friends which had caused him to leave
them. She persuaded him to go with her to
Russia. But now she charges me to let his
friends know where he is, so that he may be
restored to them."

Why does he not write or go back of his
own accord ? "

The ]3st shook his head. "He is proud.
And the Countess would neither let him go alone
nor travel rapidly with me. He has been very
ill. His friends should come and fetch him
home."

Maurice lost no time in despatching this
intelligence to Frank Longmore, with instructions
to telegraph it at once to Gaston Eavenscroft.
He started for Vienna that very evening with
Father Ignaz.

They travelled night and day, but were detained
for a few hours at one point of their
journey in consequence of an accident to their
train. This delay produced results as unexpected
as they were important to Maurice Zaranoff.

Meanwhile Vera and Gaston were together
at Netherbyby. On the morning after the old
priest's visit to Maurice, they were walking in
the garden, when Vera commented ujDon the
beauty of the changing tints and the mildness
of the season.

Gaston started and looked up. "Yes," he
answered : " it is more than a year since that boy

left US. Who could have thought that we should
lose trace of him so completely ? "

We must wait," said Vera. " He dll come
back. You have done all you could."

Yes, I believe I have. I think he must have
left the country. If I go abroad to look for
him, Vera, will you not go too ? Surely I have
waited long enough ? "

He had drawn her hand within his arm, and
he could feel the nervous tremor with which she
received this proposition. " Oh, no," she said,
*' no : not yet."

"Why not?"

My grandfather would not hear of it."

*' Is that your only objection, Vera ? "
He looked at her keenly, and noted that
though her cheek was thin and pale, there was
more brightness in her eye, more elasticity in
her walk, than there had been a few weeks, and
months before. She had been steadily regaining-health
and strength since the summer began, and
he cherished a secret hope that she was *' healed
of her grievous wound," and had half forgotten
the loss of her ambition and the loss of her first
love  terrible as had been these two strokes,

following one upon the other. She met his
glance with her usual fearlessness of mien, tempered
by intense sadness.

"No, that is not all," she said. '' I told you
that I wanted time in which to reconcile myself
to my changed future. You forget  you can
never know  what I have lost."

"Your voice? "

My sovereignty," she said with a melancholy
smile.

'* You were only a mock queen, Vera. Come
and be my queen : I will give you a kingdom 
small though it is, it will be your own."

"Ah!" thought Vera bitterly, "if only I
could feel that it would compensate for the
sovereignty that I have lost ! " But this she
did not say aloud ; she only looked aside, and
drew a long breath.

Music was my life," she said, after a little
pause. " I remember how I used to think that
nothing could be so dear to me as that divine
art  that the power of song was the most beautiful
gift that God could make. I was told once
that I took an inhuman view of it, as we artists
were too prone to do : we lived for our art alone.

and forgot that even our art was less than life
and death  and love. Is it not hard," she said,
Breaking off with an irrepressible little sob, " that
I must call myself an artist no longer ? Oh, I
would sooner have died than this ! I wonder
why I did not die ! "

You have said yourself that art was less
than love," interposed Eavenscroft suspiciously.
I offer you love  do you mean to tell me in this
way that you have none to give me in return 1 "

' I told you that long ago, she said, with a
Hash of her old vivacity. " Is it anything so
strange ? Gaston, can you not have a little
patience ? "

I have had a great deal  more than I knew
I possessed, in truth. I have not hurried you,
Vera. You promised to try to love me : have
you not succeeded yet  at all ? "

'' And you  you said that you would make
me love you'' she retorted passionately. " What
can I do ? Love does not come at one's bidding.
Sm:ely you were mistaken 1 Let me go, Gaston :
set me free ; let me settle down somewhere and
give lessons in music and singing : I could do
that still. I could teach my methods  I could

hear myself again in my pupils, and still live for
my art. Ah, that would be the nearest approach
to happiness now that I shall ever know ! Gaston,
will you not set me free ? "

She held out her hands with a gesture of
supplication. He looked at her silently : looked
at the graceful figure, the face now thin and pale
and tear-stained, but still lovely in his eyes ; he
saw the pleading expression, and heard the entreating
voice ;  and then he turned away with
an angry sense of his own failure to win this
woman's heart.

Will you not set me free ? " she said.

'never."

Her hands fell to her side : her head sank.
She uttered a plaintive little sigh  almost a
moan.

'' You are very cruel," she said.

And what are you to me ? " he asked, taking
her passive hands roughly in his own. '' I have
loved you as I thought I never should love
again, with all my strength, with all my soul ;
and you have done nothing but play with me.
I will not be trifled with. Vera. You have
promised to marry me, and marry me you shall.

What else would you do nth your life ? If it
is as desolate as you maintain, why not seek out
new interests ? Why should you drive me to
desperation because you are weary of the monotony
of your present life  what you feel is
nothing more than weariness, because you have
a longing for the excitement of public life?
Think of my loneliness a little, and of my many
losses and disappointments ; remember that you
have it in your power to compensate me for
them all. Vera, I cannot relinquish that hope
now ! I have waited and suffered and thought
that I had conquered  must you for no reason
throw me back into the depths of darkness and
despair from which you raised me ? Vera, would
you not call that cruel ? "

She was silent still.

"Even if there were any good reason," he
went on, " even if there were some other man
whom you loved, and who would make you
happier than I, even then it would madden me
to give you up ! But now, when there is nothing
no one  to come between us "

' There are memories to come between us. I
told you that  that  I loved  another man."

VOL. III. 44

Do you love him still, Vera ? "

She blushed  an overwhelming scarlet blush
that covered her cheeks, her forehead, and even
her white throat with flame, lowered her eyes
to the ground, and stood still, a living image of
confusion and distress.

"I see : you need say nothing," said Gaston
sharply, as he averted his eyes from her fiery
shame. " I am answered."

There was a painful pause. Vera covered her
face with her hands and turned away. " Now
at least," she said presently, " you must give me
back my liberty. Do you not see that I am not
fit to be your wife ? "

The humiliation expressed in her words and
manner brought Gaston to her side with a look
of passionate tenderness.

Not fit ? " he said. '' Not fit, my darling,
with your courage and pride and purity of heart ?
Vera, let no shadows come between us : I
have been cursed with deceptions and illusions
all my life : let me at least believe you true."

Then she yielded. " You know the worst, at
any rate," she said rather bitterly. '' If you will
take me with all my faults upon my head  if I can

make you any happier  what am I that I should
object ? I ought to feel proud that you have
done me the honour to select me, ought I not ? "

Vera, Vera ! it is terrible to me to hear you
talk in that way ! "

*' Forgive me," she answered sorrowfully.
'' You are very good to me, Gaston, and  I will
try to be a good wife to you  like the girl in the
ballad, although you are not much like 'Auld
Robin Gray,' are you? But not yet  give me
just a little time longer  and then ! '

What he would have said she never knew ;
for it was at this very moment that a servant
met them with a telegram for Mr. Eavenscroft.
He tore ojjen the envelope, and after reading the
message passed it on to Vera without a word.

It was from Frank Longmore to Gaston
Eavenscroft, and ran as follows :

Come to town if possible by next train.
We have just heard that Lancelot Aylmer is in
Eussia, at the house of Countess lima Zaranoff.
More particulars when you arrive here."

Gaston lost no time. He was in London that
evening, and he set out for Ilma's chateau about six
hours later than Father Ig-naz and Maurice Zaranoff.

U. OF ILL LIB.

AT THE Frontier.

It was at the railway - station at Mainz that
Eavenscroft awoke to the fact that he had an
unwelcome companion upon his j journey. He was
leaning against the wall, impatiently awaiting
the opening of the locked door to the platform,
when his eye was caught by the entrance into the
salle dfattente of an old priest, with a peculiarly
fine intellectual head and face. Gaston thought
of some remark that Vera once had made to him
respecting the mental superiority of the Jesuits
to other priests of the Romish Church, wondered
to himself to what nation this priest belonged, and
then glanced carelessly at the companion with
whom the reverend father was conversing. This
companion was a man of about six or seven and
twenty, with a finely - cut, fair, pale face ; a

drooping moustache, which he was just then
pulling reflectively ; eyes at that moment benton
the floor, but which Kavenscroft knew well to
be keen and cool  the man, in short, whom he
had learned to know (and to hate) under the name
of Maurice Guyon. Father Ignaz and Zaranofi"
had been delayed by the railway accident previously
mentioned ; and Kavenscroft had travelled
with all the impetuous speed that money could
procure.

As if conscious that he was watched, Maurice
suddenly raised his eyes and met Kavenscroft's
frowning stare of haughty astonishment. A
momentary interchange of glances was all that
passed between them ; then Gaston folded his
arms and looked in another direction, while
Maurice continued his conversation with the
priest. Neither of them henceforward seemed
conscious of the other's presence ; each was
conscious  even morbidly conscious  of it,
during the five or ten minutes that they spent
together in the waiting-room, with a space of
some eight or ten feet between them.

When the doors were opened a separation was
very quickly elected. Eavenscroft betook himself

to his luxurious first-class carriage ; Maurice
and Father Ignaz shut themselves into the crowded
and comfortless " fourth - class " compartment,
occupied chiefly by men of the working class, all
smoking very strong tobacco. Father Ignaz had
looked in wonder when he first saw Maurice
Zaranofi* travel in this humble manner. In days
of old the young Count had been equally noted
for lavish expenditure and fastidiously delicate
tastes ; it was curious to the priest to observe
that the rigid economy necessitated by his present
poverty did not seem to cause him a moment's
humiliation or annoyance. Zaranofi* had never
been remarkable for any unusual dignity or pride
of demeanour; he was hon enfant with all his
acquaintances, high or low ; but the ease with
which he seemed to have renounced the habits
and tastes of his early youth made the old priest
marvel at what was either his wonderful insouciance
or his wonderful magnanimity. The genial
sunniness of his disposition had not been clouded
by his misfortunes. There was an increase
certainly of thoughtfulness, perhaps also of
strength of will in the nature that Father Ignaz
studied on his way from London to Vienna ; but

there was no abatement of the winning grace,
the sweetness of manner that had invariably-procured
for him the favour of young and old,
the bright unselfishness which had won for him
so much love and also occasionally some contempt.
He had been a lovable, facile, brilliant
boy, with wildly generous instincts, when Father
Ignaz knew him first ; toil and sorrow had given
him the strength he needed  ay, and added a
touch of severity also, though not of bitterness ;
but left him with heart as warm and sympathies
as ready as before.

Maurice found the encounter with Eavenscroft
a curiously perplexing one. Gaston was on his
way to a house in which Zaranoff had once been
master, where, if he made himself known, he
would still be received with all the profound
deference and devoted affection formerly accorded
to his character and his position. It was in the
house where Maurice had spent the greater part
of his boyish life that Kavenscroft's son had taken
refuge. In this house, once Maurice's favourite
place of residence, Eavenscroft would be compelled
to remain as a guest for a few hours at
least. Maurice could not help a passing wonder

whether his enemy would accept this hospitality
if it were offered by Zaranoff in his own person,
or if he knew of the connection that had existed
between lima von Lowenstein and the despised
and hated Maurice Guy on I
:. This knowledge, necessarily displeasing to a
man of Eavenscroft's disposition, Maurice was
resolved to spare him. He himself would be
forced to enter the chateau with as much secrecy
as possible ; Kavenscroft need never know of his
presence. The interview with lima would probably
be short and final ; at its close he would
return at once to England, and never cross the
path of Gaston Eavenscroft again. The winner
of Vera's hand could not easily be the friend of
one who had loved and lost her as Maurice Zara-off
had done.

He checked himself at the very suggestion of
her name. Upon this journey at least he would
forbear to think of Vera. It seemed to him that
the nature of his errand forbade him to dream of
any ties save those which lima had once vowed
that she would break for ever.

And he could never have any right to think
of Vera otherwise than as a gracious vision of

tenderness and beneficence far out of reach.
She would soon be the wife of Gaston Heavens
Probably he would never see her again.
He tried to persuade himself that he should soon
be able to think calmly of the separation that
had already taken place; but as yet he could
not contemplate it without a sensation of
exquisite pain. In spite of his resolution to
be master of himself, he was painfully conscious
at times that he had received a wound which
*' bled beneath his armour secretly," and robbed
him of his old careless calm and strength. It
was difficult for him to maintain that unclouded
serenity of manner that so greatly impressed
Father Ignaz ; he was torn, almost beyond concealment,
by suppressed and conflicting doubts,
fears, perplexities, which left him room for neither
peace nor hope. He had also a curious feeling
that this journey was not one which could end
for his good ; it was too hazardous, too doubtful
in its object, to turn out well. It might lead
even to a worse fate than the one from which he
had escaped. Life in Siberia might have alleviations
; but what would be the alleviations to
imprisonment in the dreaded fortress of St. Peter

and St. Paul, with its cells below the level of
the Neva? As he sat in the railway-carriage,
with Father Ignaz opposite him, while the slow
train crept through the sere forests and the
thinned vineyards on either hand the line, he
recalled the part which lima, by her own confession,
had played in his disgrace ; and he was
conscious of a lurking doubt of her sincerity, a
vague impression that the priest had been deceived.
To such a degree was he haunted by this
phantasm of a doubt that at last he set resolutely
to work to hunt it out and look it in the face.
And then he could not but acknowledge, in spite
of his wish to banish a suspicion which seemed a
degrading one, that there was indeed some reason
for uncertainty. Had lima betrayed him once ?
then it was possible that lima might betray him
once again.

It is no reason for turning back, however,"
he said to himself. " I could not refuse to goto
her. If she is false  if this is only a snare 
well, so be it ; I should fight for my liberty
still. They would not take me alive this
time."

At this moment Father Ignaz raised his eyes

from his breviary and was struck by the expression
of gloom upon the face before him. The
serene brightness that Zaranoff usually showed
him had been for once displaced by a look
of painful weariness and anxiety. It was the
look of a man overborne by the assured consciousness
of some impending disaster. He was
resting his chin on his hand, and his eyes were
absently fixed upon the landscape without ; his
brows were knitted in profound meditation.
Father Ignaz suddenly shivered a little at the
thought of the work that he had wrought.
What if, in his zeal to soothe the hours of a
dong woman, he had carried this brave man
to imprisonment, exile, death ? He closed his
book sharply, leaned forward, and touched
ZaranofF's knee with his hand. They were
alone in the carriage.

Maurice at once altered his position, and gave
the priest a friendly smile.

"It is a long journey, is it not ? One grows
weary of railway carriages."

"Herr Gras," said Father Ignaz anxiously,
and, as it seemed to Maurice, irrelevantly, "if
your heart shrinks from the task that you have

undertaken, for God's sake turn back while there
is yet time. There must necessarily be danger ;
I have never yet disguised the fact "

"My dear old friend," said Maurice, laying
his hand upon the priest's nervous fingers, and
looking tranquilly into his eyes, 'There is no
more danger now than there was a week ago.
My heart fails me not at all. I would not now
turn back till I had seen lima, though all heaven
and earth stood in my way."

God will reward you ! " murmured the priest,
in whose eyes a tear was trembling.

At least He will sustain me," said Maurice
with a rather singular smile ; then he withdrew
his hand and said no more. They never again
alluded to the subject.

Kavenscroft meanwhile was hoping that his
unwelcome fellow-traveller's route was very
different from his own. But he was soon
startled to find that the young Russian s course
seemed never to diverge from disown. Maurice
would willingly have avoided him ; but as he
was travelling with all speed, and Eavenscroft
also vas straining every nerve to reach the same
destination, they could not avoid encountering

each other. No sign of recognition passed between
them. As the journey continued Gaston
began to suspect Maurice of spying upon him
and purposely dogging his steps, and his irritation
became so clearly marked that even
Father Ignaz commented upon his unamiable
demeanour.

Better to take no notice of him," said
Maurice dryly.

*' You know him?"

''He is Herr Aylmer's father. He also is
going to Chateau Zaranoff."

"Is he to be trusted' said Father Ignaz,
lowering his voice.

Perfectly, as regards his honour. But it is
best to put oneself in no one's power. And I
have various reasons for wishing him to know
as little about me as possible. It would not be
well that he should ever know that I was once
the master of the Chateau ZaranofF."

It was soon after his arrival in Austria that
Eavenscroft lost sight of his unwelcome compagnons
che voyage. He had haughtily assured
himself that he cared not whether they dogged

his steps or not. And yet he felt relieved by
their disappearance.

Now then for the meeting with his boy ! He
had had time to pass through every variety of
feeling with respect to Lancelot Aylmer ; regret,
mortification, wounded pride, bitter humiliation,
these had swayed him in turn, and had not
tended to make him a gentler or more amiable
character. Latterly he had been raging furiously
at the delay (ujDon which Mr. Hervey insisted)
of his marriage with Vera. Not until Lancelot
was found would the old man give his consent toit
; and Vera declared that without his consent
she would not marry. Eavenscroft's present
object, therefore, was to find and reconcile himself,
in perhaps a somewhat perfunctory fashion,
to his son, to provide for him, and instal him in
his proper position, then to marry Vera immediately,
take her abroad, and turn his back
upon the younger members of his family. He
had not been softened by the discovery of Lancelot's
identity with the brown-eyed boy whom he
had lost. He could think of the little Bertram
with tenderness indeed ; and when he tried (and
he would sometimes try) to transfer that tenderness

to the lad whom he had known as Lancelot
Aylmer, the old feeling of baffled irritation would
constantly recur.

'rit is too late' he had said one day to Vera,
whose quick eye had discerned this want of
tenderness and who had been troubled by it.
If the boy had been with me constantly I
should have loved him, but after all these years !
Yes, I loved Bertram ; but I would almost sooner
that he were dead, as I thought him, than find
him in the person of a lad for whom I have the
most unaccountable dislike. Natural affection !
I think the Baroness destroyed all natural affection
in me years ago. I am sorry for the boy, of
course, and sorry for myself. The worst wrong
Hervey ever did me was to force me into this
unnatural state of mind about my own son. I
am not weak enough to say that I like Lancelot
Bertram, I must call him  any better than I
did ; I have had no reason to change my opinion
of him. All I can hope is that when I see him
again either he may have improved or I may
develop some new capacity of paternal affection."


He sneered a little as he said this ; but Vera

thought that there was more capacity for affection
than he knew in the conflict of resentment and
regret that at present waged within him. Perhaps
she was right.

As he journeyed eastward he thought a great
deal about Lucy and his married life at Elm-stone.
Gradually he fell to recalling many little
traits of character, little words and actions of his
boy, all the thousand and one trifles which had
made the sum of that baby-life, and given him
so much pride and pleasure in the days of old.
Bertie on his mother's knee ; Bertie with the
golden setter; Bertie with his arms round his
father's neck and his soft cheek pressed close to
his father's black moustache : these were the
memories that Gaston could neither banish nor
blend with the picture presented to him by
Lancelot Aylmer's boyish face  a face now sorrowful,
now defiant, now pale with the anguish
which Gaston himself had not scrupled to inflict.

Ah ! that was the real barrier. Kavenscroft
dared not let himself love the boy whom he had
slighted and insulted. The Baroness and Eichard
Hervey had, between them, done Lancelot many
an injury ; but they had at least never given him

the bitter humiliation which he had received
from his father's hands. What possibility was
there of forgetfulness or forgiveness ? Could
Gaston Eavenscroft crave pardon from his son ?
He believed himself utterly incapable of more
than the current and most ungracious communication
of the facts of the case. He could never
ask that boy to forgive him for his harshness.


How would Lancelot receive the news ? With
wonder, incredulity, disdain, no doubt. Heavens
felt that he would never have forgotten or
forgiven such treatment as that with which the
boy had met. If Bertram were a true Heavens
he would never forget it either. He had
been unpardonably wronged ; his resentment
would be just and, indeed, almost welcome to
the proud father. Gaston knew that he himself
would find it hard enough to express even a
formal regret for the past, or a desire that
his son should accompany him to England.

I suppose that we shall be civil to one
another," said Gaston gloomily. "It is as
much as any one can expect from us. If I had
only had him with me all these years !"

VOL. III. 45

And therewith a pang so terrible shot through
his heart that he could not trust himself to dwell
upon the vision of " what might have been."

Vera was his one consolation. She would
make the brightness of his life ; without her the
world would be a mere dark prison. What consolation
was there for him in the fact that he
had found a son ?

It was night when he reached the frontier.
He had hired a tarantass and two post-horses ;
there was no railway within several miles of the
house whither he was bound. At a lonely looking
guardhouse upon the highroad he had to
halt while his baggage and passport were examined.
It seemed to him that there was some
unnecessary delay. An officer came forward
after a time and entered very politely into conversation
with him. Eavenscroft asked the
reason of the pause.

' We are grieved to delay you, monsieur,"
said the adjutant in very good French. "Weare
obliged to take especial note of the passports
of all travellers at present, as we have been
advised that an escaped Russian criminal is on

his way hither, endeavouring to regain his former
residence near the frontier."

''' The audacity of his enterprise will probably
cause it to fail," said Gaston courteously.

Doubtless. We have orders to take him
alive or dead. It is Count Zaranoff."

Son of Count Paul Zaranoff? "

'' Exactly. The kinsman of the helle Comtesse,
who has recently met with so serious an accident.
The story runs that he loves her to distraction,
and wishes to force his way once more to her
side. It is a droll idea."

Eavenscroft gravely assented. The officer
was on the point of moving away from him when
his attention was arrested by the sound of wheels
and horses' hoofs upon the road. He stopped
short and held up a warning finger. At that
moment the moon shone out brilliantly, and
revealed with startling distinctness the white
winding road, the black jinewoods on either
side, the waiting equipage, the bright arms and
ornaments of the soldiers, the red light of the
lamps. The wind soughed through the tops of
the swaying trees ; the clouds scudded rapidly
across the sky.

'there will be a storm to-night," said the
officer. Nearer and nearer came the sound of
wheels. Found a corner there dashed into view
a low light vehicle drawTi by two horses ; it
stopped at the door, where its occupants alighted.
Kavenscroft glanced at them carelessly. One
was the old priest whom he had seen upon the
journey ; the other  no, the other was a stranger
not Maurice Guyon.

Eavenscroft would have re-entered his carriage
as soon as the authorities had expressed their
satisfaction with his passport had the officer not
observed in a low tone :

If you are interested in the ZaranofF case,
monsieur, you might wait a minute or two.
This priest is the Countess' chaplain. I am
much mistaken if Ms passport is en regie''

Gaston's curiosity overpowered his desire to
hasten forward. He followed the adjutant and
the travellers into an inner apartment, where the
officials of the duane were installed, and there
he awaited with some interest the result of the
inquiry.

The priest's passport proved, however, to be
in every way correct. The adjutant put him

through a private examination, to which he
answered that he had been to England in order
to make known the accident that had happened
to the Countess lima to her friend, M. le General
Longmore, who was well knoTi both at Vienna
and at St. Petersburg. When asked why a
telegram would not have made the story known
equally well, he replied that the Countess had
undertaken the charge of a young English gentleman
whose friends were ignorant of his place
of residence, and that she had wished the story
of his visit to her to be communicated to them
by one whom she could trust. He believed that
the father of this young English gentleman was
already on his way to the chateau of the Countess.
I can corroborate that evidence, M. Adjutant,"
said Eavenscroft. " I am the father of
the young Englishman of whom he sjDcaks. I
myself was informed by M. Longmore that the
news of my son's residence here was brought
to England by the Countess' chaplain, Father
gnat.

He was surprised to find so much weight
attached to his words. His explanation was
declared to be perfectly satisfactory ; and the

priest's passport was immediately returned to
him with an intimation that he might continue
his journey.

The adjutant then turned to the priest's companion.
This was a young man who wore the
national dress : a braided coat, buttoned at the
top, showing the braided waistcoat ; tight-fitting
pantaloons ; long boots and spurs ; and a low-crowned
hat. In addition he had a long and
large black cloak, which he seemed to wear as a
protection against the cold. He had a tall,
slender, lissom figure ; a dark face with finely-cut
features ; and black hair, brows, and moustache.
He stood with eyes cast down, awaiting the
questions that the adjutant chose to ask.

The officer glanced at the passport and then
spoke in Magyar, a tongue of which Eavenscroft
knew sufficient to enable him to follow the short
colloquy that ensued.

"Your name?"

Bela Zichy."

Travelling with Father Ignaz ?"

'* I offered him a seat in the tarantass that I
hired in the last village. I come from Eaab, and
am bound for Odessa."

Merchant  twenty-three years of age ; you
look more than twenty-three."

'' I have had a hard life ; it makes me look
old."

You have been this way before ? "

Yes."

The officer smiled, twirled a yellow moustache,
and turned round. "Andreas," he said to one
of the officials, '' you never forget a face, and you
have been here ten years. Do you know this
fellow ? "

The official  a withered, mean-looking little
man  came forward, saluted the officer, and
glanced at the Hungarian. Eavenscroft, whose
acuteness of perception had been sharpened in
his desert life, caught an indefinable change of
expression in the man's face ; he noted also that
the Hungarian's hand was clenched until the
veins stood out in bold relief as he rested it fora
moment upon a table. In every other respect
the stranger stood perfectly still and looked the
official quietly in the face.

Who is this man ? " said the adjutant.

"Bela Zichy," was the unhesitating reply.
"A merchant from Eaab; a very honest fellow,

sir." And lie nodded in a friendly manner to
the Hungarian, who returned his salutation.
Eavenscroft glanced at the man's hand ; the
tension of the muscles had relaxed.

Good ; you may go. There is no pretext
for detaining these people," said the adjutant,
half regretfully. "They may depart." And in
less than y minutes the travellers were again
upon their way.

No doubt about them I suppose ? " said
Gaston dryly.

"Oh no, none. The priest is a well-known
character, and Andreas knew the other. The
signalement was quite correct  dark hair,
eyes, complexion, name, profession, destination
 there was no doubt about the merchant
either. We must watch another night for our
fugitive."

That man is a fool," said Eavenscroft cynically,
as he threw himself back upon the luxurious
cushions of his carriage. ' Signalement indeed !
Black hair and eyes ! It may not signify, and
it is no concern of mine, but the worthy Andreas
lied when he said that he knew the traveller to
be a Hungarian merchant ; and, moreover, the

fellow's eyes were blue. So much for official zealand
integrity ! "

He laughed to himself as the carriage jolted
over the uneven road. And thus he crossed the
frontier.

A LAST Request.

The lights burned dimly, and a profound silence
reigned in the Chateau ZaranofF. Ten o'clock
only had sounded from the old clock in the
tower, but most of the servants in the house
were already sleeping, and those who waked
were waking only to keep watch by the bedside
of their mistress.

The Countess had been carried, while still
insensible after her accident, to a room which
she had never been in the habit of using, on
account of its antiquity ; and there she had been
compelled to remain, sorely against her will.
Her taste had been always for Paris fashions of
the most recent date : she hated all that was
old and quaint, although it might be picturesque.
She was a woman who liked the gay, smiling,

pleasant side of life ; and lie would have bemoaned
herself most sincerely if she had found
herself wedded to a man who was in heart, at
least, a Revolutionary and a Socialist.

This room then outraged all her principles of
taste. It was very large  so large that the firelight
and candle-light seemed lost in its profound
shadows. The walls and ceiling were painted
with representations of nymphs and goddesses
whose flowing robes and graceful limbs had once
been brilliant enough, but were now as faded
and as ghastly as the perpetual smirk with which
the artist had endowed them. For these paintings
were so old that in some places the colours
had been merged into an indistinct mass of
broTNTL or gray, and only when a ray of sunshine
or a beam of firelight fell strongly upon that
part of the wall did a face, a figure, a hand or
foot, unseen before, thrust itself apparently into
existence and make the observer start as if he
had seen a ghost.

The furniture was of carved oak, black with
age ; the great bedstead was hung with black
and gold canopies like a hearse. When lima
awoke to the consciousness that she was in this

room and in this bed, she shrieked with horror
and alarm. *' It was a room," she declared,
that would kill her even if she were strong and
well. At all costs she must leave it." But the
doctors said her nay.

However, they did their best. Rose-coloured
silk and lace replaced the black velvet with its
stamped gold fleurs-de-lys ; screens covered with
gay stuffs hid the ghostly painted figures from
her eyes ; a toilet-table, laden with pretty feminine
knick-knacks, scents and essences, and some
low light chairs and settees replaced the sombre
furniture. And when it was all done, the
Countess pettishly declared that after all the
character of the room was spoilt and that it had
better have been left alone.

But that was at the beginning of her illness.
Since then she had passed into states of alternate
depression and feverish excitement which left
her little time to care about accessories of this
sort.

Her old gouvernante, generally known as
Mademoiselle Amelie, sat in one of the new
chintz-covered chairs drowsily perusing a volume
of the Lives of the Saints. She would have preferred

a novel which she had in her pocket, but
she did not think it proper to read a novel in the
bedroom of a djdng woman : she kept it therefore
for the ante-room, where it naturally became
suitable to the occasion.

The Countess appeared to be sleeping, and
Mademoiselle Amelie glanced uneasily towards
the bed as soon as the sound of steps and voices
became audible in the next room. She went on
tiptoe to the door and spoke softly to some one
outside it. A short and low-toned colloquy took
place, but, short as it was, it disturbed the
sleeper, who called to Amelie by name.

What is it ? Has he come ? "

'' Pere Ignaz is here, dear madame. Shall I
let him enter ? "

Certainly, certainly. I must see him at
once''

The sight of the priest's black soutane and
venerable head seemed to bring some comfort to
the sick woman's heart. She uttered a faint,
gasping cry of welcome and held out both her
hands.

Has he come ? You said that you would
bring him  you promised "

He has come. Be calm, my child. Remember
that as few persons as possible must
know that he is here'

"I will be careful," she said, holding his
hand with her trembling fingers. " I will be
very quiet  very calm. But I must see him
now  at once. Father, do you understand ? Tomorrow
might be too late. There is no knowing,
and I have been much worse during the
last few days."

"You shall see him now," said the priest
soothingly. "Yes, this hour would be a good
one : the servants are occupied in attending to
the English gentleman  the Mr. Eavenscroft,
who has also arrived in search of Herr Lanz."

Gaston Eavenscroft ! " cried lima, with a
look of terror in her great dark eyes. " Why
has he come ? I telegraphed to the Longmores
some days ago that Lancelot was not here. He
left a week ago. Oh, if only Mr. Eavenscroft
had come at any other time ! He is Maurice's
bitterest enemy. Keep them apart : get him
away as soon as possible, or some mischief will
come of it. To-night : let him go to-night.
Lancelot has gone away."

'' We cannot send him out of the house tonight,
dear madame," said Father Ignaz. "Listen
to the storm : you can turn no one from your
door ujDon a night like this." And truly while
he spoke there came a furious rush of wind and
rain and a crash of falling trees or masonry that
showed how great would be the danger to a
traveller belated in the wellnigh trackless woods
with which the chateau was surrounded. '''The
Englishman can go tomorrow, or the following
day. The Count will not be here long."

The Count  where is he ? " said lima,
forgetting Eavenscroft at the mention of Zara-off's
name. "Let me see him now : but no, not
yet: in a quarter of an hour. Pardon, Father!
Light the candles, Amelie : all of them  the
room looks so dark ; and give me my pink
peignoir and the little mirror. Do I look
frightfully ill ? Maurice must not think me
ghastly ; the rouge, Amelie, the rouge ! "

Her voice trembled sith impatience : her
hands were shaking, a feverish light shone in
her eyes. " I feel quite well," she said, with a
little excited laugh. " I have no more pain, I
am quite strong ; I think I could even dance a

mazurka  with Maurice. Amelie, where are
my emerald earrings ? "

The priest regarded her with disfavour ; and
yet a sort of pity mingled nth the severity of
his glance. He waved back Mademoiselle
Amelie, who was hastening to bring the mirror ;
he stooped down and breathed his words into
the Countess' ear.

You have spoken to me of repentance and
atonement. Is it thus that you manifest repentance
 by putting on gold and jewels and
painting your face like Jezebel of old ? Is this
contrition ? "

She shrank back trembling, and the fire died
out of her eyes. " Leave these vanities," he
proceeded, " to those who are in the world ; you
should be beyond the reach of such temptations.
I will bring the Count Zaranoff to you now or
not at all."

'' It was only  only  for Maurice's sake ! "
said lima half sullenly, as she drew a filmy
handkerchief across her face. "But you are
right : let him see me at my worst. I am worn,
haggard, dying  what does it matter? Perhaps,"
she added with a passionate sob, ''he

will pity me the more. You have no pity.
Father!"

The priest's face lightened with the glow of
an almost fanatical earnestness as he replied.

"Daughter' he said, "it was to a penitent
that I brought Count Zaranoff. It is to a
penitent that I would lead him now  one to
whom the Church has promised that mercy and
forgiveness which has never been wanting since
the day when holy Saint Mary Magdalene knelt
at her Master s feet, washed them dth her tears
and dried them with her hair. But, oh, my
child, it more becomes a penitent to affect the
rebellious body to which the sorrowing soul is
bound than to bedizen it with jewels and fine
array."

lima lay still : she trembled and sobbed no
longer. Father lo-naz went in search of Maurice.

o o

But soon as he was gone. Mademoiselle Ample
was startled by hearing an eager, hissing whisper
from the bed. "Amelie," said the voice, "he is
a good man, but he is a priest : he does not
know. I will not have the rouge ; but the pink
wrapper  it suits me so much better than the
white."

VOL. iir. 46

Oil, madame ! " said Amelie. " The Count
will not care what yon have on  he never cared."

More than you know, Amelie. Ah, it is too
late : they are coming. Mon Dieu ! what shall
I do ? What will he say to me ? " She caught
at her companion's wrist in sudden panic terror.
'' Will he kill me when I tell him all ? "

These sudden transitions of mood were too
well known to call for special attention. Amelie
answered only, " I will stay in the anteroom,
madame ;" and moved towards the door. Ilma's
eyes followed her with strained attention. She
saw the dame de compagnie make a deep curtsey
as she reached the outer room. She saw the
priest hold open the door with a respectful
salute to the person whom he was admitting.
Exiled by the State, proscribed by Government
he might be, but as soon as Maurice Zaranoff
entered the doors of his own house, there he was
master still.

His disguise as Bela Zichy was less complete
than it had been when he crossed the frontier.
The false hair and beard that had given his face
so different a character had been removed ; but
his dress and accoutrements were still those of

the Hungarian Tine-groT\'er. He stopped short
for a moment when inside the door, and looked
at the Countess intently. The light of the
numerous wax candles fell full upon her face.
Then he quietly bowed his head in token of
greeting, and advanced to her bedside.

When he saw her last, she had been instinct
with all the subtle charm of her soft yet brilliant
beauty : the creamy paleness of her rounded
cheek, the flower-like rosiness of her curving
lips, the velvet-brown of the long-lashed eyes 
these were the traits which had won reputation
for her beauty, yet these were the traits which,
when last he saw them, had rather repelled
than attracted Maurice Zaranofi". But a terrible
change had passed over that lovely face since he
saw it last. The exquisite complexion had
grown sallow, the features pinched and worn,
the brown eyes were sunken and anxious looking.
There was beauty still, though of an unnatural
and hectic kind : her thin cheeks were
flushed, her eyes shone with their old lustre at
the entrance of Maurice Zaranofi".

She could not raise herself She did not even
stretch out her appealing hands to him. She

looked steadfastly into his face ; then uttered a
cry of pain and fear.

Oh," she wailed, " Father Ignaz was mistaken
 but I was not mistaken. I knew that
you would not forgive me, and you never will."

Maurice laid his hand upon one of hers. " I
have forgiven you," he said.

Forgiven me, yet look at me and speak tome
as you do ? Call me by my name  kiss me,
if you will  and then I shall feel that you have
forgiven me indeed ! "

He befit down and touched her forehead with
his lips. " My poor lima," he said compassionately,
"we have both suffered."

Your sufferings have been nothing compared
with mine," she answered, holding his hands
tightly as he leaned over her. " You have at
least had work and action and liberty "

Liberty ! In the fortress of St. Peter and
St. Paul ! or in Siberia ! "

You were in prison for a few months only,"
she pleaded. "What was that to my lifelong
punishment ? You used to say that your spirit
your spirit was free as air. Mine was never
free."

Yours ? "

I was bound by the chains of habit, caprice,
fashion. I was never able to do what I should
have wished  hide myself away from the world
in some little cottage with the man I loved, and
forget everything beside "

Good heavens ! " thought Maurice cynically.
Is she trying to deceive me or herself this time,
I wonder ? " Aloud, he answered gravely : "I
fear, lima, that you would soon have tired of
your solitude. Never mind the past ; what we
might have done does not concern us now. I
am here to assure you that I at least will not
remember it."

Her face began to grow a little pale. She
watched him for several minutes and then withdrew
her hand from his. "I do not know how
to speak to you," she said faintly. " It is hard
to talk in any but the old way. I used to say
that I should try to make you admire me and
love me even if I were dying. It is true ; I am
dying, I suppose ; yet I cannot talk to you
seriously. You must not be hard on me ; I
think my mind is growing a little weak. Send
for Father Ignaz ; he will remind me of all the

wrong that I have done. Now  I can scarcely
remember."

Do not remember," said Maurice tenderly.
You have grieved enough over any wrong you
have done to me : I can believe that without
Father Ignaz's help. Tell me, if you like, that
you are sorry, or let the matter alone ; I understand
all that you leave unsaid."

The slow tears gathered in her eyes.

"I remember a little," she said in an exhausted
voice. " It was I who denounced you."

"I know."

I could have saved you if you would
have asked me for my help. But you did
not ask me ; and I believed that you loved
Anna Strolenski. Oh, Maurice, for the last
time tell me  was that true ? Did you love
her?"

As a sister, lima ; nothing more."

''I might have saved you from Siberia. I
might have saved her. And the others "

You could not have saved me, lima ; do not
distress yourself. I had long been suspected,
and when the Strolenskis were seized I shared
their fate."

But for me they might not have been seized
at all."

Maurice was silent. He could not deny facts.

"Do you know," continued lima in a suppressed
tone, '' that every night when I am
lying here she comes to me, with her dark hair
loose and her shoulders bare  bare and marked
with the strokes of the rods ! I cannot understand
it, for when you told me of her death I
was not sorry  oh no, not at all. But now I
see her every night and I can never speak  my
tongue seems tied until she has gone ; I can
never tell her that I am sorry, or that I did not
think they would use her so cruelly "

She would be the first to forgive you, lima.
I forgive you in her name. Be at peace."

'* You are good," she murmured. " Father
Ignaz said that you would forgive me. But 
oh, Maurice, Maurice ! what if God requires
their blood at my hands ? Oh, I killed them all
I murdered them. Have mercy, my God,
have mercy ! "

She writhed and moaned in agony as the
remorseful fit came over her. Maurice hastily
summoned Mademoiselle Amelie and the priest,

and then stood aside in the shadow of the
curtains while Father Ignaz repeated the words
of prayer which alone seemed to bring peace and
comfort to that struggling, striving soul.

She lay quiet at last and seemed exhausted,
but when Maurice and Father Ignaz would have
gone she stopped them by an imperious gesture
of her hand.

'* I have a request to make," she said. '* I
am dying, and surely I may act as a living
woman would not dare to do. Maurice ZaranofF,
you and I were once solemnly betrothed. You
said that you and I ' would wear our bridal
crowns together,' according to the Russian
custom ; but we were separated long before that
day. I betrayed you and married your kinsman
Nicholas Zaranoff; he died soon after our
marriage. You married no one. I ask you  if
indeed you forgive me  to return to your old
promise. Make me your wife, Maurice, if it be
only for a few hours before I die."

The priest lifted up his eyes and hands.
Maurice, strongly agitated, knew not how to
reply.

You will not refuse me, will you ? " she said

in weak piteous tones. '' Maurice, I am dying,
they tell me. It will not be for long."

Maurice recovered himself. " lima," he said
gently, " do you wish it ? I will do anything to
make you happy  for the sake of our old love ;
but why should you care now for this empty
form of marriage ? "

Ah, why ! You cannot understand, can
you?" said lima a little bitterly. "Make me
your wife  I can ask you that now, Maurice,
without a blush, you see  and I will tell you
why."

And he consented.

The formalities to be observed were few and
simple. The priest's scruples were soon vanquished
; the doctor and the notary, both trustworthy
and responsible men, undertook to act as
witnesses and transact the necessary business.
Irregular the marriage might be, but that it
would be legally valid there was no doubt.
Any irregularity in the proceedings could be
rectified at a future time. '' If there is any
future time ' for Madame la Comtesse," observed
the doctor dryly.

In accordance with Ilma's wish, Zaranofi"
changed his dress for one which she thought
more suitable to himself and to the occasion. It
was evident that she had long considered and
planned the details of the secret ceremony on
which she had set her heart. It was the silly
fancy of a sick woman, she said, that she should
wish to see him once again as she had seen him
when last they met in a festive scene at St.
Petersburg ; he had been present at a masked
ball given at the Zaranoff Palace, and his costume
and many other of his possessions had been left
there when he was arrested on the following day.
lima had carefully preserved them; and these
he found in the room which had been set aside
for his use. The suit on which her whim had
fixed was simply made, but, being of black
velvet, was sufficiently unlike ordinary dress to
make him feel as if he were taking a part ina
masquerade rather than engaging in some
solemn and important business.

Great care had of course been observed that
no one except those who could thoroughly be
trusted should be made aware of his visit ; but,
as a matter of fact, once inside the walls of the

chateau, there was little fear of detection by the
authorities. The household adored the young
Count, who once had been their master ; not a
few of the servants would cheerfully have gone
to prison, or even to the gallows, if by so doing
they could save him from exile and disgrace.
The only thing really to be feared was a domiciliary
visit from the police ; but in that case it
would be easy to conceal the visitor in one of
the hiding-places in which the house abounded,
or convey him secretly into the forests, whence
he could cross the frontier on the first opportunity.
Ilma's few relations had, at her otl wish,
left the house ; and such of her attendants as
she could not trust had been dismissed before
Maurice's arrival.

At the appointed hour, therefore, Count
Maurice Zaranoflf presented himself to her in
the attire which she had desired that he should
wear. Her eyes dwelt on him with pleasure.
To her, at least, he did not seem much chased.
The fair, knightly head, the frank sweetness of
his sunny smile and bright blue eyes, the mingled
grace and strength of the slender agile figure in
its black velvet and yellowish falling lace 

these were much what they had been three
years before. There was perhaps some addition
of dignity in his bearing, some touch of melancholy
which had not been visible in days of
old ; but these were not points that were likely
to catch Ilma's anxious, failing eye. Her old
lover stood before her; surely now she could
forget the days of sorrow and separation that
had passed since she had last seen him in that
character.

In as short a time as possible the hasty
marriage ceremony was concluded. Then husband
and wife were left alone.

FORGIVENESS.

When Gaston Ravenscroft alighted from his
carriage at the entrance to Madame Zaranoffs
chateau, he was struck with the wildness of the
scene around him. The house was old, and built
in the form of a quadrangle on three sides of a
great court. The massive gates were heavy, and
required much unbolting and unbarring. It was
plain that no visitors were expected at that hour
of the night. Outside the gates the forest trees
tossed their arms wildly in the tempest ; the sky
was dark, and the rain had begun to fall in torrents.
Now and then a flash of lightning lit up
the scene with lurid splendour ; the rumbling of
thunder had for some time been almost incessant.
Even while Eavenscroft waited for admission a
great peal sounded overhead, which made the

driver of his travelling carriage cross himself
repeatedly in his alarm.

There was some little hesitation before the
visitor was admitted ; but at last he was led
through a long corridor to a small room, which
had the appearance of a study or small library.
Here an upper servant received him with many
bows, brought him refreshments, and intimated
to him, chiefly by signs, that he must wait therefor
the present. Gaston's knowledge of Russian
was so slight that he could not make the man
understand that he was in quest of the young
secretary. Lancelot's name produced no impression,
and the guest was finally left alone in a
state of mingled wonder and impatience at the
curious nature of his reception. He had telegraphed
his coming, yet nobody seemed to be in
the least degree prepared to see him.

He could neither eat, drink, nor sit still ; he
kept his eyes fixed upon the door, with a continual
expectation of seeing it opened by Lancelot
himself. He would learn that Kavenscroft
was here. " He must have heard by this time,"
Gaston thought ; would he not shrink from
meeting the uncle and guardian of Olivia ? noting

lead been said in the telegram about the
relationship that bad been discovered. " Surely,"
thought Gaston, as he gradually worked himself
up into a frenzy of impatience and indignation
at the long delay, " surely the boy is not so
cowardly as to shun me now ! " The conviction
that the scene of explanation would be a painful
one, and the wish to get it over, became at last
almost unbearable ; he made a step towards the
door, resolving to summon a servant or make his
way into the presence. of some person of authority
in the household without further hesitation, when,
suddenly, the handle of the door was turned.

Eavenscroft, pale to the lips with restrained
emotion, but with haughty mastery of himself,
drew back and waited with folded arms for the
appearance of his son ; but the door was pushed
gently open to admit, not Bertram Eavenscroft,
but the old priest whom Gaston had lately seen
upon the journey travelling in company with
Maurice Zaranoff.

He drew back, amazed and scornful. Father
Ignaz bowed, and received a faint acknowledgment
of his courtesy. The priest used the German
language as he spoke.

'your pardon, gnadiger Herr, for this long
delay. I am the chaplain of the Countess lima
Zaranoff, and come, by her desire, to ask your
commands or to answer your inquiries."

*' I am here in search of a young Englishman
who arrived with the Countess a few months ago."

'' Whom you mentioned to-night to the officials,"
said Father Ignaz politely. " I was
greatly obliged to you, sir, for your gracious
condescension "

"Pardon me," said Eavenscroft, ''if I interrupt
you ; but I am anxious to see this young
man at once."

Sir, that is impossible."

"Impossible! why?" A sudden terror swept
across the proud man's soul. What did the priest
mean ? Surely not that the time for reparation
was gone, that the day of atonement was now
too late ? He flinched from the pain of the
thought ; it made him feel dizzy, like a drunken
man.

You mistake me," said Father Ignaz eagerly.
He saw that his words had produced a sudden
shock. "The young Herr Lanz is living and
well, or as well as he was when he left the

chateau a few days ago. He has gone away with
some English friends of the Countess' ; they were
to stay for a few days in Paris, and then proceed
to England."

' What Kentish friends?" -

The priest silently laid a card on the table at
G-aston's side. " These English names are difficult
to me," he said in explanation. "You yourself
will see "

Eavenscroft took up the card; it bore the
name of a Mrs. Theodore Arnold, of whom he had
never heard before, and an address  some hotel
in Paris. He felt a sensation of bitter disappointment,
which was followed by not unnatural
indignation.

May I ask why he was allowed to quit the
house where I was expressly told that I should
find him ? The Countess sent word that he was
here ; after a long journey from England, of
course I expected to see him."

The Countess is in no fit state to take any
responsibility on herself," said Father Ignaz.
'she is ill; I fear that her days are numbered.
. . The young gentleman left the chateau with
friends who were returning to England, and who

VOL. TIT. 47

undertook the charge of him. A telegram was
sent to Mr. Longmore to that effect "

I heard nothing of it."

'' The news probably missed you at some point.
Herr Lanz will now be nearing England, although
he could not travel very fast "

Not travel fast ; why not ?"

The priest raised his eyes to the questioner's
haughty face with a keen yet doubtful
look.

'the Herr Lanz," he said slowly, "is your
honour's son ?"

"Yes."

You know then, mein Herr, that the young
gentleman had been ill for some time, ill or ailing,
with a sort of settled melancholy and languor
that nothing could dispel. It was partly for that
reason, I understood, that the young gentleman
came to this wild part of the country  for distraction
and for change of air." *

Go on," said Gaston curtly.

*' He became thinner and paler day by day, and
we grieved over the change, for he was a kind
and amiable and pious youth ; until at last, not
long before the Countess' accident, the doctor

found that he was bleeding from the lungs. The
Countess tells me that she meant to communicate
with his friends or take him herself to a warmer
climate without delay, for she loved the boy
well ; but her own accident altered all these
plans. And during the time of her insensibility
and our great anxiety, the young Englishman's
malady unfortunately increased."

He paused ; Mr. Eavenscroft had turned aside
so that his face could not be seen.

"Well, sir?"

The Countess' doctor, Herr Brunnow, a very
clever physician, gave it as his opinion that the
young gentleman would do better in a house
where he could be nursed and waited on more
carefully than was the case here during madame's
illness. It seems that Herr Lanz himself wished
to return to England  so Herr Brunnow tells
me. You would perhaps like to speak to him
yourself, sir ? "

"Yes."

The priest bowed and retired. Eavenscroft
was left standing in the middle of the room, his
brow furrowed, his lips compressed, his fingers
clenched upon the card. He was too much

disturbed to be courteous to Father Ignaz. But
when the doctor entered the room he had regained
his composure. He bowed civilly to Herr
Briinnow, and asked several questions respecting
the state of Lancelot's health, with calm
approaching to indifference.

Herr Briinnow was hopeful. With care and
a good climate, he said that Lancelot would do
well ; but he should have cheerful society and
surroundings. It had seemed to him sometimes
as if "Herr Lanz" was unduly depressed 
brooding over the past or fearful of the future, ina
way that was harmful to one of so sensitive
and highly strung an organisation.

You think then that this depression produced
his illness % " said Grafton with a sternness
which startled Herr Briinnow.

No, I did not say so," he answered rather
sharply ; "" but every one knows how seriously
the mind acts upon the body, and how, when the
mind is depressed, the body is exposed to the
inroads of disease in a way "

' You think that was the case with him ? '*'
Ravenscroft repeated earnestly. " I understand.
As he is gone, the reason for my visit is gone

also. Can I obtain a vehicle and cross the frontier
again to-night ?"

Impossible, sir. Listen to the storm. No
driver would risk his life in driving through the
woods on a wild night like this. Madame la
Comtesse would be seriously grieved and alarmed
if you left the house in the midst of such \\
tempest."

Eavenscroft tried to gain his point, but
found that the doctors statement was correct.
No servant, no coachman would put his head
outside the door at midnight in such a tempest
of wind and rain as now prevailed. The guest
must remain at least until the morning. He allowed
himself therefore to be escorted to his room,
a great gloomy apartment only enlivened by
the red glow of an enormous fire,  and prepared,
though under protest, to stay the night.

He sat down and fell into a painful train of
reflection, which lasted until the embers were
burning low, and he had grown chilled and
weary. He roused himself, and became conscious
that, in the intervals of storm and tempest, there
was surely some unusual disturbance in the
house. Footsteps resounded in the galleries ; he

thought that he heard the sound of bells and voices
they could not be customary at that hour?
However, it was not his business to make inquiries.
He tried to sleep, but found that the
excitement and fatigue of the journey, of which
he had before thought nothing, were beginning
to tell upon him. At least they performed the
office of driving away slumber from his eyes.

When morning came he rose, flung open the
shutters, and stood for some time looking out at
the stormy sky and the pitiless beating rain.
The noises in the house still made themselves
audible : the opening and shutting of doors, the
sound of footsteps, recurred at intervals, and
made him wonder that so little quietness was
observed in a house of sickness. At last he
opened his own door and looked down the corridor,
hoping to discover some servant who would
assist him in his departure. He made a few
steps down the gallery to his right. A narrow
door before him suddenly opened : he saw a man's
figure and a flight of steps behind it. Heavens
advanced, while the man, whom he took fora
lacquey in some outlandish livery, came out
into the gallery and shut the door behind him.

Then he paused, turned, and looked Kavenscroft
in the face, with a curiously abstracted air.

Ravenscroft started as if he had seen a ghost.
For the moment he may have thought that he
did see one. For Maurice's face was colourless as
that of any dead man, and his dress was that of a
bygone age. He looked like some ancient picture
suddenly called into life, and set but half alive.

Thus they stood face to face. And Maurice
suddenly grasped the fact that now he was in the
power of the one man who was of all men upon
earth his deadliest foe.

The early light of that stormy morning had
been just stealing through the diamond-paned
windows of the Countess' room when lima first
roused herself to speak. She put up her hand
and touched her husband's face as he bent silently
over her.

"You forgive me, Maurice ?"

Entirely."

'you do not know why I have asked you todo
what you have done V'

"No."

You do not know liv I accused her 

ruined you  why I begged you to come and
see me now ? You are so blind in reading a
woman's heart that you have not even surprised
my secret ?"

''' I could never read your heart, lima."

You may read it now. I did all these
things, Maurice, because I was jealous ; and I
was jealous  because I loved you."

You loved me ? Impossible !"

I loved you with my whole heart and soul.
And you never knew  you never could have
believed it. Oh, I said a thousand times that I
hated you ; but I longed for you to contradict
me. And you  you never cared. Even in the
days of our betrothal, I was nothing to you in
comparison with your last pet theory. That
drove me mad."

"You are too bitter, lima. You must be
mistaken."

"No, I am not. You had a boy's fancy forme
at the very first, but nothing more. Even
that soon died away  though I will do you the
justice to say that you would probably have
married me without discovering that fact ! But
I read your heart before you had read it yourself.

I was longing for your love ; you cared for
nothing but your Socialist schemes  and Anna
Strolenski. You spent your fortune on the
Revolutionists ; she was your confidante ; what
was there left but for me to strike home when
I had the chance ? At least I spoiled your
plans "

Ah, lima, at what a price ! "

"The price of my own soul, I think," said
the Countess with a sort of desperate calm.
Ah, God knows that I am punished ! I could
not die without telling you, and now  now 
now you are mine at last in spite of all !"

Maurice suddenly, and for the first time,
pressed his lips to hers. That kiss silenced her.
'' My wife !" he said, with a look of infinite pity
and tenderness which he had never given her
before. '' My poor lima ! If I had been less
selfish, less absorbed, some of this misery might
perhaps have been prevented ! Forgive me,
lima."

"Ah, now we are upon more equal terms,"
she said, letting her head rest against his shoulder
with a weary sigh. After a little pause she continued
faintly, " You are very sorry for me, J

see. But you do not love me. It is too late
for that." And then she sighed again, and let
her head sink down upon the pillow.

He tried to reassure her with caresses and
gentle words, but the look of trouble did not
pass from her wan face. Presently she resumed
in a low uneven tone :

I had another reason for sending to you.
There was one thing that I could not tell Father
Ignaz to say. . I have something else for
which to ask your forgiveness."

Ask me nothing, lima ; I can forgive all
now. My dear child, let the past rest in peace."

But this affects your future. It concerns
Mademoiselle de Lusignan. Did he not tell
you so?"

The fingers of the hand that she was holding-twitched
involuntarily ; a shadow came over his
face.

Why should you speak of her?" he said.

Do you not think I know, Maurice ? She
is the woman whom you love  the woman who
loves you."

Hush, lima, hush!"

"Listen. I will tell you why she fainted in

the concert-room, and lost her voice. I had
been with her. I told her of our betrothal 
and more : I let her think  oh, Maurice, turn
away your face !  I let her think that you had
married me. She thinks that you deceived her.
And Gaston Eavenscroft has taken advantage of
that mistake."

No, lima : he is incapable of taking an unfair
advantage."

"You do not know him. He is capable of
anything for Yera's sake. She is not married to
him yet?"

"Not yet."

Then  when I am gone  hasten to her and
tell her all that I have said. The Longmores
will bear you out. I have left a letter for her
too. And now reproach mie, Maurice. Reproach
me, and then tell me that you forgive me again,
although I used her cruelly."

Maurice was silent.

"Have you not a word to say?" she asked
him with some visible uneasiness. " Your
silence is worse than speech. Maurice, do
not be hard upon me at the last ! "

Is there anything else that you are concealing

from me, lima % Have I anything more to
hear?"

Nothing, Maurice, I swear it. I have told
you everything now. Oh, do not look at me,
do not speak to me harshly, Maurice ! I cannot
bear it now."

She gazed piteously into the face which, for
the first time since their marriage, had grown
cold and stern. His brows were drawn together,
and his eyes looked black beneath them.

His wife broke out into a bitter wailing cry.
Have pity upon me, Maurice. I shall soon begone,
and then  then you can forget me. I shall
not long be here to trouble you  have pity 
pity pity!"

His face changed as she spoke. He sighed
heavily, and bent his head towards hers. '' My
poor Bma ! I did not mean to distress you.
Let us say no more about the matter now. It
is past, and it is  forgiven."

Call me your wife again," she whispered.

''My wife  my dear wife."

She drew him closer, so that her face rested
once more upon his breast, then a feeble fluttering
sigh escaped her. He thought that she was

sleeping, because she lay so still, and he did not
dare to disturb her. All the tenderness that he
had ever felt for the woman of his boyhood's
choice welled up again within him as he held her
in his arms and watched the dreary dawn pass
into a drearier day. If everything had gone
well with him and her, he felt at that moment
that the passionate love for which she had longed
would have grown in him and made the happiness
of her life at last. But he had not known
what love was until she had betrayed him and,
in ruining his life, had ruined her own life too.

The room was very still. lima lay motionless,
with his arm around her, and her head upon
his breast.

Thus the doctor found them in the morning
and knew that his work was done.

ALIVE OR DEAD ! "

What are you doing here ? " was Eavenscroft's
abrupt question.

Pardon me if I do not answer you' said
Maurice quietly. " I am engaged at present ; I
have no time for conversation."

May I ask if the Countess knows of your
presence in the house '? "

A slight thrill seemed to run through
Maurice's frame. He turned away as he
answered.

I come from the Countess' deathbed," he
said after a moment's pause.

In spite of himself, Eavenscroft's face expressed
some emotion of surprise. For once he
was taken aback completely.

You  you  were a friend of hers ? " he said.

Maurice had turned to go ; his head was
slightly bent, and his face wore an abstracted
expression ; but at Gaston's Cjueiy he flashed at
him a look of distaste and irritation.

' She is my wife," he said, forgetting that the
past tense must henceforth be the one used in
speaking of poor dead lima ZaranoJBf.

"Your wife?"  Gaston s tones filled as he
spoke with indignation, which he suppressed a
little only out of respect to the presence of death
in the house. " Your wife ? And you had the
effrontery to represent yourself to  to everyone
 " (he had almost said "' to Vera ")  " as
an unmarried man ? "

** Is this a time for such a discussion ? " said
Zaranoff, slowly moving down the corridor.

'' With you, it is never the time," was Gaston's
bitter answer. " Can you suggest a better one ?"

Maurice passed his hand over his brow with
a bewildered and weary gesture, then shook back
his hair and seemed to nerve himself for contest.

'' So be it," he answered. " I will listen to
you now. We shall be undisturbed in this
room."

As he spoke, he threw open the door of a

small salle 6! etude, and signed to Kavenscroft to
enter it. ''I will answer any of your questions
to the best of my ability," lie said with grave
and studied courtesy. '' I have unfeignedly
heard more of your affairs than you may have
been aware of, and there have been misunderstandings
 perhaps on both sides. If there is
anything that I can explain, I will do so."

He thought of old Davy and of Lancelot's
history as he spoke. But these where not the
subjects uppermost in Gaston Eavenscroft's mind
at that moment.

There was an instant's silence. Maurice
glanced round the room with a sense of sad
recognition. It was one which had been very
familiar to him in days gone by. He knew the
very bindings of the books, the colour of the
hangings, the shape of the antique brass lamp
suspended by chains above the writing-table,
the patterns of the parqueted floor and the
Persian rugs : it was his father's sword that
hung above the mantel, and his mother's portrait
in its old place upon the wall. Unconsciously
to himself his manner changed. It had never
l>een without dignity, notwithstanding all its

carelessness and all its supple grace ; but now,
surrounded as he was by old associations, he
looked and spoke as Kavenscroft had never seen
him look and speak before  not arrogantly, but
with a quiet assumption of his part as host and
master of the house, which inexpressibly galled
his haughty visitor.

Pray be seated, Mr. Eavenscroft," said Zara-off
courteously. '' I think that no one will
interrupt us ; but you will pardon me, I am
sure, if I lock the door. Not all the servants in
the house know that I am here."

A secret, I presume \ "

' It is a secret," Maurice answered in a careless
tone, "but not one that has been very
strictly kept. At least a dozen people know of
my presence. But I can trust them all. There
are servants here, however, who were not attached
to our service in my father's time ; these I do
not wish to trust too much."

'' In your father's time ! "

Kavenscroft repeated the words more to himself
than to Maurice, and Maurice reddened
slightly as he met the incredulous glance of his
interlocutor.

VOL. III. 48

'' I forget how little you know of me," he said
with a faint tranquil smile. 'allow me to tell
you my true name : Maurice ZaranofF. Guyon is
merely one of my Christian names. My father had
the honour to be well acquainted with Madame
Waldstein ; and I think that you yourself were
acquainted with the Countess lima Zaranoff."

Gaston stood frowning and biting his heavy
black moustache.

"You  then," he said with some effort, "are
one of the sons of Count Paul Zaranoff? I
remember the name, of course."

"His only son." Then Maurice added, more
quickly, "I am sorry that I was unable to make
myself known to you before. I lost my estates
and title, and was exiled to Siberia for political
reasons some time ago. After my escape to
England I desired for a time to conceal my name
partly on Ilma's account."

The Countess lima was then your wife ? "
said Gaston, bending his dark brows and trying
to recall the various ways in which his friends
and acquaintances had apparently deceived him.
I for one believed that her husband had died
in Russia."

That was true. She had been betrothed tome
before my exile, but when I went to Tomsk,
she married a far-distant kinsman of my own,
bearing the same family name. He was shortly
afterwards endowed with my land and my title,
as well as my bride. This house," said Maurice,
with a gleam in his lifted eye, as he glanced
round the room and drew his breath hard at the
memories it suggested, " this house, in which I
was born and bred, passed into his hands, whilst
I was working in the mines in Siberia."

Eavenscroft, sitting with his elbow on the
table and his hand ill-temperedly ruffling up the
masses of his short crisp black hair, preserved a
sullen sort of silence. Zaranoff had the consideration
to bring his disclosures speedily to a
close.

"The Countess Zaranoff," he continued, "regretted
the breach which circumstances had imposed
upon us : she sent Father Ignaz to England
with a request that I would come to visit her
here. I came ; and this morning  shortly before
she died  I married her."

You were wise," said Gaston unpleasantly.

Zaranoff 's eyes flashed at the taunt. " I do

not see why," he said, with a curl of the lip.
'The marriage will be no advantage to me in
the Emperor's eyes. You forget that an exile
such as I am cannot inherit property." He paused
and added more quietly : "It is possible, however,
that a petition despatched by the Countess
before my arrival may have some effect  but it
is not likely. In any case, I shall return as soon
as possible to England."

With what object ? " said Gaston in a hoarse
voice.

Zaranoff looked at him as if surprised at the
question ; but he had reasons for answering it.

*' I have work in England which I wish to
finish. And I mean to make to Mademoiselle de
Lusignan the explanation that I have made to

you."

"You will do nothing of the kind," said
Gaston, starting up, the long-suppressed passion
making itself seen and heard at last in his face
and voice. " You shall never speak to Mademoiselle
de Lusignan again."

Shall not ? "

"Shall not, whilst I can protect her."

Maurice slightly shrugged his shoulders.

'' mademoiselle de Lusignan is still lier ot\ii
mistress, I imagine. I have a message to her
from the Countess Zaranoff, and, with or without
yom permission, Mr. Eavenscroft, I shall not fail
to deliver it. Have you so little faith in Mademoiselle
de Lusignan that you think it would
harm her to hear it ? "

It is faith in you that is wanting," said
Eavenscroft abruptly.

Maurice turned sharply upon him as he answered.


You have said enough, Mr. Eavenscroft. I
am sorry to be obliged to remind you of the
courtesy that usually exists between gentlemen,
and which you seem to have forgotten. I am
more sorry still that your own words oblige me
to say so much to one who, for how short a time
soever, has become my guest."

Perhaps no speech could more effectually have
roused the ire of Gaston Eavenscroft. He turned
at once to the door with a face that had grown
dark nth rage.

'' Had I known that I was your guest, I would
never have set foot thin the house," he said,
and I sill certainly not remain in it a moment

longer than I am obliged. Mark my words 
you shall never see Vera de Lusignan again. I
will prevent that  if I have to kill you first ! "

The last words were uttered in a lower tone,
full of blind rage and hate. Zaranoff had unlocked
the door : he answered simply by a formal
bow, as his unwilling guest passed out. He had
an almost Oriental sense of the duties of hospitality
: for this he had bridled his tongue and
checked his scorn of Gaston's vehemence. He
would not for worlds have quarrelled with any
man who (like Gaston at that moment) was dependent
upon him for shelter and food and rest.
If once a stranger left the chateau, there was no
decent roof for several miles under which he
could be received ; and the raging storm still
made a traveller's progress dangerous as well as
difficult.

Ravenscroft did what he could to get away
from the house at once. But it was impossible
to induce the servants to further his intention :
neither coachman, horse, nor vehicle was forthcoming,
and he was obliged to resign himself to
the delay. Before long Father Ignaz appeared,
and made it quite plain that he was prepared to

corroborate the whole of Maurice Zaranoff s story.
But Kavenscroft would not hear.

He saw nothing more of the Count. In a few
hours the storm abated, and then certain friends
of the family, several priests from a neighbouring
monastery, and an official or two from the
nearest toTi, arrived. The interment of the
Countess would take place that evening, and he
was politely invited to join in the funeral rites.
He declined this invitation on the plea of urgent
haste ; and about three o'clock in the afternoon
he left the house and drove in the direction of the
frontier.

He had not, however, proceeded very far upon
his way when the tarantass came to a sudden
standstill. Putting out his head Ravenscroft
ascertained that a small number of soldiers, under
the command of the officer with whom he had
conversed on the night of his arrival, had surrounded
the rude carriage in which he travelled,
and compelled the driver to alight. The officer
bowed politely when he recognised his acquaintance
of the preceding day, and, with profuse
apologies, explained that the prisoner for whom
he was on the watch had crossed the frontier ;

that it had been thought probable that he had
even ventured into his own house ; and that every
traveller on the road must be examined and every
vehicle inspected.

While the soldiers peered into the tarantass
as if they thought that the exile's form could be
concealed within its very limited space, the adjutant
drew Ravenscroft aside for a few minutes'
private conversation.

You saw the Hungarian who came with the
priest Ignaz, did you not, monsieur ? " he said,
speaking mysteriously and in French. 'ewe
think that he, too, was in the plot : we think
he knows the secret of M. Zaranoff's hiding-place
"

'' Spare yourself the trouble of thinking any
longer," said Eavenscroft contemptuously ; '' it
was Maurice ZaranofF himself."

The officer's face grew purple.

What, monsieur ! " he stammered ; ' you
then were in his confidence ?  you knew him ? 
you were an accomplice ? " Then, recovering his
self-command, he said peremptorily : " Monsieur,
I arrest you."

"I do not see how you can do that," Gaston

replied, with an unpleasant sense that he had
been worse than rash in this avowal ; though
after all, he asked himself, what harm had he
done ? Zaranoff was probably well out of his
captors' reach by this time. "I am a British
subject ; my passport is all right, and I have one
or two letters about me which will amply clear
me from taking any share or any interest in your
countrymen's conspiracies. What I have told
you I know only by accident."

Where is the man now ? "

I cannot possibly say."

'' Then, monsieur, I shall be under the painful
necessity of detaining you," said the adjutant
with a malicious gleam in his eyes. His amour
propre had been wounded by Gaston's manner of
expressing himself. "Be so good as to come
with me."

Gaston, who now began to consider the consequences
of his words, expostulated angrily, butin
vain. He was at once conducted to the guardhouse
and placed by himself for the present in a
small room with a sentry at the door. Here fora
couple of hours he fumed and paced the floor,
threatened the officials with all manner of punishments

for his detention, or remonstrated fiercely
with the adjutant, who twice paid him a short
visit ; but all to no effect. The delay was in
itself exceedingly irritating, and he dreaded
above all things lest Maurice should be brought
to the building and learn by what means his
identity with the Hungarian merchant had been
discovered. He did not at all wish that Maurice
should escape. His imprisonment and banishment
were events that seemed very desirable to
him, for they would completely remove his enemy
from his path. He felt as if his hold upon Vera
would be slight indeed if once she knew the outlines
of Maurice's true story. He had confidence
neither in her love for himself nor in her fidelity
to her promise.

At the end of the two hours a great noise, a
confusion of voices, steps, and the clank of
weapons, outside the house, excited Gaston's
curiosity. He had not long to wait before it was
satisfied. The door was suddenly thrown open,
and he was requested to walk into another room.
Here his eye fell upon a scene which he would
have given much to be spared.

The apartment was lighted only by two

flickering tallow candles ; but one of the men
held in his hand a huge pine torch, from which
fitful red gleams lit up one object after another
in turn ; now throwing into strong relief against
the darker background some picturesque detail,
some rough man's face, some glitter of steel, or
flutter of coloured garment  lost again almost as
soon as seen amongst the wavering shadows.
Rembrandt alone coidd have painted the rich
oioom of the surroundings  the blackened
wooden rafters, the stalwart soldiers in their fur-lined
coats, and the peasants in their sheepskins,
or the mingled pathos and dignity of the central
figure, their prisoner, who, sith pinioned arms,
clothes half rent from off" his shoulders, and
bleeding' hands and forehead, had been haled
into their midst. There had evidently been a
desperate struggle in securing him. His chest
was still heaving from the efforts which he had
made to free himself; and the strong rope had
been knotted round his arms with cruel tightness;
but his bare head, with its tossed fair hair, from
which the shielding disguise had been roughly
torn, was proudly borne, and his blue eyes
gleamed with dangerous light. If any prisoner

could make his escape from prison it would be
Maurice Zaranoff !

As Eavenscroft entered and paused aghast, the
soldiers, at a word from the adjutant, opened
their ranks and formed a passage between their
prisoner and the Englishman. Again the enemies
stood face to face.

This is the ci-devant Count Zaranoff, is it
not, monsieur ? " said the officer, with a touch of
spitefulness about his manner. And then there
was a pause.

The two men looked hard at each other.
Ravenscroft with a sombre, reluctant gaze ;
Maurice with the keen look of eager expectation.
As Gaston gazed his lips turned lividly pale, the
veins stood out and the perspiration gathered
upon his brow. But still he did not speak.

' Is this the man, monsieur ? " said the adjutant's
mocking voice.

A sort of tremor ran through Ravenscroft' s
iron frame. He averted his head that he might
see no longer Maurice's fine, spirited face, with
its thin, twitching nostrils, its parted lips, its
ardent, eager eyes, as he made answer :

'rit is the man."

Maurice's face changed. A wave of colour
swept across it. He made an involuntary start
forward which caused one of his guards to tighten
the cord that already was cutting both his wrists,
and another to strike him roughly on the
shoulder. He set his teeth and glared defiance
at them. Even the officer gave a slight word of
reproof to his over-zealous assistants; iDut Heavens
saw it all and made no sign. He had a
great capacity for hatred, and this hour was
perhaps the worst and darkest of his life.

But after that one movement, in which it had
seemed as though the prisoner would have been
glad to grapple in mortal combat with the man
who had betrayed him  after that one impulse
of fierce and ungovernable rage, Zaranofi" drew
himself up and eyed Gaston Eavenscroft with an
expression of calm but immeasurable contempt.
The muscles of his face seemed to have grown
rigid ; the burning colour which the sense of a
great wrong had sent in rapid course across his
features faded and left him deathly pale.

"You saw him at the Chateau Zaranofi*? "

Eavenscroft 's sullen answer was only just
audible :

I did."

Then he gathered up all the evil strength of
his nature, and looked Maurice defiantly, triumphantly,
in the face. But there came into
ZaranoflP's eyes an expression which Gaston never
afterwards forgot  an expression of deep reproach,
of dumb and desperate agony, such as we see in
the eyes of a wild animal caught in a hunter's
toils. He glanced at the door and at his captors;
then his eye fell. Ashen he raised it again it
was clear and calm, but Ravenscroft had turned
aside and did not see the change.

That is enough." said the adjutant, moving
away. "The English gentleman will probably
be detained only for a day or two, but Zaranoff

must be sent at once to K , and we will

telegraph the news of his capture to St. Petersburg."


Again the soldiers closed around their prisoner.
Ravenscroft, who was intently watching
all their movements, observed that this time the
old man Andreas was very near. They went
slowly into the open air. Here, in the dusk of
the twilight, a soldier stooped to readjust the
rope on Maurice's arms; then there was a whisper,

a movement ; no one knew how the matter was
accomplished, but suddenly the prisoner's arms
were free. He had struck the nearest soldier
out of his way, broken loose from the grasp of
another, and made a wild bound forward into the
darkness. Onward he dashed, with clenched
hand and straining eyes ; speeding away into the
terribly open plain where every living creature
could be  oh ! so plainly  seen against the
yellowish western sky. But the darkness
favoured him. Two  three minutes  and he
would be out of sight.

The soldiers displayed no alacrity in following
their prisoner. It was plain that their sympathy
was with him rather than with his captors, and
that the accident which freed him had not been
wholly unpremeditated. But the adjutant was
equal to the occasion.

' Alive or dead ! " he cried, hastily cocking his
rifle. " Now, then, out of the way, you lazy
brutes, you ! Out of my way ! "

Zaranoff's figure was growing faint in the
gathering darkness. The adjutant fired.

Eavenscroft's brain reeled. It seemed to him
that he had been overtaken by some terrible

nightmare when he saw the man whom he had
hated and betrayed stop short in his desperate
flight for liberty and life, stagger, throw up his
arms, and then fall heavily to the ground.

There was a general rush to the spot where he
lay, a huddled, black heap upon the bare, white
road. Eavenscroft held aloof, but he heard the
adjutant say, triumphantly :

Dead  dead as a rat. Caught this time, I
think." Then, after a pause : '' Carry the body
to the house. There is a reward offered for him
alive or dead."

Now it was Eavenscroft's turn to fly. He
could not stay to look upon the face of the man
on whom he had wreaked his vengeance. The
soldiers were undisciplined and careless ; it was
very easy for him to slip away. Before the body
of Maurice Zaranofi' had been stretched upon the
deal table in the guard-room, with the flaring
pine-knot shedding its red glow over his fair head
and statuesque white face, Gaston Eavenscroft
had turned with a shudder from the spot where he
had fallen, and was speeding hastily on his way.
When the adjutant, after some delay, inquired
for him, the English traveller had disappeared.

Chapter Xlii

BERTRAM RAVENSCROFT.

Eayenscroft left himself no time for thought.
He sprang into his tarantass and shouted to the
driver to hasten forward. The man himself,
much alarmed at the course which events Avere
taking, lashed his horses to their utmost speed,
and before the adjutant had missed him, Heavens
was a mile or two upon his way.

He wasted no time in pursuing his journey to
Paris whither the Arnoldss had gone with Lancelot.
At Vienna he stopped for an hour or two
and seized the opportunity of "stating a few lines
to Vera. After much doubt and hesitation he
inserted a postscript couched in the following-terms
: 

VOL. III. 49

I hear that your acquaintance, Maurice
Guy on, or more correctly, Maurice ZaranoiF, was
recaptured by the Russian authorities a short
time ago and shot when trying to make his
escape."

Not a word more. Vera must learn so much
of the truth and bear it as best she might. But
he never knew how Vera bore the news.

Night and day after this he travelled without
intermission : he slept at times in the railway
carriage, and occasionally he tasted food ; but
his whole soul was possessed by one desire  that
of getting forward at the greatest possible speed.
There was Bertram to be found ; there was Vera
waiting' for him to fulfil his engagement to her.
If he loitered, some new obstacle would surely
intervene between him and his bride. Heavens
in these days of hard travelling, was not
conscious of any distinct train of thought. His
whole being was bent in one direction. Anything
that opposed his course must necessarily
be sacrificed. What did love and honour and
future happiness signify in comparison with the
fulfilment of his heart's desire \ He knew that
if he had the whole world to give he would

gladly give it  and his otl soul into the bargain
to make Vera all his own. His will and his
heart were both set upon her ; and he had no
remorse as yet for any deed of violence, or even
of fraud, that had been, in his opinion, necessitated
by the difficulties in his way. All was fair
in love and war.

No remorse  as yet ! But Zaranoffs face
haunted the recesses of his brain with terrible
persistence. He was dimly aware that if he
dwelt upon the associations conjured up by it, if
he began to weigh the causes and the consequences
of his otii treachery, he might soon
find himself oppressed by an intolerable sense of
shame. He refused, therefore, during those hours
of travel, to look the matter in the face at all.
This absence of courage (an unusual thing with
him) arose perhaps from the reaction consequent
on the long-continued strain upon the nerves
which his recent anxiety and protracted search
for Lancelot had caused him. As far as possible
he put the events of those twenty-four hours at
the Chateau Zaranoff away from him, and concentrated
his mind on the two objects of his
journey homeward : the recognition of Lancelot

and his next meeting with Vera. Maurice Zara-off
had only met with his deserts : he had
risked a criminal's death, and he had met with
it. Could Gaston Ravenscroft, of all persons, be
expected to show him any mercy ?

In this half-bewildered state he reached Paris ;
and there, recollecting himself a little, he went
to Maurice's and removed some of the traces of
fatigue that the long journey had left upon him.
The Arnoldss had gone to a small hotel in the
Rue St. Honore ; thither Gaston proceeded, sent
up his card, and asked to speak to Mr. or Mrs.
Arnold.

Mrs. Arnold came down to him in the .
She was a large, kindly-looking,
matronly woman, who, it was easy to see, had
been greatly touched by the lonely condition in
which she had found the sickly lad at the
Chateau Zaranoff. She had undertaken, at Ilma's
request, to take him back to England with as
much care as if he had been her own son. As
soon as Mr. Ravenscroft made it clear to her
that he came armed with full and righteous
authority to take the boy " back to his friends'"
she had no scruple in recounting to him all the

details of her acquaintance with the Countess
and Lancelot, and full particulars of the symptoms
of his illness.

Gaston listened with the coldness of a stone.
He felt singularly careless respecting the matters
told him : he wished only that the good woman
would cease talking and not torment him with
her continual repetition of the words  '* Poor
fellow !  poor boy !  poor fellow !" Why should
she pity him so much ? A young innocent lad,
with all his life before him!  Tush, hour her
tongue ran on  all about '' the poor young fellow,

who " what was she saying ? " wBo was

not long for this world, she was perfectly sure ;
and the doctor had agreed with her."

Gaston rose up, looking a little pale about the
lips : otherwise quite unmoved. " If it is agreeable
to you," he said, "' I should like to see him
now

'' Oh, most certainly, Mr. Eavenscroft. Of
course we give him up entirely into your charge.
You  you are his guardian, are you not ?"

'Yes, I am his guardian. His nearest relations"'


"Then  you will excuse my asking you" 

Mrs, Arnold's voice grew nervously emphatic as
she spoke,  " but you won't be hard upon him
now, will you, Mr. Eavenscroft ? Of course he
did a very foolish thing in running away from
home  Madame ZaranofF told me about it  but
he has suffered : I am sure he has been punished
for his folly, poor boy, if he needed punishment ;
and I do think that you will see, if you only
look at him, that he is not in a fit state to be
scolded or dealt very hardly with. You will
remember, and you wont mind my mentioning
it, will you ? "

But in spite of Gaston's immediate answer
that he was much obliged to her for her consideration,
and that he would remember what
she said, Mrs. Arnold's heart sank as she glanced
at the stern dark face which had never once,
during the whole interview, been brightened by
pleasure or softened by sympathy or grief.
Quite suddenly she shrank into herself and became
silent as she led the way to Lance's room 
dear Lance," she called him, as if he had been
a relation of her own, in an affectionate way
which Eavenscroft half resented. He begged
leave, after the preliminary tap, to enter alone :

he would see Mrs. Arnold again in a short time
if she would allow him : but he preferred to
announce himself.

She retreated ; he knocked, was bidden to
enter, and pushed open the door.

Lancelot  the old name rises most naturally
to the lips, as it had hitherto done to the lips
of Gaston Kavenscroft  Lancelot was Ipng on
a couch which had been drawn up to the
window, so that he could watch the stream of
passengers in the bright, busy, Parisian street.
Mrs. Arnold had thrown some rugs and wraps
over him, and his slender length of Hmb could
not be seen ; but the hands that lay outside the
coverings were sufficiently white and thin to
afford sad evidence of the precarious state to
which he had been reduced. Ravenscroft almost
started when he saw his face. All its old richness
of colouring had died away ; it was thin
and somewhat elongated, with sharpened features
and eyes which seemed to have grown larger and
more fistful than Eavenscroft remembered them :
the dark brown hair had not been cut for some
little time and fell in a loose wave over the blue-veined
forehead. What now struck Gaston was

that pathetic likeness to his dead wife which
had perplexed and pained him before he understood
its origin. Lucy's face seemed to look at
him once more with tremulous lips and flushing,
paling cheeks : the contour of brow and chin, the
pose of the dark head on the long neck, the droop
of the eyelashes and the curl of the sensitive
nostril  these were now charged, it seemed to
him, with unmistakable significance. They were
Lucy's traits, reproduced in somewhat bolder outlines
: how was it that he had never recognised
them at Netherbyby ?  Lucy's eyes looked at him
from out the boy's countenance : brown, liquid,
passionate eyes, full of a sweetness that he had
never understood.

Kavenscroft entered, closed the door behind
him and stood still. The full difficulty of saying
what he had to say suddenly revealed itself to
him. He could not speak.

But had he known how grim his own face
looked  haggard and worn with the emotions
and exertions of the last few days, sternly set
in haughty repression of yearnings for which
he could find no words  or how incomprehensible
and alarming his appearance must needs seem

to Lancelot in his bodily weakness and depression,
he might have tried a little sooner to find words
in which to calm the Joy's apprehensions and
quiet his fluttering nerves.

As it was, Lancelot started up at the sight of
him, turned pale, then crimson, and finally lay
back upon his cushions, with a face from which it
seemed as if every drop of blood had ebbed away.

'' You ! " he gasped at length, when Heavens
silence became unbearable. " Why "

'' Why am I here ? " said Ravenscroft, in a
curiously toneless, expressionless voice. ' To
fetch you  home."

He came nearer to the couch and looked
down at the son who did not know him, with a
teat swelling; of heart. How could he tell him ?
He could say nothing so long as that quick
panting continued, or that tremulous change of
colour at every word. It was with a great effort,
which resulted only in increased coldness and
rigidity of manner, that he proceeded.

I have been to the Chateau Zaranoff for
you. I suppose you know that the Countess
Zaranoff" sent word to us after her accident.
You must have expected some message or letter."

'eyes," said Lancelot faintly. 'from Mr.
Hervey  or from Mrs. Eavenscroft." He dropped
his eyes as he spoke.

Ravenscroft was silent for a moment. " I
understood," he said dryly, " that you had
decided to return to Netherbyby. The priest at
the chateau told me that you meant to ' go back
to your friends '  I use his words."

I meant," said the boy, " to ask if Mr.
Hervey would forgive me. I cannot go back 
after leaving him as I did  unless he will consent
to receive me." The tears welled up in his
eyes as he spoke ; he put his thin hand up to
them for a moment. " If Mr. Hervey tells me
that I was ungrateful," he added with a humility
that pained his father as much as it puzzled him,
I can but say that I know it  now

' Ungrateful ! " said Gaston almost roughly,
who says you were ungrateful ? Not Hervey.
Not I."

Lance looked at him wistfully. " Would Mr.
Hervey like me to go back, then ? "

Yes. If you choose."

I have no choice."

"You must have a choice. AVhv do you

compel me to put into language what had better
be left unsaid ? " cried Gaston half angrily. " Do
you not see what is implied by my coming after
you ? Shall I make it clearer if I say that Olivia
wants you back ? or must you needs compel me
to acknowledge that I was wrongs. and trv to
drive me into an apology ? "

Lancelot raised himself on one elbow and
looked incredulously at Kavenscroft. His breath
came and went irregularly : the hot colour flushed
his face. Gaston, biting; his moustache and
moving about the room, as was his wont when
he was excited or disturbed, spoke with more
than his usual haughtiness of manner.

*' I have no objection to acknowledging the
truth. Of course I had no notion that my words
would drive you to so wild a step as that of
leaving Netherbyby  but I will not speak of that.
I only say that I now formally withdraw any
word of mine that may have caused you pain
or annoyance, and I give my full consent to your
engagement with 01i\da. I tell you this first :
my reasons must follow : I "

A sort of gasp made him look towards the
couch, from which he had been steadily averting

his eyes. Lancelot's strength was insufficient
to bear the sudden rush of a new emotion : he
had fainted. Gaston did not know to what
weakness he had been reduced.

For one moment Kavenscroft's heart misgave
him ; he thought that the boy was dead. He
lost no time in summoning assistance ; but in
that one moment of uncertainty it seemed to
him that the Lancelot whom he disliked had
vanished altogether from existence, and that only
Bertram, his own son, Lucy's brown-eyed boy,
was left behind. The chambermaids and waiters,
rushing in at his loud appeal, found him with
the lad in his arms, and a face scarcely less
ghastly than Lancelot's own.

No further explanation was then possible.
On recovering consciousness the boy was too
weak and ill to ask questions ; Ravenscroft,
aware that his own roughness had amounted almost
to brutality, avoided speaking to him in
private. Lancelot was, however, better by the
following day; and the Arnoldss, wanting to
reach their home in England, had no scruple
about leaving him to the care of his so-called
guardian. They quitted Paris that afternoon ;

and Lancelot heard, with a painful shrinking at
heart, that Mr. Eavenscroft had taken up his
quarters in the hotel with him, and that he would
stay until Lancelot was able to travel quietly
home to Netherbyby. Eavenscroft's servant had
rejoined his master in Vienna, and proved invaluable
as an assistant in the sickroom.

Eavenscroft was in a sort of despair. He had
no desire to separate himself from the boy, but
he keenly felt the difficulty of forcing upon him
a companionship which Lance plainly dreaded
and disliked. The story of his relationship too
must be told, and that speedily ; for Mr. Hervey
had learned the name of their hotel, and a letter
or a visit which should reveal the whole mystery
was certainly to be expected. But for this
possibility Eavenscroft would have telegraphed
for Vera and Felicia ; they would have softened
the recital in a way that he felt he could not do ;
they, at least, would have taken the burthen
of it off his shoulders. Lancelot's silence, his
evident nervousness when Eavenscroft spoke to
him, his dislike to expressing a wish or an opinion
in Eavenscroft's presence, showed the unfortunate
father that a revelation of the relationship in

which they stood to each other would be a great
shock to the boy. Gaston had chosen to make
that revelation himself ; he now knew that he had
taken on himself one of the hardest tasks that had
ever fallen to his lot in life.

If only he could rid the boy of that fear of
him ! Through the first day, and again through
the second, he lavished upon Lancelot all the
luxuries and indulgences which money could
procure or imagination devise. It was precisely
the kind of treatment which Vera had sometimes
resented ; it seemed to proceed from a conviction
that gifts could buy affection as well as gratitude.
There was a finer feeling beneath it than this,
however ; it was a brusque blundering expression
of Gaston's real tenderness of heart, and his regret
for the years that had passed since he had
been able to do anything for Lucy's boy.

Lancelot looked on passively, still puzzled
and a good deal overwhelmed by the changed
circumstances in which he found himself. He
fancied that Eavenscroft must be carrying out
Mr. Hervey's commissions, and that the luxurious
rooms, the dainty meats and delicate flowers, the
new and celebrated physician whose visits he received,

even the costly sables which took the
place of Mrs. Arnold's travelling rug, must in
some way come from Mr. Hervey's munificence.
What he did not understand was the way in
which Mr. Eavenscroft seemed ceaselessly to
watch him, to care for his personal comfort, even
at times to wait on him as Vera or Olivia might
have done. This alteration in Gaston's way of
treating him confused and distressed poor Lance
beyond measure; because, with all his unvarying
attention, Gaston's manner was little changed ;
it might no longer be contemptuous, but it was
cold, abrupt, and sometimes harsh.

Evening had closed in. Eavenscroft went
down' to the table d'hote dinner, while Lance,
sedulously waited on by Jervis, tried to eat what
had been sent up to him, and then lay dreamily
back in the depths of a great invalid chair, which
had been procured for his especial use, and
thought of Netherbyby. Presently Eavenscroft
came back. The room was almost in darkness,
but he did not ring for lights after his usual
fashion. There was an open English fireplace in
the room, and a small wood fire ; he stirred it into
a blaze and then stood with his arm resting on the

mantelpiece and his head upon his hand. Even
Lancelot thought that there was something inexpressibly
weary and dejected in his attitude.

When he came in he had had a letter in his
hand. He laid it on the mantelpiece, and it
seemed to Lance that his eyes rested upon it from
time to time with an anxious, almost an apprehensive,
look.

This letter is for you," he said at last, in an
odd dry tone. " It was enclosed in one to me."

Lance raised his head and then, half surprised,
held out his hand. Kavenscroft motioned it back
sternly.

Not yet," he said. " I will give it you in a
few minutes. I know what is in that letter, and
I must have a few words with you first. Don't
be impatient ; it is not a letter from Olivia."

The boy's hand fell, but he still looked
anxious. Eavenscroft shaded his eyes with his
hand, as if from the glare of the fire, and paused
again. When he spoke he used a tone which
Lancelot had never heard from him before. It
had all its customary pride, but profound sadness
mingled with the pride.

"It is useless," he said, "to hide from you

any longer what you ought to have known for the
last twelve or thirteen years. You ought to
have been told your true name and circumstances
from the very beginning, and then we should not
perhaps have made the mistakes which we have
made. But now "

Must you tell me this \ " said the boy suddenly.
''If it is in that letter  I would rather
read it in the letter than hear it "

From roe." Kavenscroft concluded the
sentence as he hesitated. '' I have no doubt of
it. And I heartily wish that I could leave it to
anybody else to tell. But I choose to be the
bearer of these tidings, and I must beg of you,
although they may be painful, to listen to them
patiently. It is no easier matter for me to tell
them than for you to hear."

"I knew you had something to tell," said
Lance in rather a bitter tone. '' I have seen it
in your face. You have looked at me  differently.
Well : it cannot be worse than what I
have heard already." The sadness of his tone
sent a stab of pain through the listener's heart.
But he steeled himself to reply coldly.

In one sense it is better. Your parents were

VOL. III. 50

lawfully married, though secretly ; you will hear
the story, no doubt, from others better than from
me. You are your father s only son and heir ;
your mother is dead."

'' Yes," said Lance softly. " I saw her die."
You remember that ? Do you remember
what she called you ? "  Gaston spoke eagerly.

Mr. Hervey came and took me away from
her," said Lance in rather a dreamy way. " They
told me not to talk of her ; it seems to me that
they tried to make me forget the past. She called
me Bertie."

Yes. Your Christian name is Bertram."

But my surname ? My father's name % "

Lancelot had risen and drawn near to Mr.

Eavenscroft. His face was very pale and a look

of fear had begun to gather in his eyes. Ravens -

croft drew back.

*' My father s name ! " the boy demanded
hoarsely.

You cannot guess it ? You can think of no
reason why I, of all men in the world, should
tell this story ? "

The boy shook his head but gazed, as if fascinated,
into Ravenscroft's face. Gaston could

not bear the gaze. He turned aside and struck
the floor with his heel in an agony of impatient
pain.

"Good God!" he said. "How can I tell
him !  Do you not see for yourself ? "

He snatched the letter from the mantelpiece.


There ! " he continued, as he held it before
Lancelot's startled eyes, "it bears your name in
full ; I could not give it you until you were prepared.
Take it and read."

The boy looked at the envelope. It was
addressed in Mr. Hervey's handwriting to

Bertram Ravenscroft, Esquire.

What does it mean ? " he said in a stifled

trembling voice. " Kavenscroft  I am not "

He stopped and looked at Gaston, whose face
was averted. At the pause, however, the man
turned slowly round, with folded arms and
frowning brow, and confronted the questioner in
stern silence. The boy continued, however,
laughing unsteadily in the midst of his sentence
at what seemed to him the absurd unlikelihood
of his guess ; yet with a painful touch of fear in

AN OPEN FOE.

his tones as well. " I am not  ha, ha !  not
your son, I suppose, sir ? "

For your own sake I wish I could say that
you were not," was Kavenscroft's bitter answer.
'but  it is true. You are my son."

CHAPTER XLIV.

Ravenscroft waited a moment, half expecting
the lad to fall as he had fallen once before, after
a sudden shock ; but the effect of this announcement
was entirely different in kind. He sat
down, and was perfectly still. When Gaston
looked at him he saw that his son's face was
hidden, and his figure bent in the attitude
of one who has received a crushing blow. No
sound came from him, but there was a look of
suffering about that crouching posture which
Gaston would have given his right hand to
relieve.

For a long time he waited. He walked up
and down the room ; he looked out of the window;
he paused several times before Bertram's
chair, but he could not summon up resolution to

speak until the boy showed some readiness to
listen. At last the bowed head was raised ;
Bertram gave a sigh, more of exhaustion than of
grief, and leaned quietly back in his chair. Then
Eavenscroft spoke.

"I know that it is hard on you," he said,
stopping short at the lad's chair, and looking
down at him with eyes that were almost tender
underneath the bent, black brows. His speech
was brusque and blunt as usual, but his voice was
not very steady. " I know that I made myself
unpleasant to you ; no doubt I said many things
that I should not say now : I was as much in
the dark as yourself. It would be absurd for me
to expect you to care for me : just as absurd as
for you  for you to expect much from me. But
when we once reach England, we can see as much
or as little of each other as we please. You will
take your own position ; I do not see why you
should not find it an advantageous one. At
first  just at first  it is hard on you, no doubt."

The boy stirred and put his hand up to his
face.

I cannot believe it yet," he said faintly. " I
do not wish to behave rudely, sir. I dare say

I ought to ask your pardon. I will do anything
you like." He rose to his feet. " May I go ? I
don't feel quite right somehow. If I had a little
water "

Gaston uttered an inarticulate exclamation,
and passed his arm round the boy's slight staggering
figure. He found some water on a table close
at hand, and managed to convey it to those white
lips. But this attack of faintness soon passed
away. When it was over, Ravenscroft showed a
certain unwillingness to let the boy quit the support
of his strong protecting arm. But Bertram
drew himself away.

For the present they said no more. The cough
that Gaston secretly dreaded more than any other
symptom recurred with distressing violence ; before
midnight, to the father's horror, a small
blood-vessel had been broken, and the patient
was ordered on no account to open his lips.
With earliest dawn Gaston telegraphed to Vera
and to Mrs. Philip Ravenscroft, begging them to
come to him without delay.

It may be doubted whether father or son were
the more miserable during the twenty-four hours
that supervened. Ravenscroft was absorbed in

cruel anxiety and an ever-increasing sense of the
alienation that his own words and deeds had
brought about between himself and his only son.
Bertram, oppressed by bodily pain and weakness,
yearned for some of the familiar home faces,
shrank from the sight of his father, and was
haunted by the belief that he should die in this
comfortless hotel, and be buried in a strange
land.

Gaston waited on him with a devotion of which
the boy was hardly conscious. A good little
Soeur de Charity attended to many of the
patient's wants, but it was Gaston whose strong
arm was always ready to lift him into an easier
position, Gaston's eyes that never slumbered,
Gaston's silent watchfulness that nothing could
escape. Love had for the time transformed him
into the most unwearying of sick-nurses; Vera
even had scarcely seen him so gentle, so self-controlled.
It was the more pity that his care was
perhaps the hardest trial that Bertram Heavens
had to bear.

A telegram from Netherbyby announced Mrs.
Ravenscroft's approaching arrival. Gaston went
to meet the train, and looked anxiously for Vera,

but he was disappointed. Mr. Hervey was unwell,
and would neither accompany her himself
nor let her leave him. Felicia had found an
escort in Mr. Frank Longmore, who had been
staying at the Villa. Gaston said little, but his
face fell sadly when he found that Vera had not
come. He had thought that she would help
him.

Bertram was somewhat better. His face was
flushed and his eyes bright ; he did not look so
much unlike the old Lancelot as Felicia had expected
to find. She kissed him tenderly, with
tears in her motherly eyes.

My dear boy," she said. " Oh, it is such a
comfort to have you again, dear Lance ! But I
suppose that I must not call you Lance ; Bertram
does not come easily as yet."

I like Lance best," said the boy. " But you
may call me what you please, you know, Mrs.
Eavenscroft."

''' Mrs. Eavenscroft!" cried Felicia, half laughing
and half crying. " Have you forgotten your
new relationships, dear boy ? Don't you know
that you will have to call me ' Aunt Felicia ?'"

' I had forgotten that," said Bertram with a

quick change of colour. 'eyes; I am glad of
that."

Kavenscroft suddenly turned away. But at
the door he halted to say a few words. " Pray,
do not let him talk much, Felicia. Two or three
sentences at a time are quite enough." Then he
went out, and was not seen again for some little
time.

*' How much he is altered ! " Felicia said, more
to herself than to Lancelot.

"Altered? how?"

You must not talk, dear. He looks older 
that was what I meant : his face is worn and
thin. Of course it is nothing new that he should
look melancholy," said JVIrs. Eavenscroft thoughtfully,
" but he has aged terribly of late."

Lancelot turned away. He did not feel able
to enter upon a discussion concerning his father s
looks. He knew only that there was almost no
man upon earth whom he would not sooner have
acknowledged as a near relation than Gaston
Eavenscroft. He was too weak just now, both in
body and mind, to fight against his own prejudices
; and it must be conceded that he had
had good cause for prejudice and dislike.

Felicia was not surprised when this feeling
manifested itself during the fever and delirium
which attacked him in the course of the next few
days. It was so plain that Eavenscroft's presence
agitated and distressed him that she was forced
to hint as much to her brother-in-law.

What ? " said Kavenscroft, starting. " You
mean that I had better go away from him ? "

Until he is himself again  perhaps," said
Mrs. Eavenscroft slowly. " He does not know
what he is sang now  the remembrance of the
past seems to haunt him."

She saw his face grow rigid and stern. He
said nothing : simply went away and did not
return to the room until he was summoned to it.
But the air of gloom and depression that she had
noticed on her arrival grew deeper and darker
day by day.

After the j&rst effort, neither Mrs. Eavenscroft,
Vera, nor Mr. Hervey made any attempt to accustom
themselves to the name of Bertram. The
boy was Lancelot to them and could not be anything
else. Olivia's letters began " Dear Lance,"
as they had always done ; but Gaston never called
him anything but Bertram. He would gladly

have forgotten that he had ever known him as
Lancelot Aylmer.

The lad seemed gradually to recover from the
injury to his lung, and to enter upon a period of
comparative convalescence. The doctors spoke
of a southern climate. Paris was growing cold :
the September breezes were chill and keen : the
noisy, comfortless hotel-life was particularly undesirable
for an invalid. Mentioned was the place
recommended; and it was almost decided that
Kavenscroft should take him thither, when the
fact of Lancelot's yearning for English soil and
English voices made itself known and influenced
his father's decision.

Felicia came to Gaston one day with a troubled
air. " Lance does not want to go to Mentioned,"
she said.

'' He must be guided by others who are wiser
than himself," was Eavenscroft's rejoinder.

*' But, Gaston, his wishes ought to be considered.
The doctor says that any kind of anxiety
is so bad for him ; and I see that he is worrying
and fretting, and nothing that I can do or say
is of any use. If you would only speak to him
yourself 1 "

Do you think that he would tell me what he
does not tell you ? "

' He might  if you asked him. He is very
wishful to please you."

Gaston lifted up his hand. " Don't say it ; 1
know better. Wishful to please me, poor boy !
he T\dshes most of all that he had never seen me,
and was never to set eyes on me again."

He picked up a newspaper and buried himself
in its contents. Felicia said no more.

But her words were not without effect. That
evening Eavenscroft suddenly announced his
intention of spending the night in his son's room,
so that the nurse and his sister could sleep undisturbed.
Nobody gainsaid him, though Felicia
felt a little uneasy as she thought of the long
hours of the night and Lance's restless sleep and
broken words.

As a matter of fact Eavenscroft meant to have
a talk with Lancelot before he slept. But a fit
of drowsiness came over the boy during the earlier
hours of the night ; it was not until long after
midnight that he began to be wakeful. Gaston
sat still and listened to the honos sio-hs, the weary
tossing and turnings, the murmured sentences,

will) ;iii .icliiii"' licirl- ; lie could <|() iioUiin* lo
rcrH'Vc illic I.'kI'h iiiicaHirHHH, mike Ike Ii.-kI iucjuiI
not to hIiow III III irlio wjiH kc-cpirif wjiU-li iiiHUiJid
ofSoHii" RoHJilic, imicHS Ike wcj'c; }il)Holijt('ly ol)liai(l.
I>ut nhoiit two o'cJocJv L;uHt(;iot rrniiTniind a w-
(jU(;Ht lor vv.'ilcr, quid (;lii,Hton (jiinc Forward with
IJKi ciirnfr.

L.'inc.clot'H eyes dil.ili'd vvitli m, Hiiddcii wonder
;it tli(t HJhtof Ills r.-itlicr; hill Ike iiiimIc no rcnuirk
orde w.'i.itcd until illic w.-iicr w<i.h poiii-cd out
quid tli(;n d;inl\ it will .i, i";iint word of tli.'inkH.

*' ( l,'i,n I do ;inyl liii;' cic for you ?" H.'iid JljiveiiH-
i'.roft, .Ht;i,ndin<i; by illic l)c(lsidc ;ind w;ilcliin< iJic
l)oy ;ins lie l.iid this lie;id upon illic pillow ;i,ii<l
I iiincd avv.iy this fiicc.

NotliinS tliM-nk you."

** P'clicj.'i l<'ilH rnc tint )'ou do not c;irc to <o
to IVIciitonc. Is tluiru any other ]place that you
would prercf ' "

No ;i.nHWer.

I )on't you know " ((i.'iHton H])ok(i with great
duplicity ; .dinost mm (Jioiili the. words wci'c. wrung
IVoin liii ,'l<*linst this will) " don't you know 
llijit tlicic is nolliin I would not i\o for you  to
in;ik<' you ;i Ml lie li.i||>ier "

Trio boy ln'okc (Phil will a, S(>1) (f |;iiii. " liii;-
laid ! England ! 1 must sec Endaiid iii;ain and
my friends Ix'forc, I lino ''

He did not linisli the sentence'. The look of
pain deepened upon Eavenscroft's face. He said
slowly :

Euglaiul is a old jilacc lor yoii now. Befriends
would come to you at Men tone."

**No," said Lance, 'Many would not all come.
It woukl not be the same. But it is no matter,
only I thou<jlit  you said "

I meant what 1 said. Tlicrc \ nolhiiKj lliat
I would not do foj- you that is possible*. to be
done. I will speak to tiic doctors. We will try
to manage it."

Lancelot paused, embarrassed and pcrj)l(xed,
and utterly unable to articulate his thanks.
Please do not lake the (loiihlc--do not let me

be a, burden on )()U all " he bean to laltei-

forth ; bill, Ravenscroft inlet rippled him in the
old hard tones.

'' It is folly to ask me. to take no trouble.
For whom else should 1 take trouble if not for
you r

The words themselves were not meant tenderly,

but the manner in which they were
spoken deprived them of every grace. Lancelot
turned away and did not speak again ; but he
lay more quietly, and fell into a peaceful slumber
that lasted until morning.

Lancelot never knew how hard a battle
Kavenscroft fought with the doctors about the
invalid's wish to be carried north instead of
southward. He knew only that with very little
difficulty to himself, though at the expense of
much care and pains on the part of other people,
he was finally transported by short stages from
Paris to Netherbyby. He had never imagined
that travelling could be made so easy. His
father set himself to obtain every possible luxury
and appliance that should ensure the boy's safety
or comfort ; his every want was anticipated almost
before it could be felt. Kavenscroft never did
things by halves. He had resolved that the first
wish that Lancelot expressed to him should immediately
be fulfilled at any cost ; neither time,
trouble, nor money should be spared. It was one
of the occasions when Gaston's habit of travelling
en grand seigneur stood him in good stead. The
weather favoured, them ; it was fine, dry, and

warm. The few September days occupied by
their slow journeying were balmy as those of
June.

Lancelot speedily lost the feeling of oppression
which his father's lavish bounties at first occasioned
; the listlessness of illness was upon him,
and he found it easier to lie still and enjoy the
results of Eavenscroft's thoughtful care than to
protest against it or reject it, as he had once
vainly tried to do. Almost without knotting
why or how, Eavenscroft's words, and looks, and
manner became to the boy an hourly subject of
study and consideration ; he was trying to adjust
his ideas of the man whom he had known a
year ago with the father whom he had found today.
At first sight the two men seemed to be
essentially different ; but it might easily be discovered
that the difference existed only in Heavens
behaviour to his son ; away from him he
was proud, overbearing, violent; only in his presence
he became strangely gentle, placable, and
mild.

They stayed for a Sunday in London : a
memorable Sunday to Gaston Eavenscroft, perhaps
also to his son. They arrived in toTi on

VOL. III. 51

the Saturday evening. Lancelot was very tired,
but apparently none the worse for his journey;
and, on Sunday morning, Felicia thought herself
justified in going to church and leaving the father
and son together.

Lancelot looked singularly white and wasted
that morning. His hand, lying on the rich and
costly furs which his father had bought as a
travelling wrap for him in Paris, had the transparent
look of continued ill health ; the blue
veins could plainly be traced upon his forehead.
Gaston, glancing at him once or twice from behind
the shelter of a newspaper, sighed at the
sight. Suddenly he threw the paper down
and walked up to the window, whence he
looked out into the Park. Lancelot, however,
who had also been looking out, slowly averted
his eyes from the window, and fixed them earnestly,
and a little curiously, upon his father's
face.

"Where," said Gaston at length,  "where
were you thinking of going when we reach
Netherbyby?"

Of going %\ don't know. To Mr. Hervey's,
I suppose," Lance faltered.

Mr. Hervey's house is not your home."

Where is my home ?" said Lance a little
drearily.

'' With me."

The boy started ; he moved his hands nervously.
Eavenscroft continued without looking
at him :

My difficulty lies in the fact that I have
practically no house to which I can take you. I
am not on very good terms nth the Baroness,
and shall not enter Eavenscroft Hall again while
she is in it. Of course, you might go there ; but
I could never see you, and I think that you would
not be very comfortable. I suppose that for the
present you had better accept jVIr. Hervey's invitation
 though I had rather that you had gone
almost anywhere else."

Why?"

His father turned and looked at him for a
moment. His face had growth . so gloomy that
Lance repented of his own questions.

'' Can you ask why?" said Eavenscroft bitterly.
"Ah  I keep forgetting that you do not know
the whole story. Vera wall tell it to you ; I
could not. Perhaps, when you have heard it,

you will blame me a little less than you do
now."

"I?"

Yes, you, boy. Do I not read your accusations
in your eyes, in your face, in your gestures ?
You think that I abandoned you and ill-treated
your poor mother. Perhaps you believe that
while I spoke to you harshly, as I did at Netherbyby,
I hew that you were my son! So far I will
exonerate myself ; I was wronged as much as
you ; I was tricked and deceived in every way.
I believed you dead, and I had"  he made a
long pause, then resumed almost below his breath
*' I had mourned for you."

Lancelot's colour came and went ; he could
not take his eyes from his father's bowed dark
head and melancholy face. He faltered forth a
half-question :

But Mr. Hervey did not know "

He knew that you were my son. What he
did not know concerned my marriage. He would
have done well to tell me all from the beginning.
It would have spared us much."

' I know nothing," said Lancelot, " but the
one mere fact."

'' And that one fact is all that you sill hear
from me. Others may tell you what they
please '

No, sii' ; I do not want to hear what you
will not tell me."

'' Ah, but I want you to hear ; only I cannot
bear to go over the whole story. You will listen
to it from Vera ; she knows all. Then you will
be able to judge whether I have cause to love
Richard Hervey. One thing more : I should
like to hear what your views are about my
second marriage. You are aware that I mean to
marry as soon as possible. If you have any objection
to make "

He paused. "Why should I object?" said
Lancelot, colouring vividly. " I have no right
to object to anything you may do."

"Have you not?" Kavenscroft smiled very
slightly. "You are unlike most young fellows
of your age, then. It would be natural enough
if you did object. My marriage is, of course,
against your interests and against those of Olivia.
You and your wife, and your children perhaps,
will be the poorer for it."

Lance turned his grave eyes upon his lather's

face. " J do not think that I shall ever marry,"
he said quietly.

Not at eighteen or nineteen, certainly. Ina
few years."

'' Do you think that I shall live ' a few years,'
sir?"

Eavenscroft started up from the chair where he
had seated himself, with a change of countenance.
The boy's words had given him a sudden shock.
Do you feel worse ?" he said, standing over him
anxiously. 'there is nothing fresh?  nothing
that I do not know? You are not hiding any of
your symptoms from me, Bertram ?"

Oh no," said Lance with a wistful glance
into his father's questioning eyes. "It is a
fancy of my own, perhaps : I lie awake sometimes
and feel as if there were nothing to live
for."

'nothing to live for? Good heavens! At
your age, and with your prospects !  but I understand.
It is my own doing," said Eavenscroft,
with fierce and bitter emphasis. "My own words
drove you from your home, where I have seen
you happy, hopeful, prosperous. God knows
I think myself worse than a brute to have disturbed

your peace, and I know too well how impossible
it is for you to forget or to forgive the
suffering I caused you ! Do you suppose that
I ever forget it or forgive myself for it \ But
for pity's sake, for God's sake, Bertram, don't let
me think that the blow I aimed reached the very
roots of your life and made me  my own son's
murderer ? "

Lancelot was so utterly unprepared for this
outburst that he never thought of trying to interrupt
it. He sat erect, white, wide-eyed, bewildered;
and only when Eavenscroft, at the
close of his passionate utterances, would have
rushed away, to hide an agitation which was
almost overmastering him, only then did Lancelot
detain him by outstretched hands and eager
words of newly-born affection.

"Father," he said, "father, stay! I did not
know that you cared  I did not understand;
forgive me!"

Eavenscroft hesitated, turned, looked his son
in the face, and resisted no longer. With
Bertram's arms round his neck, with Bertram's
face held close to his father's breast, with Bertram
sobbing out some disjointed promise of

love and contrition and obedience, it was easy
for even this proud and self-willed man to ask
his son's forgiveness, and to shed the unaccustomed
tears that many a sorrow and many a
bitter grief would have failed to wring from the
eyes of Gaston Kavenscroft.

THE CAPTIVE.

The adjutant did not love the presence of death.
He shrugged his shoulders at the care with which
his men deposited the inanimate form of their
prisoner upon the rough deal boards, but he
allowed them to act as they pleased in so trifling
a matter as the disposal of a dead body. He
went out to make inquiries respecting the Englishman's
departure, stormed a little over the want
of precautions taken by the guards to prevent it,
then lighted a cigar and walked up and down
in the twilight, reflecting pleasurably upon the
honour and glory which would accrue to him
from the capture of so notorious an offender as
Count Zaranofi".

There seemed to be many travellers on the
road that niofht. Before honos he heard the sound

of a horse's hoofs in the distance. In a few
minutes the horseman himself came into view ;
it was a courier from the nearest town, bringing
despatches, some official and some private, for the
officer in command. There was a bulky package
for the adjutant; he hastily opened it and glanced
over the contents, then stamped his foot angrily
on the ground.

The devil ! " he said with a crestfallen
countenance. " I have done myself no good
with this cursed business after all ! Where is
the prisoner \ Let me see him  Andreas, Josef,
where are you ? "

He opened the door of the room into which
Zaranoff had been carried, and glanced at the
prostrate form, over which a cloth was drawn,
and at the rough bearded faces of the soldiers
who stood beside it.

I suppose he's dead ? " he said, walking upto
the table with a curious, excited eagerness of
manner. " You're quite sure ? Stand aside,
fellows ; let me see."

*'No fear," growled one of the soldiers in
an undertone. " Dead as a rat, as you said
yourself. More's the pity, for the Count

was a brave gentleman. I knew him years

ago."

I knew him too," murmured his companion.

'you are a couple of chattering fools," said
the adjutant sharply. He placed one hand over
Maurice's heart and felt his wrist with the other.
I don't believe that he is dead at all. Where
is the Herr Doctor Brunnow to be found ? "

'' At the Chateau Zaranoff, gnadiger Herr."

Fetch him at once. Tell him that he must
come immediately to a wounded man; let him
bring anything that may be needed. No delay."

The adjutant's orders were obeyed, although
the men grumbled to each other over the uselessness
of their expedition. In the meantime the
adjutant paced the room, or tried such rough and
ready methods of reviving an insensible patient
as his previous experience in camp-life suggested.
His manner had undergone a complete change.
From being arrogant and self-satisfied, it had
become even nervously uneasy. When he found
that all his simple remedies failed to produce
any effect he began to walk up and down outside
the house, fuming over the doctor's delay.
At last Herr Brunnow appeared under the escort

of the two soldiers, and then the adjutant threw
away his half-smoked cigar and advanced to meet
him and explain the case.

"I suppose that they have told you what is
wanted," he said. " Pardon me  Herr Brlinnow,
I believe  you will excuse a little want of
ceremony under the circumstances. We have a
prisoner in the house  I daresay you know him

he could not resist a sneer in the midst

of his own anxiety. " We fear that he is dead ;
will you have the goodness to look at him % "

If he is dead," said Herr Brlinnow dryly,
*' my looking at him won't have much effect.
Where is he ? My friend here will accompany
me as my assistant."

'your assistant?" said the officer, with a
sharp glance at the doctor's companion, in whom
he recognised the priest, Father Ignaz. " I
should not think that he will assist you very
greatly. We shall want him before long to give
evidence. Count Zaranoff crossed the frontier in
his company."

The priest started, cast a look at his friend,
and involuntarily clasped his hands together.
The adjutant, irritated and impatient, was not

slow to interpret the gesture after this own
fashion.

*' No doubt you were well acquainted with the
merchant in disguise," he said with asperity.
Here, Mathias, guard the priest ; do not let
him slip) out of your fingers as you did the other
man. Treat him well, but keep him safe ; we
shall want him presently."

A soldier stepped forward to Father Ignaz's
side. The priest uttered no remonstrance ; he
sighed and looked down with a melancholy shake
of the head. The doctor's face expressed neither
interest nor concern.

'come," he said in a curt, business-like tone,
we cannot wait here all night. Where is the
patient ? Bleeding to death all this time % "

''He is past that, Herr Doctor," said old
Andreas dth a mournful side glance at the
priest. "He is dead. The good father can do
something for him ; he may say Paters and
Aves for his soul ; but although you cure the
sick you cannot work a miracle and restore a
dead man to life."

If I cannot work a miracle, science often can""
retumectrlie doctor smartly. " Show me the man"'

The adjutant led him to the guard-room and
uncovered Maurice's face. The doctor nodded
coolly, and demanded particulars of the way in
which the patient had been wounded. While
these were given, he proceeded with his examination,
making it at first somewhat cursorily, afterwards
with a gleam of interest and curiosity upon
his shrewd old face.

What do you think of him ? " said the adjutant
anxiously. * Is he dead ? "

Dead? oh no ; not at all. Why should hebe
dead ? "

He has the appearance of death."

''He is not dead," said Herr Brtinnow in a
positive tone. " Fll tell you what is the matter
with him. It is a case of suspended animation
from pressure upon the brain. Your bullet, M.
r Adjutant, is lodged here  a quarter of an inch
farther, and my patient would have been dead
indeed ! When I have extracted the bullet I hope
to be able to raise a fragment of bone which is
now pressing on the brain and causing the state
of profound insensibility which you see. That is
the case  scientifically expressed in deference
to your presence, M. Adjutant."

Will lie recover ? "

' That depends on the success of the operation.
He may die, he may live, he may turnout
an idiot for the rest of his life if he lives.
I don't guarantee anything."

"It is unfortunate," said the officer. "My
earlier orders were to secure him alive or dead.
An hour ago I received a despatch bidding me
be very careful not to injure him in any way, as
his life was of the utmost importance."

' Awkward for you," said the doctor.

He had taken his case of instruments from
one of the soldiers, and now gave several orders
which the adjutant fussily repeated. The doctor
glanced at him once or twice with an expression
of deep distaste ; he would have liked to order
him out of the room with the soldiers. But such
an order was impossible. The adjutant believed
that it was his duty to superintend the treatment
of his prisoner ; and accordingly stayed in the room.

The operation was both delicate and difficult,
but it was performed with extreme care and skill.
It was followed by some faint indication of returning
consciousness ; the eyelids quivered and
unclosed ; the lips syllabled a name.

Vera ! " he murmured ; '* Vera ! "

*' He will do now," said Herr Brtinnow, with
a sigh of relief. " We may hope for his life and
for his reason too."

'He will want nursing for a considerable
time," said the adjutant discontentedly.

Yes ; careful nursing, if you wish him to
recover. He ought not to be moved for the present
if we can manage to establish him here. I
trust, M. r Adjutant, that the straightness of
your aim will prove to have been to your advantage."


The adjutant winced, but was already too
much discomfited to answer the doctor's taunt.

And so for days and weeks Maurice lay in the
roughly-furnished room which was fitted up for
him by the doctor and the officials in the guardhouse.
Father Ignaz was sent to K ; but Herr

Brtinnow was allowed to remain with his patient.
Andreas and certain others of the men who had
known Count Zaranoff in days of old, and would
gladly have laid down their lives in his service,
helped to nurse the wounded man. Everything
necessary for his welfare was procured from the

chateau, but day by clay the peasants of the
neioflibourino' villages brouo:lit tokens of goodwill
in the shape of offerings of eggs and fruit, while
the soldiers were careful to hush their noisy mirth
when they were within the prisoner's hearing.
The adjutant was speedily replaced by a kindly,
gentlemanly officer, who seemed anxious to render
the Count's confinement as little tedious as
possible ; and this change contributed very greatly
to Maurice's comfort.

Zaranoff's recovery was somewhat delayed by
the intense depression of spirits which accompanied
every stage of his return to health. Brave
as he was, it was impossible for him to think without
a shudder of the future that lay before him.
Above all he feared perpetual imprisonment ; this
would be far harder to bear than exile or than
death. As soon as he could travel, he was transported
to a neighbouring fortress, and was kept
for some weeks in much closer confinement than
had been his lot in the guardhouse on the frontier.
But he noted with wonder that certain alterations
of the hardships of his condition were silently
accorded to him, that, for instance, he was supplied
with books and writing materials, and food

VOL. I IT. 52

of a quality superior to that usually given to
prisoners. These were great favours in a Kussian
prison ; and he began to conjecture that some
wealthy and powerful friend of his family must
be at work on his behalf, and that possibly, intime,
means might be provided for his escape.
But weeks passed on ; the Russian winter had
begun, and his friends  if friends they were 
had made no sign. He wondered then if he had
been forgotten, and if he were doomed to die in
this obscurity, abandoned and alone.

He had gathered the whole story of Heavens
treachery from the soldiers' talk. It was
he who had told the adjutant that the Hungarian
merchant was indeed Count Zaranoff ; but for the
words that he had spoken, the so-called Bela
Zichy would have been allowed quietly to escape
notice. All the soldiers had been bribed. But
for Eavenscroft's information and the energy of
the incorruptible foreign adjutant, Maurice might
have crossed the frontier with comparative ease.

Maurice's feeling was less one of personal
enmity to Eavenscroft than a deep and growing
pain at Yera's sacrifice of herself to a man whom,
if she knew all, she could neither esteem nor love.

He was powerless to help her. At that very
moment she might well be the wife of Gaston
Eavenscroft ; she might be hearing from him
some garbled version of the manner of Zaranoff's
death ; for he knew that Gaston had left the
guardhouse in full assurance that his enemy was
dead.

Maurice lost hope for his future as he thought
upon these things. A terrible fate seemed to be
before him ; but he was resolved to meet it like
a man.

It was in mid-winter when he was roused
from sleep at dawn of day and told to prepare
for an immediate journey. He received no answer
to the questions with which he plied his
gaolers ; but he watched the more anxiously for
any sign of his destination, or for any chance of
escape. For his spirit was not broken ; he was
as ready to fight for his life and liberty as he had
ever been, but no chance presented itself; he
was watched and guarded with the utmost
care.

He travelled in a tarantass, and then by railway
for many hours. He began to suspect that
he was bound for St. Petersburg  perhaps to the

gloomy fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul, of
which he had formerly experienced the rigour ;
but he could be certain of nothing. His guards
redoubled their vigilance as the journey progressed
; they forbade him to ask questions, and
threatened to handcuff him if he made the
slightest movement indicative of an attempt to
escape. Maurice permitted himself to shrug his
shoulders impatiently, and then resigned himself
to silence and submission.

The end of their journey was apparent'
reached at length. They had travelled for two
days, and it was night when they finally left the
railway carriage. Maurice looked eagerly around
him ; but there was nothing familiar to him in
the small dark station at which they had alighted.
Some men in uniform seemed to be awaiting his
arrival. A covered sledge was ready to receives
; into this sledge he was hurried ; a man
took the vacant seat beside him. For a moment
the light of a lamp flashed upon his face ; then
Maurice recognised in his companion a man who
was greatly dreaded in the city of St. Petersburg,
a man with whom Maurice had formerly had
hostile dealings, and whose personal enmity he

believed himself to have incurred  the head of
the secret police. Zaranoff wrapped himself in
his furs, leaned back, and considered the situation
in silence. He thought, justly enough under
the circumstances, that he might now expect the
worst.

What was the worst \ Not the execution of
the old sentence of death lianmno- over him : a

O O

sentence which might still be suddenly and
secretly carried out. In that case Maurice knew
that he had sufficient courage to meet his end
serenely, as a patriot should. No, it was the
lifelong incarceration, which wears out the brain
and breaks the spirit of the strongest man, which
he had now to fear. This would be to him as
the bitterness of death ; and, but for the disgrace
of it, he would choose rather to stand ujDon the
scaffold, lay his head upon the block, and meet
with a traitor's fate.

The sledge stopped before a large dark building.
Maurice's companion stepped out, took
him by the arm, and led him through the massive
doors down a long corridor and into a small
room, well warmed and brightly lighted. Here
Maurice was relieved of his fur pelisse, but found,

to his extreme surprise, and somewhat to his inclination,
that he was to be subjected to a strict
search, as if it were possible that weapons or explosive
materials could be secreted about his
person. The examination was, however, conducted
with great courtesy, under the supervision
of the chief himself, who even addressed a
few words of polite apology to the prisoner.

'* Excuse me ; it is not the first time that
we have met under similar circumstances, M.
Zaranoff."

I hope that it may be the last, your Excellency,"
said Maurice.

I think it will'' was the significant answer,
delivered with a smile which recalled to Zaranoff's
mind a saying concerning this same official, that

M. de N never smiled except on prisoners

who had been condemned to death.

The search concluded, Maurice was again led
through a number of dark passages to an anteroom,
where he waited for some time in no little
wonder as to what was about to happen. He
tried to question the men who accompanied
him, but was immediately requested not to
speak. By and by, however, another door

silently opened, and one of the soldiers whispered
hurriedly :

' Go forward, sir."

He entered a larger room, still dark and apparently
empty. The door closed noiselessly
behind him ; the guard had drawn back ; he was
alone.

Alone !  no ; for a step resounded on the floor,
a man's hand was laid upon his arm, a well-known
dearly-loved voice was in his ear. Maurice's
heart gave a bound as he recognised the
English accents of Sir Adrian Longmore.

My dear boy," whispered the General, ' keep
up your heart ; we have done our best for you.
Speak the truth, the whole truth; have done
with reservations, they can benefit nobody now.
Your life depends upon this interview. Go in ;
do not wait : I will follow you."

Confused and bewildered, Maurice moved forward.
Sir Adrian pushed open a swing-door and
ushered him into a dimly lighted little room,
where for a few minutes he could see nothing
very distinctly. Presently, however, he noted
that a table covered with a green baize cloth
stood in the centre of the apartment, and that at

011(3 end of this table three gentlemen were
seated. Of these gentlemen two were known to
Zaranoff. One was a general holding a high
position in the State ; the other the head of the
police, whom he had seen already. The third
gentleman's face was unfamiliar to Maurice, but
he learned afterwards that he was the president
of one of the law-courts of St. Petersburg. Sir
Adrian Longmore was present, but sat at some
distance from these officials.

When Maurice had made the respectful salute
due to the presence of these high dignitaries, his
eyes fell involuntarily upon another figure seated
in the background behind the officials by whom,
as he surmised, he was about to be examined.
This figure, silent and motionless, wrapped in a
great black cloak, attracted Zaranoflf's attention.
He noticed that this personage kept his face in
shadow, and screened it occasionally by his hand,
that he leaned back in his chair and seldom
moved or spoke, and yet Maurice fancied that
certain significant glances were directed to him
from time to time, that certain words were meant
especially for his ear, and that the effect of his
answers upon this one listener was curiously

anticipated. If these three officials were to be
his judges, surely this man was their judge as
well as his. It was to this hearer, he bethought
himself, therefore, that his defence should be
addressed.

A Secret TRIBUNAL.

The judge broke the silence.

''Be seated, M. Zaranoff," he said in peculiarly
soft and silvery tones. '' You understand
that this interview is of an informal character,
and that the privacy of any communication
which you make to us will be respected. It
has been accorded to you in deference to the
wishes of your distinguished English friend
and former guardian, M. le General Long-more."


Maurice bowed and seated himself. The old
Kussian officer then took up the word.

"We have questions to ask," he said. 'ewe
trust that they will be answered without reserve.
Truth is your best policy."

But M. ZaranofF is not required to criminate

himself," said the head of the police in a significant
tone.

Certainly not," returned the judge smoothly.
We hope, on the contrary, that he will exculpate
himself completely. It is for that reason
that we give him the opportunity of explaining
his past conduct in our private ear. Is it not
so, your Excellency ?" he added, turning to the
General.

'' Of course. And I trust," said the General,
fixing his eye somewhat sternly upon the prisoner,
'that M. Zaranoff" appreciates the clemency exhibited
to him, and will in no way abuse it."

Maurice made a suitable answer ; and, this
preamble concluded, the judge, who seemed to
act as president of the little court, drew some
papers towards him and proceeded to business.

He recapitulated, first of all, the circumstances
of the conspiracy with which the Strolenskis had
been connected, as well as the details of their
arrest in Maurice's own house, and of Maurice's
behaviour upon that occasion. When questioned,.
Zaranoff acknowledged the truth of the statement,
an acknowledgment which seemed to meet
with the approval of the officials.

"We come now," the president said, in his
calm cold tones, "to the consideration of your
own share in this conspiracy, for which you were
denounced by Mademoiselle lima von Lowers
afterwards Countess Zaranoff."

"I had no share in that conspiracy," said
Maurice quickly. " I was guilty of no treason.
I was a faithful subject of His Majesty from
beginning to end, and I trust that I shall never
be anything else."

Command yourself," said the judge gently.
"You were not questioned."

Your Excellency must pardon me," replied
Maurice, flushing a little, " if I find it difficult to
command myself when confronted with such an
accusation."

"We have here another document," said the
president ; "a petition from the Countess
Zaranofi", written upon her deathbed, and witnessed
by her cousin, Waldemar von Lowers
; her physician, Franz Brtlnnow ; and her
chaplain, Ignaz Homer. In this document the
Countess Zaranoff states that she, then lima von
Lowenstein, denounced you to the police from
jealousy of your relations with Anna Strolenski,

whom she supposed, rightly or wrongly, to be
your mistress ; that the papers which compromised
you were placed in your apartments,
without your knowledge, by lima von Lowers
herself, who was resolved to punish you
for your infidelity to her by involving you in
the fate of the Strolenskis. Is this statement
true ?"

Zaranoflf answered with reluctance. " I have
reason to believe that it is truest' he said.

Reason to believe?" said the old General.
'' What does that mean, sir ?"

It means, your Excellency," said Maurice,
without looking up, " that I did not know why
or how I had been denounced until Madame
Zaranofi" herself, upon her deathbed, confessed
that she had done so."

May we ask," said the chief of the police,
with great suavity, * how it happened that
Madame Zaranoff's confession reached yom ears ?
You were in England when the accident that led
to her death took place."

'' The Countess summoned me to the Chateau
Zaranoft'. She sent word to me that she had
important matters to communicate. I went to

her, heard what she had to say, and, as your
Excellencies doubtless are aware, I made her my
wife before she died."

By whom did she send to you ?"

Maurice was silent.

"You need not hesitate," said the judge.
We are empowered to assure you "  this with
a glance towards the dark figure in the background
 'That your words shall not be used
against any other person. Besides, it is probable
that we are already acquainted with all the
circumstances of the case, as well as with those
which you have mentioned."

If you assure me that my words shall not
be used to the detriment of any other person,
I need not scruple to say that the Countess'
messenger was her chaplain. Father Ignaz. He
thought it a pious duty to inform me of her wish
to see me, and of her "  Maurice hesitated for a
moment  "of her sorrow that the vengeance
which she took had fallen upon innocent
persons."

''Do you call the Strolenskis innocent persons?"
said the president in his softest voice.
It seemed to Maurice that the man in the cloak

bent forward a little to hear his answer. He
made his reply with care.

'' The Countess did not act from political
motives, your Excellency. She took vengeance
upon Anna Strolenski and upon me on account
of a supposed connection between us which
never existed, of which we were accordingly
innocent."

That is no answer to my question. Do you
call the Strolenskis ' innocent persons ' ? "

Sir Adrian trembled for the answer. But
Maurice, after a moment's pause, answered
resolutely :

'No."

In what respect do you consider them
guilty ? " said the judge, leaning forward a little
and fixing his eyes steadfastly upon Maurice's face.

' I thought, sir," said Zaranoff respectfully,
but with a certain resentment making itself felt
beneath the deference of his tones, " that I was
here to be examined as to my own guilt or innocence,
and not as to that of other persons. The
Strolenskis have, at any rate, paid the penalty of
their errors by their death."

This answer produced a slight sensation

amongst the officials. They conferred together
for a few moments in undertones. For the first
time the gentleman behind them made a motion
with his hand, bent forward, and said a few words
to which they listened with great apparent respect.
When he had withdrawn once more into
the shadow, the president turned back to ZaranoiBP,
1 )ut his face had grown graver and his voice more
stern.

'' Let me warn you not to trifle with us,
Maurice Zaranoff," he began. "You evade our
questions. You are unwise to do so, for we put
no question without a reason ; and each question
must be answered in one way or another. We
give you one more opportunity of replying : in
what way do you consider the Strolenskis guilty?
Why do you hesitate to reply ?"

I hesitate to reply," said Maurice, " because
the two Strolenskis were my friends."

He paused ; the General frowned ; the chief of
the police leaned back in his chair and smiled.
The president alone seemed unmoved. "Continue,"
he said coldly.

They had been dear and close friends of mine
for many years," Zaranoff proceeded. *' Their

opinions often differed from my own : I strove in
vain to tmn them from a dangerous path upon
which I thought that they had entered. I myself
loved liberty ; but I did not love violence. We
disagreed, and ceased at last to hold much intercourse.
They did not tell me of their part in the
conspiracy against his Majesty's life. But they
did come to me as fugitives, poor, miserable, in
terror, and I sheltered them. lima von Lowers
was one of the few persons who knew of
their presence in my house." Maurice looked at
the police official, and continued in a marked
tone. '' They were hidden for six weeks in my
house, your Excellency. But for Mademoiselle
von Lowenstein's suspicion of the relations subsisting
between Anna Strolenski and myself, I
should have had them conveyed on board a
vessel bound for Hamburg on the very day of
their arrest. I tell you so much to show you
that I mean what I say in declaring that no
danger should induce me to forsake a man or a
woman whom I loved. You say  justly  that
the Strolenskis had committed treason against
the Emperor  whom God preserve !  but they
had been my friends ! Their political creed was
VOL. III. 53

a terribly mistaken one, but their motives and
their hearts were pure. What would you have
me say then ? Your Excellencies must acknowledge
that I have reason to find your questions
difficult to answer."

 So you justify your conduct in shielding
traitors ? " said the General''

I justify my conduct in sheltering the Strom
your Excellency."

'you have no defence," said the president.
'' You know that by the laws of the Empire a
Russian is forbidden to harbour the enemies of
the Emperor. If he protects them he shares
their guilt. You yourself committed treason
by concealing traitors."

God is my witness," said Maurice. " I swear
that I protected the Strolenskis as my friends,
and not as the enemies of the Emperor."

' A quibble," murmured the head of the
police.

His Excellency may call it a quibble if he
chooses," returned Maurice with some warmth of
manner ; '' but I claim it to be a moral justification
for my conduct, if not a legal one. Judge me
to have broken the laws of my country if you

will, I may have done so, and will bear the
penalty ; but condemn me in your hearts if you
can. Are you men ? Would you turn avay
from your doors a woman who came to you seeking
for food and shelter and rest ? Like me,
gentlemen, you would not first have asked her
what she had done that she desired protection.
You would have given her the help) that she
required at the risk of your own life  ay, even
of your own honour  not merely because she had
been your friend, but because she was weak, and
because she was a woman ! How much more if
she and her brother had once been your dearest
and truest friends ! You would have felt yourself
disgraced if you had refused your aid ! "

There was a little pause. Then the three
judges whispered together for a short space of
time, and seemed to refer some point to the
decision of the personage in the background. He
spoke in reply ; and the I'esident turned once
more towards the prisoner.

"You must be aware," he said in a cold and
deliberate tone, "that sentimental considerations
of this kind have no place in a court of justice.
Neither should they ever have surmounted the

prior claim of duty to your country and to your
sovereign. Your confession renders further discussion
unnecessary. Maurice ZaranofF, the court
declares you guilty."

In spite of all considerations of etiquette, Sir
Adrian Longmore rose to his feet. But he was
silenced by a glance of warning from the president
of the little council. He sank back into his
chair with a hardly-suppressed groan, and covered
his face with his hand. Maurice, who had also
risen, glanced hurriedly at his friend, turned
pale, and bit his lip. It was with passion that
thrilled the hearts even of men unused to pity fora
political offender, that he responded solemnly :

'The court may declare me guilty. I call
God to witness that I am innocent."

The judge seemed to take no notice of the
prisoner's protest. He continued in a voice of
which the measured coldness fell like ice upon
the hot spirit of him to whom his words were
addressed.

'* Your crime," he said, " has been a heinous
one, and your guilt is the greater in that you
acknowledge it without contrition. The offence
of sheltering fugitives from justice, and attacking

the officers sent in pursuit of them, is punishable
by exile, if not by death. You will be brought
in due time before the tribunal which formerly
condemned you, and which will ratify our decision.
Have you any reason to offer why the
previous sentence pronounced upon you by that
court should not be carried out % "

' I have no reason that would be considered
valid in a court of justice," Maurice answered
calmly. " There, as you say, sentiments of pity
and affection are excluded. But if, instead of to
a court of justice, I were appealing to his Majesty
himself  if he had deigned to listen to me with
the patience that your Excellencies have shown 
then there would be many things for me to say."

' We were informed," said the president, after
consulting a paper upon the table, 'that the
prisoner, Maurice Zaranoff, declined to sign any
petition to the Emperor for pardon or release.
If he had done so, the severity of his sentence
would possibly have been mitigated."

I refused to ask for pardon," said Maurice,
because I thought that I had been unjustly
treated. The name of the person who accused
me was concealed : I did not see, as I see now,

low apparently conclusive was the evidence
against me. I thought that I  Maurice 
 Paul Zaranoff's son  the early friend of
a prince who would have pleaded my cause himself
if he had lived long enough to do so  had no
need to ask that his word should be believed.
I had not consciously committed treason : I
could not ask pardon for a crime of which I was
innocent."

These ingenious arguments will not save
you," said the judge, shaking his head. " Speak
openly. Lay aside your reserve once and for all ;
speak from your heart, as if his Imperial Majesty
could hear. I warn you : you may never have
another opportunity."

'' Then," said Maurice with emotion, *' if the
Emperor were present, I would throw myself
upon his justice and mercy, asking him to
judge me as he would wish to be judged himself
I would say : ' Punish me for breaking the laws
of the State, but pardon me as well! Believe
that I erred in judgment  not that I proved a
traitor. Do you think that Paul Zaranoff's son
could so easily play you false ? The State may
condemn me, but the Emperor, as a man, will

trust me still. I committed no treason. I have
loved liberty  not anarchy  all my life ; and I
love it still ; but my love of liberty never made
me disloyal to my sovereign.' I would say all
this to the Emperor, gentlemen, if I had the good
fortune to see him once again, and I would also
say : ' You knew my father, Sire, as the Prince
knew my father's son. His Imperial Highness
once did me the honour to call me friend : it is
in his name that I throw myself at your Majesty's
feet and ask whether you believe that Maurice
Zaranoff ever was unfaithful ? ' "

Zaranoff had not seemed to address the three
judges : rather he had turned towards their unknown
companion, the dark and silent figure
whose face he could not see. This personage
appeared strangely agitated : he had moved
several times, lifted his hand as if to interrupt
the proceedings, then dropped it and listened
attentively to the prisoner's eager words. At
the conclusion of Maurice's speech he rose, halted
for a moment, then came forward into the light.
The judges rose and bowed : Maurice started forward
and threw himself impetuously at the Emperor's
feet.

The Czar had thrown aside his cloak : he wore
a plain dark uniform upon which the jewelled
orders shone conspicuously. He stood silent for
some moments  a noble and kingly figure still,
though worn by sorrow and disease. The lamplight,
playing upon his fine features, threw into
strong relief the melancholy of his expression and
the serious sadness of his large gray eyes. He
oave a faint smile to Zaranoif, who kissed his
outstretched hand, then turned to the three
officials.

I am much obliged to you for your assistance,
gentlemen," he said quietly. " You have
satisfied my mind as to the extent of the prisoner's
guilt. It seems to me that his error, though far
from a venial one, has already met with its full
punishment. I remit, therefore, the rest of the
sentence. Count Zaranofi"," he said, turning upon
Maurice the light of his severe yet kindly eyes,
do not mistake me. Your appeal touched my
feelings, perhaps ; but it did not affect my judgment.
If you had asked me for pardon and confessed
your fault as you have done now, three
years ago, I should then have remitted your
sentence (in part, at least), for the sake of your

father as well as for the sake of  that other
who was your friend." His voice changed and
trembled a little as he spoke. ' You are free.
I pardon you."

Maurice's faltering words of thanks were cut
short by the Emperor.

' Enough. Take warning," he said. " That
plea will not avail you twice. You hold views
still which may lead you into dangerous paths.
But you have suffered, and will profit by the
lesson. Be to me what your father was, Maurice
Zaranoff, and you wall find that I trust you as I
trusted him. Now good-night, gentlemen. Your
Excellency will have the goodness to attend to
the necessary formalities : there need be no delay
in setting Count Zaranoff at liberty. General
Longmore, your young friend should be grateful
to you for your advocacy of his cause. I shall
see you again tomorrow."

He acknowledged their obeisance with a bend
of his head, and allowed them to depart. The
three officials went out at one door, Sir Adrian
ont Zaranoff by another. Once in the anteroom
Maurice stopped short and looked round him as
s if awaking; from a dream.

' Is it true ? " lie said. '' Am I free to do as
I like ? to go where I choose ? "

Quite true, my dear boy. Forgive me for
the unworthy suspicions that I was driven to
entertain of you, Maurice. Have I earned your
pardon? " and Sir Adrian's fine old face beamed
with delight.

It must be confessed that for once Maurice
forgot the English reserve of manner which had
become almost natural to him : he threw his arms
round the General's neck, kissed him on both
cheeks, then burst into tears and wept like a child.
The revulsion of feeling had been so great that it
swept away all his usual self-control, and the
emotional Russian nature was allowed to have
free play. It was some time before he recovered
himself sufficiently to listen to the account of Hadrian's
efforts on his behalf ; and ere the hasty
recital came to an end an officer presented himself
with a formal written discharge of the prisoner,
and the announcement of an order to conduct the
General and Count Zaranoff to the door, where an
Imperial carriage was in waiting to take them
whithersoever they would.

They went to Sir Adrian's hotel. The building

to which Maurice had been taken was a large
private house on the outskirts of Moscow. Sir
Adrian recounted, at some length, the difficulties
with which he had met in his task of intercession.
He had heard through a Russian friend of
Maurice's recapture, and had instantly started
for Moscow with the intention of pleading for
him with the Emperor. Ilma's confession made
his task easier than it might otherwise have
been; but Russian officialism put many barriers
in the way of Maurice's liberation. The Emperor,
however, had always liked and respected
the Zaranoffs, and Maurice's defection had grieved
as well as angered him : he was ready to believe
the best of him, and positively anxious that
he should be set at liberty. He himself had
proposed that Zaranoff should be privately
examined by three responsible persons in his
o\Ti presence ; and he had given Sir Adrian
to understand beforehand that if he, personally,
were satisfied of Maurice's loyalty, he
should override all previous customs or precedents
by his own Imperial authority, and pardon
him out of hand. The examination had proved
satisfactory to the Czar, and the consequence

was that Maurice Zaranoff became once more a
free man.

The Emperor did not stop short at a pardon.
He confirmed Maurice in the possession of the
estates to which his marriage with lima had
entitled him, and bestowed on him several marks
of his especial favour. Some little time elapsed
before Zaranoff could obtain the necessary leave
of absence from Court, for which he was very
anxious ; but at last the permission to travel fora
time was given him, and he set out, in company
with Sir Adrian Longmore, for England.

He heard that Gaston Eavenscroft was not yet
married, and that his son was exceedingly ill.
As soon as he reached England he went to Lincolnshire,
using, however, some precaution in his
movements, for he was told that the report of his
death had been very generally believed, and was
anxious that Vera should not be startled by his
sudden reappearance. He resolved to see Heavens
before he sought an interview with her.
But chance frustrated his efforts. She caught a
glimpse of his face one day at a window in
Netherbyby, and by the sudden change in her
countenance he knew that she was shocked and

frightened by the sight. She had thought him
dead. Vhat story had Eavenscroft then told
her ? ZaranofF scorned the notion of revenge ;
but he thought that she ousht to know what
manner of man was this same Gaston Heavens
even if he himself had to enlighten her.

FATHER AND SON.

Lance travelled from London to Netherbyby by
slow stages, rendered necessary by the state of
weakness to which he was reduced. Gaston had
meant to go back to town, or, for a time, to the
village inn ; but the boy had whispered a request
which he hardly dared deny : 'you won't leave
me, father ? " And, almost against his will,
Eavenscroft had answered " No."

The meeting with Mr. Hervey was one to
which Lancelot looked forward with some degree
of nervousness. Mr. Hervey was perhaps as nervous
as the lad himself. His face looked more
bloodless than usual ; his hands trembled and his
features worked as he advanced to greet him.

'forgive me, sir. I did not mean to be ungrateful."


Sit down, dear boy. The subject is a painful
one ; perhaps we had better leave it for the
present. I  I hope you liked  Paris ? " And
then the old man's quavering voice gave way.
'Good heavens, Lance, what have they been
doing to you ? How dare they bring you back
to me like this ! You  you  look  very ill."
The distress in his voice grew so marked that
even Lancelot was affected by it. His lip
quivered, as he laid his hand over Mr. Hervey's
wrinkled white fingers, loaded as usual with
wellnigh priceless gems. But he did not expect
that the old man's next sentences should take
the form of a bitter invective against Gaston
Kavenscroft, Avhom he blamed in unmeasured
terms for all the misery that he himself had
endured, and for Lancelot's flight and subsequent
illness.

No, sir, excuse me ; you are unjust," said
Lance with spirit. " My own folly was to
blame. If my father spoke hastily it was because
he did not know the circumstances of the
case. And he has made ample amends since
then."

I see ; I see. He has taught you to throw

the blame on me' said Mr. Hervey with passion.
I took you into my house when you were deserted
by all the world beside ; I saved you from
the workhouse  do you know that, sir?  and
now you reproach me for it. It is the way of
the world  the way of the world  scandalous
ingratitude, I call it ! But no Eavenscroft ever
yet was grateful for a kindness ; gratitude
does not run in their blood. Like father, like
son'

"" Don't blame my father for my faults, sir,"
said Lance with the winning sweetness of
manner which had always characterised him.
I was ungrateful to you ; but I have come to
ask your forgiveness. If you will not grant it
to me, I "

'well, what?" said Mr. Hervey sharply.
'' What will you do then, I should like to
know ? "

"I'll go with my father, sir."

"Indeed, you will do nothing of the kind.
Lance, you are after all more my boy than his.
Say that you will stay with me now. Gaston is
going to take Vera away from me ; let me not
lose you too."

I will stay for a time, at least, sir. I want
my father to stay here as well."

Kavenscroft ? Do you think I should ask
him ? or that he would stay if I did ? "

Yes," said Lancelot, smiling. " He said that
he would stay if you asked him. And I can't
do without him, sir ; he is my best nurse."

'ram I in my dotage V said Mr. Hervey.
"Do I live to hear Gaston Eavenscroft described
as a good nurse ? Are you quite sure that you
are not dreaming, Lancelot ? "

'* Quite sure."

Is Gaston Eavenscroft kind to you then '? "

Kind ! "  Lance's colour rose and his eyes
sparkled. ''He is my father, sir; my dear
father's

"Humph! 'that it should come to this ! 
Lancelot, my dear boy, you have a peculiarly
seductive manner, but that you should be able
to twist Gaston Eavenscroft round your little
finger is more than I expected you to accomplish.
However, I flatter myself," said Mr. Hervey with
a return to his usual urbanity, "that I have
restored to him a son who has not been without
advantages of superior instruction, in art and

VOL. III. 54

literature. As for Kavenscroft, I doubt whether
he knows a Carpaccio from a Bellini, or the
difference between the maxims of La Eoche-
focal and Vauvenargues."

"I am sure I don't," said Lance, smiling;
and thus the first interview with Mr. Hervey
came satisfactorily to an end.

Kavenscroft was installed at Netherbyby Manor.
A change came over him shortly after his return
to England. The profound reserve and melancholy,
which had been so noticeable during the
earlier part of his stay in Paris, now made itself
manifest in double force. Once more he began
to lose himself in gloomy meditations ; his brow
grew dark, his eyes became stern and fixed,
when he thought himself unobserved. His sleep
was much broken (as Lancelot had means of
knowing, for the rooms of father and son adjoined
each other) ; and his manner, except with
Lance himself, was particularly abrupt and forbidding.


Even Vera felt the difference. Occasionally
he sought her out in a mood of passionate yearning
for her society, with a sort of thirst upon
him for the touch of her hand and lip ; and made

a wild attempt to drive her into a definite choice
of their marriage day. Again, some word, some
look, some allusion  she never could find out
what  would plunge him into the depths of a
depression for which neither she nor any one else
was able to account. He was looking ill and
haggard ; there were threads of gray in his dark
hair and moustache, and a deep line or two
upon his forehead never seen before his visit to
Kussian soil : once or twice Vera came upon him
suddenly with his face bowed upon his arms, as
though he were broken down with secret sorrow.
Was it all anxiety for Bertram % If so, it seemed,
even to Vera, a little overstrained.

At Gaston's request she gave his son some
account of his marriage and of poor Lucy's fate.
Lance's memories of his childhood were excessively
vague : he dimly remembered a pleasant,
happy home, and one or two details of his early
life ; an accident to a carriage in which he was
driving, and some frolic with the great dog
Rover ; then, more clearly, the miserable journey
and the arrival at Hester Eowe's cottage, where
his mother's death had taken place. His meeting
with Mr. Hervey, who almost immediately

took him abroad, was also indelibly stamped
upon his mind. Mr. Hervey bad been at some
pains to divert the boy's mind from the past, and
to account for his mother's death in Hester's
house. Lancelot was led to believe that she had
sought refuge there merely by accident, on account
of a storm ; that she had suddenly been
taken ill, died in the house, and been buried in
her native place in the south of England. It
was a shock to him to hear that he had often
seen his mother's grave without knowing that
Lucy Moore " was indeed his mother's name.

It was night before the boy saw his father
alone, after the tale had been told. Eavenscroft
did not know that he had heard it; he had begged
Vera to keep him in ignorance of the time when
she purposed telling the son the story of his
father's marriage. But Lancelot heard his father
moving in his own room, and sat up in breathless
expectation of his customary nightly visit.
Not asleep yet, Bertie ? "
No. Come here a minute, father."
Ravenscroft put the lamp on the table, and
came to his son's bedside. Something in the
boy's tone told him that he knew as much of his

father's story as Vera could unfold. Lancelot
was sitting up ; Gaston took the fur-lined cloak
and put it round him, letting his arm rest protecting
for a minute or two on his son's shoulders
as he did so.

Vera has been talking to me."

' Yes ? Don't say any more, my boy."

' Only one word, father."

'Wein"

Vera told me about Hester Kowe and her
son, poor Davy. There was some money left 
to me, she says  you know that I don't want
it "

It is a hundred and sixty-one pounds'' said
G-aston dryly. '' You may find a use for it some
day."

'' I have found a use for it, sir. I think that
old Mrs. Eowe ought to have it."

'' She has left the village."

' But we could find her, perhaps ? "

We hardly owe her any kindness," said Gaston,
with an ill-pleased look upon his face.

'' She was good to my mother, was she not ?"
the boy asked, scarcely above his breath.

You shall do all you wish for her, Bertram.

It will come more easily from you. I will try
to find her."

I knew that you would say so," said Lance,
with a sigh of relief. " Vera did not wish me to
ask ; but I knew that you were too good, too
generous, to object. It would be mean to bear
malice ; and I know well enough that you never
did a mean thing in your Hfe ! "

The satisfaction in his tone produced an odd
effect upon Gaston Kavenscroft. He gave a quick
little shiver, took his hand away from the boy's
shoulder, and walked to the other side of the room,
where he stood looking down into the blazing
embers of the fire.

You mistake," he said presently in a sharp
short tone. ' Don't set me up as a paragon of
virtue and magnanimity, Bertram. Every man
has his faults."

"Yes," rejoined Lance, "but there are some
men whose faults lean to virtue's side, father.
Yours "

Well, mine," said Eavenscroft, confronting
him, but without the least displeasure, " go on ;
tell me mine."

Yours," said Lance, leaning back, and smiling

a little as he looked into the stern features which
never overawed him by their sternness now,
yours are virtues run wild, I think ; determination,
pride, generosity, energy, all carried occasionally
to excess (excuse me, father) ; but there
is nothing petty about them  no malice, envy',
and uncharitableness, for instance ; none of the
qualities that go tomake a coward or a traitor "

Eavenscroft winced as if he had received the
direct thrust of a knife. He raised his hand with
a quick silencing gesture, and spoke in a husky
tone.

"No more, Bertram, no more. You do not
know me." Then, as the boy raised his head in
surprise, he forced a smile and continued more
calmly, " Your judgment of me is certain to be
too favourable. Talk no longer ; you are hoarse
to-night. We shall have that cough back again
if you are not careful. Good-night."

He took his lamp and went steadily into the
next room. When once alone he leaned his
elbows on the mantelpiece and buried his face in
his hands. For some time he was perfectly
motionless. Lancelot's words had stirred feelings
and memories which had slept for many a

long day. His conscience had, indeed, been
rousing itself ever since his return to England,
and it was stung into broad and bitter wakefulness
by his son's perfect confidence in him. Too
well he knew what his own conduct had been to
Maurice Zaranoff ; no blacker treachery could be
devised than the betrayal to death of a man who
had trusted him so completely. For the first
time he looked his deed in the face with Bertram's
eyes ; and he knew himself to be branded
in the sight of heaven with the brand of Cain.
Zaranofi''s death lay at his door. The agony of
a lifelong repentance had begun.

The half-stupefied state in which he had travelled
from the Chateau Zaranofi" to Paris, the
absorbing interest of his intercourse with his son,
followed by Bertram's alarming illness and the
care that had been rendered necessary ; then the
journey into Lincolnshire, the growing tenderness
that he felt towards the boy, and the joy of reconciliation
with him  all these things had contributed
towards a certain blankness of mind
with respect to his share in Count Zaranofi''s fate.
An obstacle in his path had been swept aside ;
the fortune of love and war had rendered the

catastrophe inevitable. He was not in the habit
of calling himself to account, or examining into
the state of his mind and conscience ; he was a
man of action rather than of thought, and a thing
once done was, in his opinion, done ivitli altogether.


But since he had known his son, he had unconsciously
lived in a higher atmosphere than
that to which he had previously been accustomed.
Love, anxiety, regret, had softened and perhaps
ennobled him ; he had been reminded of the
dreams of his own youth, when his aims had
been loftier and his thoughts purer than they
had grown of later years. At any rate there was
this one good point about him : he did not mock
at the faith and the aspirations that he himself
had lost, though he often felt that there was
much in his son, as also in Vera, which he could
not rise high enough to comprehend. Something
curiously ethereal and unworldly unfolded itself
day by day in the development of Bertram's
mind ; it was a "finely-touched" spirit to which
fine issues " were a necessity. How was it
possible for Gaston Eavenscroft calmly to contemplate
the chance of his son's learning that

he, the father so dearly loved, so eagerly venerated,
had violated all the laws of gratitude and
honour in order to betray a brave and innocent
man to a shameful death ? and only because he
loved the woman whom Eavenscroft had loved
and won !

The crime had been committed in a moment
of violent passion and sudden temptation ; but
it was one so contrary in its nature to the man's
whole character and former life that its remembrance
made him writhe in a very agony of
shame. There are temptations from which a man
believes himself secure ; and he takes no pains
at all to guard himself from their approach. This
had been Gaston's case. Of passion and violence
he had often justly accused himself; never of
baseness nor of treachery. Yet when attacked
upon the very side of his nature where one would
least have expected him to fail, his strength gave
way  perhaps because he had seldom exerted
himself to resist amj very strong temptation.
He felt very little shame for the salient faults of
his temper and disposition, which he had indulged
daily from his youth upward; but to
have succumbed to a temptation so contrary to

his own habits of mind filled him with a sense
of guilt which he knew would haunt him like a
ghost to his dying day.

His one defence was that he had only answered
a simple question  only told the truth when he
was asked to say whether the prisoner was or was
not Maurice Zaranoff ; but this reasoning was of
little avail when he remembered that he had
spoken the words which set the soldiers upon
the track of the unknown Hungarian merchant.
But for those first words he knew too well that
Zaranoff might never have been captured.

As winter advanced Lancelot's condition became
evidently more precarious. Gaston's marriage
was indefinitely postponed : he could not
speak of love in the face of this new and cruel
doubt. Vera was his only comfort ; and yet
Vera was hardly fitted to cheer him at this time,
for the news of Maurice's death had been a
heavier blow to her than Gaston had suspected.
She had lost interest in her life ; and the days
where long and dark.

Meantime, in accordance with Lancelot's
wishes, search had been made for Hester Eowe.
But of this woman nothing more was ever heard.

Perhaps she had died a homeless vagrant by the
roadside : perhaps she was still leading the wandering
gipsy life that she preferred. Never again
was she seen at Netherbyby.

Lance's room was not a melancholy one. He
entertained visitors as often as he was allowed todo
so ; and most of all he loved to see Olivia at
his side and hear her bright affectionate talk
about the simple interests of her daily life. Lance
never spoke now of the boyish love that had been
so ardent. He loved her still ; but his great
weakness seemed to quiet all the impulses of
youth and strength. She was to him a dearly-cherished
sister, and perhaps if he had lived she
would never have been more.

For he noticed a fact of which Olivia was
utterly unconscious  that Frank Longmore was
always at her side. He was paying a long visit
in the neighbourhood and he was often at the
Hall. Lance dropped a quiet hint upon the
subject one day to his father. Eavenscroft rose
up astonished.

What does this mean ? " he said. " I thought

He stopped. Lance smiled  perhaps

rather sadly  and asked a question in return.

Do you think that any one would care fora
poor sickly 'stretch like me, sir ? "

Don't talk in that vay, Bertram," said
Ravenscroft with some agitation. '' You will be
better soon."

Dear father, you know I shall never be
better," said the boy very gently.

Who has been putting such ideas into your
head ? Absurd, morbid folly ! Of course you
will be better by and by  when the spring-comes
"

Lancelot laid his hand on his father s aovain.
'' What is the use of deceiving ourselves ? " he
said. '' The doctor knows  I know  you know,
if you will only let yourself acknowledge it. I
shall not see the spring. Don't grieve over it,
father ; I think it is better so."

'' Better ! Better for me to lose the only
being; on earth who cares a farthings about me ? ''

You tJI have Vera."

Eavenscroft made no answer. His face was
buried in his hands upon his son's pillow. He
could not speak.

I am not very sorry," said Lance quietly.
'' It will make life a great deal easier for a good

many people. If my notion comes to anything,
you will not oppose a marriage between Frank
and Olivia, will you ? They will suit each other,
and be very happy together."

Don't talk so, Bertie."

Very well, I'll say no more. But some day
you will remember what I have said."

The boy was sinking rapidly. The doctor
told Mrs. Eavenscroft that the end was coming
near. Nothing could save him now. But Gaston
refused to hear, refused to understand. It
seemed impossible to him to believe that he had
found his son so late, to lose him again almost
as soon as found.

He had gone away from the sickroom for a
time to write some business letters ; but he
was sitting at the library-table with his forehead
bent upon his hands, absorbed in painful
meditation, when Vera entered the room.
She came behind him and laid her hand upon
his shoulder.

My love ! " he said, suddenly rising to his
feet. " My one hope ! What should I do without
you. Vera ? "

Then he saw her face.

''Tiat is the matter? Is Bertram worse?
Are yoii ill ? "

'No/' she said faintly, ''I am not ill. But
you told me that Maurice Zaranoff was dead 
and I have seen him : I saw his face in Xetherby
an hour ago. He is not dead."

JUSTICE.

Eavenscroft stood motionless, his eyes fixed
upon her slender figure, now shaken by the rush
of an overpowering emotion, his arms crossed,
his brow bent. But he had regained his self-possession
in view of a possible danger.

"Where did you see him ?" he said at length,
in hoarse and husky tones.

She raised her head, and after one or two
efforts managed to make an audible le-ply.

I had been into the village. I looked up
at the windows of the inn, and he was there.
He looked at me for a moment  and then he
disappeared. But I could not have been mistaken."


"And, granting that you were not," said
Kavenscroft sternly, " what difference would it

make to you ? ATiat lias Guyon  Zaranoff  todo
with you ? You were not even on speaking
terms with him six months ago. His life or death
cannot be of any possible importance to you."

Ah, but it is ! it is ! "

"Vera!"

It is of importance to me," she said, turning
her T\ild miserable face towards him, " because 
being dead, as you told me he was  I could
forgive him, weep for him, pray for him, without
injury to you  or, at least, it seemed to me that
I did you no injury  but now, if he is alive 
what shall I do ? what shall I do ? "

I see," said Eavenscroft bitterly ; " you love
the man who trifled with you, deceived you, left
you for another wife, far better than one who
would peril his very life for your sake. Well,
what could I expect from a woman? My son
loves me, and he is dying. I wonder what it is
that I have done, or that my fathers have done,
to bring down this doom upon me ! For me
there is neither peace, nor rest, nor home. I
have not deserved this misery at God's hands."

Can you say that ? " asked Vera, whose tears
had ceased, although her face still bore traces of
VOL. III. 55

the terrible shock which Maurice's apparition
had caused her. Then, as she saw him wince at
her question, she continued more gently, "Can
any of us say that % But I would not add to
your pain, Gaston, for all the world ; I do not
know why I have told you this. Perhaps," she
said, pressing her hands to her eyes, as if to shut
out the remembrance of the vision that she had
seen, "perhaps it is because I trust you more
than you know  more than I trust myself; not
with the wish to free myself from you. For
although it is true that I  I loved him once,
yet now it would be the greatest pain to me that
the earth contains to see him and to speak to
him again. So help me, Gaston ; if this has
only been my fancy, help me to forget it; and if
I have seen him in reality, then keep me from a
second meeting  for I cannot bear it  I do not
know how to bear it ! "

She hid her face once more, and sat with it
bent almost to her knees, in shame and self-abasement.
Kavenscroft's sombre silence did
not seem to her to augur well of the mood in
which he received her confession of weakness.
For some moments he neither moved nor spoke.

Then lie turned away with a short sigh  a sigh
with a catch in it, as though the breath were
impeded by some crushing weight upon the
breast, and answered heavily.

' It is not your fault ; it is his  and mine,
perhaps. Do not fret. Vera. You shall not
see him again. If he has really returned to
England, I will so deal with him that he shall
never trouble you again."

Slowly and doubtfully she raised her head
from her hands and looked at him. "You
would not hurt him ? " she said, in a tone which
betrayed some inward doubt. " If you met him,
what would you do ? "

* What should I do ? " asked Gaston sternly.
That depends upon where and how I met him.
Do not be afraid, Vera ; I will do nothing rash."
He added below his breath, " I can do nothing
worse than I have done already." But this was
not meant for Vera's ear.

After walking up and down the room once or
twice, he stopped before her and laid his hand
on her shoulder.

'' Vera," he said, " can't you tell me that my
efforts to win your love have not been fruitless ?

Am I still as far off from you as I was when 1
first asked you to be my wife ? I have clone all
I could  more than you perhaps will ever know
to win you ; now, tell me, has it been all in
vain % "

She did not understand the full meanings of
his words  how should she understand it \  but
she was struck by the sadness of his tone.

No," she said slowly. '' I care for you very
much, Gaston ; more than I did at first. And
in time "

Ah, in time ! But not yet ; 1 have not
won the victory yet," he said impatiently. " I
am doomed to failure every way. At any rate,
Vera, you will be true to your word 1 You will
be my wife as you promised ? I wish I could
marry you now and take you away with me !
You will keep your word ? "

"Yes."

'that is all that I want' he said, reassured
even by that forlorn little monosyllable. " I can
trust you, my darling ! my love ! Whatever
may happen, whatever you may see or hear, 1
know that you will be true. I should doubt of
heaven itself if you were false."

He drew her towards him and kissed her with
the old passionate fervour. Then he half led,
half supported her to the door  paused for a
moment to kiss her cold and passive face again
and let her go.

When he was alone, he threw himself into an
arm-chair by the fire, and tried to understand
the situation in which he found himself. If
Vera had not been misled by some illusion of
her senses, if Maurice Zaranoff had indeed,
through some unlooked-for chance, escaped death
and imprisonment and exile in order to return
to England, what revelation of Kavenscroft's real
character might not shortly be made to her ?
What would she think of the man who had
betrayed a fugitive to lifelong punishment or
death ? There were circumstances too about the
manner of this betrayal whicli rose up one by
one before Eavenscroft's own mind, and made
his conduct appear even baser and blacker than
it had ever done before. It seemed to him as if
for the first time he knew how great had been
his crime. The knowledge had come to him by
means of the light thrown upon right and wrong
in his intercourse with Vera and with his son.

In their presence he felt himself degraded. The
thought of Lance's ever knowing what he had
done was agony in itself ; he could never bear to
look into the boy's loving eyes again if Lancelot
heard the story of his father's sin. "With Vera,
the case was different. For her the sin had
been committed; and he could hardly picture
to himself a woman  even Vera  who would
not pardon a sin committed for her sake. Her
sorrow, her anger, her disgust, would be hard to
bear ; but he was almost certain that she would
in time forget them, and be reconciled to the
man who had loved her better than right or
wrong. But Bertram  if lie knew that his
father had done a base and unworthy action 
Bertram, in his very unworldliness and ignorance,
would break his heart. For him there would be
no compensation. Vera, the woman for whom
the wrong was done, would find by and by
a compensation in her husband's love. But
Ravenscroft felt that he would hesitate at
nothing which might keep the knowledge of his
ill deeds from Bertram's ears. There was a
different reason for his fears respecting Vera.
If she once learned the true story of Zaranoff's

connection with lima, lie might see that he was
still worthy of her love ; and the bond of her
promise to Gaston might possibly be broken.
Eavenscroft's want of trust in mankind in
general, in Vera in particular, had seldom caused
him more misery than at that moment. If he
had had more faith in her truth and in Maurice's
generosity, he would have suffered less. But
then it was not possible for a man who had
broken faith as he had done to trust very greatly
in that of any other person.

After some time spent in uneasy meditation.
Eavenscroft went out. He walked straight
towards the Baroness' house and examined the
garden and shrubbery very thoroughly. If
Maurice Zaranoff were in flesh and blood, he
mio'ht well be linoerino about Xetherbv. Heavens
would rather go and meet his fate than wait
for it to overtake him. A sense of desperation
was growing upon him : a belief that his last
chance for success and peace and love was
coming  that if he missed it now, "it would,"
in the pathetic words of Scripture, " have been
better for him that he had not been born."

The dark November dav was drawing: to a

close. Eavenscroft left the plantation and
crossed the churchyard, where the white stones
gleamed at the head of rows of dark mounds like
sheeted figures standing by the dead. A fitful
melancholy breeze rustled the leafless branches
of the trees : some one in the village had
died that day, and the bell was being tolled
by the sexton. Its lodge drawn notes swelled
and died away upon the evening breeze incurious
harmony with the plaintive character
of the scene. They made Gaston shiver at
every stroke.

He was glad to reach the lane. Here he
turned in the direction of Mr. Hervey's house.
The whole place was so full of sad and bitter
memories that he wondered how he could have
remained at Netherbyby so long. When Vera was
his wife, he said to himself, he would never visit
the place again  unless it were for Bertram's
sake. For not yet even would he quite acknowledge
to himself that Bertram's earthly fate was
sealed.

It was scarcely a shock to him when at some
short distance from Mrs. Eowe's still empty
cottage, a dark figure stepped forward from the

door, and quietly confronted him. Kavenscroft
hardly needed the fading light to tell him that
this was Maurice Zaranoff. He stopped short,
but he had no words at his command. He felt
terribly conscious that he had endeavoured to do
this man a mortal injury, and that his own
character and his future were in very truth
completely at Zaranoff's mercy. But this consciousness
breathed into him the spirit of reckless
defiance which had latterly been failing him.
He could not speak : his tongue clave to the roof
of his mouth ; but he flung up his haughty head
and faced his enemy with the dauntless daring
of a stag at bay.

Maurice spoke first, with icy courtesy.

I should be glad to have a few minutes'
conversation with you," he said.

For the first time in their intercourse he
assumed a tone of tranquil superiority  almost
of command. This galled Eavenscroft, and
unloosed his tongue.

Here % " he said hoarsely. Do what he
would, he could not keep that huskiness from
his voice. ' This is hardly the place for conversation."


We can enter this empty cottage. No one
will disturb us. I expected you."

"Expected me!"  Gaston's tone was passionately
indignant.

I was unfortunately seen by Mademoiselle
de Lusignan this afternoon," said Maurice, turning
towards the cottage door, " and I thought that
you would probably come out to look for me.
It seems that I was right. Will you do me the
favour of entering ? Here we can speak at our
leisure."

He pushed open the door and signed to
Eavenscroft to follow him.

The darkness of the room was almost unbroken,
so little light entered at the window,
now almost overgrown with climbing plants.
Maurice seemed to be prepared for the interview.
He struck a match, and lighted a candle which
he placed upon the low mantelpiece. Its beams
pierced the gloom faintly enough, but served to
show to each man the face of the other : each
sombre, stern, and full of a purpose which would
not easily be gainsaid.

The darkness and loneliness of the place
suggested wild thoughts to Eavenscroft. How

easy would it be for him, a strong athletic man,
to overmaster his opponent and prevent his ever
leaving that room alive ! Nobody would suspect
Ravenscroft of the deed. The body of Maurice
ZaranofF might lie there for days and even weeks,
unknown and unsuspected. That road was seldom
trodden : long before the murder was suspected
Gaston and his wife might be far away
on sunny seas, in southern lands. It was a
moment of delirious temptation. When Maurice
turned round with the candle in his hand, something:
of that murderous thought still linseed
in Eavenscroft's fierce hollow eyes. But the
moment passed : he realised with a shock that
the opportunity was gone.

'' You are bold," he said with a sinister look,
to trust yourself here alone with me."

*' I do not trust you," Maurice answered
coldly. " I have no reason to do so  as you
know ; I am armed and on my guard."

Gaston sneered. " Cautious, truly !"

I think caution is not uncalled for," said
Maurice dryly. *' But I am quite willing to be
on equal terms." He took a brace of pistols
from his pocket as he spoke, and offered one to

Ravenscroft with a slight bow. " It is at your
service; and now neither of us has an advantage
over the other."

Kavenscroft took the weapon and eyed his
foe sullenly.

"Am I to understand this as a challenge?"
he asked.

*' Certainly not. I asked for some conversation
with you."

Proceed," said Ravenscroft, placing the
pistol on the table, and folding his arms. " I
do not know of anything that we can have to
say to each other."

No ? Have you then told Mademoiselle de
Lusignan the story of our last meeting ? "

What has that to do with you ?"

I have come here, Mr. Ravenscroft," said
Maurice with somewhat cold tranquillity, "to
learn whether or not it is my duty to bring that
story to Mademoiselle de Lusignan's knowledge."

That is why you have come, is it ?" Ravens-croft
hesitated a moment, then lifted up his head
and spoke with his usual impetuosity. "I tell
you then frankly that I would rather you took
your pistol and shot me dead where I stand than

that you told that story to her  or  to my
son."

"To your son ?" said Zaranoff, regarding him
with some surprise. " Has he become so dear
to you that you couple him with her ?"

The question brought Eavenscroft to himself.
He turned his face aside, and spoke in an
altered voice.

*' It would be less of a shock to him to hear
of my death than to find that I am  not what
he takes me to be. I should prefer it so."

And you think that I would be your executioner?"
said Zaranoff with a kind of grave
irony in his voice.

Gaston hesitated again. Then he moved forward
into the light, and Maurice saw that his
face had suddenly turned very pale. He began
in a tone of mingled daring and hopelessness,
which showed that his mental attitude had
changed since the beginning of the interview.

'listen to me," he said. "For once put
ordinary rules and customs out of the question.
We are not in ordinary circumstances  you and
I. You know that I have lived long enough
amongst the wild tribes of the East to learn

what is their code of honour ; and it is one by
which I would sooner abide than by the laws of
a tame and feeble civilisation. If I"  he put
his hand on his breast, and Zaranoff could see
it heave tumultuously as he spoke  " if I  or if
any man amongst those tribes had outraged the
laws of hospitality, betrayed a man who trusted
him to worse than death, and robbed him of the
woman that he had loved into the baro-ain  and
you know, and I know, that I have done all this ;
I avow it !  what would be his doom ? Would
you try to save him ? I should not. You
would say, as I should say, that he was worthy
of death. I myself, in the desert, have condemned
a man for less than that. Well, I want
no other tribunal; the Arab tribes shall judge
me. You shall be their mouthpiece  not their
executioner. I give you my life ; tell me that
you mean to destroy all that I have that is worth
living for, and I will die. My life would be a
sorry burden if it were to be borne in disgrace."
Maurice was silent. He watched the speaker
with an eager, questioning look. Gaston would
not meet his eye; he stood, supporting himself
from time to time by pressing the open palm of

one hand against the white-washed wall ; his
colourless face bore an expression of bitter,
blank despair.

One thing only I will ask' he said presently,
with difficulty. "Wait a few days  until my
son "

Here his voice broke.

Maurice, touched and startled, began to speak,
but Eavenscroft interrupted him.

I had better own the truth. My son Bertram
is dying. It is the first time that I have acknowledged
this even to myself. If you wil let
him die in peace, I promise you that when he is
gone, I will stand in your way no longer. Of
course I know that when Vera hears the story
she will turn from me. But it is surely not
necessary to your plans that my son should hear
it too?"

Not at all. I give you my word that your
son shall never hear it from me."

"At that price," said Gaston, turning his
haggard face on Maurice, and forcing a painful
smile, '* I might give you  Vera."

But as if the utterance of that name overwhelmed
him, he suddenly turned away, laid his

arms against the wall, and leaned his face upon
them. Maurice made a quick step towards him,
then halted, and after a short pause began to
speak.

'' To some extent you misapprehend me," he
said slowly. "I do not knows whether I can
make you understand. I have never reproached
you ; I believe that you will yet reproach yourself
bitterly enough. You would have committed
a murder with less remorse than that one act of
treachery. No doubt you have suffered ; no
doubt you would now sooner die than bear the
natural consequences of your own deeds." Here
Gaston winced, but Zaranoff went on with
gathering sternness of face and voice. " Can I
forget that you deliberately betrayed me into
the hands of my enemies  of the men who, as
you knew, would shoot me down like a dog at
my first attempt to escape ? Can I forget that
when I was poor, exiled, and unfortunate, you
treated me as if I had been a criminal ? Am I
to believe that Vera will meet with love and
faithfulness from you ? And am I to leave her
in utter ignorance of what you are and what you
have done ? I claim a right to interfere  because

I love her. And I ask you to look at her
to look at yourself  and then judge whether
she will be happy as your wife"

Eavenseroft had slowly turned round ; he now
faced him fully. The veins were swelling upon
his forehead, his eyes were waking into life and
glittered beneath his brows.

Whatever else I bear," he said between his
teeth, " I T\ill bear no insults from you!'

Insult is hardly a word to be used between
us. I must speak the truth now, and you must
listen. If you are not the coward that I have
sometimes thought you "  Gaston made a gesture
of furious impotent rage  " then look the matter
boldly in the face, and ask yourself if you are a
fit husband for Mademoiselle de Lusignan. I do
not say this without a reason, and I have a right
to be answered."

Gaston's hand clenched itself involuntarily,
but he made a sullen, reluctant answer. It
seemed to him as if he were standing before a
judge to whom he was bound to give account of
himself. Chafe as he might, some inner constraint
subdued his pride to the demands of
the man who appeared to him almost as an
VOL. HI. 56

embodied conscience, at once his accuser and his
judge.

"It is easy to say that one is not worthy of
Vera," he answered. " Nobody is more aware of
the fact than I."

The lofty figure, with head averted and
folded arms, looked not one whit the less proud
for this acknowledgment ; but Maurice's face
brightened with no unworthy pleasure at the
concession.

'' Then I am able to go on with what I came
to say. If Vera loves you, for her sake you will
be what she thinks you were  what your son believes
you still to be. All that I have come for
is to know whether or not she does love you. I
should like to hear that from her own lips. I
have a letter to deliver to her, and an explanation
to make. This is all that I want. This done, I
will ask nothing else from you."

Vera will easily satisfy you on that point.
She does love me," said Gaston sullenly.

I will hear it from herself."

Do you not believe what I tell you ? "

ZaranofF looked at him, but made no answer
to that angry demand.

'when I hear from her own lips," he proceeded
with emphasis, "that she is happy and
content in the prospect of a marriage with yon,
then I will leave England and never see her again.
I will go back to Russia (for the Emperor has
chosen to pardon me for deeds which I never
committed), and I will never tell her a word of
what has happened between you and me. Do
you think that I who love her would disturb her
happiness ? I only want to show her that she
was mistaken when she thought that I had
married the Countess lima before I left England.
I have reason to believe that she thought I had
misled her intentionally on certain points ; and
she was offended with me," said Maurice, suddenly
perceiving that it might be well to shield Vera
from Eavenscroft's jealous wrath. " I have promised
 I am bound to let her know  how that
mistake arose. And so, when that matter is
cleared up between us  and if she loves you 
I will keep silence and go."

"And if," said Gaston hoarsely, and almost
against his will, "if  supposing that  she did
not love me  that she loved some one else  you,
for example  you ! "

'athens' cried ZaranofF with kindling eyes,
then I could not go away ! "

He turned very quickly as he spoke, and by
an inadvertent movement of his hand upset the
candlestick upon the mantelshelf. Out of the
darkness Gaston, with angry agitated voice, addressed
himself to Zaranoff, without any apparent
note of the little accident.

You mean that you would try to take her
from me ? "

I would take no unfair advantage of you.
but I should try to secure her happiness."

The answer maddened Kavenscroft, who knew
well that Vera's love for Maurice ZaranofF had
been chilled by belief in his unworthiness, but
never utterly destroyed. A desperate resolve
laid hold upon him. The darkness was in his
favour. He uttered some fierce inarticulate exclamation,
made a sudden grasp at the pistol that
lay upon the table between the two, and fired
at the figure dimly outlined against the wall.
But his hand was unsteady. The man at whom
he aimed stood motionless  unharmed ; the bullet
lodged in the wall above his head. Then, while
Ravenscroft paused bewildered, breathing hard

and involuntarily drawing himself into an attitude
of defence, Maurice wrenched the still smoking
pistol out of his only half-resisting hand and
threw it contemptuously aside.

'have you sunk as low as that?" he said
sternly. " Does it never occur to you that Vera
would think her hand dearly purchased at the
price of blood ? "

Ravenscroft's passion and physical force seemed
to forsake him at the same moment. He sank
into a chair and hid his face in his hands ; his
heavy breathing sounded like a groan. " My
God ! "  the words escaped him against his will.
' What have I done ? "

I can but leave you," Zaranoff resumed.
"It is impossible for us to say or do anything
more together. You shall hear from me."

No," said Ravenscroft, half starting from his
seat, and totally misunderstanding his meaning ;
hear me. I know that you have a right to ask
it, but I will never meet you : I cannot fight you
now. Brand me as a coward, if you like. I will
never accept a challenge from you."

I had no intention of sending you one," said
Maurice.

Of course not ; you would only fight with a
man of honour ! " exclaimed Eavenscroft with
oTcat and increasing; bitterness. " Do I not know
what you mean to say ? For Heaven's sake leave
me in peace. I'll go back to Turkestan as soon
as I am able. Once and for all, I am worsted.
The die is cast."

He sat down again and put his elbows on the
table. In silence Maurice Zaranoff turned away,
feeling that for the moment there was no more to
be said or done. He went out into the lane and
walked slowly up the churchyard path. The
knell had ceased ; the wind whistled drearily
round the cottage and in the leafless branches of
the trees. Eavenscroft was left alone in the cold
and darkness of Hester Eowe's deserted house, to
wrestle far into the night with the grisly phantoms
of shame and of despair.

IX THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

There are days of our life on which the pettiest
details become claro-ed with terrible siornincance :
when we would fain garner in our memory the
very straws and sticks that clung to our garments
in our journeying. One of those days and nights
had dawned for Gaston Eavenscroft, when he
realised that his son was about to be taken from
the love and the care which he had been so slow
to give.

Do we not know  all of us  what it is to
stand by the dying-bed of one whom we love too
well ? We have seen the cold dews gathering
on the brow, noted the wistful eyes, the straining
nostrils, the parched and blackened lips, listened
painfully to the wandering words which died
away into gasps and sobs, and then into silence

which shall never more be broken. We know
what it is to wipe that death-damp from the face,
moisten the dry lips, and strain the ears for some
last word of love  to kneel and pray, no more
for longer life, but only for the cessation of the
death agony  to see the film gather over those
dear eyes that will seek our own for help or
sympathy no more, and the languid head sink
aside in the lethargy of death. We remember
' as if it were yesterday," we say, although it may
all have happened years ago, the convulsive
struggle, the final sigh, the settling of the limbs
into their last long sleep. We remember  and
yet how surely and how speedily do we forget !
Even the first stab of grief is a little blunted by
the knowledge that our beloved is now set free
from hours of weariness and pain. The cross for
us, we cry ; the palm and crown and white robes
of victory for those who have left their cross
behind! . . .

Yet how desolate is the house become without
the tender cares, the trembling offices, which
yesterday made up all our life ! It has been
piteous work indeed to come at morn and noon
and night, and ask the same question  " How is

he ? How is she ? ''  and receive the same sad
answer  '' No better : a turn for the worse : much
suffering to-day." Bitter has it been, after waylaying
the physician and the nurse in order towring
from them some favourable opinion of the
case, to see that a sad and silent shake of the head
is the only reply that they can make to our inquiries
: heart-breaking, to enter the sickroom
and mark the seal of death set legibly upon the
face which is dearer to us than all the world
beside. And yet these heavy hours grow light
in comparison with the weary days when the
long-dreaded moment has come and o-one : when
it signifies now so little who crosses the floor and
stands beside that bed, what noise is heard upon
the stairs, or whether the jealously guarded door
be open or shut fast. There is now no need for
care about these things ; although, so long as the
cold form lies in the shaded room, we lower our
voices in passing by, as though the dead could
awaken and could hear. The house which had
been so full of that one presence is empty
now. We sit with idle hands and aching hearts
hands longing to labour for our beloved, hearts
yearning for some tender word from the undiscovered

country whence no Beloved traveller
returns.

Then, when the dear form lies in the ground,
we return to our house and find the blinds drawn
up, and the merry daylight streaming into the
long-darkened rooms, and everything arranged
in its accustomed place ; and we talk and eat
and sit round our fires at night, and are thinking-all
the time of the quiet face and crossed hands
some six or eight feet below" the sod, and the
cold winds sweeping over the lonely grave upon
the hni !

And that perhaps is the dreariest time of all.
We often pray for the bereaved, for those whose
hearts are sore with recent grief : it were well
also to remember those whose sense of loss
has grown deeper at the very moment when
their friends believe that they are beginning to
forget !

The watchers in Lancelot's room were perhaps
not sufficiently close to him in blood or in heart
to feel the entire bitterness of such a waiting for
death as theirs had now become. Even to Felicia,
with her half-maternal solicitude, or to Vera withall

her eager pity, he could not be all in all ; to
Gaston only was he the first and tenderest care.
To Gaston only, then, could the full extent of this
heart-sickness and suspense be known. It was
to his father that the boy turned for the greatest
help and comfort in his hours of weakness and
of pain : no voice could soothe him, no hand
support him like Kavenscroft's voice and hand.
Gaston himself lavished upon his boy all the
devotion of a deeply-loving nature which had
been repelled and thwarted for many dreary
years : if only he could mn a smile and a pleased
glance from his son, he thought no pains too
great, no time or trouble ill bestowed.

It was therefore with some surprise that the
household noted Mr. Eavenscroft's long continued
absence. As the winter afternoon drew
to its close Lancelot asked anxiously for his
father ; but Gaston had gone out, nobody knew
whither. The twilight darkened into night :
then Vera, who had been for some time shut up
in her own room, was summoned to the boy's
side to answer his inquiries. She found him
sitting up, his face flushed, his eyes wistfully
straining' into the darkness outside his window.

They say you know where he has gone,
Vera. Will he be long ? "

' I don't think he will be long, dear. I do
not know exactly where he has gone. To the
village only, I believe." 

You will ask him to come to me as soon ashe
returns, will you not ? "

Do you think he will need asking ? Lie
down, dear Lance, and rest : he is sure to come
to you soon."

But the hours of the evening passed on, and
Eavenscroft did not return. Mr. Hervey entered
the sickroom, as was his custom, soon after
dinner, and sat for a few minutes at Lancelot's
beside ; but he made his visit very short, and
beckoned Vera to leave the room with him when
he retired.

"I do not wish to startle you," he began,
but  it is a most singular thing that Gaston
has not returned  and did you happen to notice.
Vera, whether or not he took his gun with
him?"

His gun !" said Vera, visibly paling. " No ;
but I did not see him leave the house."

Because one of the men has been foolishly

very foolishly and Unjustifiable  spreading a
report among the servants that somebody has
been shot ; that some accident had occurred 
they heard the gun and so on,  my dear Vera,
do not take tltat to heart, I beg of you ! It is a
simple absurdity!"

For, as Vera's face grew whiter, Mr. Hervey's
voice assumed a tone that was almost harsh.

Have you sent the servants out to look ? "
she asked breathlessly.

I did send Jervis," her grandfather answered,
with some reluctance, " but he has seen
and heard nothing. Do you think "

Oh, there is danger ; I am sure that there
has been danger," said Vera, wringing her clasped
hands together. " I know that there was someone
here whom he  dear grandfather, I cannot
tell you my reasons ; but, if you love me  if
you love Lancelot  for Heaven's sake send out
and search the place. I fear  I greatly fear "

"What is there to fear?"

But Vera burst into trembling, choking tears ;
and Mr. Hervey could obtain no explanation
from her of her words. He was, however, himself
infected by her anxiety ; and immediately

ordered messengers to be sent in every direction
in search of Mr. Kavenscroft.

Vera lead undertaken to remain with the
nurse and with Lancelot during the evening ;
she was obliged, therefore, to control herself and
try to master the horrible fear of violence that
had attacked her. After a wonderfully , few
minutes of delay, she was able to return to
Lancelot's room. His face met her view as she
opened the door : it still bore the brilliant hectic
flush, and his beautiful brown eyes were anxiously
turned towards her ; but he said nothing,
and she was able to take her seat beside him and
hope that he did not share her fears nor notice
the nervous trembling of her fingers.

Was it for Maurice or for Gaston that she
feared? She hardly knew. The thought of
strife between these two was terrible to her.

Ten and eleven o'clock came and went :
Gaston had not returned. And then Lancelot
spoke.

"Don't try to deceive me, Vera. You are
anxious about my father. What is it that you
fear?"

Vera would not give way. "We fear most

of all that you should be uneasy and alarmed,"
she said firmly ; " and that is Why his absence
perplexes us. I dare say that he left a message
which we have not received, and that he is
spending the evening with some friends. He
will be home soon, no doubt."

Was Lancelot deceived ? He looked at her
keenly, but was perhaps too weak to insist upon
any further explanation. It is not easy sometimes
to blind the clear eyes of those who are
near to death.

Thus midnight came. And then the boy
showed that the strain of expectation was telling
upon him ; for he began to murmur disconnected
words and sentences to himself, and once or twice
to call pitifully for his father ; but when Vera
spoke to him he would open his eyes with his
own bright smile and say calmly and gently
enough, " I forgot. He will soon come home."

Later on, his rambling words grew more distinct.
It seemed to Vera as if he saw his father
in some distant place and desired in vain to
follow him or to cal him back. 'cold and
dark !" he murmured once ; " no light anywhere
no peace! Father, come back; don't let me

have to leave you here alone ! Father, dear
father ! " His voice rose into a startled cry.
Some minutes elapsed before the watchers could
quiet him ; but then his cough came on, and
when it ceased he lay back exhausted and
seemed to sleep.

It had been arranged that Vera and the nurse
should go to bed soon after midnight, and that
Gaston should remain with the boy until mornings.
His absence was therefore the more remarkable
; he had never before failed to carry
<3ut any arrangement which concerned Lancelot's
comfort or welfare.

Vera sat with the invalid until far into the
small hours of the morning ; then, leaving the
nurse for a few minutes, she wandered through
the house until she reached the library, where
she found her grandfather still sitting. The
sight of him at that untimely hour proved that
he himself was alarmed by Eavenscroft's nonappearance.
Vera persuaded him to go to his
own room, and then returned, with a sinking
heart, to resume her place at Lancelot's
side. And so the night passed, and he did not
come.

It was between seven and eight o'clock in the
morning when Eavenscroft's jaded and harassed
figure entered the house and mounted the stairs
with a slow and weary step. He waved aside
the servants who would have intercepted him
with offers of food and assistance ; he went,
without a word, straight to Lancelot's room.
Here he presented himself  broken and worn
with fatigue of body and distress of mind the
light of his eye dull, his face ghastly pale, his
strong frame evidently exhausted. Vera, who
was then alone with Lancelot, met him with a
word of mingled concern and alarm ; but he
passed by her outstretched hands as if he did
not see them, and stood by his son's bedside with
an air of keen solicitude.

"Bertram, I am here," he said somewhat
hoarsely.

The boy opened his eyes with a smile of
ineffable delight, raised himself feebly in his
bed, and suddenly threw his arms round his
father's neck. "I knew you would come," he
said. ' Did you not hear me call you ? I knew
you would come back."

Vera thought that his mind wandered. But
VOL. HI. 57

after this outburst he lay very still, with his head
pillowed upon his father's breast, and one arm
just slipping from its first position round his
father's neck.

'you won't leave me again, will you, father ?
I shall have so little time with you now."

A great shiver ran through Gaston's frame,
but he answered with tolerable calmness :

'' If you want me, Bertie, I will stay."

It will not be for very long," said Lance
wistfully ; '' but while I am here, I want you. I
Avill not be selfish ; if there is anything that you
wish to leave me for, I shall be quite content.
Last night I had such frightful dreams about
you; I called  and called  and thought that
you would not hears'

'' I heard you," said Gaston below his breath.
But before Lancelot could ask what he meant, he
had raised himself from his stooping posture, laid
the boy gently back upon the pillows and kissed
his forehead. Then, with a silencing gesture, he
turned away.

Vera followed him into the passage and stopped
him with a mute gesture of entreaty.

"What do you want?" he asked, shrinking

from lier touch, as if he could not bear to come
into contact with her.

'' Tell me what has happened ?" she said pleadingly.
" Gaston, I know that there is something
wrong. What have you done ? "

He looked at her strangely. " What should
I have done ? " he asked roughly. "' Nothing of
any importance  nothing."

But you saw him \ "

"Yes."

'' Is he in Netherbyby ? Is he  safe ? "

Safe as far as I am concerned. Oh yes, safe
enough. You will probably  hear more of him
to-day."

He spoke dully, \T.th long breaks between
some of the words. Vera felt a keen pang of
doubt and fear ; but she could ask no more. He
passed her without looking again towards her
anxious face, and she returned to her place by
Lancelot's bed.

But when Gaston emerged, an hour or two
later, from the room in which he had locked himself,
no trace remained of the wayworn figure
which had entered the house in the early winter
dawn. He appeared at breakfast, composed, lofty,

and unapproachable as ever ; showing, moreover,
a touch of scorn when the details of last night's
search for him were described by Mrs. Cradock,
and remarking that if ever he spent a night with
an old friend again, without giving due notice,
he hoped that the ponds would not be dragged
nor the alarum-bells rung until twenty-four hours
at least had elapsed after his disappearance. But
his manner occasionally belied the calmness of his
words. His hands shook in spite of himself, and
his eyes were restless and troubled ; he could not
eat, and soon quitted the breakfast-room on the
pretext of an early visit to Lancelot.

The full light of day in the sickroom revealed
to him that a great change had been passing-over
Lancelot's face. There was a certain white,
pinched look about the features which had never
l)een there before, and at which his father stood
aghast. He glanced at the nurse ; and the nurse,
who was out of the reach of Lancelot's eye, shook
her head slightly but significantly in return.
There had been a decided change for the worse
that morning.

Eavenscroft sat down beside him. The boy
was sleeping; some hours elapsed before he seemed

to be in full possession of his senses, but when he
did awake it was to turn his head towards his
father and ask softly,

What is the trouble, father ? "

' Trouble ? " echoed Gaston gl homily . ' ' Trouble
enough ; trouble on all sides of me. Why do you
ask ! "

Cannot I do anything for you ? Father,
when I dreamt of you last night, I thought that
you were wandering in the dark alone  and in
great danger. Was that in any way true ? "

Ravenscroft shaded his eyes with his hand,
and made some inarticulate answer of which the
meaning was not quite clear. Lance continued
in his slow and feeble voice, with a dreamy look
upon his face :

' I thought that I called you, and that at first
you would not hear. But afterwards you turned
and came, and I was able to sleep in jDcace. What
was the danger ? "

Suppose I had never come back at all,
Bertie ? "

You could not have left me, father," said the
boy, with the caressing intonation that Gaston
now loved so well.

No. I came back for your sake," Ravens-croft
murmured in the lowest possible tone.

There was a pause. The nurse was moving
about in the next room, the door of which was
open. Father and son were practically alone.

What would you says' Gaston asked, lifting
his head and speaking with apparently a great
effort as he looked into Lance's trustful eyes, " if
you heard that your father had disgraced himself
by treachery to a man whose whole future lay for
one moment in his hands ? Ahat if he had been
prevented from committing murder only by some
fortunate accident ? Would it not be better for
him to leave the country, or even to leave the
world, before the worst was known ? "

The boy's eyes gazed keenly into his father's
face ; then he moved his head upon the pillow
and smiled a bright incredulous smile. 'you
are putting an imaginary case now," he said,
'' and I thought that we were talking of realities.
Of course, in that case, you would have done best
to come home to those who loved you  to Vera,
and to me."

'' But if it were true " began Gaston in a

stifled voice. And then  he could not help it 

lie bowed his head down upon his hands and
awaited his son's next words in an attitude of
utter dejection.

If a pang of fear or pain shot through the
lad's brave heart, he hid it without a moment's
hesitation. His hand touched his father's raven
head most lovingly ; his voice was filled with
tenderness and pity. " Dearest father," he said,
*' could anything separate us again but death ?"

The manes strong form trembled like a reed.
'' You don't know me," he said vehemently ;
"you do not know what I am, Bertram: you
take me for something far better than I have
ever been or ever shall be."

I do nothing of the kind," his son replied
with answering warmth. "You are more and
better than I ever took you for : I find it out
day by day. Most of all, because you are not
afraid to acknowledge it when you have done
wrong  or to make amends."

Ah, that's the hardest thing of all," said
Gaston mournfully. " To make amends is the
one thing that I cannot do "

'cannot, father?"

Eavenscroft made no answer. He let the boy

take one of this hands and hold it between his
own, but he sat for some time silent and motionless
with his elbow upon his knee and his fingers
arched above his eyes. Lancelot also remained
passive. The singular whiteness of his complexion,
and his almost unearthly sweetness of
expression, together with the tender softness of his
large brown eyes, fixed lovingly upon his father,
gave to his face a strange and almost unearthly
beauty ; it seemed as though the veil of the
body had grown so thin that the fair soul itself
shone through it " with something of celestial
light."

The day wore on to a close. Lancelot slept
a great deal : he could hardly be roused even to
take nourishment, although, when once awakened,
he never failed to look up with his own bright
smile and a word of thanks. Eavenscroft watched
beside him the whole day, refusing to leave him
either for food or rest : he could not bear to missa
single word or look of the son whom he was
so soon to lose. Hour by hour he sat at his
boy's bedside, with his head upon his hand and
a look of profound melancholy upon his face.
He spoke to nobody : it seemed as if he could

not tear his eyes or thoughts away from Lancelot.
His whole heart went out to his son in that long
last brooding gaze.

Vera made one or two attempts to draw him
away ; but when she found that he repulsed her
with even more harshness than he did others, she
withdrew, grieving over her powerlessness to
help him. Her chief desire in promising to become
his wife had been to console him for the
many sorrows of his past years, and brighten
his hours of sadness in the future. It was with
a shock that she discerned the fact that at this
crisis of his life she could do nothing, that he
shrank from her looks and words with a manifestation
of feeling that she took for dislike.

It was not dislike, nor anything approaching
to it : more truly it was his way of showing the
pain that love for her was causing him. He had
no hope of forbearance from Maurice Zaranoff :
his attempt on Zaranoff's life had, he thought,
placed him beyond the pale of generosity. He
was only awaiting, in a sort of dark despair, the
moment when she should learn the truth and
turn from him with scorn. All through the day,
while he sat in gloomy silence at Lancelot's side,

his ears were strained to catch the sounds which
might tell him that Count Zaranoff was in the
house  that Vera had been summoned  that
Eichard Hervey was coming in hot haste to
accuse him of something worse than murder,
perhaps to inflict on him that punishment of
exposure which Gaston felt would be bitterer
than death. There was no escape for him : he
was bound to Lancelot's side : for his sake he
must bear what retribution soever might follow
upon the wrong that he had done. He must
take the consequences of his own deed ; and
these consequences he set himself to bear with
the stoical resolution of an Indian chieftain at
the stake.

But he waited all day in vain. Night came
on, and Zaranoff had not made his appearance.

The only thing that moved Gaston from his
dull composure was a visit from Mr. Hervey.
The old man, whose love for Lancelot was of
stronger growth than even he himself had knovTi,
entered the room at night, made a few ineffectual
dilettante remarks about the arrangement of the
furniture and the exact amount of light admitted
by the curtains, then came up to Lancelot's bed

and looked at him with a tear of which he was
quite unconscious dropping over his pale cheeks.
Is he asleep ?" he murmured anxiously. " He
looks better to-night: do you not think so?"
Then, with a curious break in his voice, he added :
' Ah, my poor boy, if only ypu had stayed in
England we should never have seen you lying
here!"

Then Kavenscroft lifted up his set white face
and spoke T\dth fierce impatience. " Whose fault
is it that he left England, yours or mine ?" he
said. " You have kept him from me nearly all
his life. Can you not leave him to me now?"

Hervey quailed before the vehemence of
Gaston s tones, but before he could reply, Lancelot
had opened his eyes, named him with a look
of pleasure and surprise, and moved his thin
hand upon the coverlet so that Mr. Hervey could
take it in his own. Eavenscroft drew back into
the shadow : he wanted to hide his face from
Lancelot's view. His continued and painful
jealousy of Lancelot's affection for Mr. Hervey
was a matter of constant regret with Gaston's
son.

'good-night, mv dear bov, o;ood-nioiit. I

hope you will be better in the morning," said
the old man, pressing the boy's hand with cold
trembling fingers. " I will come and see you
again tomorrow."

Good-bye, sir." Kavenscroft noted the wistful
look in the large eyes as Lancelot uttered
that significant word of farewell, but Eichard
Hervey would not or could not see. Some impulse
of affection, indeed, caused him to stoop
down and kiss the boy's pale cheek, but, as he
turned away, he went on repeating his futile
good wishes  '' Good-night, I hope you will feel
better in the morning : good-night  good-night."

Lancelot looked after the speaker as he shambled
away, then dreamily spoke to himself.

"I am not sorry," he said, ''I am not
sorry."

"Not sorry for what?" asked Kavenscroft,
leaning forward.

Lance's face changed. "Are you there 1
That is right," he said. " I was thinking that I
was not sorry to be going away  but I am sorry
to leave you, father : very sorry."

You had so much unhappiness in your life
that you are not sorry to think of leaving it,"

said his father, with a bitter pang of self-reproach.
But Lancelot quickly interrupted him.

'' Oh no, father : indeed it is not that. I have
wanted for nothing  scarcely anything, at least 
since I have had you. And ]mr. Hervey was
very good to me. Will you not remember that ?
He did love me  after his fashion ; and you
know," said Lance, with the half-mirthful, half-wistful
glance, which had in it something pathetic
in one so near to death. " it is not everyone who
knows how to love as you do, father. . . . i\.nd
Madame Waldstein  my grandmother  she was
very kind : she sent me some flowers yesterday.
I want you to give her my love and thanks for
them. Still  although I have had a great many
happy days  it seems to me as if I were tired of
everything : I shall be glad to rest. . . . And I
have done many foolish, reckless things too : it
is difficult to act rightly. . So you must not
mind if I say that I am not very sorry that it is
at an end."

He made long pauses between the sentences,
for he was very weak : then for a longtime
he lay silent, with Gaston's arm around
him.

'' You are not afraid 1" asked his father at last,
almost in a whisper.

I don't know. I think not. It is a long
dark passage to go through  but there is light at
the end of it 

' He leads me through no darker room
Than He went through before.
He who into Christ's kingdom comes
Must enter by this door.'

'' No, I am not afraid . or if I am . . . ''
His voice died away, but his lips still moved, and
presently Gaston caught the words that he was
repeating : "0 Lord most mighty, holy aid
most merciful Saviour, deliver us not into the
hitter pains of eternal death''

After a little time he said, very faintly :

'' If you would not mind  there is something
that I cannot recollect  it all slips from me.
Will you read it ?"

What, my dear boy ?"

The book is beside you  the little black
book. Vera will show you where it is marked."

Vera had entered while he was speaking :
she now opened the book and placed it in
Gaston's hands. As he glanced at it his brow

contracted with such a look of pain that Vera
would gladly have relieved him of his office. But
he would not allow her to take the volume from
his hand.

He began to read slowly, in a low and hoarse
voice, with frequent involuntary pauses. But
Lancelot's beautiful calm eyes were fixed upon
him as he read, and gave him strength and
courage to proceed.

'* Man that is born of a woman hath hut a
short time to live, and is full of misery, ' read
Gaston from the book. " He cometh up, and is
cut doivn like a flower ; he fleet as it were a
shadow, and never continued in one stay.

"In the midst of life we are in death: of
whom may we seek for succour, hut of Thee,
Lord, who for our sins art justly displeased

Kavenscroft's voice grew so husky that it was
with extreme difficulty that he finished the
sentence. After a pause, however, he went onto
the end ; failing a little only at the closing
words :

' Thou knowest, Lord, the secrets of our
hearts : shut not Thy merciful ears to our prayer,
hut spare us. Lord most holy. God most

mighty, liohj and merciful Saviour, Thou
most worthy Judge eternal, suffer us not at our
last hour, for any pains of death, to fall from
Their

He let the book fall from his hand and turned
iiway his head : the tears had dimmed his eyes.

"Kiss me, father."

Eavenscroft bent down to kiss him, but a
great sob shook him as he spoke. " Bertram,
forgive me," he was trying to say. " Forgive
me

Then the long-restrained paroxysm of grief
would have its way. He hid his face upon the
pillow and sobbed aloud with all the agonised
vehemence of which his passionate manhood was
capable. Lancelot laid his hands upon his neck
and murmured soothing words ; but he had
reached a region in Tvhich mortal sorrow could
not move him very much.

'' Don't be so grieved, father," he whispered,
'' Vera will comfort you. And I am so glad that
I have lived to know you  and that you have
loved me so much. It makes up for everything
that went before." But that was all that he
could say.

After a time Eavenscroft calmed himself, and
again put his arm round the boy so as to bring
him into that position where it was easier for
him to breathe and to swallow the stimulants
which were administered from time to time.
Lancelot slept again ; but it was rather a stupor
than a natural sleep. Once he opened his eyes,
looked Eavenscroft lovingly in the face, and
said with great difficulty :

You'll make  amends : you'll  come to meat
last  father ?"

Eavenscroft's impassioned answer  " My
dearest, I will, I will !" just reached his ears : he
smiled his own most beautiful and most pathetic
smile, then lapsed once more into unconsciousness.

After this, the nurse's voice failed to rouse
him. Vera tried her powers, but with no more
effect. His eyes remained fast closed. Then
the nurse spoke to Gaston Eavenscroft.

'' Try you, sir," she said softly. " Maybe
hell hear your voice."

Eavenscroft gave her a scared, despairing look,
took in at a glance the full significance of her
request, and turned back to his boy's white face
in an agony of tenderness and grief.

VOL. III. 58

Bertie  my boy, my darling ! Wake : open
your eyes : try to swallow this, my boy ; for
God's sake try ! Bertie ! "

His much-loved voice did more than that of
nurse or friend. Lance opened his eyes, smiled
faintly as he caught his father's accents, and
tried, with his usual submissiveness, to swallow
what was offered him. But it was useless. His
lips were moistened, but he could no longer
swallow ; and by that token they knew that the
end was almost come.

Once more they tried; but now no power on
earth could rouse him. The eyelids did not quiver,
the mouth smiled no more at the sound of his
father's voice. Only the struggling breath grew
more distressed, and the death-damps gathered
on his brow.

Eavenscroft,half standing, half kneeling beside
the bed, held him in his arms throughout, and
never took his eyes away from the pale unconscious
face. Others had entered the room: Mrs.
Kavenscroft, Olivia, Mr. Hervey, all were there,
but Gaston saw them and heard them not. He
knew nothing but that he held within his arms
his only son, and that his son was dying. No

tears now dimmed this eyes. Tears were for
lesser griefs than this ; for he was without comfort
and without hope.

When the tide goes out," said the nurse below
her breath, "he will go too."

And at the turning of the tide  as the gray-dawn
came creeping up the eastern sky  her
words came true : and Bertram Ravenscroft
passed to those regions of eternal peace, whither,
as he himself had said, he had been " not sorry '"'
to depart.

'for Bertram's sake.'

All then was over. Eavenscroft kissed the
white face before he laid it down, then rose and
silently left the room. The other watchers fell
back as he approached them ; they felt that he
was alone and unapproachable in his grief as he
had been in his love. He went into his own
room and locked the door.

For some hours he was not seen by any one ;
and, when at last he left his room in order to
transact some necessary business, his air of stern
and gloomy reserve kept even Vera at a distance.
No one dared to offer him consolation or sympathy.
Indeed, he gave his friends very little
opportunity of doing either, for he remained
mostly in his own room or in the library, and
maintained no more than necessary intercourse

with the other members of his family. Several
times it was reported that he had fastened himself
into the room where Lancelot lay ; but he
said not a word of his own sorrow. But that
week of mourning left its traces upon him forever.


On the day of the funeral the ground was
white with snow. A large concourse of spectators
and guests had assembled. Many came out
of respect for the Eavenscroft and Hervey families
; many out of personal regard for the lad
whom they had known and liked as Lancelot
Aylmer; many out of mere curiosity to see
Gaston Eavenscroft and Mademoiselle de Lusig-
nan, the hero and heroine of half a dozen romantic
stories current in the neighbourhood.

For Vera went to the funeral, although the
snow was falling in soft occasional flakes from a
leaden sky that gave promise of a storm, and the
ground was spread with a thick white carpet
against which the funeral procession looked dismally
black and sombre. Many were present
who shed tears ; but Vera could not weep. She
was absorbed in attention to the chief mourner,
whose tall and stately figure followed the coffin

in solitary majesty. He lead been expected to
lead Vera to the grave ; but, when the moment
came, he forgot all previous arrangements  perhaps,
even, her very existence  and walked alone,
his hat-band sweeping the snow, his head slightly
bent, but his face set like a rock, and his eyes,
dry and bright, fixed on the ground. Once only
Vera thought that his mouth twitched ; it was
at the words which he had read to Lancelot in
the last hours of his life : " Lord, deliver us
not into the hitter pains of eternal death'' But
for that one involuntary quiver, his features
showed no emotion of any kind.

The grave was close to that of Bertram's
mother. Eavenscroft himself had ordered it to
])e dug there, and also that it should be made
large enough for two. Those few who had heard
of this order understood it sufficiently well to
interpret with correctness the evidences of silent
sorrow afforded by the proud but haggard face
and by the lines of gray that had begun to show
themselves in the bowed dark head. To those
who were unacquainted with him he seemed callously
cold and impassive ; but there were some
who knew that his heart was wellnigh broken.

The coffin was piled with flowers. One
wreath had been sent without any name or
message, but Vera's heart stood still when first
she saw it. Who would have sent a wreath of
Russian violets but Maurice Zaranoff? So she
thought ; so Eavenscroft thought as well.

When the service was over, and the clods of
earth had fallen with cruel distinctness upon the
coffin-lid, and flowers had been strewn, and the
gazers pressed forward to look into the grave,
and the sexton stood waiting with his spade,
then Vera came forward to Gaston's side and
laid her hand lightly on his arm. He had seemed
unconscious of the crowd, and stood impassive
and erect, his lips compressed, his brows bent,
his eyes fixed on the grave ; but when she touched
him he started and looked around him as if he
had suddenly awakened to the sense of some
dread reality. There, indeed, he stood, the central
figure of a scene at which he had never before
chanced to be present ; he stood and looked as
if in a dream at the crowd of observers, the
waiting grave-diggers, the open grave yawning
darkly in the midst of a white churchyard. Then
he turned and walked away with a rapid step ;

but the mask of rigid composure which he had
worn throughout the day was never for a moment
laid aside. He went back to Netherbyby Manor
and played the part that remained to him in the
ceremonies of the day with stony calm. And
when his duties had been performed he went
once more to his own room and barred himself
in against all intruders.

His servant reported that he had received
orders to pack up all his master's possessions ;
but this excited no surprise, as it was well known
that Eavenscroft would not continue to be Mr.
Hervey's guest a day longer than circumstances
made it necessary. On the following morning
made his appearance and occupied himself
chiefly in Lancelot's room, arranging such papers
and books as his son had left in his charge ; then
he had a short interview with the master of the
house, of whom he took a formal leave, thanked
him, without rancour, for his kindness to Bertram,
and asked permission to stay in the house
until the following morning. Eichard Hervey
had never seen him so broken and dejected in
manner; and, for nearly the first time in the lives
of these two men, they did not part as enemies.

But he had scarcely spoken to Vera all this
time, although he might have guessed that she
was beginning to weary for a word of tenderness
and to feel a heartsick conviction that the man
to whom she had consented to commit her life,
shunned her in the hour of his tribulation. He
left Mr. Hervey to go straight up to his own
room, where he shut himself in, leaving orders
that he should be left undisturbed. Nobody
ventured to seek him out. At first there reigned
a profound silence in the room ; by and by he
was heard pacing to and fro with slow and regular
steps. The short December day began to darken ;
still he came not, still seemed deaf to every summons.
And at last ]airs. Eavenscroft, who was
spending the day at the Manor, more for Mr.
Hervey's than for Vera's sake, came to her and
besought her to go to him and persuade him to
come downstairs. "Your grandfather is quite
distressed," she said. ' I have never seen him
anxious about Gaston before. Go to him, Vera; you
have more influence over him than anybody else."

I wish I had," Vera answered sorrowfully.

At any rate, you are not afraid of him," said
Felicia.

Vera yielded to this argument, which indeed
was a true one ; she went, and took with her
food and wine, of which she felt certain that he
must be sorely in need.

"May I speak to you, Gaston?" she said,
after knocking and receiving no answer. The
measured tramp through the room ceased suddenly
at the sound of Yera's voice ; evidently he
had stopped to listen. " Will you not open the
door a moment ?"

He turned the key in the lock, threw the
door open, and stood upon the threshold  a dark
stern figure, with a look of bitter grief imprinted
upon his brow.

What do you want with me V he asked ina
hollow voice, strangely unlike his own.

'' I have brought you something to eat and
drink. Let me put the tray down upon the
table. It is heavy for me."

The quiet commonplace sound of her words
reassured him. He took the salver from her hands
and placed it on a table, then turned away.

"I want nothing but to be left alone," he
said. " It seems that I have made a difficult
request."

Vera poured out a glass of wine and offered
it to him without replying. He took it from
her hand and set it mechanically to his lips,
then placed it on the table beside him. " Why
should you serve me, Vera ?" he said.

I like to serve you, when you will let me
do so."

I would not have let you do so yesterday,"
he said, resting his arm on the mantelpiece with
a weary abstracted air. " But to-day I will,
and that without shame  because it may be for
the last time."

For the last time ?" said Vera with rather a
trembling voice.

For the last time," he repeated. " Yes,
serve me as much as you will to-day, Vera; I
shall have no need to refuse your services afterwards.
There are a good many black days in
my calendar ; the day on which I was born ;
the day upon which I lost my son ; this day,
upon which I am to lose you, last of all."

"You are not going to lose me," said Vera
firmly, although her heart beat wildly and her
face turned pale with apprehension. " Is this a
time when I would desert you % I expected

rather to hear you say that now you would let
me be of some use to you."

Gaston said nothing. He left the mantelpiece
and seated himself wearily in a chair, looking
at Vera with the fond and wistful gaze of a
man who sees a dear face once more before he
parts from it for ever.

Vera brought him food as well as wine ; he
accepted them both dumbly and resignedly ; and
he was so far exhausted by grief and fasting
that, when his first repugnance to food had once
been overcome, he swallowed it with a certain
relish. Then she lighted the candles, and saw
by their light how aged and worn he looked, and
her heart yearned over him like that of a mother
over a sick and erring child.

"It is very cold here," she said, with a slight
shiver, partly assumed for the purpose of attracting
his attention. "Will you not come downstairs
with me ? There is no one in the library."

Go down yourself. Vera. I am selfish to
keep you here."

"Not without you." Then, as he did not
move, she added very softly, "It would have
grieved Enim to see you grieving in this way."

"Don't speak of him," he answered, turning
his face from her. But he allowed her to take
his hand and lead him out of the room.

They had to pass the door of Lancelot's room.
Here Eavenscroft half stopped ; but Vera drew
him gently past, and led him downstairs to the
library.

A fire was blazing cheerily ; the lamps had
been turned low ; the whole room, with its curtains
closely drawn, its subdued light, its faint
perfumes of burning wood and Eussia leather
and winter violets, bore a soothing air of peace
and quietness. But peace and quietness were
far indeed from the " unquiet heart and brain "
of the man who entered it.

He seated himself in the great arm-claus to
which she led him, and, with his head upon his
hand, seemed to fall into a kind of dream, in
which he was hardly conscious of her presence.
She sat beside him, ready to enter into his mood,
to soothe or to inspirit him as might seem best.
Her sympathy with him in his loss overmastered
all the old desire to keep herself apart from him.

Eavenscroft sat thus for nearly half an hour.
Then he roused himself; Vera noticed that his

face looked less haggard and his eyes more
calm. His voice, too, had gained in tone and
strength.

'that is enough," he said, rising. "I have
rested, and I have let you wait on me, lead me
whither you would, and sit by me for a little
time. Kiss me, Vera, and then you will give
me the strength I need to tell you all that I have
to tell."

He opened his arms. She came to him
obediently, though with a slight feeling of dismay
; but she allowed him to take her into his
arms and kiss her on cheeks, and lips, and brow.
Then he released her, and made her sit in the
chair which he had quitted. Thus seated, she
saw him stand beside her with one hand on the
arm of her chair, and a look of inflexible resolve
upon his face.

Now, Vera, will you listen to me ?"

"To-night, Gaston?"

Yes, love, to-night. I will not let this day
pass without keeping the promise that I made
my boy. Did you not hear him ask me to
make amends ' ? I will, my own love, I will ;
though it break my own heart, I will !"

You have no amends to make to me."

''Ah, my sweet, that is because you do not
know what I have done. I have deceived you
as much as ever I was deceived myself. And,
as I have never forgiven those who injured me,
so I do not expect you to forgive me. Vera ; but,
at all costs, you shall know the truth."

She sat upright, looking at him with a face
in which the colour ebbed and flowed alternately.
He glanced at the changing hues, sighed, and
then resumed with an averted head and a deliberate
coldness of manner.

It concerns Count Maurice Zaranoff and my
connection with him. It might be a long story ;
but I will make it as short as I can."

I would rather not hear it," said Vera, turning
very white.

You must hear it, child ; you must not lay
on me the burden of silence any longer. Don't
put trivial objections in the way of my telling
you everything when I am inclined for once todo
so."

This vehemence of manner made him so like
his ordinary self that Vera was almost glad of
the sharp words.

You know best," he went on, "how much
reason I had for my jealousy of the man who
seemed always to come between us; you know
best whether I was not right in considering him
a formidable rival. Don't speak ; hear me to the
end. When I went out to Chateau ZaranoiF, he
crossed the frontier at the same time, in the disguise
of a peasant. He was going to see the
Countess lima on her deathbed."

"Ah! his wife."

She was not his wife."

What ! "

She had been betrothed to him years before;
but she had married a relative of his and been
left a widow. On her deathbed she summoned
him from England to tell him various secrets
concerning his arrest and exile, and begged him
to marry her there and then. Out of pity for
her, he consented. She died an hour after the
ceremony was performed. You do not believe
me ? I was in the chateau at the time : I am
sure that I know the truth."

And yet you never told me all this time ? "
said Vera slowly. " Did you not know what I
thought of Maurice Zaranoff ? How I believed

that he had trifled with me  played with me 
oh, I was deceived indeed ! Poor Maurice ! '"
She rose and turned upon Gaston with a sudden
change of manner. " Perhaps you knew also that
he was not dead ? "

Gaston's lip twitched, and the veins swelled
upon his forehead as he answered curtly :

No, I did not know it. I will swear that to
you, if you like. I thought that he was dead
because I saw him fall  struck by a soldier's
weapon, with the blood flowing from his side.
They told me that he was dead. He had been
taken prisoner at the frontier on his return ; and
I  he will tell you the fact himself, no doubt,
so it would be useless for me to conceal it  I 
I "

He stopped. His Hps had gToTL dry and his
tongue refused to utter another syllable. He
tried in vain to clear his voice, but without effect.
Finally he walked to a side-table on which a
water-bottle had been placed, drank some of the
water, and then confronted her again. But this
time he had no need to speak.

Your look tells me what you did," she said
calmly, yet with passionate scorn vibrating in
VOL. III. 59

every intonation of her voice. " You  you 
(gaston Eavenscroft  gave him up to the police"'

He bowed his head and crossed his arms upon
his breast.

I thank God that He defeated your designs,"
said Vera in the same tone. " I thank Him
that He has brought back the man whom you
would have ruined and destroyed, to stand face
to face with you and reproach you for what you
have done. And  'is. that all f

'' No," he said, quietly, " it is not all."

What more can there be ? Oh, that terrible
night when you went out to meet him  when I
sent you out to meet him  what happened then ?
I knew that something happened then. What
was that shot ? Tell me. Who fired it ? "

He paused for a moment, and then answered
in a scarcely audible voice :

I did."

And he  he " She could not find words

for the question which trembled upon her lips.

*' It did not harm him ; he is safe. The ball
missed."

She sank down upon her chair and buried her
face in her hands. He could see that she was

trembling in every limb, and that the tears were
forcing themselves between her fingers. With a
groan he turned away and looked steadfastly into
the fire. Presently she dried her eyes, looked up
and seemed to try to collect her thoughts.

' You must have some excuse," she said at
last, with rapid utterance and heaving breast.
''Do not let me think more ill of you than I
need ; tell me how this came about. Have you
nothing to explain V

'Explanations and excuses would be very weak
in such a case as mine," said Gaston scornfully.
No ; I have neither the one nor the other."

But your reasons for hating him so much ? "

Need you ask them ?"

She rose slowly from her seat and looked him
full in the face. '* And did you ever think," she
said with a dignity before which he hung his
head, " that it was by a crime that you could
gain my love ? Or would my love, so gained,
have reconciled your own conscience to what you
tell me that you have done ? "

You are a woman. Vera. You do not understand
 a woman never can understandthat
there are hours of a man's life in which he casts

all bonds to the winds, and acts as if one thing-only
were worth having in all the world. A
woman always keeps something back, but a man
gives all. I gave all that I had for you  and
you reproach me with it. Has my gift been so
valueless ? I have given you my very soul."

No, indeed ! You have sacrificed everything
to your own passions  nothing at all to meT

He lifted his head and gave her a fiery glance.
Have I sacrificed nothing now ? " he asked ina
low husky voice. " Believe at least that I
acted violently and rashly, on the impulse of the
moment ; and that I do  now  deliberately  try
to make you some amends."

Vera's face lost something of the proud and
icy look which it had worn since her discovery of
the truth ; she looked sadly down and seemed to
be reconsidering what she had said. He proceeded
after a lengthy pause in tones so low as
to be almost inaudible.

'' I do this for Bertram's sake. He did not
know how much he asked of me  perhaps if he
had known, he would have asked it of me all the
more. I have promised, and I have done my
best. You are free, Vera. Go to Zaranofi";

listen to what lie lias to say  and henceforth be
happy."

There was an indescribable bitterness in his
tone. As Vera listened, her face softened and
her eyes filled with tears. This man's wild
nature had subdued and fascinated her own too
often to leave her without pity for his self-humiliation.
He went on, after another silence,
with deep melancholy in his tone.

I have injured you less than I have injured
myself," he said. " You have lost a year or two
of your life, you have suffered and you have
Avert, but your trial has not lasted very long.
Maurice Zaranoff loves you and will make you
the queen of his whole life. You are young still,
and you will have many years of happiness.
But as for me, I am almost beyond middle life
and I am old in heart. I have lost for the
second time the happiness which seemed secured
to me. First Lucy and my boy  Bertram 
yourself. Life will not offer me another chance.
As long as I live  not many years, I trust  I
shall have to go alone, unblest and sorrow-stricken,
knowing that  worst of all  I myself
have been to blame for half my own misfortunes,

and that the other half have come upon me
through the malice of those who ought to have
been my friends. Is there no punishment in
this ? I could wish for your sake that there were
more. For I have loved you with my whole
heart and soul ; I think no other man will love
you quite as well. So, though you cannot forgive
me, look up, my love  my love !  and wish me
Grot-speed before I go."

She lifted her head and saw him stand before
her with hands outstretched and infinite supplication
in his eyes. She could not resist the
entreaty of his words and looks. Rising impulsively,
she placed her hand in his.

Gaston," she said, " I hardly know whether
I am right or wrong, but I am sorry if I have
said anything that sounded harsh, and for those
things in which you may have wronged me  I do
forgive you with all my heart. I wish you Godspeed
wherever you may go. Of course there can
be no further question of marriage between us."

I know it."

But  oh, Gaston ! " and her eyes filled with
sudden tears ; " I do grieve that this is the way
in which we part !  I cannot forget  in spite of

this  your old goodness to me when I was a
child. How could you act in this way, Gaston ?
you who abhorred the very name of deceit and
treachery ! "

' Have pity on me, Vera," he groaned. " If
only you knew how I abhorred myself ! "

She looked at him with womanly trouble and
pity, which were as balm to his wounded heart.

God knows how sorry I am for you," she
said. gaston  you will not forget what
Bertram longed for when he begged you to come
to him again ? "

He shook his head. " Do you think I shall
ever forget one word of what he said 1 It is for
his sake that I have told you all to make myself
a little less unworthy of his love. Now 1
can hide myself from your sight in something-more
like peace. You do not think that I have
been happy all this time ? But you will not be
troubled with me long."

Yera's mind went back involuntarily to the
days of her childhood and the circumstances of
her meeting with him upon the downs. He
divined her thoughts and answered them with
decision.

No, I shall not take my own life  I promise
you that  if only for Bertram's sake, and perhaps
for yours. You shall hear later what I mean todo.
My love  I may call you my love for once,
I think  bid me good-bye."

With a swift sudden impulse she lifted her
wet face to his. He kissed her, but only once,
upon the brow, then held her to him for a
moment with a strange sad smile. '' God bless
you. Vera," he said. " You make me think that
after all there may be  some day  a hope forme.
You know the words that my boy first
showed me ? and they have rung in my ears all
day  ' Man that is born of a woman hath but a
short time to live and is full of misery.' It is
the only prayer I know ; say it for me sometimes,
will you, my Vera  mine no longer ! As for 'the
bitter pains of eternal death,' I think there are
few pains so bitter as mine have been  as those
I suffer still. My love  good-bye."

He put her gently from him and went away
without another word.

"THE Best IS SILENCE.

Late on the evening of the same day Eavenscroft
made his way to Netherbyby churchyard. The
snow had ceased to fall and the night was clear
and frosty. The moon, high in the heavens,
threw her beams brightly over the old church-tower,
over the tombstones, usually so white,
but now grayish-brown, against the whiteness of
the snow, over the heavily-laden yew-trees and
the black mound which marked a recent grave.
Here Gaston remarked, with a touch of surprise,
that the figure of a man was standing. He
advanced towards it slowly, expecting to seethe
stranger turn away ; but the figure did not
move until he was close upon it, and then, turning,
it displayed to his view the well-remembered
lineaments of Maurice Zaranofi".

Eavenscroft involuntarily made a gesture as
though to command the intruder to depart. If
there was one sjot on earth more sacred to him
than another, it was the place where his son lay
buried. And Maurice responded to the gesture :
he had merely turned aside for a moment to look
at the graves of those whose names had long been
strangely and sadly familiar to him, and he was
sorry to be found by Gaston Eavenscroft in
the act. He bowed slightly and moved away.
But before he was half a dozen yards from the
grave Eavenscroft's voice addressed him.

"One moment," he said. "Will you stay
and listen here to what I have wanted either
to write or to say to you ? There can be no
more fitting place than this. And first," as
Maurice silently assented and returned to his
former position, "first, I thank you for your
forbearance. My son, who lies here, knew nothing
 but what I told him  of the truth. You
did not blacken my name to m."
" Was it likely that I should do so ? "

You had the right. But there is no need
for you to exercise that forbearance any longer.
Vera knows all."

You have told her ! "

I have told her, sir, as far as lies in my
power, the whole of what has passed between
us," said Eavenscroft, preserving a cold and
tranquil dignity in the very midst of his self-humiliation.
" I have done more : I have removed
from her mind some misunderstanding
that existed respecting your relations with the
Countess Zaranoff; and when you see her I
think that you will acknowledge that I have
done well. She is ready to listen to you now."

I did not expect this generosity from you,
Mr. Eavenscroft. All that has passed ! She
never would have learned it from me."

Pray do not call an act of ordinary justice
by the name of generosity," said Gaston bitterly.
Call it reparation, if you like."

Maurice looked at him keenly, hardly believing
the testimony of his own ears. After a
little time he spoke, with generous and kindly
warmth.

"I accept that reparation in the spirit in
which you offer it. As far as I am concerned,
the past shall be blotted out. Believe me, 1
never wished to be at enmity with you. Can

we not  now  bury all ill feeling here, within
this grave ? "

Ravenscroft paused in turn. " The victor
can afford to be generous' he said. " He does
not feel the shame of defeat. But I defy you to
forget what I have said and done  any more than
I can myself forget it. Your intention is kind.
But "  he looked at the grave before him  '' I
buried all ill feeling  towards you and towards
all the world, I think  here with my son the day
before yesterday, and I hardly care now to strive
with any one. I think I am almost glad that
Vera will have a heart given her which has not
been seared and wrung and broken as mine has
been." Then, as Maurice seemed about to speak,
"You have at least more to offer her than I,"
said Gaston, emphasising his words with his old
energy of tone : " mine was only the remnant of
a heart  and of a life."

She shall have all that I can give her," returned
Maurice in a low voice. "At least I
shall try to make her happy."

** You will succeed. You need fear no ghost
of the past in my person. I shall be far away.
I leave England tomorrow for the East."

"For the East? But  if I may ask  why
should you do that ? "

"It is no hardship. I like Eastern travelling
as well as I like anything. Tell Vera so ; tell
her, if you will, to think of me as happy and
content. I have not told her where I am going
or when ; but I have said good-bye."

I am very sorry for it," said Zaranoff.

"You will not be sorry by and by. I am
almost tempted," said Gaston with a wintry smile,
to commit to your care not Vera only but some
other friends and relations whom I leave behind.
But it would hardly be fair to give you such a
charge."

I accept it with pleasure."

No. There is no necessity. They are well
provided for. And. your friend Longmore is
more likely to be of service to them than either
you or I. You, I suppose, return to Russia?
I hear that you are reinstated."

"Yes."

You will find it the easier to win Eichard
Hervey's consent. Of Vera's, you need have no
doubt. Farewell, Count Zaranoff. It is unlikely
that we shall ever meet again."

But if we meet again," said Maurice eagerly,
"I trust that we may meet upon a friendlier
footing than we have hitherto done. Will you
not give me your hand, sir, in token of that
happier state of things ? "

He extended his hand as he spoke. Heavens
hesitated : his features worked, his breast
heaved as he replied.

If I do so," said he very slowly, " you must
let me tell you that I  I regret the past. Perhaps
there is no other place in the world where
I could say as much. But  over my son's grave
I will  I do ask for your forgiveness."

Pray say no more. Let us forget the past."

' That would be impossible," said Ravens


For the first and last time the hands of the
two men met. They were no longer enemies.
Separated they might be, perhaps for ever, by
some of the widely-differing elements of their
race and character, as well as by the divergent
currents of their lives ; but each of them would
henceforth remember the other with a feeling
less akin to enmity than to the respectful sympathy
which one accords to a valiant foe.

Then Zaranoff turned away, leaving Gaston
Ravenscroft to stand alone by Bertram's grave.

When morning came he had said his last farewell
to Netherbyby.

His leave-takings had been few indeed. His
interviews with Mr. Hervey, Vera, and Maurice ;
a letter to Felicia, and a much shorter note to
Madame Walt stein, enclosed in an envelope
addressed to Vera, comprised all his farewells to
the living ; those to the dead had perhaps been
lengthen.

The letter to Felicia told her that he had
made over a great part of his income to Olivia,
in order to facilitate her marriage with Frank
Longmore if ever that should take place. In the
event of his death the main portion of his estate
was willed to Olivia.

He might be going to turn Trappist ! " Mrs.
Ravenscroft said when she had read that letter.

x\nd indeed it had been written with something
of the feeling which led many a warrior in
ancient days to don a monk's cowl and woollen
frock in exchange for the casque and coat of
mail.

In a few lines written inside the envelope he
asked Vera to take his note to Madame Waldo
It was only after his departure that she
had learned his intention of going abroad, and
she set out with rather a quaking heart to fulfil
the mission with which he had entrusted her.

She found Madame Waldstein in bed; she had
grown so feeble lately that she seldom left it.

'' A note from Gaston ! " said the old Baroness
snappishly. " I thought that he never meant to
speak to me again ! What is he writing to me
for ? To throw the death of that unhappy boy
in my teeth, I suppose ! As if any one could
not see with half an eye that he had no constitution
! His complexion might have told that to
all of you ; he used to change colour like a girl
his mother had the same trick when she was
in my service."

Vera sat silent  almost aghast  sorrowfully
wondering: at the old woman's tart reminiscences
of the history of Gaston's wife and son. There
were so many things that one would have thought
she might be glad to forget ! But it seemed as
if she gloried in the mischief and the misery that
she had made.

'' If Gaston thinks that I am going to whine
to him for pardon," said Madame Waldstein
shrilly, while her eyes grew bright and her claw-like
fingers plucked savagely at the bedclothes,
' I tell you that he is very much mistaken. I
am not in the least sorry for what I have done.
I have attained my ends. I said that if he
married Lucy Moore his marriage should end in
misfortune. Has it not done so ? Was his
married life successful ? You know how it
ended. Vera : she left him, died in a cottage like
a beggar, and left her child to the workhouse.
If Eichard Hervey had not interfered that boy
would have died in the workhouse too."

"You speak as if you wished him to have
died," said Vera with indignation.

I did," said Madame Waldstein. " I should
have been delighted. He was in my way. Our
only safety lay in keeping Gaston ignorant of
his existence, and in letting Eichard Hervey
think that he was illegitimate."

'' How was he in your way, madame ? "

Are you a fool like all the rest of the world
that you don't see why ? " said the Baroness
sardonically. " If he were acknowledged as
VOL. III. 60

Gaston's lawful son, he would be also Gaston's
heir \ Do you not see that ? "

'eyes, but then "

Your experience of life has left you very
innocent, Mademoiselle de Lusignan. Of course
I wanted Gaston's money and estates for poor
Philip's child, Olivia. If she had been 'a boy,
Gaston would never have had a penny."

Vera rose in anger. " And you were wicked
enough to sacrifice Lance for the sake of making
an heiress of Olivia ! " she said.

They were both my grandchildren. I had a
right to my preferences," said Madame Waldo


You knew Lance, and yet you did not love
him ? "

Lance was a pleasant pretty - faced boy,
attentive and good - natured. If he had had
Gaston's ugly black brows and imperious ways, I
should have liked him better. But he was the
image  the living and breathing image  of Lucy
Moore ! of my waiting-maid ! Such a marriage
was a disgrace to the family  if there had been
no marriage I should have pitied and loved the
boy. But Olivia is fit to be a princess ; and

there is not a blot upon her lineage anywhere 
Felicia was a De Courcy, and vie can hold our
own against the most ancient families in England.
There was no comparison between the two."

'' Yet I thought that you did not oppose the
engagement between them ?"

"Policy, my dear," said the Baroness, with a
nod and a little tap of her fan ujDon Verses arm,
policy. When it seemed possible that the truth
might come out, I did the best that I could, both
for Olivia and for Bertram. If Olivia could not
have the whole, she should have part. Philip's
daughter might marry Gaston's son, and the
whole affair would be arranged. Tout vient a
point d qui sail attendre. Now do you understand
? Of late everything has gone according
to my wishes."

Olivia would never have married Bertram,
if he had lived."

I know it. She told me so herself I congratulated
her on her cleverness : she changed
her mind just in time," said the Baroness with
malicious complacency. " She will not waste
her youth in a regret."

But your plans are as far from accomplishment

as ever' said Vera, eyeing the old intriguer
with compressed lips and a dissatisfied brow.
Gaston is living if his son is dead ; Gaston
thinks  thought at least "

"Of marrying?" said the Baroness. "Ah,
my dear, I know both you and him too well for
that. You will never marry Gaston ; and he will
never marry anybody else."

Vera started as if the words had stung her.

Do not say that," she cried entreatingly,
Oh, do not say that. I hope  I trust "

"What, you have broken it off already?"
said Madame Waldstein, understanding her wonderfully
well and giving her a curiously searching
look. "I did not think that it would be
so soon. Excuse me, my dear Vera, if I sa'
what I think  so much the better for Olivia ! 
if at least he does not leave all his money to
you ; for he is the last in the entail, you know."

"Madame," said Vera with a flash of unrepressed
anger, " I would sooner beg my bread in
the streets than accept a penny from your son.
After what you have told me, it would be blood-money.
Tell it to Olivia, and she will never
touch a penny of it either*'

' Prettily said : bravo, my dear," was the
mocking answer. " I should like to see you on
the boards, Vera. You have a look of Malian
in her prime, although you are so fair. I suppose
you might have done great things if you
had taken to the operatic line, and if you had
not lost your voice. But I daresay that you will
get it back again in a year or two. I am not
such a fool as you think me. I don't in the
least intend to tell Olivia what I have said to
you, or her mother either ; and I trust to you
not to repeat it to them."

' Shall I leave you your son's letter, madame f
said Vera with her utmost stateliness of demeanour.
For as yet the Baroness had made no
movement to take it from her hands.

Open it and read it yourself, child ; I have
lost my sight for anything but good handwriting.
Gaston's hieroglyphics were always too much
for me."

I would rather not : Gaston's letters are
meant for your eye alone," said Vera. 'I will
call Mrs. Kavenscroft, if you will allow me ; she
will do what you wish."

'' M\. and too much," returned the Baroness

in her sharpest tones. " Felicia may be an angel :
I always thought that angels must be dull company,
and certainly my experience of her goes
far to prove the truth of my theory. Would
Gaston have sent the letter by you if he had not
meant you to read it ? If you do not open it
and read it to me, I will tear it in pieces and
never listen to a word of it."

Sooner than that he should have written in
vain, I will read it, madame," Vera answered,
opening the envelope with a trembling hand.
The Baroness watched her movements with eyes
that glittered like those of a lynx ; yet she was
uneasy, as Vera guessed from the nervous twitch
of her wrinkled jewel-laden fingers and the
momentary contortion of her thin lips. But she
still spoke scornfully.

'' More reproaches, I expect ! Gaston is quite
too energetic for his generation ! How many
pages, Vera V

Half a page, madame."
Read it then : why do you wait ?"
Thus pressed. Vera read in no very steady
voice the following words : 

I leave England to-night  for ever. I write

to you (and ask Vera to be the bearer of mv
letter  her last office of kindness to me), first.
because my son charged me to give you a
message of love and thanks  you alone know
how well his love and thanks had been deserved !
secondly, because I will not go without bidding
you farewell. I have myself needed forgiveness
too often to withhold mine now. You may value
it some day more than you did when last I saw
you, mother.  Gaston Eavexscroft."

The opening of this letter had been received
with a burst of derisive laughter from Madame
Waldstein, renewed at intervals as Vera paused
upon some emphatic word. But when the reading
was over and Vera raised her head in indignant
protest against this unseemly mirth, she saw that
it was partly at least involuntary, and that the
expression on the Baroness' face was one of pain
and not in any way of amusement. She rose in
alarm ; but at that moment, with a sort of
choking cry, Madame "Waldstein seemed to
recover empire over herself.

He forgives me !'' she gasped, with a tremulous
difficult sneer. ' What a transformation !
You must have converted him. Vera !*'

I have done nothing : I wish I had."
We generally call our greatest achievements
nothing. Lance's love and Gaston's forgiveness
ha, ha ! and people talk of the justice of
Heaven ! I thought at one time that Gaston
would have murdered me ! His forgiveness indeed
 a precious legacy !"

And so, in the same scoffing, derisive way,
she talked on without taking heed of Vera, until
at length the words grew faint and incoherent,
and she slept, or seemed to sleep. It appeared
as if this letter had given her a greater shock
than any one would have anticipated. Certain it
was that Madame Waldstein was never from that
day forward the woman that she had been. She
speedily assumed the outward characteristics of
an infirm and almost imbecile old woman ; her
eye grew dim, her head shook, her words became
unintelligible. Sometimes she would lift
her hands and wring them piteously together.
Usually she remained silent and motionless for
hours at a time, with a speechless look of terror
upon her wrinkled yellow face. It was a condition
which ended before very long in death ; and
the best womali, the most devoted mother that

ever breathed, could not have lead to lier life's
end a Gentler or more unselfish danshter for her
nurse than Leonora, Baroness Waldstein, found
in Felicia Eavenscroft.

After her delivery of Gaston s letter Vera returned
home, chilled, perplexed, and saddened.
She had heard from Mr. Hervey that Gaston was
meaning: to leave Pendant ; but she had fancied
that his absence would be but for a short time.
The first words of his letter echoed painfully in
her heart. '"'Forever!*' Alas it possible that
he would spend his life in some far Eastern land,
far from the sad memories, the blighted hopes,
that had gathered roimd his existence in England
? She felt her heart throb with mingled
pity and tenderness at the thought. At the
same time she was conscious, rather against her
will, of a sensation of intense relief ; some bm-den
had been removed, some chain loosened; she
knew that she was free. Her spirit rose with
the feeling of freedom. She began to make plans
of future work and independence. She would
henceforth earn her own living; ; she would teach
singing. Mr. Hervey must let her go out into

the world once more. There she had a position
of her own ; there she had work to do. In
Netherbyby Manor she felt herself nothing but a
useless appendage of the house.

In the background there was also an unconscious
blossoming of memory and hope that
breathed a subtle fragrance over all her idle
dreams. Maurice had not deceived her. Perhaps
in time he would explain all that had
seemed mysterious in his conduct. In the meantime
she could only sorrow that she had not
trusted him enough. Some more passionate
feeling surged beneath this tranquil show of reasonableness
; but she was resolved to ignore it,
as far as such resolve was possible.

Yet it was this warmer feeling that sent a
sudden burning heat over her face from brow to
chin when she entered the drawing-room by an
unfastened glass door, and found herself face to
face with Maurice Zaranoff. He Alas alone, and
had been waiting her return for some time.

Adhere was the desire for explanation of his
conduct gone ? She forgot it, even as he himself
forgot to offer any. He held out his hands to
her impulsively and said ' Vera !" with an accent

of appealing tenderness which she, who loved
him, knew not how to resist. She did not hesitate
a moment, but turned and let him clasp her
to his breast.

There was so much to say, so much to tell,
that the lovers were fain to take refuge in long
and happy silence. Now and then a word, a
sentence of explanation, dropped from the lips of
one or of the other ; but for the most part they
were both very still. There had been so much
danger, so much strife and unhappiness, that
they felt themselves still in the shadow of the
past, and could hardly believe that a brilliant
future lay before them. It was a future that had
its snares and pitfalls as well as its brilliance ;
for although Count Maurice ZaranoiF had been
restored to his rank and estates in Eussia, as well
as to the favour of the Emperor, his sympathies
were enlisted on the National side, and it might
be feared that they would sometimes carry him
too far for prudence. But Maurice had gained
a faithful and loving helper, and he knew that
whatsoever might befall him he would henceforth
not go to his fate alone. '' There is something
wanting to the perfect life," Lamennais

has said, " which does not end upon the battlefield,
the prison, or the scaffold. " That dictum
was one which neither Maurice nor Vera would
dispute.

Ravenscroft's last interview with Zaranoff and
his message to Vera were amongst the first
things which Maurice had to tell. Vera's eyes
filled with tears as she heard it. " Poor Gaston !"
she said softly. ' I wish that he had stayed,
and been our friend. We do well, I think, to forgive
him, Maurice, for he suffered very greatly."

There was no reason for delay ; they were
married, quite quietly, one day at Netherbyby
Church, soon after the beginning of the New
Year. Vera wore a white dress trimmed with
fur ; and carried a bunch of violets. After the
wedding she turned aside to lay her bridal bouquet
on Lancelot's grave. They left England
almost immediately for St. Petersburg.

The new Countess made a great sensation at
the Russian Court. Some particulars of her previous
story had leaked out ; and even without
this attraction her own beauty and grace would
have gained admiration for her anywhere. Her
popularity was increased by a fact which she

revealed one clay to lier husband with some show
of timidity.

Maurice," she said to him, ' do you remember
my telling you how much I cared for fame asa
singer 

Yes, my darling ; you do not regret it, do
you ?" he said, taking her hand and looking into
her eyes with tender care.

Not in the least. This is what I want you
to hear, Maurice. When my voice went from me
I thought that my life was useless, that I had no
other gifts nor powers ; but now that I have love,
I do not wish for glory. I am satisfied with
love. You are more to me than all the plaudits
of the world."

She leaned upon his shoulder and let him
hold her close to him as he answered.

"It is very sweet to me to hear you say so,
Vera."

But," said Vera, hesitating a little, while a
happy smile lingered upon her lips, " do you
not wonder a little why I tell you so just now ? "'

I have not had time to wonder. Why, my
love?"

Because, Maurice ""  (she spoke a little

shyly, and yet with a look of deep and grave
delight)  " because I have found my voice again.
I think it is better than ever it was before.
But oh, my darling, remember that my voice
and the owner of the voice both belong to your

'' I have something to tell you too," he said
to her presently. '' Do you know what drew
me first to you, my Vera ? Do you remember
telling me of the Kussian lady who gave you
yom name when you were a baby-girl in France 'i
How well I knew that story ! Did you never
guess. Vera ? You bear my mother's name, and
it was she who held you in her arms."

'' Why did you not tell me ? "

"You might have thought that I was trying
to encroach upon your kindness. It would have
given you no pleasure to hear the truth then ;
and I think that it does give you a little pleasure
now, does it not ? I msh my mother had seen
you again before she died."

Oh, I am glad," she said, turning to him
impulsively and putting her hands u23on his
shoulders. '' I always felt that sou belonged tome
 and I was right. It was just like you not
to tell me, Maurice  yet I think that I should

have been glad to hear it. Did you care for
what gave me pleasure even then \ "

'' I cared for you and for what gave you
pleasure," he replied, 'from the moment when
I saw you on your knees with your arms round
Davy's neck, at Davy's dying bed ! "

A year was allowed to pass before Frank
Longmore wooed Olivia for himself. And then
he sent an ambassador who was certain to receive
a gracious hearing  for Olivia was devoted to
Sir Adrian.

'My dear," he said to her in his fatherly
way, " I have come to you with a message from
my son."

Indeed, Sir Adrian ? " she said, colouring,
but meeting his eyes with innocent frankness.
''What has Mr. Longmore to say to me ? "

'' There is a great deal that he would like to
say. Do you know that he has an appointment
offered him at Poona ? "

' At Poona ? " she repeated with a pretty air
of doubt. " Where is Poona, Sir Adrian ? In
Asia or Africa ? "

"It is in India, little ignoramus," he said.

patting lier fresh cheek. ' It is a good appointment,
and I know that the place is a pleasant
one ; I spent some time in it myself. Frank
will be lonely out there, will he not ? "

She was beginning to understand. " Oh no''
she said, lowering her eyelids ; "he will have
plenty of companions. There are a great many
English in such places : he Avill hunt tigers, no
doubt, and play billiards, and drink a great deal
of brandy and soda. Oh, I know all about gentlemen's
pursuits in India, Sir Adrian ; I have been
reading; a novel of Indian life. Your son will be
very well amused."

"As regards the tiger-hunting, I do not
object," said Sir Adrian, smiling, " but the other
amusements that you have mentioned are not of
a very elevating nature, my clear. I would
rather that he took a companion with him
who would not countenance the brandy and
soda "

A member of the Blue Ribbon Army ? " said
Olivia with an irrepressible little laugh. " Or a
Good Templar, Sir Adrian ? "

My dear," said the General more gravely,
'' don't you know that it would make the happiness

of my life to see you Frank's wife some
day?"

"Ah, but it is the happiness oi Frank's life
that would be in question, sir," said Miss Olivia,
who could not but be saucy, although her cheek
was beginning to grow crimson and her eyes
to fill.

Then  will you not make the happiness of
Frank's life, my child \ "

Could I make his happiness ? " said Olivia
demurely.

He must tell you that himself." And forthwith
Sir Adrian departed to summon the expectant
Frank, who was not slow to plead his own
cause with the wayward maiden.

He had not long to plead. Perhaps he loved
her all the better that at the close of the interview
she lifted up her beautiful eyes to his face
and said:

'I can never forget Lance, Frank. You will
not be angry with me for remembering him ? "

"We will remember him together' Frank
replied. " If it were possible for me to love you
less, Olivia, I should do so if I thought that you
had forgotten him."

VOL. III.



They were married in a month's time, and
started for India shortly afterwards. Felicia,
thus left alone, devoted herself after the
Baroness' death to Mr. Hervey ; it seemed
always to be her lot to sacrifice herself for the
sake of others. Charles Herbert asked her one
day if she would not 'sacrifice herself to him
and go out to Armenia." She declined the proposal
when it was first made ; but there is good
reason to believe that she will reconsider her
decision.

The Count and Countess Zaranofi" returned
late one night from a great ball in St. Petersburg.
They halted for a few moments in an
inner drawing - room to talk over the events
of the evening in their usual loving, friendly
fashion ; there was scarcely a thought which
these two did not share. The room was very
bright and pleasant : Vera herself, radiant in her
white lace and diamonds, was not the least
pleasant object to look upon. Maurice, somewhat
older and graver looking, with a brilliant
array of orders upon his uniform, observed her
every movement with the satisfaction of a man
who thinks that his highest ideal has been found.

And he was not in error ; for had he ever been
tempted to stray from the path of noble effort
for his people and his country, it was Vera's
hand that would have led him back.

There were letters on the table for them to
read. Vera opened one of hers as she talked,
glanced at it, and was suddenly struck dumb.
Maurice looked up.

'-' What is it, love ? " he said.

'A letter from Mr. Herbert, the English

consul at M . He was a friend of Gaston

Ravenscroft's. Come and read the letter \\\t\\
me, Maurice."

She held his hand all the time she read, seated
on a low chair, with Maurice looking over her
shoulder. Herbert's letter was a long one. He
began by accounting for its length. He had had
a message confided to him by his friend Gaston
Ravenscroft. 'rand it now becomes my duty,"
he wrote, " to tell you, in some detail, the circumstances
under which I received that message.
He came to my house unexpectedly one afternoon,
dressed as usual in Eastern garb, and proposed
to stay with me for a day or two. I
thought him looking worn and old ; but he

spoke cheerfully of his life in the East, and recounted
with great spirit some of the adventures
through which he had lately passed. We did
not speak at all of England. In the midst of
our conversation we heard a disturbance in the
garden and on the verandah-stejs ; presently
one of the servants came to say that a stranger
requested an audience. This stranger proved to
])e an old Bedouin Arab, who immediately threw
himself at Eavenscroft's feet, and implored his
assistance. (You know, most probably, that he
was considered a great sheikh and warrior
amongst many Asiatic tribes.) It seemed that
the old man's village had been plundered and
burned, his flocks carried off, and, worst of all, his
only son, a boy of about fifteen, taken prisoner.
He wanted Gaston's help in negotiating the
release of the lad, as Gaston was thought to bea,
friend of the attacking tribe.

"You know as well as I do that this appeal
was one which stirred all the tender fibres of
Gaston's heart. He rose up without a word.
and l)egan to prepare for departure. I remonstrated
with all my might ; for the distance was
great and the tribe notoriously hostile to us, but

lie would not hear me. 'Do you tliiuk I could
refuse him % ' lie said at last. ' 1 am not afraid

of failure ; tliougii if I fail ' ' If you fail,' I

said to him, 'you will be killed.' 'Exactly so,'
he answered. ' And do you think, my dear
Herbert, that I am afraid of death ? '

"After that reply I had but little to say.
Just as he was going out of the door, however,
he hesitated, and suddenly turned back. ' You
are right,' he said. ' There is more than
common danger in this expedition. If I do not
return in  say six weeks from to-day, you may
do me a favour. Write to the Countess Zaranoff
at St. Petersburg  you have known her as
Mademoiselle de Lusignan  and give her a
message from me.' Then he produced a small
black book which he had carried in some inner
portion of his Oriental garments, looked at
it for a moment, and added : ' I value this
little book more than anything that I possess.
I cannot risk the loss of it. If I return in a
month I will claim it from you ; if not in six
weeks, send it to Vera. She dll understand.'
He paused for a moment, then said with visible
emotion : ' It was my son's ! ' This was the only

occasion on which he mentioned his son to me.
He pressed the book for a moment to his lips,
gave it into my hand without looking at me,
then flung himself into the saddle and rode
away. From the top of my house I watched his
figure grow dim and indistinct in the far distance
as he pursued his way to the south-east. I have
never seen him since.

Three months have now passed. Nothing
up to the present time has been heard either of
the Arab or of my friend. There is great hope,
madame, for his ultimate safety ; but I do not
like any longer to delay the fulfilment of my
promise. I send to you the book that he so
much valued. I trust and dray that he may
one day claim it from your hands."

The packet containing Lance's well-worn
Prayer-book lay upon Yera's lap. She opened it
with trembling fingers ; the leaves fell apart of
themselves at the prayer which Gaston had
learned to use at Lance's dying bed. K white
violet had been pressed between the pages.
Vera's tears fell quick and fast ; Maurice leaned
over her and kissed her brow.

Wait and hope, my darling," he said. '' He
will come back to us at last."

''I am not sure," said Vera slowly, 'that I
even wish him to come back. Perhaps he is
happy now  perhaps he is with Lucy and with
Lance. And yet, oh, Gaston, poor Gaston ! 1
cannot believe that we shall never see him here,
where we hoped that he would come. I cannot
believe it ; I will wait and hope for him, Maurice,
to the very end."

She is waiting and hoping still. But never in
this life will she look upon the face of Gaston
Ravenscroft again.

THE End.

Printed h R. sc R. Clark, Edinburgh.

r. C.Sr Co.

:\ xM"-"
