chapter of accidents
brought me just then first one happy chance and
then another, and it seemed very pleasant to have
some one that it was a duty to make happy by
telling her pleasant tidings about oneself. I caught
myself thinking that if married men did not confide
in their wives, or if their wives did not sympathise
with the confidences, the fault must be in the men.
I kept back nothing, and Edith's sympathy was
angelically ready, and quite as intelligent as could
be expected, considering that the darling girl was
just the desirable least bit on the further side of
perfect wisdom in her estimate of the man she
loved.

Then they came to London. Easter fell early the
next year, and we were to be married just after, and
enjoy our spring in the summery south. The first
warning or hint of a misunderstanding left me
almost stunned with simple amazement. This was
how it befell. Church-going was not much in vogue
at the country house where we had met first. The
church was ugly, too far to be a tempting walk, too

so A DIPTYCH.

I near to break the coachman's Sabbath. On two

 Sundays, I remembered now, I had ridden across



j country to see my own people, and so had not had

to give an account of my doings in regard to public

worship. Then the first Sunday of my stay Edith

had perhaps only thought of me as one young

heathen among the rest, and the last two weeks

f we had made a compromise, not too painful to her

conscience. She stayed at home with me in the

morning, and in the evening I went to church with

her and sang Ken's and Keble's evening hymns with

some real devotional feeling:. Who has not felt as if

i it would be good for him to have good angels always

I as near as heaven seems on a summer's evening

as the church bells ring for vespers ; wild rose and
honeysuckle trail from the shady hedgerows, the
footpath through the meadow leads only to the
village church, and what if each stile is blocked by
a rustic pair of sweethearts, so long as the accomplished
child of the gay world by our side is ready
to answer our longer, more exacting wooing as satisfactorily
as these buxom damsels do the laconic
Wiltha ? " of their slouching swains ?

Now in London, Sunday was my chief holiday, and
I had not cared to waste it in sitting under eminent
preachers. Perhaps it was stupid of me. I had no
home or sisters to show me the ways of this feminine
world, but it had simply never occurred to me that

A DIPTYCH. 51

it could make any difference to Edith how much or
little I believed of the things she went to church to
say. Once or twice we had had a little playful
sparring, as I thought ; as I have a soul on earth to
save, I thought it was no more ; and I was at a loss
to guess what troubled her when one Thursday Edith
seemed shy and silent, and on the Saturday as I
spoke of what we would do and talk about tomorrow,
she blushed and looked embarrassed, and
then said : " AVould you mind not coming tomorrow;
I want a long talk with you, but not tomorrow,
please; after Sunday, which day next?" She seemed
unhappy, but I thought it was only some girlish
trifle, perhaps some woman friend she wanted to see
and did not like to put before my visit; but since
she was ill at ease, I would not even notice the little
nothing that had come between us, and planned at
once a drive, a visit we could pay together, and a
walk which, though suburban, was solitary on weekdays.


All this was agreed upon for Tuesday. Edith
was herself again by then; we talked as usual
through the drive, paid our duty visit to an aristocratic
godmother, who received me graciously, and
then, bidding the carriage meet us half a mile
farther on, we were alone at last. The field before
us was bleak, the wind blew freshly over the brow
of the hill we skirted, and the birds were singing :

52 A DIPTYCH.

we met two roughs with an air of Bailiff Highway
about them, and lines and cages in their hands
that implied an . uncomfortable threat against the
songsters' peace. The hedges had a sun-dried look,
and the sheep's wool was ragged and smutty, but
the new lichfield and its latest emanations were
behind us, the lightly trodden footpath had a rural
bogginess, we saw the sky,, we were together and
alone.

May be some foolishness passed between us, and
then her eyes met mine with happy frankness. I
said, All was well, was it not ? I knew nothing
was the matter last week, but just for a moment I
had been frightened by the fancy  supposing anything
should be? She said that was just it; she
had been frightened  foolishly, she was sure, and
now she did not like to tell me what it was; 
should she tell me now ? I was sure to say it was
only foolishness, but she didn't mind that, since it
wasn't really true.

Since what was not really true ? " I asked without
the shadow of anxiety.

She blushed and hesitated, and said: Would I
forgive her, she ought not to have believed what
any one else said  she didn't believe it, but it had
made her unhappy only to hear it said that I

As I am a sinner, I expected some such unlikely
slander as that I drove my horses with a bearing

A DIPTYCH. 53

rein, or had been seen shooting at Buckingham. The
ghosts of my god-parents forgive me ! It was with
much the same sense of relief and irrelevancy that I
heard at last the end of the stammering sentence.
It was foolish of her to make so much of it; she
had thought since that Mr. So-and-so wasn't speaking
seriously when he said it, but at first it had
frightened her : " You know," she added shyly, " we
have never yet spoken about those things, and so I
couldn't feel as if I knew for myself all that you
feel  I only know you are so good. I never ought
to have doubted."

But you haven't told me yet, sweetheart, of what
the calumniator accused me ? "

It was pretty to see the flash of illogical delight
that shone through her tears as she cried : " I knew
it ! I was sure you would say it was a calumny.
Forgive me, darling, it was my love that made it
seem so horrible, and yet I ought  if I had only
loved you as I ought  to have known that it could
not be true."

I suppose it is some wretched survival of the brute
that makes a man feel stupidly as if he were somehow
a finer fellow himself when the woman he loves
is the least bit of a (darling) goose. I felt a momentary
temptation to test my power by accepting this
blank cheque of acquittal, and promising to forgive
my darling this once, if she would never believe any

Si A DIPTYCH,

harm of me again. I thought of this only as a
passing jest,  of course she would tell me what it
was all about at some future time, and we should
laugh together over our first and last attempt at a
serious explanation."

Fortunately for both our lives, this slighting impulse
revolted me as a disloyalty to my heart's young
queen ; and as we pulled ourselves together with a
joint consciousness of having behaved with something
less than our usual decorum, I took up the
interrupted conversation in the most matter-of-fact
tone I could command. " So-and-so is really a good
friend of mine ; what was it he shocked you by saying
about me ? "

And she replied, this time without hesitation, '* He
spoke as if you didn't believe in the Bible. Lady

said something about your review of Brush's

History of Egypt,' and Mr. So-and-so laughed, and
said  I couldn't help hearing him, and it was that
that made me so unhappy : I couldn't forget the
very words, and yet I didn't like to tell you about
it, because that looked as if I had more belief in him
than in you.  The words were, * Why, you don't
suppose Arthur takes all the A. V. for Gospel ? ' "
She went on, talking rather fast, as if to give herself
confidence, for I was silent and taken by surprise :
*' Of course it was foolish of me to take to heart what
was said so lightly. I suppose it would be a heresy

A DIPTYCH. 55

to take the books of the Law, even in the Authorised
Version, for * Gospel ' in the true sense, but it hurt
me to think that a friend of yours, and you say he is
a real friend, should speak of you as if you were not
one of us. I wondered "  here again her voice fell,
and she blushed and hesitated, and then half whispered,
leaning on my arm the while, " I wondered
whether I was wrong to let our marriage come so
near without speaking of these tidings. You know I
had hoped we should have the full service, but I was
afraid to ask if you would mind "

There is a decree of misunderstanding that remedies
itself by dint of its very completeness. I did
not know in the very least what Edith was talking
about, but her words called up the thought of a doubt
that had crossed my own mind about our marriage
rites, and I answered the suggestion of my own
thoughts rather than hers. I drew her a little closer,
and spoke so gravely that the poor child's hopes beat
high.

Of course, darling," I said, " I had not expected
you to go with me in quite everything I think:
people may love and trust each other without that.
Perhaps "  I was soon to be ashamed of this conceit
" perhaps I can more easily enter into your ideas
than translate mine into the language you woxild
think orthodox, and that is why I thought it best
not to raise, any discussion about our marriage. So

56 A DIPTYCH.

long as the form is legal, that is all that signifies ;
and I felt that it would be selfish of me to insist on
my own preferences in a matter that would make so
much unpleasantness for you. And besides, I thought
you yourself, dear, might have some feeling against
a civil marriage."

She looked at me with startled, uncomprehending
eyes. I had given up the idea of proposing that we
should be married by the Registrar, because of the
scandal it would cause in the family, and because I
thought it pedantic to make the services of that
estimable official an integral part of the liatioualist
creed. I did not guess that Edith had never heard
of a civil marriage, except as something vaguely
wicked, done in tracts by infidel working men, who
are subsequently persuaded by the curate to reconcile
themselves to religion and morality by marrying
their old wives over again in church, in an atmosphere
of penitent, religious awe, appropriate to a deferred
sacrament, like adult baptism. Edith had understood
me as little as I understood that her anxiety
turned all upon the question which sometimes fills
half a volume in High Church novels for the young,
was the bridegroom a good enough churchman to
wish the full Communion Service added to that for
the solemnisation of Holy Matrimony ?

The extent of our misunderstanding began to dawn
first on me, and then I set myself to explain. God

A DIPTYCH. S7

forgive me! I still had a sense of capable condescension,
as if we were acting Faust and Gretchen in the
Catechism scene. Edith listened, and I supposed
was following my lucid rendering of the poet's Kame
list Sckall und Taut, when presently she stopped,
loosed my arm, and faced me with a pitiful look.
Arthur, I don't think I am clever enough to understand
all that. Does it mean "  she paused, rather
as if she were the martyr called upon to make confession
with a stake in sight  " does it mean that
you believe in God and our blessed Saviour, or does
it mean something else ? "

At last, not without rage at my own blindness, I
saw all the danger. My heart sank. I said, " Edith,
sweetheart ! my first and only love ! tell me, Edith,
now, at once  do you love me, dear ? "

She laid her hand on my arm; perhaps I had
never before felt such a longing for the love that still
delayed to answer. I had been so sure of my happiness,
I had never before felt the aching need of a
woman's all-embracing, all-overmastering tenderness,
and instead of the longed-for, self forgetting welcome,
she looked at me still as if we were leagues and
centuries apart, and she asked again with the same
frightened, pitiful look, " Forgive me for being so
stupid. I don't quite understand. Does it mean that
you are  that you believe  in Christianity or no ? "

Seeing her distress, I had no right to complain

58 A DIPTYCH.

of the chill I felt at having my own appeal unanswered.
The rest of our conversation was difficult ;
she asked me to let her drive home alone ; she would
write ; we must meet another time. I did not feel
the less like a fool for being plants Id in a suburban
road, at an unknown distance from a cabstand and
Charing Cross. Must a man pass or set a theological
examination before he can offer to the girl of his
choice ? If Edith had had a father confessor on
whom to lav the blame, I should have known what
to be at, and could have contented niy.elf with wishing]:
to wring:: his neck. AVliat was the use of beincr
in the right if one couldn't make its Tightness plain
to a gentle, loving girl ?

The next fortnight was a penitential season. Interviews
and pourparlers succeeded each other.
Edith's family were averse to a rupture on grounds
of worldly expediency, and helped to prolong the
purgatory by their anxiety to find some ground of
compromise. The mother as good as asked me to
use a little brief hypocrisy, and touched the borders
of good taste in her anxiety to explain how entirely
our two interests were one. It is bad for a girl to
be talked about as having broken off an engagement;
but if it came to that ('*as we all hope it mayn't),
the real reason was sure to get known too, and that
could not fail to do a man some harm in his profession.
As it happened, I knew that a scandal of

A DIPTYCH. 59

tills sort would do me a certain considerable and
special injury at once, but I answered grimly it
would signify the less if I had no wife depending
on my success. After this reach of distracting uncertainty,
it was settled I was to see Edith once
more. It was a last hope. Would she or I take
back something of the words that made any answer
but a farewell impossible to the other ; or would she
say, as I had all along, let us think apart, if we
must, so long as we can love together ?

Edith had wished to leave London while the
question was pending, and I went to see her at their
country house. It was a still, mild October day ; the
red and yellow of the backwoods alternated with
the dark evergreen firs. There seemed to be the
same fragrance in the autumn noon as in those
summer evenings when her eyes first began to watch
for mine. She took me into the garden. A low
garden seat stood in a solitary sunny corner. The
unfrequented path was soft with a thick carpet of
fallen fir-needles, and the gardener's boy had left a
swept-up mound of them just by the seat. I leant
on this, that I might look up into her face as she sat.
The shadows lengthened while we talked  less painfully,
perhaps, than once or twice before, for neither
wished to make the inevitable harder than needed
to the other. But it was inevitable, and at last the
moment for the last parting came.

6o A DIPTYCH.

I have never seen Edith since, and as we parted
then so she lives in my memory. As she lives in
my memory, so you see her on the panel now. She
was standing up, almost tall, very fair, with gray
blue eyes, in which tears stood, but would not fall.
Her hair was very long and soft and waving, red-brown
in the darkest shadows, and bright, bright
gold for the rest. Whatever fashions came or went,
I do not see how she could ever wear her hair except
just so, in one soft hanging double twist, that looked
the only right way for a woman with soft hair
that waved. That afternoon she wore some soft
yellow-brown silk, full and simple like the robes of
Angelico's angels, and I seem to remember a gold
chain round the neck and a spray of myrtle, and
some pale yellow lace above the gold bracelet I had
given her, and the white hand I might never kiss
again.

Our last words had almost been said ; she stood
up, and I a pace or two away. A stack of withered
bracken filled the space between the tree stems
behind, and a spreading beech intercepted the light
of the western sun. Her figure appears before me
now, erect against this russet background. The
hands are half outstretched, as if refusing to wring
themselves in helpless anguish; and in her eyes,
through the tears, there is still the same far-away
look that chilled my soul on the day when she did

A DIPTYCH. 6

not answer my first and last appeal  a longing,
pleading, unrelenting look; and while the tender
lips seem to breathe, "Will you not stay with
me ? " the outstretched hands and far-off eyes
utter the doom of banishment, "I may not come
with you."

And so, as I left her, I see her still ; and through
the angry impatience of a lover who had counted for
less than he thought, I could not but respect the
single-hearted strength that drove me out. She had
had no doubt or struggle. If I did not or could not
see the truth as she did, it did not seem so much to
her that we must part, as rather that we had never
met. The keenest part of the blow to me was
knowing that she had never for a moment thought
of loving me too much to care whether I was to 2:0
to hell or heaven. But at the moment when I resented
this most strongly  what right had she to
accept my love if hers was so slight a thing ?  the
just afterthought obtruded itself too : Had / felt
any temptation to change myself, my life, my creed,
for her love's sole sake ?

In the Second Panel.

Was it all a horrible illusion, and had we never
loved at all ; and if not, what then was love ; who
coxild tell, did any know? I looked all round,
and thought what Edith and I had meant, for love

62 A DIPTYCH.

was more like it than most of the substitutes that
seemed to pass current in the world unchecked.
Was it then a loveless world, and happiness the
share only of boys and girls whose bubbles had not
burst as yet ?

I did not stop to ask such questions. With that
last fair vision fresh in memory, I left England,
grimly conscious that a man in my plight might
fairly be expected to earn this allotted fate by starting
promptly on some headlong road to ruin. But
to me this seemed a 7io7i scqifitur. What tliougli
Edith were twice the heartless fanatic I had a right
to call her : what was there in that to clive me a new
taste for brandy or the society of cads ? If the best
of women were not quite good enough for the needs
of men, was it worth while to seek deliverance
among the worst ? One must live every day among
pleasures that turn to vice in their excess, to go to
ruin this way when the check of daily motives for
restraint is loosed. One is not now held only to
decency by a single knot, easy to cut.

I was content with the common distractions of
travel off the beaten track in Italy. The chestnut
woods of the Apennines were kind to me, and the
girls had all black hair ; it was a folly, but I left
one pretty village unvisited because an English
family with golden-haired hamlin was said to be
lodging there. The weeks passed, and brought a

A DIPTYCH. 63

kind of calm. I wondered whether I was ceasing to
dread the sight of my kind, or forgetting that the
sight might come  almost any day now, for I was
nearing Florence, and could hardly reach untrodden
ground again without taking to the railway. I had
been following the moment's impulse, and without
much purpose bade my last host drive me in his caressing
to the Pontassieve station. I thought vaguely of
picking up the fast evening train to Arezzo and then
wanderings oil* aujain. 13ut when the Pates are ready
for us, small chances will serve their turn. On the
platform, waiting for the train to florence, was a
man I knew, a good fellow, officer in a rather fast
regiment; and as he recognised me with effusion,
I noticed he was not alone; there was with him
the most beautiful woman I ever saw, and she had
waving gold-brown hair.

I tried to escape, but the good fellow held me
fast. " You must know the Diva," he said. I, with
unseemly emphasis, " No, no, no 1 " He said, " Why
not ? " and I, " I don't like golden hair."

At this he laughed cheerfully, and grasping me
by main force, called to the woman whose hair was
like Edith's, " Signora, Signora ! come and chain this
fugitive. I want him in Florence, and he offers to
run away because you have golden hair."

Then with the most musical voice save one I have
ever heard, she said, " Would you run away from me

64 A DIPTYCH.

because some one else had golden hair ? Come and
see the red-gold of the oranges in the sunset glow, and
the pure gold dust of the fragrant lemon blossoms, and
after that you will call the hair of women brown or
yellow, or the shade of dusty ashes. Come, come,
come ! but we will not wait for the train," and like
some enchantress whose look is a spell, she pointed to
an open carriage just outside the barrier ; and without
excuse or explanation, in an instant the young Italian
who was driving had turned this companions adrift,
gave the reins to his groom, and took his place by
our side. " Have you told him to the villa ? " said
the Diva ; " we four dine together to-night."

Eleanoraa sang to us that night ; we saw the stars
come out, and the ripe lemons shone like silver in
the moonlight. The villa seemed a palace, and I
breathed freely. It was all as unlike what I was
fleeing from as the massy jet plaits of the Tuscan
peasant girls ; for tables, here and there were carved
chests and slabs of porphyry, the polished fragments
of an ancient bath; for chairs, cushions of every
size, and shape, and substance, and no other furniture
but flowers, easels, and instruments of music. She
made the Italian sing to us some Neapolitan songs
of the people, and she prayed my friend to write
down the air of two that were new to her. Then
she turned to me and said, " Did she use you very
ill, that fair one with locks of gold ? "

A DIPTYCH. 65

And I, to whom my oldest friends had never dared
so much as to seem to think, let alone speak, of our
broken engagement  I answered readily, "Not at
all ; she is a charming girl, and she threw me over
pour V amour de Dieu. Now I come to think of it "
and I made this discovery as I spoke  " the only
thing that troubles me in the matter is a misgiving
whether le hoiiDicu will be as kind to her as I should
have been,"

Is that the only reason," and her eyes laughed,
why you don't like golden hair ? "

No," I answered, still without a shade of reluctance
; " it reminds me of the troublesome problem
I have never yet solved to my mind's contentment,
whether Edith ever loved me at all, or only thought
she did; and what love is, and whether anybody
knows ? "

Eleanoraa made herself a deeper nest in the pale
green cushions, and she turned the nearest lamp
round, so that the light fell away from us. " If you
ask me as an oracle," she said, " I will answer :  Half
of Edith's nature loved half of yours, and she and
you did not know there was any more of either ; and
what love is takes many days to tell, and few there
be that have ears to understand the tale."

At eleven the Italian rose to go. I went with my

friend to his hotel, and acquiesced in plans that took

for granted I should stay in Florence. Twice more

E

j66 A DIPTYCH.

I saw the Diva. Those who had never been favoured
by her notice laughed, and hinted her favour was
given lightly and to many ; but I have heard her
spoken of, and never without a shade of tender
respect, by men who were pointed at as her discarded
lovers. To me she was generous and good. Nothing
passed between us but talk, rash and idle if you
please ; but I entered the Via . . . still sore and sick
at heart, and I left it healed and strong for the manifold
chances of life.

"We soon gave up the attempt to converse in
English, the language of reserve and reticence ; she
spoke in Italian and I in French; thus we were
both free to think as well as to speak what came tous.
I said again, "Did Edith love me or I her?
"What is love, and how to build it on a sure foundation
? Can immortal love lodge with mortals, and
infinite passion hold together the narrow boundaries
of single souls ? Is it our first wisdom to renounce
the dream, or with closed eyes to say we are not
yet awake ; or can we, seeing and knowing, not in
dreams, but alive and waking, can we find a truth
fairer and sweeter than an everlasting fair sweet
dream ? Tell me this," I said, " wise Diotima !
and if indeed love is not all a dream, let me be your
scholar, and show me how to love."

She said, not all at once, but as my questions or
my silence prompted, " I have known three patterns

A DIPTYCH. 67

of happy, life-long love, and two were from your
country. The world would be different if there were
more like these, but the chances are strong against
us. There must be generosity, readiness to apprehend
and to conciliate, a high level of personal
qualities before any man or woman is safely to be
trusted with another's welfare. A small mind may
love vehemently, a mean soul tenaciously, and a
fickle one tenderly for a time ; but the capacity for
complete and lasting love carries a patent of nobility,
and here our difficulty begins again. For the demands
of a full and richly developed nature multiply,
and as individuals differentiate themselves  as
your philosophers would say  the chances multiply
against complete and spontaneous sympathy between
two several natures that have grown up apart.
Perfect love grows choicer but more rare as new
subtleties of feeling are fed by thoughts and wishes
ever growing wider and more manifold ; and because
men cannot content themselves to be unloved, some
seek to build up their own soul's life by loving for a
while, now here, now there, the features that do not
meet in the one perfect form of a single constant
love. As I speak, you think of Goethe, and there
have been less famous women with a heart's history
not unlike his. The world's chance of happiness in
love was greater when simpler lives made simpler
feelings, which had the same history in a thousand

68 A DIPTYCH.

souls at once, so that any two out of the thousand
might pair harmoniously together."

I said, "Shall we then leave this foolish world
that works so hard to earn its discontent, and find a
place where the hands of time stand still upon the
dial and rejoice in the easy loves of bygone days ? "

She answered, "If we could! But an appetite
once felt lives on till it is starved or satiated, and
there are few but have felt once the desire for a
difficult pleasure*

And vet, what is easier than to been to love ? "

Ay, truly," said the Diva, and her full voice rang
out the assent like a challenge ; " but is it easy to
answer all the questions you hurled at me anon ?
Consider, too, that love itself has manifold moods,
and since all of these must be shared or answered,
perfect love can hardly be where the soul's voice hasa
narrow compass. There is the hungry passion of
covetousness, and the no less eager hunger of devotion;
and one must be fed with joyous rapture, and
the other with a free acceptance. And then it is
not easy to pass unchilled from rapturous enjoyment
to the calm delight of loving neighbourhood, nor to
accept boundless devotion without dulling the keen
edge of gratitude which makes acceptance sweet.
They know little of love "  her voice was like soft
music, and at each pause the air seemed filled with
the echo of a far-off minor air  " they know little of

A DIPTYCH. 69

love who know only its one face of midsummer sunshine;
the eternal sun has its returning morning,
night, and noonday, and the softest light may come
through earth-born vapours; none know the true face
of love who cannot bear the changing revolutions of
its days and seasons. Some, that sorrow can unite
grow indifferent widen middling fortune gives ease
for sober years ; some, whose hearts beat together in
the sunshine, cease to keep pace as the vibrations
cool and slacken, and in their slow recurrence feel
more and more forcibly the check when the laijijinf::
foot of the companion falls out of step."

She was looking out of window, not at, but faraway
over the rich luxuriance of the Tuscan spring
vegetation, and the dim purple horizon.

I said, " Signora, as you speak one must believe, as
one believes the Siren's song. It is sweet to hear ;
but tell me, is there anything more than difficulty,
such difficulties as these, in the commonplace days
of the real working world ? "

She roused herself and looked at me with laughing,
wakeful eyes : " There is for those to whom the
grace of love is given, and they"  here the laugh
died, and something of defiance, if not of scorn, took
its place in her glance  'sand they to whom the
grace of love is given are few and far between."
She looked me in the eyes and said, " I think you
want to know the truth : the truth is  it is difficult

70 A DIPTYCH.

to love perfectly at all, and most difficult to love
perfectly the living love, who is imperfect, like the
common world, till she and you love perfectly. But
it is a real love, and not romantic dreaming, that
gives life its crown of glory. Marriage  are you
enough of a musician to feel all that this implies ? 
marriage is like a concert with two conductors. All
the thousand and one passions and interests of life
are crowding the orchestra, and there is endurable
peace if the two choruses are audit to sing in
unison. But the true harmony of the spheres, the
perfect music of love in life, is made when the two
several melodies complete each other, and a third
strain of fuller, richer, wondrous beauty rises upon
the thrice-blessed ears of those who can order two
full lives with one joint omnipotent love. Love
may last from an hour to a lifetime; but if you
would have love in marriage, seek a woman who can
help you to live as well as to love."

I thought, and that day it seemed natural to think
aloud : " But must not married love be equal ? and
how can a man help a woman in her own life ? "

She smiled approvingly : " When a man has modesty,
he is not far from the kingdom of love. You
are right that a woman is not helped to live her
own life by the mere acceptance of the devotion she
begins by offering to the man she loves. The fulness
of power and life comes to her as she feels that

A DIPTYCH. 71

the stay of her devotion is an inspiring force, without
which the fulness of power and life would be
wanting to her lover as well as to herself. But
passionate love is of no sex. I have known men
love like women, women love like men, and men
and women who loved through the whole scale of
rapture and devotion, from sullen bass to the soprano
that fades upon the ear for utter shrillness. It is
true of all alike that they do not five love its due
by the mere acceptance of the offered gift; unless
their lives are fed by its acceptance, they rank but
with the unloved many, the proselytes of the gate,
to whom the entrance of the Holy of Holies is a
forbidden mystery."

I almost wondered at the complete acceptance
commanded by these subtle doctrines ; as I listened
it seemed that I was learning by the Platonic route
of reminiscence. Nothing seemed strange or doubtful,
and I thought of Edith as I might of a sister
when I said, " She could have lived in unison with
a simple-hearted gentleman of her own faith."

With a faint inflection of impatience Eleanoraa
answered, " Are you afraid I should think you inconstant
if you forget Edith for an hour ? "

And then it was my turn to smile, " Why should
I forget what has nothing ugly about it? Your
wisdom is reconciling me to myself and Edith ; but
tell me, what is constancy in love ? for you say, and

72 A DIPTYCH.

I believe, that love is feeble and like to die that
cannot change with the changing seasons."

She paused longer than usual, then she rose, paced
once or twice up the room, and then passed through
the window to a balcony commanding the same view,
only here we saw it stretching far round on either
hand. I followed and stood some paces behind her,
then she shivered and said, " Let me show you my
watch-tower." AVe re-entered the house, and she
led me upstairs, through a pretty room, half studio,
half boudoir, to a circular door in the corner.

In the corner of the house outside one saw, as
it were, half a round turret projecting beyond the
south-east angle, and the inner half of the round
comer tower was formed by this door. I followed
her into a tiny circular cell ; all the outer wall was
window, and there was no furniture except a few
cushions on the floor and window sills. She sat
down carelessly at the foot of the embrasure, leaning
her arm on the ledge, and then she said, " I brought
you here because this is the one spot in the world
where I have never felt cross, wronged, misunderstood,
unfortunate, unblessed." There seemed a
strange incongruity in such words on the lips of a
creature so gloriously endowed, not with beauty only
and an angel's voice, but with a wise and tolerant
tenderness that seemed fit to sweeten countless
lives.

A DIPTYCH. 73

She went on, " I sought the protection of the
ffcnius loci because I am more often provoked by talk
of constancy than anything else of which men talk
in ignorance. A constant love is one that knows
how to change ; for growth is change, and living love
must grow; and there are changes which are not
growth and yet not unfaithfulness. "What is called
the treachery of women is often only their failure to
respond to a change in the lover's mood, wliicli they
could not foresee, and have no cause to share. Luc
the thankfulness of perfect love has its root in this
every change in the loved one is foreseen and
every changing feeling shared. No change within
or without, on either part, can take perfect love at
unawares, or make the eternal change its unchanging
nature ; every other wish and hope and passionate
impulse may be called upon to change and answer
with immovable fidelity to the call, in order that, by
their death, love may renew its life, and the one
faithless change be escaped  of ceasing to love the
very soul and body that had once been known, and
loved as it was known to be. I am angry often with
those who take the name of love in vain, because
they call it inconstancy if love is withdrawn from
the detected hypocrite. Not he, but the something
better that he seemed to be, was loved ; and even if,
instead of hypocrisy in another, there is ignorance
and blindness in ourselves-even then, when we see



74 A DIPTYCH,

too late, love at all costs must be true, and it is profaning
a sacrament to ape the sacred feeling towards
one who has no right to cal it forth."

She spoke with heat, and the missing sweetness
of her tones left me free to answer instead of
acquiescing silently. I questioned, " Is it not a duty
to assure ourselves that we know the real true nature
before we lead another to look to us for love ? "

She spoke more calmly, and with a half smile.
What is called the inconstancy of men may be
defended too. It is often only a sicru of the uncharitableness
of their ideal  they find too late that
the vision is not realised where they thought, and
they go to seek elsewhere. You ask if they are
wrong ? Perhaps they are not right ; but is it then
more richt never to risk a generous trust that may
justify itself in time ? If it were forbidden to love
in faith, can you promise that all should have sight
enough of good to love by? No; love must dare
dare to hope and dare to suffer. It is easy, is it
not," she added, " to speak of bold endurance in this
sheltered nook ? Can you wonder that I feel as if
pain and trouble could never enter here, only friendship
and the deep interest that springs from friendly
contact with the deepest interests of hearts like
enough our own to understand and be understood
? "

I said, " This nook of yours, Signora, has been to

A DIPTYCH. is

me a very haven of refuge from a storm that left me
rudderless. Through all my life I shall feel as if
there vere some natural bond between the uplifting
of a moral incubus did Edith love me or I her ?) and
the intense luminous blue sky with the gnarled
bough and silver-tipped leaves of your olive tree
against it, framing the sunny plain and the dim
purple hills far off."

The expression of her face was no longer plain to
read. I looked at her questioning and said, " It
is hard to have nothing to offer in return for such
fair memories."

She answered, " And you have nothing ? " looking
at me still with a perplexing gaze, half curiosity,
expectancy, and whether invitation or reproach was
more than I could tell.

She was incomprehensibly beautiful with this
sphinx-like expression on her perfect features ; and
though I had only spoken of the background to the
vision I must remember, I promised myself to see
always her graceful form in a grey embrasure between
me and the olive bough across the sunlit
sky. I was looking at her as one looks at an inanimate
scene of beauty, and started in confusion
when she answered my looks with a questioning
Wel ? "

I answered, as I had not meant, " You have been
very good to me, Signora."



t'

1 . A DIPTYCH.

She smiled more naturally, and said, " Not very ;
less than all does not count for anything. And it is
an awesome thought how much there is room for
between men and women before they come near to
having helped each other. There are so many to
whom, once for a time, a near relation seems the one
thing needful, but there are not many to whom it
continues so all through life's length ; and such is
the force of time and worldly worries, that after a
few years have sped it is not so easy as you might
think to tell the difference between those who have
seen once and never. lany put to sea who dare
not cross the ocean, but I think it is not for those
who spend their lives in sight of land to speak of the
glory and loveliness of the deep*

Surely I did not hear her say  I dreamt that
it was with such a look as hers that eyes might
say  " Shall we ? Nay, but let us tempt the deep
together!" Her eyes were like those of a prophetess
beholding the manifold secrets of the deep. I knelt
and clasped her clasped hands in mine. She may
know  I cannot say  whether I felt a moment's
wild desire to tempt the deep that day, and find my
happiness at once or never. What I said, kneeling
before her in simple adoration of her beauty and
gentle graciousness, was but a plain and stupid
acknowledgment of so much grace. " Eleanoraa," I

A DIPTYCH. 77

said, " your beauty is to Edith's as the summer sun
to the spring twilight, and because you have stooped
from your throne to show me kindness, all reverence
and worship that a man can lay at the feet of women
is due to you from me. Stay, sweet goddess, on
your pedestal ; it is not you, it is myself I cannot
trust. It is easy to want faster than one has strength
to merit, and I reverence you too much, Signora, to
risk counting in your memory as the hero of one
more detected illusion. Do you in generous dreams
think of the possibilities I dare not aim at as of
something that might have been if it had been
ours to meet, as some meet, young and free, knowing
enough, and not having felt too much and lately
to be able to launch forth upon the ocean of life in
common and limitless love ? Whether the best there
is comes to us, to me, hereafter or not at all, let me
think always of a best that might have been ; and at
least, if there is nothing on earth good enough to
make the best for you, let me be guiltless in the day
of that sad proof."

She said, " Then we part now ; even my charmed
turret falls under the common doom."

And I, "No, a thousand times no. Wronged,
misunderstood, unfortunate, unblessed; may those
dooms be ever as far from you as they are now ;
only, as the poet says, let us leave * a good to die

78 A DIPTYCH.

with, dim-descried ; ' and I, who have missed once
the good I sought, wish selfishly that if you miss ordo
not seek that self-same good, you shall think of
me and the missing good together."

She said, " I wish my turret was the palace of
truth." Then, with nonchalance, as she gave me
her hand in farewell, " You know your way to the
garden ? "

I dared not linger after this dismissal ; so it was
but the vision of one anxious moment that I had to
Lear away with nie. I have never seen Eleanoraa
since, and as we parted then so she lives in my
memory. I think the eyes whose language I had so
often failed to read were hazel-brown ; they looked
at me with questioning sadness, half reproach, half
invitation. Why are you not worthy to stay, here
and now, to love your best for ever ? And yet it
was neither reproach nor invitation so much as a
dark sadness like the leaden casket, " which rather
threatens than does promise aught." Oh, the sadness
that there should be an ineffable bliss on earth,
and men not bold to seize it !

All this, sadness, anger, and tender sweetness, lent
an inscrutable depth to the meaning of her gaze as
I saw her leaning in the embrasure. Her dress was
of a pale greenish-blue velvet, stamped with arabesque
figures. I know the sleeves were short; a

A DIPTYCH, 79

woman's wrist is sometimes strangely beautiful ; she
had opened the casement and gathered half a handful
of heliotropes, which encroached from a near
balcony. The flowers rested against her dress, and
I saw nothing but her one figure, framed in the
embrasure of the window, with its tiny background
of intense blue sky, and just one olive branch, with
its narrow leaves and soft grey green shadows, crossing
the azure, and arching over the sad, radiant, enigmatic
face.

I am nut going to say how many years had passed
between these two partings and my wife's last birthday
gift. She had seen Edith at church and Eleanoraa
at the opera, and I had photographs of both. I
gave her the key of my Blue Beard's closet before
we married, and I thought she had made a pretty
use of it.

Sir Alfred Osborne's portrait of my wife hangs
above the diptych. She is painted without surroundings
on a background of pure shadow, such as the
old masters of portraiture love. She is leaning backwards
in her chair, and her pose is so arranged that
she looks down upon the gazer, and yet her eyes
look fully into his. And her gaze has neither
sadness nor complaint, but the repose of unchanging,
confident tenderness. She does not seek, or

8o A DIPTYCH.

call, or banish ; she makes welcome her secure possession.


I do not care to show these paintings to every one ;
but in showing them to the few, I gather from the
way in which they look at all three faces whether or
no they have yet found out for themselves that a
woman's eyes are the windows of the palace of everlasting
love.

"Some nc 1ba& Blunbcrcb.

tf

Srtrcvjcu and itictd fdrcdliccr in, alt lie Unn?incn()cit

I;ant(ln }u fe(;cn.

octe.

III.

It was the time of one of our periodical scares :
there was a " crisis" in the East, and to keep up
the spirits of a patriotic population, the troops in
London were being put through an extra quantity
of manoeuvring in Hyde Park. I saw no reason to
give up my daily morning constitutional from the
Albert Gate to the Marble Arch by a meandering
diagonal and back, and I started as usual at nine
o'clock on the anniversary of a day that had rather
melancholy associations. It was a morning to make
one forget them. The leaf buds were opening fast,
but only the chestnuts had reached their full greenness
; the elms were still tipped with promises, and
seemed to argue with us that spring was only coming
not even yet quite here. All distances were lost
in mist, and even the brightest lights seemed shining
through it from afar. These lights were the gilded
summit of the Albert Memorial, and the still white
marble of the geographical groups at its four corners.
I never admired that work of art, but Nature, here as
elsewhere, now and then casts a veil over the archie

'some ONE HAD Blundered

sect's blundering; and with a pale morning sky
behind and something of the dawn's rosiness between,
the eye might rest with pleasure on the
glimmering lights which but for the Memorial had
not been there.

One may almost measure the pleasantness of a
walk by the unconsciousness with which we pass
through time and distance. I can recall no distinct
perception of things without or thoughts within till
ten minutes or more later, when I was past the guardhouse
and upon the slanting path which leads without
a break or bend to the corner of Oxford Street.
On the right, in the open space towards the Beef
orders* Oak, several bodies of troops were skirmishing.
An old soldier is tempted to give a technical
description of the movements, which were open to
criticism on several points, but that is not my purpose.
Lucy (aetas. twelve), who was with me, called
out, " Oh, uncle, look ! the soldiers are kneeling down
to fire, and then they run a little way and kneel and
fire again. They are coming this way! whatever
shall we do ? " I explained the military expedient
of seeking cover, and we awaited the onslaught protected
by one of the hurdles put up to shelter new-sown
grass. A few foot-passengers were on the
pathway here and there, but with one or two exceptions
they hurried out of the line of advance. Lucy
caught hold of my arm as the pointed rifles, the

 SOME ONE HA D BL Sundered'* 85

smoke, and the rattle of successive discharges along
the line made her feel, she said, as if we were really
under fire." Then the men charged past us and
the hurdles; the right of the line was thrown forward,
so that the whole of the front rank did not cross the
pathway at once. Those nearest us were on the grass
again when the order came to fire, but as we looked
back I saw the half section that was in the act of
crossing the gravel waver for at least three seconds,
long enough for a volley to strike the advancing
mass; the men hesitated whether to kneel where
they were and block the footway, or to break their
line and leave the passage clear.

I told Lucy to run on to school by herself. It
was only a trifle ; the men had never been on active
service, and military manoeuvres in England are so
much sacrificed to the civil interests concerned, that
I think the troops were only doing as their leaders
taught them in considering the convenience of the
chance passengers at hand rather than the regularity
of their own formation. It wasn't the mere break
in the line that sent a kind of shudder through me
and made me fancy I felt my old wound ache ; it
was the fatal hesitation, the outward and visible
signs of the old lamentable fact that our troops are
habitually sent forward to confront risks and contingencies
with which they have not been prepared
to deal I have a right to speak. Twice my best

86 'some ONE HAD BLUNDERED."

hopes in life have been spoilt because the any in
which I had enlisted was undisciplined, and  it would
be a breach of discipline to say badly commanded 
I mean rather not commanded enough,  left without
orders in a crisis when salvation could only be found
in perfect wisdom above and perfect, prompt obedience
below.

I have no country of my own, and as a citizen of
the world I am pained alike by the reminders that
meet me everywhere of the expanding torrent of
mischances that pours upon the devoted head of
those in whose fellowship " some one has blundered."
It is a hard saying that in both war and politics it is
impossible for a man to do his duty single-handed ;
he may do all he can, but he can't do all that is
set him unless his comrades help by doing their
task too. One man cannot even be wise alone ; his
wisdom fails if he does not make others see with
him, or find and join with friends enough who see
with him already.

I was a boy of nineteen when Thomas Davis died
in '45. My father died two years before; he was
a thorough Irishman, but he died suddenly and left
no will. He was the second son of a rich contractor,
who had invested the fortune he made during the
war in estates in England and Ireland. My uncle,
the eldest son, who held the English property, was a
stiff Conservative : he was my guardian, and having

"50AfJS ONE HAD Blundered** 87

no sons of his own, his wish was to make me English
enough to be his heir. I had matriculated at Trinity
a month before my father died, and had a hard fight
to be allowed to stay there, ally guardian insisted
on Oxford, or at least Cambridge, if I was bent on
mathematics. I got my way on this point by invoking
my father's wish, but in return, by what I
thought a small revenge, my allowance was cut down
to the minimum on which a man could live, so that
all at once I was left powerless to help with funds
the national movement of which my father had been
a keen supporter, and to which he had allowed me, asa
boy, to contribute as I pleased in my own name.

Between shame and fury I told the story to Davis,
raging at the English uncle, and complaining that I
was helpless and useless to him now. I was half
comforted, half humiliated, by the compassionate,
tolerant smile with which he said, " I wish we had
an honest man in earnest for every guinea you
would have liked to give us ; " and then with frank
courtesy he added, "You bring us one to begin
with." Such words from Young Ireland's chief
made boys and men loyal; but Davis died before
his time for leading came, and I, a disappointed
man, turn faithless now and wonder whether, even
if he had lived, he would have struck out a policy
such as Irishmen could have followed in ilion to
success.

/

ZS  SOME ONE HAD Blundered

While he lived we had hopes; he was waiting
his opportunity. Opportunity comes to those who
know how to wait, and we felt certain that in due
time he would bid us follow him to seize the opportunity.
We were young and eager, and hoped the
call would be a call to arms. Years afterwards it
was with as much envy as goodwill that I watched
Garibaldi's deliverance of the two Similes: young
Ireland would have immortalised itself by death or
victory if a campaign like that had been possible tous
then. Davis was for neglecting: no chance of
peaceful constitutional agitation, but I doubt now
whether he realised how narrowly we were hemmed
in by alternative impossibilities. He thought we
should have been ready to fight as a last resource,
and held that O'Connell was feeble if not false when
he failed to stand by his " Defiance." He did not
see that men are only ready to fight a losing battle
to the death when death or victory are their only
chances. Ireland wotdd have had a better chance
if England had been more like Austria; that is why
so many Irishmen hate English good intentions
more than anything else English.

Davis welcomed every small concession. Ireland
free and prosperous, he thought, had less to fear
from bad government than Ireland prostrate and
pauperised ; and yet, if there was ever to be an
appeal to arms, would farmers with a fair lease turn

'*SOMB ONE HAD BLUNDERED:* 89

out to fight while red-coats spoiled the homestead ?
When a nation takes to arms, it has been goaded by
intolerable, ubiquitous oppression. I have but one
thing to say in extenuation of the English dominion
in Ireland: it has never been so uniformly and
systematically cruel as to open the gateway of deliverance
made by a nation's passionate despair.
Some tyranny breeds heroes ; we were crushed by a
yoke shameful to bear, inglorious to try and break.
It did not seem so then, but I know now we could
not have roused the country for a real war of insurrection,
and short of warfare we had no resource in
reach but to follow Davis's counsel and continue
lawful agitation.

But this was accepting the Union. Had we
among us any statesmen able to see and strong
enough to make their following believe that to deliver
Ireland an Irish politician must first revenge
her wrongs by conquering her conqueror and seizing
a front place in the Imperial Legislature ? We did
not see things in that light; we thought it was a
fine appeal to moral force when, to save the lives of
our docile mob, we stood with folded arms, protesting
calmly while our lawful liberties were overborne
by force. 'Twas a schoolboys kind of patriotism ;
Italian schoolboys were happier in dying  even
though some died in vain  upon the field of battle ;
and yet we were not to blame for our shabby fate.

90 'some ONE HAD BLUNDERED:*

It was a part of the situation that political uprightness
and daring by itself brought no crown of martyrdom,
and who can believe in the magnanimity of a
rebel who runs no risks ? And then in desperation
and defiance some courted such risks as they could
find, and instead of a crown of martyrdom in an
Austrian fortress, found the disgrace that a lodging
in clean English gaols reserves for rioters or incendiaries.
Our roughest roughs would have made good
patriots in less smooth and civilised days, but I
doubt whether they were ripe for the enthusiasm
on behalf of peaceful measures without which the
wisest leader is but an idle voice crvinjj in the
wilderness.

Anyway, the end was, that it all came to nothing.
I wasn't the last to leave the sinking ship. I had
trusted Davis more than any of the rest, and when he
died I felt as if we were a crew without a captain.
Loud counsels were plenty, but none of them seemed
so wise and helpful that I, who felt a youth's longing
to follow some one with enthusiasm, could give
myself up to following any one of them. I had
some thoughts of . shooting Peel and blowing my
own brains out afterwards, but even that expedient
seemed of doubtful promise. What I did was to
write and ask my guardian if he would buy me a

commission in the th, which was just ordered

on foreign service. My uncle gave a delighted

'''SOME ONE HAD BLUNDERED:' 91

consent; some one had told him of the verses of
mine Duffy was good-natured enough to print in the
Nation, and he was overjoyed at the thought of
getting me out of the country in some other character
than that of a convict.

From that day to this I have never revealed the
secret thought that urged what my friends thought
almost disloyal desertion. I saw our cause was
hopeless then. When we asked ourselves if Peel
could be induced to make this or that concession,
the answer acjain and acrain would be, "Whatever
Peel might say, the Duke would be dead against it."
But Arthur, Duke of "Wellington, was an Irishman. I
thought, "Let a loyal Irishman win another Waterloo,
and instead of a dukedom ask for his wages leave
to carry three Irish Bills." With the ardour of a
disappointed lover I threw myself upon the study of
fortification and tactics, and as I read at the antipodes
of one failure after another, and then of my
country's misery, famine and pestilence added to
every other woe, I still held to the wild ambition of
earning in the English army the power and the right
to serve and save Ould Ireland.

It was a boyish dream, and as years went by, I
thought, no doubt, less and less of that distant end,
and grew more and more absorbed in the interests
of my profession. When we were ordered to the
Crimea, I thought more of the pleasure of engaging

92 'some ONE HAD Blundered

in real, scientific warfare, of the chance of making a
known name for myself, than of the chance years
afterwards of being "sent for to the Queen' Our
regiment was the first to land, and thenceforward
the army was my nation.

In Ireland I had had to watch the rain of a cause
without knowing what to do to save it. It was
worse now. I knew, at least in part, what needed
to be done, but I was powerless even to do all my
own duty well, since to do it all would have involved
doing also that of two or three adjoining
functionaries whose bungling blocked my way. What
came to be known as the breakdown of the commissariat
was but a sample of the official incompetence
which permeates the whole national administration.
Clever officials would have pacified Ireland as a mere
matter of routine. The English Constitution had
need be good and the English people docile, since the
one has to be administered and the other governed
by an amalgam of clerks and amateurs. Irresponsibility
and impotence for good turn our permanent
officials into clerks, while party politicians come into
office untrained in anything but Parliamentary debate.
When administration was half as difficult and
complicated as it is now, paternal statesmen educated
their sons for public life and acted towards them as
if the art of ruling could be taught. Now a young
man is tossed to sink or swim in an election, and

"some ONE HAD BLUNDERED." 93

not one in ten is able to forget the electioneering
tone when he is landed in the House, to realise that
members are not constituents, and that there is no
connection at all between the practical importance
of measures and their estimated influence on a personal
reputation. I for one believe that a trained
and able politician would be followed for his measures'
sake, if they were good, without having to
labour straightway to conciliate the sweet voices of
his colleagues ; but lawful modesty bids men without
training or experience take a deprecatory tone, and
so there is an end of government.

I am digressing, but it is more seemly for a soldier
to rail at statesmen than at his own commanders,
and I have seen since then at work in peace all the
causes of our needless discomfiture in those days of
war. I am not going to rake up the stories of old
blundering. I wasn't reckoned with the croakers
then, and only risked a little chaff now and again
by hinting at safe rules for doing what our gallant
young officers liked to leave to the moment's inspiration.


On a spring evening in 1855, a party of us had
been entertaining some yachtsmen at dinner, and
after they left us, we still stayed smoking in the
moonlight to enjoy the summer-like coolness. Colonel
and an officer of the staff were present,

and somehow we drifted into an argument. Perhaps

94 'some ONE HAD Blundered

I took more trouble to say qH I meant, in hopes that
some of it would, if I convinced my men, reach headquarters
at second-hand.

I argued that nothing ought to be uncertain in
war; that a general ought to be able to calculate
by instinct what each movement would cost him
in lives, and to risk no step that hadn't a clear
purpose, which could be served no cheaper way.
I said ignorance in such a matter was criminal;
it was murder for a man to march his troops at
random under fire ; every life lost in vain, av, and
every needless wound inflicted, ought to be felt, as it
was, a blot of ignominy on the leader's fame.

O'O'Callaghan, who had exchanged from a regiment
at the Cape, in order, as he said, not to miss the fun,
said I wanted to bring in a mean commercial spirit of
economy  a man who was good for anything didn't
count his own risks like that How could a general
who counted them have any dash or boldness? I
threw down my cigar in fierce disgust. If generals
were asses, that was no reason why we should say
it was a general's whole duty to bray aloud. What
right has a man to the glory of commanding English
troops if he hasn't the wit to be brave for himself,
and at the same time cautious not to waste their
bravery ? Then I told a story of the only sole command
I had ever held. It was in South Africa, and
we took a Kafir kraal with the loss of just ten men

'some PNE HAD BLUNDERED." 95

killed and wounded. I asked O'O'Callaghan how he
would feel if, after calculating how to bring his men
up so as to have them under fire for the shortest
time, he caught himself at once in some dull blunder
which doubled their exposure ? I knew all about
the family history of the four men killed that day.
If one of them had been killed by my default, should
not I have felt myself a murderer disgraced ? Any
of us can see and feel this in a small affair ; does it
alter the inherent responsibility of office that its
holder is too dull even to know what are the consequences
of his own neglect ?

I dared not mention instances of whole companies
that had been sacrificed  halted without cover under
fire, merely because their leader didn't quite know
what to do with them next. Even a general complaint
seemed too like an accusation against familiar
names, and with a feeling that I had gone too far,
and to turn the subject, I expressed a wish that the
military colleges would do a little more to familiarise
their students with the kind of calculation they have
to make in practice. In Africa I used to get my men
to practise charging on the level, up and down hill, andover
broken ground, so that I could tell within three
seconds how long they would be covering a strange
reach of ground. Why should not our cadets be
practised in judging pace and distance by the eye ?

The Major, who loves sport as much as he hates

96 'some ONE HAD BLUNDERED.

If

science, took up his parable here, and narrated
wondrous feats of sight and judgment by Scotch
keepers and Canadian trappers, tales which seemed
to carry so plain a moral that I didn't think it
needed saying, " If these men can do so much fora
livelihood and sport, we should not reckon less
to make a soldier's duty." But as we turned in,
O'O'Callaghan put his hand on my shoulder by way
of encouragement or consolation, while he laughed,
Old boy ! so the Major shut you up for once ! "

The next day we had a little brush with the
enemy. It was not one of the famous battles, and
I will clive no clue for identifying the affair. Let it
suffice to say that my company was stationed under
cover in reserve, while our guns tried to silence a
small battery the Russians had opened during the
night. I was glad of the job, for I knew we should
carry the battery easily, and a little triumph like
that does wonders for the troops' health and spirits ;
but my satisfaction was cut short. The French were
making a demonstration on the other side, and a
regiment had just passed behind the battery, but
within musket range of it, on the way to reinforce
the Eussian advanced posts. I noticed that the fire
of our guns began to slacken, and looking from them
to the enemy, I saw another regiment following on
the same line. They should have doubled their fire,
lengthening the range now and then, so as to drop a

*some ONE HAD BLUNDERED." 97

shot into the thick green mass. Instead, the slackening
fire was interpreted by the order brought me to
charge the guns. I asked for nothing better than to
charge the guns; but was it possible * * * did not see
that just before we reached the battery the advancing
regiment would be within range; five minutes
later it would have passed ? "We were still concealed ;
but could * * * imagine that if we showed ourselves
the Russians would be even greater fools than we
were and fail to greet us with a volley in flank ?

I had no choice but to obey without delay ; even
if I had had courage enough to seem slow to act on
the order to advance, my delay would only have
caused a choice of evils, for the Eussian battery
reopened fire the moment our guns stopped to leave
the field for infantry to charge. I would do all I
could to spare my men, but when it came to a question
between them and others, they and I were one,
and we claimed the post of honour. When the
order reached me, I stopped no longer than it takes
for the eye to turn once to right and left : there was
no help for it ; I was blameless in the matter ; and,
casting all care behind, I gave myself up to the
delight of martial passion.

It did not last long  what keen pleasure ever
does ?  but while it lasted I was glad ; the pride of
life was in my veins. I am inclined to question
whether those who have never led a forlorn hope,

98 * SOME ONE HAD Blundered*"

know what glorious gladness is: one has left life
behind; all life's triumphs are summed up in the
feeling that one rushes gladly to encounter death;
all the fierce selfishness of animal passion, which
we quell as may be in the days of peace, finds an
outlet here, and feeds our delight in the tumult and
savageness of war ; and yet we do well to rejoice in
our rage, for we charge at the call of duty, and pay
with our life-blood for the moment's glory.

We had to char<]je first over broken ground and
then in a slant uphill : the danger from the flank fire
came in the last part of the advance. I gave the
Mord for a rapid double, and as the pace was uniform
uphill, the square, formed by our double line, grew
into a blunt diamond ; I led the way at the foremost
corner, keeping my eye upon the nearing battery. I
had nothing to do with the green-coated mass upon
the left ; it was nothing to me whether they knew
their business or no ; my business was to reach the
guns alive, if they and destiny would let me. I
looked back and was pleased ; notwithstanding the
pace, our lines were almost even. . There was a white
fan-shaped patch of circus vapour on the clear blue
sky that met my eye in front ; perhaps I should not
have known that I saw it but for what happened
next. A sound like a thunderclap struck me in the
face. I felt blind and shaken ; I remember no other
feeling.

 SOME ONE HAD .blundered:' 99

It was three in the afternoon when we charged ;
the sun had set, but its redness had not quite left
the sky when I woke to consciousness. I felt no
pain, only a giddy faintness, till I tried to move,
when an unearthly pain went through my side,
followed by a soothing sense of warmth, and then
blessed unconsciousness. When I woke again the
moon was running wildly through thin clouds;
heaped-up fleecy masses swept along, but it was not
like the sky I knew ; it is one thing to walk erect
and give the stars their names : as I lay prostrate
on the ground, with burning lips and a pain I dared
not examine lest worse came of it, thus lying, with
nothing sane but sight about me, it seemed as if I
did not see the human sky ; figures and shades were
there ; it melted into a dim travesty of the Sistine
Chapel ceiling. Adam's face looked out threateningly;
a singing in my ears seemed to say, "Fallen,
fallen, fallen ; " and as in broken dreams one catches
oneself saving half a sentence that has no meaning,
my brain took up the cry unthinkingly, and I found
myself repeating, as if it were a thought, " To fall is
a blunder," " Falling, falling down ; " and answering
to the words was a sea-sick feeling of sinking, sinking
through the earth, while overhead the moon and
clouds whirled round, now seeming to be part of me,
mingling with the kaleidoscopic colours my bloodless
eyes saw in vacancy, and then again vanishing in

100 "SOME ONE HAD BLUNDERED.

f>

distance as night fell upon the nerveless limbs.
Weapons have changed since Homer, but dying is
much the same as in the " Iliad."

Again I woke : it was dark ; my limbs were stiff
and chill ; I felt as if floating alone in the darkness ;
the hard ground touched me like a blow, but the
darkness above and below seemed equally near,
equally far. There was something maddening in the
sense of a possessing pain when every other perception
was stunned or blinded. I saw and heard and
felt nothing without, only within an agony of pain
and terror. I was trying again to argue as I had
the night before, but in the delirium of the wound
fever I was haunted by a thought that, if I could
only find the mathematical formula for the two rates
of advance, and find it quickly, I should save the
lives of Hicks and Kendall. Heaven only knows
what put the names of these poor fellows (who got
off scatheless, by the way) into my wandering brain ;
but all through that night, and through weeks of
fever afterwards, my ravings were all meant to
explain how, if we could only measure the angle
AEI, our men would be as safe as billiard-balls.

The night was haunted with uglier spectres than
these. I would advise those who risk an intimacy
with cold lead to keep their conscience clean. Nightmares
of pain, and fright, and horror are bad enough ;
madness itself would be a pleasant refuge from the

"50A/JS ONE HAD BLUNDERED." loi

awful terror when ill deeds rise up like swelling phantoms,
filling, filling the whole of space, and drawing
closer, nearer, till their threatening touch dissolves
into a thrill of pain, and we wake from black unearthly
visions into the more bearable consciousness
of "real night," and a human body impaled upon
a scrap of lead. An optical delusion which no doctor
has ever yet explained to me added to the horrid
terror of these hours. In the moonlit twilight I
saw the hillside above me, and the surface of the
ground, every tuft of grass, each loose stone, the
scattered cartridges, and the distorted figure of a
fallen soldier  everything in sight rose from the
ground; it seemed to stand up in relief a foot or
eighteen inches from the real solid earth. I dared
not open my eyes for fear of the ghostly mirage. I
dashed my arm out in frantic endeavour to dispel the
vision by a touch, and fainted again with the exertion
and pain.

The wounded would have been cared for sooner
but for the iU success which rewarded our ill-timed
attack. The volley which knocked me down put an
end to the work of many better fellows ; the rest
kept on gallantly and reached the battery, only to
find themselves met hand-to-hand with equal
numbers from the infantry reserve. Our loss was
heavy. O'O'Callaghan fought like a hero, and with a
broken arm led off the survivors, who retreated, firing

I02 " SOME Ose HAD Blundered

SO steadily that little further harm was done them.
But the battery remained with the enemy (for that
night only) ; and so it was not till the moon had set
that surgeons were allowed to go forward with a
party to bring in the wounded. I was unconscious
when they came, and, with few intervals, for some
weeks afterwards. It was in one of the intervals I
heard the surgeons say, in language which, unluckily,
I was anatomist enough to understand, that my
wound was one to make active service impossible
for life. I think the discovery let me in for another
turn of fever ; but that's neither here nor there.

After two or three months I was ordered home.

General and the staff officer who had been with

us on the evening before our mishap came to see me
before I left. The latter must have mentioned my

tirade, for General observed benignantly that

he was always glad to hear studious young officers
reported for gallant conduct; books were all very
well, but (this to me) "Real service is a very different
thing, as no doubt you have discovered." I felt
guilty of a breach of discipline as I replied gravely,
Very different. General." "

Of course my career was at an end : it was years
before I was able to walk, and the least exertion
would displace the imperfectly limited fracture. I
spent some years in Italy, and saw Garibaldi enter
Naples, but no new ambition came to take the place

'some ONE HAD BLUNDERED." 103

of those that had been balked. Few men are able,
when their life is spoilt, to gather up the fragments
and make a fresh start : I wasn't one of the few.
My uncle wanted me to go into Parliament, but I
didn't care to be there unless as a power, and I had
neither health nor energy to set myself to obtain
influence in other ways than the one which took my
boyish fancy. I did not even live in Ireland. I got
an honest man to look after the estates, and so long
as they were not mismanaged I felt all was done for
them that I could do. I was unfit for the countless
labours of an " improving landlord ; " it was better
to attempt nothing than to attempt and fail, and I
felt it was too difficult, unless I could have put all
my heart and strength in it. I didn't care enough
about small local amendments to be able to do that ;
it was Ireland I wanted to benefit, not my own
estate ; and though the latter was a fractional part
of Ireland, I refused to own any obligation to sink
myself in the lesser task when fate had so maliciously
cut me off from the pleasant cherishing of wider
hopes.

Now that it is quite too late for any reflections to
clamour about being put in practice, I am willing to
admit that part of the judgment that falls on nations
and men for blundering is, that the blunder which
makes a neighbour's task more difficult acts too frequently
on his mind as an excuse. Who knows,

104 'some ONE HAD BLUNDERED."

after all, whether I was a heaven-born general ? It
strikes me, if I had been, failing an army, I should
have made myself some other following. Failing a
war commissariat to organise, I should haVe developed
supply and demand for new industries in
Clare. I take my share of responsibility for my
own omissions; but, after all, the leaders, whose
blunders threw me out of work, took the initiative
in leading me into the temptation through which I
fell. *' Blundering is falling, falling down." If I
had been quite sane during that night upon the
field, I might have said, " The man who falls into a
blunder pulls his neighbour down, and every fresh
fall is a weight dragging on the steps of those who
walk erect, and crushing the fallen into further
depths."

For God's sake let men make a conscience of not
blundering at their work  especially at the work of
ruling men and handling troops !

ir.

ilDibsummer Shoon.

Why, just
Unable to fly, one swims ! "  Brown [.vc.

IV.

I KNOW a man who has been laughed at, off and
on, these thirty years for the one act of his life that
he has never regretted. If you want a true story, I
can tell you his.

Thirty years ago Nice was less like Paris than now,
but gay/to were held at a certain villa, and my hero
had been at one of them. Something in Ariadne's eyes
emboldened him to spend the night in trespassing
in villa gardens whence he could catch a glimpse of
the window he thought was hers ; and by the time
the sun had risen, his courage had risen too, to the
level of pen, ink, and paper. It wasn't easy to seethe
eldest daughter of a large family alone, and he
had a not unnatural dread of having his romance
spoilt by some prosaic interruption, or turned into
an undying jest by the mischief of an enfant terrible.
In a letter at least no sentence risked being cut
short in an unfinished caress. So he wrote, but
waited self-denying till nine o'clock to send his
messenger with the note, lest Ariadne should still
be sleeping after that intoxicating waltz.

loS MIDSUMMER NOON.

The messenger was lone: returning:. A whole lone?
hour and minutes over. Arnold did not know that
a mortal hour could be so long. Would she be angry
with his presumption ? He could not help writing
some of the passionate love he felt ; if  oh terror ! 
if she did not care for him, would she not resent,
would she not have a right to resent, his daring to
love her so passionately without her leave? But
then, too, surely she was not one to give her love
unasked; he must win her by patient, passionate
love and pleading. How should she care for him ?
what was there in him for her to care for except
his love ? had he let his love plead urgently enough,
with all the eloquence of his despairing longing?
Had he said too little  not enough to let her see
what a desert his life must be if she could not give
a gracious hearing to his suit ? Had he said too
much ? Though life would be desolate without her,
God forbid that her life should be spoilt out of her
pure compassion  she should choose freely  he
shrank with horror from the tyranny of threatening :
love me or I cannot live ; but his thought in writing
had been : darling, love me ; how can I live, darling,
without your love ? and yet for her sake he could
not wish to be loved for pity. The wretched letter
he loved her so well ; but how was she to guess
it when he had said nothing that he wished, when
what he had said was all wrong and foolish, and

MIDSUMMER Noose 109

seemed now to mean everything; that was furthest
from his loving thoughts ?

But then, again, she was so sweet and gentle,
every word and deed found charitable interpretation
in her open heart Surely she would understand,
and not think ill of one who loved her  she
who understood people so easily would surely understand
how much. But then, liv had she sent no
word of answer? iShc must know how he was
waiting for his fate. Alas it possible that she
would not write ? would she meet him without
writing: ? would she neither white nor meet him ?
He watched the minute hand go round j his hopes
died sixty deaths  there was no answer still. How
lomb must he wait ? if he started for Villa Franca
and her answer came after he was gone ? if he
started too late, waiting for a message, and she was
gone to meet him and he was not there ? What
cruelty might not be expected from fate, when even
she was cruel and had not vouchsafed one word to
comfort his despair ?

He was leaning his head upon his hands in such
deep despair, that Luigi, with a note, had knocked
twice  it was a quarter past ten  before Arnold
started up to bid him enter. He had a long story
to tell: they had sent him from the villa to the
yacht  (she wrote in haste, and the soft pencil lines
were blurred  he saw nothing but "Your loving"

no * MIDSUMMER NOON.

/

at the bottom) ;  the yacht was anchored out at
sea, the young ladies were being rowed out to it ina
boat  (was he dreaming, or did this line read
Yes, yes, yes " ?) Giuseppe said the yacht would
sail long before a rowboat from the shore could
reach her, that the English milord would be back
to-day or tomorrow, and my business might wait
so long  (Arnold had neither heard nor read; he
could not read her secret words with his chattering
rascal's eye upon him ; he must hear the story and
let him go)  " And then La Gimella heard and
said  my sister's son is going to marry his daughter,
and they are all clever boatmen  lie was to take
fish and poultry to the yacht before she started, and
he offered to do my business for me. But I am
most discreet. Signer '*  (confound you ?)  " and
said that I had something of importance to deliver
to the cook, who is my cousin's brother-in-law ; and
then La Gimella took me in his boat, and I gave the
Signorina the letter as I passed her ; and then quite
openly, when she read it, she called me to her, and
gave me thanks, and the sails were set and the
Gimella shouted for me to follow to the boat ; but
the gracious and noble young lady wrote in pencil
hastily, and bade me give this to my master and
say they would be on shore again at night, but she
could not say the hour."

Arnold swore one or two grateful oaths and bade

MIDSUMMER NOON. 1 1 1

the messenger begone. He threw himself again
upon the scrap of paper and read:  dearest, I
have no time to think how to say yes, yes, yes ; the
yacht is ready to sail  if I could answer your letter
as it deserves ! As we pass Villa Franca, how I
shall long to be with you there ! No more. Actio !
I am called. Tour loving  Ariadne."

Nothing seems so incredible as the supreme happiness
one has hardly dared to hope for, because
one hopes with such a desperate longing. Arnold
felt as if it were all too good to be true, till he
realised that twelve hours or even more might i)a.s.s
before he could see her  say all he had not said,
and learn with his own ears to believe that his
darling would be gracious. So tremble between joy
and pain the souls in purgatory when the message
comes for them to enter Paradise tomorrow. Alio
can count the hours of the day that stands between
us and heaven ?

One thing at least he might do ; and hasting as
if time were short, still in his rough undress, he
repaired to the jeweller's shop, kept by a well-known
Woman exile. I will not describe the ring:
he brought away with him, for his wife wears it
always to this day, and I have never seen another
like it ; every one may think of the ring with which
he would choose to celebrate his golden wedding :
the ring itself had a chameleon-like mutability, and

112 MIDSUMMER Noon.

few who have seen it describe it the same war.
Arnold had prayed her to bring the children
towards Villa Franca in their walk, and then,
when he met them, to turn away into the olive
gardens, while the little ones gathered narcissus and
anemones. He felt as if he must keep tryst with
his hopes and wear out the hours there.

Had her spirit been there before him ? the world
never wore such a face before. He walked on air ;
it seemed as if the world's brilliancy streamed
in through every sense ; not his eyes alone, but
every eager limb felt a vision of the glory that
lit up the bright young world. Alas this Italy or
Hellas, or the very garden of the gods ? Truly, he
said, she is a daughter of the gods, and I by her
love have left the cold world behind. He had not
slept : day had dawned upon chill anxiety ; now, ashe
stretched his limbs ou*; in the generous sunlight,
he smiled aloud and reproached the school-books for
never having told him that the waters of Lethe were
so warm. He bathed in the warm air and marvelled,
as every care fell from him ; what had happened to
the glossy carouse tree by the wayside to make it
look to him like the glorified spirit of a tree under
which gods might rest? Something of a leaden,
earthy load was gone from his spirit and the joyous
nature round ; the shadows of the dark foliage had
a green radiance which the dazzling sky could not
extinguish.

MIDSUMMER NOON. 113

Was the sky overhead blue or white ? A bend in
the road let the sea come near, and the water was
a deep, dazzling blue, but all the sky was ablaze
with sunlight. He thought, " When the islands of
the blest want a constitution and a dmpcau, I will be
their king and choose this tricolour  the blue, white,
and green of the heaven-bright South, where the
sea is as pure as the sky, the sky invisible like the
far-darting Sun-god, and the brown earth veiled ina
flickering mantle of silvery and purple green."

Arnold's swinging walk came to a sudden pause ;
just off the roadway footprints led up a little knoll
where a white goat was grazing. He threw himself
upon the warm ground, dizzy with the overwhelming
sense of rapture. She was trying to read Petrarch
yesterday ; was it only yesterday he had translated
for her : 

The sea hath not so many creatures 'mid its waves,

Nor there above the orbit of the moon

Did ever night behold as many stars :

The coppice harbours not as many birds,

Nor field bore ever grasses manifold,

As are the thoughts that crowd my heart  my love !

And he had read this yesterday, when he knew not
what it meant. Yesterday's fulness was a barren
hunger, its wisdom unfeeling ignorance ; only today
he knew and was overwhelmed with the marvels
of his knowledge. "0 Ariadne! Ariadne!"

114 MIDSUMMER NOON.

he murmured half aloud : " Petrarch \n:ote of what
he little knew; better men than I have thought
they loved, hut believe me, darling, none ever loved
as I do ; for you, my sweet, were then unborn, and
who could be beloved as you are ? " A lark rose,
and he watched it circling into the sunlit blue.
Ago auQclctto cite cantando vai, tell me," he said,
"is it not true that every song and sigh of birds
and lovers until now has been but a prophecy and
archetype of the love that waits on Ariadne ! " The
bird made no answer save with the trills that
vanished into space, and the soft silence came to
Arnold like assent, and he hid his face with love
and shame. " Ariadne ! Ariadne ! what have I
done to be crowned with happiness above that of all
the worthy lovers of old time ? "

Something like a tear stood in his eye. There
is no brighter light beneath the heavens than the
twinkling flashes with which sea and sun hold converse
: but the surpassing brilliancy of that brightness
is only known to the few who have felt it
flash upon their souls through a love born tear.
Arnold was looking out to sea, and he smiled like
a happy child at the forgiving brightness. And
again his senses rested upon the melting harmony
of grey and green ; the downy olive shimmered in
the sunlight, and its silver glitter made the calm
grey stone pines show green; while close by the

MIDSUMMER NOON. 115

wild myrtle and trailing caper and the overhanging
carouse with its bursting pods bore witness that
flower and seed-time had their turn in Arcady.

Arnold was half-ashamed of the vehemence of
his passion. He walked on more soberly, and reflected
with pleasure that he had the other day
defended Petrarch from the charge of exasperation
and unreality ; people had laughed at him, taking
for irony the grave earnestness with which he said
Laura's lover was the most literally truthful of immortal
poets. He thought the discovery was creditable
to his intelligence in that former state of
existence to which it seemed to belong, and in
virtue of it he would try to import into his new life
the charitable hope and difficult belief in a proportion
sum ; all and everything that his own Ariadne
was to him he would hope and try to think fair
ladies heretofore had been to the few faithful
lovers who had worshipped their loves as he would.

But at all events there was no one in the world
like her to-day. Was she thinking of him and
pitying his weary exile ? The world was fair because
she graced it ; he felt as if her absence were
putting out the light and glory. He wandered
along the solitary promontory. Under the olive
trees a reflection of the heavenly tricolour smiled at
him. Starry blue anemones and white narcissus
mingled with the scanty grass : his fancy gathered

ii MIDSUMMER NOON.

the whole enclosure into one vast bouquet, and he
sighed because he could not kneel to give it into
her hands. Then the path led through orange trees
under which no wild flowers grew, and then it came
out upon something like an open heath ; the ground
was bare, but sea flowers grew here and there among
the stones. The sun poured down ; he felt the rays
fall like unwelcome rain. It was the year's
shortest day, and he thought, " My life's winter is
past and gone, and spring was gone before it, and
our love can know no autumn of decay ; there
stretch before us long years of midsummer delight."


The beryl-coloured ripples of the tideless sea were
washing the little sandy inlet below him. He said
to himself, " I wonder from how far out ships seethe
lighthouse?" He tried to keep from himself
like a secret the irrepressible thought, "From the
point Ferret I shall see the yacht." The sun
shone upon her sails and the light wind bore her
smoothly over the twinkling blue. He was ready to
upbraid Ariadne for letting the sun shine when he
was not there to see it; it seemed as if all the light
he saw was a long way off. The yacht's head was
turned out to sea. Unreasonable as it was, he felt a
chill of disappointment. He was a monster of unreasonableness.
Of course she could not help it ; he
must endure his fate like a man. It was hard, but

MIDSUMMER NOON. 117

he would endure it manfully, and he tried to fit to
music Hawes* couplet 

For though the daye be never so long,
At lost the belle bringeth to evensong.

Let it be midsummer all the year round ; but as men
pray against an imagined danger, he was ready to
pray it might not be always noon.

He thought of himself as a state prisoner, with
a long term of solitary confinement to serve out.
Clearly the only escape from madness and despair
was to beirin seriously with some earnest tliou'jht.
He been to think of Ariadne, and as he thought
wild waves of lonc'inc: drowned his soul acain. He
stretched out his arms, and she was not there; the
food of londni; left him stranded on the bare, stony
ground. He felt like a fish stranded by the tide
upon a barren shore ; the parched earth was bare and
desolate ; of what use was he or it ? "I wish," he
murmured, " Ariadne, I wish there were nothing in
the world but thy dearness, and whatsoever may be
dear to thee, and my soul gasping thirstily towards
the infinite ocean of thy dearness, where its gasping
drown themselves, and there is nothing left but
thee ! " But there was his love left still, and it
stretched out covetous arms after the departing
yacht. The fish he felt like was that strange vessel
landed by the fisherman in the-arabian Nights."
"When the seal of the lid was taken of, the im-his

MIDSUMMER NOON.

prisoned Djinn rose up like smoke; he stretched
himself out, tall, and with expanding arms, like the
thoughts with which Arnold now swooped down
upon the yacht, where Ariadne stood by her father
on the bridge.

As the yacht weighed anchor, Ariadne had taken
refuge in the cabin to read at leisure the letter of
which she had hardly been able to grasp the words
in her haste to send an answer before it was too
late. The yacht had made some way before she
appeared on deck again. The boys laughed at her
silence. Lord Moidart was deep in maps and consultation
with the skipper. Presently he came aft,
and asked Ariadne cheerfully if she and the children
would like to stay out for a week's cruise and run onto
Corsica ; the weather was fair, and if they signalled
a home-bound boat, the mother would know where
they were and not be anxious. Poor Ariadne ! She
had been planning how, in the course of a long hour's
quiet talk with her father, she would gradually prepare
him for the momentous news (which, by the
way, was no news at all, either to Arnold's mother
or Lord Moidart, who had watched complacently the
innocent course of their children's first romance), and
now she could only feel foolishly unable to say a
word, unless her blank looks spoke. Lord Moidart
was still young, and in his diplomatic career he had
had to read harder riddles than Ariadne's transpa-

MIDSUMMER NOON. up

rent face. He made confession easy to her: how
would she like the cruise if they picked up Arnold
first ? The yacht was put about, and Ariadne whispered,
she never quite knew why, "Papa, we had
better land at Villa Franca first."

Arnold could not bear the sight of the receding
yacht; it was his first trouble, and he set himself
to bear it like a man. He turned away from the
dazzling south, and, resting his head in the shade of
a stunted wild laurel bush, he looked westward, past
the castle and old town of Xizza, to the luw line of
the Antibes ; he looked past all these to his English
home, where the sun never shone as nor, but where
Ariadne  was it possible ?  Ariadne would one day
walk by his side. Do what he would, his thoughts
still circled round. He could not dwell on thoughts
of her without the springing of a wild desire ; then
he set himself to desire nothing she could not grant,
and, however soberly his thoughts began again, erelong
they ended with outstretched arms and a wailing
cry within. He could bear it no longer, and
started up to see the yacht once more, even if it were
only as a distant speck, bearing his love away.

He looked ; was it a too happy dream ? The yacht
was nearer, the sun glancing on her sails ; she was
making for the harbour. Could it mean  he dared
not guess  what could it mean? No! she was
anchoring far out, the wind was against her 

MIDSUMMER Nooning

the harbour  was anything amiss ? They were
lowering a boat. Arnold stood with every limb
intent, like Mercury waiting Jove's word to fly ; he
watched with straining eyes. What sailor could
M'ear white and blue ? Ariadne, by heaven ! Ariadne
is in the boat, and it comes to fetch her lover !

Do not think my hero mad. He paused to think
about his dress; a white flannel shirt is none the
worse for water, and the sun and sea only made his
yellow hair curl tighter; he did not wish to reach
her looking like a crrev drowned rat, but somehow it
never crossed his mind as possible that he should
wait on shore till the boat came nearer. He proceeded
very orderly to take off his coat and boots ;
he folded her letter and put it in his tin fusee case ;
he slipped the ring on his little finger, and, after
dipping his head in the sea, he stuck a sprig of
flowering myrtle behind his ear. He waded among
pink flowering rocks, and the delicate medusae swam
round him unabashed ; then, as the water deepened,
he struck out to sea.

The world was bright again; but a new change
had come upon his spirit. His love and longing had
been too boisterous, his joy had hovered upon the
brink of sudden death. As he rested on the cool
blue water, and rose and fell with the soothing
motion of the gentle swell, he felt at one with the
world which was all one path towards her. What

MIDSUMMER NOON. 121

were time and distance to make his love grow faint,
though she was far off, beyond the end of the infinite
ladder of light that glittered dazzlingly between him
and the horizon  were not his arms and his courage
strong ? and with a slow, steady, effortless stroke, he
felt himself borne along towards the goal. He was
swimming southward, sunward. On either hand, if
he could have seen it, the sea was of the deepest
blue ; but his path lay along the broad, bright stream,
like a transparent silver sunbeam, which reached onto
behind the sun in heaven. The sun s rays were
strong upon his head ; as he rose over the crest of a
little wave, its foam splashed refreshingly in his
face; the rippling of the water, the warmth overhead,
and the still, even motion of his limbs brought
a kind of drowsiness with it. The journey seemed
long though the way was pleasant, and Ariadne herself
would meet him at the end ; it was with a sobered
joy that he thought of what seemed the far-off meeting.
But with the drowsiness his strokes were
slackening, and he woke again to more strenuous
pursuit. He thought, " My best good will take a life's
pursuit ; Ariadne will scorn an idle lover ; " and he
swam faster; he knew he was swimming fast and
well, and he thought joyously of the nearing boat.

He heard the splash of the oars, and the sailors
humming in chorus " Lou Eossignou che vola." He
listened in vain for Ariadne's voice ; he saw the boat

122 MIDSUMMER NOON.

fast drawing nearer, and she was leaning forward in
the bow. He smiled and did not speak; but, as
they drew quite near, he paused in his stroke, and
leaning, as it were, with his elbows on the buoyant
water, he took the ring and the sprig of myrtle in
his hand, and, as the boat came close, he touched the
prow and Ariadne's hand ; the ring was on her finger
and the sprig of myrtle in her hand before any one
else quite saw what passed. Then, laughing, he
climbed into the boat ; he said it was glorious
weather for a swim ; he talked fast and to every one
but her.

Just before they reached the yacht, Lord Moidart
patted him on the back with a good-humoured laugh,
the like of which he has often had to encounter since,
and pointed out that if he had stayed on shore in
his clothes, the boat would have picked him up in
little more than another ten or fifteen minutes.

But I could not wait," said he.

Ariadne was close by, and they looked away from
each other, lest any one else should overhear the
answer of her eyes.

F.

Ht Hncbor.

As in the rainbow's many-coloured hue,

Here see we watched deepened with a blue.

There a dark tawny with a purple mixt,

Yellow and flame, with streaks of green betwixt,

A bloody stream into a blushing run.

And ends still with the colour which begun ;

Drawing the deeper to a lighter stain,

Bringing the lightest to the deepest again.

With such rare art each mingled with his fellow.

The blue with watched, green and red with yellow.

William Bbowxe.

V.

Eeuben was not ill in body, and no visible calamity
had befallen him. He was an artist of some promise,
and had a picture at the Academy, lie was in love
with a pretty rich young woman of the gay world,
with a heart to spare for the first who could touch
it. His dream had been at one stroke to wiu such
fame as should warrant him in whispering, "My
fame is yours and you my love." But he had loved
too little or too much to betray his secret yet, and
he had put a meaning in his painting which she
had not read. She had congratulated him on its
being well hung. Sine illic laclirymce !

He left London that night. It was a minor
matter that his picture was not sold, and that he
had reasons for preferring the cheapest third-class
ticket that would bring him to the Channels shores.
The next morning an even, grey, fine mist fell, or
rather hung, in silent, moveless gloom over earth,
and sea, and sky. The cliffs were low and sandy,
but patches of heather spoke of days when all
colour was not blotted out of view. Eeuben turned

126 AT ANCHOR.

mechanically away from the straggling watering-place
towards the open coast, and when he had
reached the point where the down was highest, above
the sandy ruts of the cliff road, he threw himself on
the elastic heath-tufts and set himself to meditate
on the universal CTevness.

The unfortunate never know how fiercely they
have clung to their one last hope till the moment
when that too has failed. One by one lesser objects
of desire elude the grasp, and each disappointment
is borne, to the victim's own amaze, with hardly
weakened courage; for, without knowing it, each
succeeding disappointment only serves to nourish
the strong surviving hope for the one bliss that shall
make amends for all the rest And then at last 
some put off the day of waking so long that their
own last sleep comes before it  but to some at last
comes the moment of bewilderment when the lifelong
desire is frozen by the blast of final deprivation ;
the last doom of denial is uttered from without, and
despair sweeps like a hurricane over every sense ;
and then, amidst the very bitterness of blank despair,
comes a vision of the double death. Even this
might have been borne like the rest if only hope
were left of something, ever so little, anything 
but a shadow of the slightest thing, still in front to
hope for.

It was so with Eeuben now. He had lived the

AT ANCHOR. 127

double life of man and artist, and again and again
he had failed in both. It is needless to rehearse the
trivial details, the recurring discouragements, which
he had defied, thinking, " Yet a few more months,
then weeks, then interminable days  and then, and
then  she will see, and surely she will understand.
I will not tell her that my fate hangs upon her
seeing. If my spirit speaks to hers from the canvas,
there is no need; and if it does not speak, if she
cannot or docs not choose to vicar, it is not for me to
bei? for mcrcv, to force from her kindness words that
do not spring from her own desire to speak  to me
alone of all men. It may be she will not speak.
If so, that will be over, and one may live thereafter
as one can. But perhaps, perhaps, perhaps  oh ! if
she should have that to say, to say to me, which my
soul would give life, death, and eternity to hear ! **

This had been the burden of his dreams, and she
had not spoken. He had prayed before, like the
great poet in this immortal agony  " And if you leave
me, do not leave me last !" " How can she leave me,"
he muttered, " when she never came?" She had never
crossed the threshold of his studio ; if she had, alone
there, would she have understood ? She never
understood the passion of longing which prompted
his timid suggestion, would she not like to come?
She had smiled with uncomprehending courtesy, and
he was just in his misery. How could she have

128 AT ANCHOR.

known what he never dared to say? He had
spent his strength in silencing the jealous rage which
filled him when a happy, thoughtless youth won
easily the promise of her presence  was it at a
cricket-match, or where ? Nay, but he wanted too
much himself to be jealous of those who won lesser
boons ; his wishes had dared to wander boundlessly,
and this was the end of his infinite lonijins. He
questioned himself incredulously, was this less than
nothingness the end ?

He lay upon the heather in the falling mist,
stunned, bewildered, understanding at last that he
had staked his life upon a single throw, and he
had lost. It was like the end of one of those
year-long games of chance played by barbarians,
East and West, in the far-off past, and like the
hero of such tales, he had lost himself and all
he had, and the game must go on without him,
for he had nothing left to stake. His chance was
over, once and for ever. He could not look to

win by the help of Time's revenges, for he was no



longer able even to play, though the maddest run of
luck should lure him. It felt strange to be alive
when every hope was dead and every purpose starved
and atrophied. " But," he thought, " it is no concern
of mine now. Since my soul passed out of my
own keeping into hers, it was she, not I, who had
the power to dispose of all its future."

AT ANCHOR. 129

The mist was growing lighter over the sea ; cloud
and horizon began to be distinguishable, and streaks
of grey above and below grew transparent, as if
coloured lights of red and yellow were shining faraway
behind them. Level grey moisture still hung
upon the land, and all round there was a silence that
might be felt. Eeuben closed his eyes wearily ; he
had not slept for several nights. His eyes were hot,
and there was a dull throbbing above the brows.
His limbs ached; long-continued fatigue and the
forcibly postponed consciousness of bodily discomfort
were taking their revenge, and for a moment his
mental wretchedness seemed forgotten in the sense
of utter physical exhaustion and distress. The momentary
oblivion was like a breath of chloroform
in the midst of pain. The feeling of body discomfort
was faintly but distinctly pleasurable, and as
Eeuben gave himself up to it he thought dreamily
that this explained the self-torturing passions of
asceticism. When the soul is sick to death, bodily
pain is the only possible source of relief, the relief
that comes from a change of suffering. For a few
moments mind and body were almost unconscious
together; the pause was more like faintness than
sleep ; but before his eyes opened again to confront
the full visage of his grief, he felt with dim astonishment,
and something almost akin to self-reproach,
that his over-mastering misery did not even now

Iso AT ANCHOR.

wholly exclude every other mode of consciousness.
He felt the shallowness of his misery as an aggravation
of its unsounded depths of bitterness.

With the instinct that makes us say " Look ! "
when we wish for the mind's attention, Eeuben
opened his eyes to see if there was any escape from
the encompassing greyness, any change in the surrounding
gloom to warrant this strange feeble 
embracing a lesser pain. The sun was
hidden, but its light was struggling intermittently
through the clouds. The heavy grey curtain of opaque
mist which had seemed to hancr between his eves and
the familiar world was not lifted; it only seemed
to dissolve into shadowy colours, meaningless and
manifold, like those which herald the transformation
scene in a Christmas pantomime. Sea and sky had
melted again into one ; but varied shades of colour,
in pale mimicry of the rainbow's bands, seemed to
divide the continuous upright bank of vapour that
veiled or shadowed forth the actual scene. It was
too fantastic to be beautiful, and the artist was too
sad to take any interest in the vagaries of nature;
but the returning memory of despair kept this consciousness
awake, and he felt rather than saw opened
out before him such a rainbow as might span Styx
and Phlegethon when infernal lightnings play upon
slow showers of poisoned mud. The indigo band of
the horizontal rainbow lay where a belt of weedy

AT ANCHOR. 131

sea was overshadowed by the darkest cloud. The
shallow waters were turbid from the last night's
swell, and there may have been a sandbank behind
the reef, helping to colour the dull waves red. The
half-lurid light from above lit up the reddish strip
of sea, that melted then into pale metallic yellow
where a break in the clouds was reflected on the
sullen surface; and then the same shaded streaks
of grey, blue, and red, with green and yellow lights,
repeated themselves in the sky above, as iu the
mirage the scene reflects itself upon the sky, instead
of earth and sea being mirrored in smooth waters
underneath. The unearthly hues were not without
a mysterious grace, but they had no charm for
Eeuben : he had done with the world of men, and it
was an added mockery that nature should have new
tricks to play off before his careless and reluctant
eyes.

For this was the burden of his wonder now. All
was over, and the strange thing is how little difference
it seemed to make. Her life, sunrise and sunset, the
work and pleasure of indifferent friends, all this
would go on just as before ; every material care and
difficulty, and the one duty Eeuben never thought
to question, remained unchanged in prospect. He
wished never to touch a brush again ; but it was not
painting to colour canvases for hire, and how else
could he earn the money he must have to keep his

132 AT ANCHOR.

lame young brother in the country home, whence he
wrote, only yesterday, of his happiness and mending
health ? And if Eeuben painted for pay, how could
he do less than his best work, and who would know
the difference when none of the accustomed skill had
left his fingers, only the light of hope his heart?
And he had been wont to call it simony if men sold
work done by skilled hands while the heart and
thoughts were far away !

A light brown rain-cloud drifted like a waterspout
athwart the motionless irev background. Was he
to live and walk a soulless host amoncr the living,
a moving shadow of unknown pain ? Nothing had
been real in his life but the loss of it ; all the rest
was vain imagination, that had passed current with
his fellows for reality while he himself could make-believe
its truth ; and now he must still walk among
the living, veiling the grim forms of death and pain,
who lodged devouring in the broad palaces his
imagination had reared for hope and love. Nothing
was changed outside. The moments were long, and
again and again he looked upon the grey mist; he
felt its clammy touch as he watched the pale colours
in their shadowy dance, varying yet the same, ever
pale and shadowy and weird. So it was, and so it
would be through such years as the prisoner for life
only dares to think of when they end. The life-sentenced
convict may hope for death, or escape, or

AT ANCHOR. 133

a ticket of leave ; but Reuben could not even hope
for death, which would leave his little brother to the
cold charity of the busy world.

There was a buoy some way out in the Channel,
the only token of a sharp sunken rock. As it rose
and sank with the ground swell, Eeuben's sympathies
went out towards it as a living: thine:. It clings to
its anchorage with that tenacity that made men
choose the anchor for the sign of hope ; it clings
blindly with brute fidelity to its forced anchorage,
but it has nothing to fear or hope from storm or
sunshine : life and death are for the craft that thread
the Channel beyond. And then his mind wandered
back to the despised canvas. Did she know that
every line and every tint was born directly of her
influence, was inspired by her gracious smile, or
prompted by her grave opinion ? It was her work,
and she did not own it ; it was the monument of his
love, the only relic left him of his hopeful life insight
of her ; and the only relic of her left to him
was a relic not of her, only of what she had declined
to receive at his hands. The interest consciousness
does not soliloquise in words ; if he had been forced
to seek them, they would have seemed few and
empty. It is hard, ineffably hard! It seems to be
true. What then ? It cannot be true. It is true.
Oh me 1 and it is hard !

And then the sense of dreary anchorage upon a

134 AT ANCHOR.

hidden duty faded, and he felt like a drowning
man, clutching at he knew not what as strong
waves sucked him back, bruised and battered, to
foreseen destruction ; and then it was not the boat's
gunwale, nor the slippery rock, or yielding herbage
that he was grasping in the hard death struggle,
but a soft, firm hand, warm and gentle to the touch,
and to be saved by that was a pleasure, even if the
salvation had been death. But then  it was hardly
a dream, though the hand felt very like hers as he
had said " Good-bye " only the afternoon before, 
then he seemed to feel those soft sweet fingers
firmly and gently loosening the clutch by which
he clung to them and life. "What right had he to
cling to her ? Yet he clung, and with gentle irresistible
touch she unclasped his clinging fingers ;
and as in a dream one falls through space, waking
prostrate with a palpitating heart, so Eeuben wondered,
was it all a dream, as his eyes opened again
upon the mist and he loosed the convulsive grasp
which crushed and half uprooted the wiry heather
shoots.

There is a strange incredulity in some sick men
when at last the skilled judgment pronounces that
their days are numbered. Very few can grasp,
while they still live, and suffer no more it may be
less  than yesterday, that a day is coming, is near,
when they, their living selves, will be numbered

AT ANCHOR. 135

with the painless dead. They come hack again and
again to the thought with a scared surprise, how
should so strange a tale be true ? So Eeuhen again
and again faced his blank surprise; his world had
turned to a shadow of dark, cold emptiness. How
could he live ? And yet not a visible reason for his
life and extort had been withdrawn from the world
of his fellows* sic;ht and feeling. His mind was
dazed, his limbs paralysed ; every sense but that of
sight seemed closed, and what he saw was only like
a shadow of what he felt. It crossed his luiiid like
a recollection from some former state of existence
that a clear horizon lay behind the mist, that sometimes
the sun shone upon clear outlines of the rock
where rolling waves might break in spray ; and so
he knew  by an effort he recalled to memory the
knowledge  that the world had not ceased to live
and love, to labour, suffer, and aspire, because he
was cut off from living partnership in its cares
and hopes.

Hours had passed, and the mist was falling still.
The spirit of his waking dreams had changed. The
many-coloured world, looming dimly through the
veil of universal greyness, seemed to float in space,
like a child's toy balloon, but he and it were held
together as if the visionary earth and sea were
anchored on his aching heart, as if the iron that
entered into his soul was the solid, crushing 

AT ANCHOR,

movable shadow of the hope that was gone from
him.

He had no thought of moving; distant sounds
fell without meaning on his ears, till all at once
he was startled by the shriek of a railway whistle,
that began strangely so as to accompany and prolong
a sea-guirs cry. The sound jarred upon his
quivering frame, and with an ostrich-like instinct
he hid his face, lying with upstretched arms upon
the sandy slope. lie sought to be alone with his
grief, to gather all his strength together, if so be
that he moonlit bear its weiiijht. And as if in answer
to his desire, a space of silence was granted him, a
respite from the sights and sounds of the outer
world. He was alone with his grief ; he seemed to
be lying in a world apart, like one in bodily pain,
whose only striving is to endure; and then all at
once a rush of feeling, too massive to waste itself
in the unspoken words of conscious thought, swept
over his struggling will. Endurance was swallowed
up in pain ; he moaned aloud. He had tasted the
bitterness of death ; a death-like stillness fell upon
soul and body. A low moan coming from far off
seemed like the echo of his own lost utterance. But
his sorrow would henceforth keep silence, and the
melancholy wailing of the wind upon the telegraph
wires grew louder and more frequent as cold gusts
began to gather the mist into watery clouds.

AT ANCHOR, 137

Eeuben was wet through, stiff, and weary to
the point which makes change of place a luxurious
change of uneasiness. He rose to his feet and
stretched the cramped, chill limbs, and ran cold
fingers through his salt wet hair. He made an
effort to awake. It could not all be a bad dream,
but a man should rouse himself to know the
worst. "What was the worst ? His thought was,
I would sell mv soul to be free to cut mv throat
to-nidit ! The devil take it ! AVhv isn't there
even a devil to take body and soul at a gift, when
one asks nothing better than to be rid of both, to
escape the curse of life's long emptiness?" He was
not an irreverent youth, nor much given to swearing
as a rule, and the unwonted invocation helped to
rouse him. He smiled rather grimly and said to
himself, "Even if there were a devil to go to, it
wouldn't be much use now." And then, standing
upright in the mist, he looked at the mock rainbow
over the sandbanks, and a vague temptation possessed
him. There was no hope, no outlook, no
heaven of hope in front, no way of salvation for
soul or body. Was it possible that there might

be a pleasant way of sinning ? "I wish " he

began, and then he laughed aloud and pulled himself
together more wakefully, and tried to put
some sane merriment in his laugh. " I am glad
I d(m*t wish for anything, if I can wish for 

AT ANCHOR.

thing better than that there was a devil for me to
go to ! "

And so he went back to the station and caught
the Parliamentary train to town ; and his landlady
hoped he had had a pleasant journey and would not
fail to change his socks.

I'L

(c\\ our Brothers.

Ami here, as lamps across the bridge turn pale
In London's smokeless resurrection liiht,
Dark breaks to dawn.  D. G. Rosette.

vr.

I NOTICE that nothing tells a truer tale about the set
of a person's prejudices or preferences than the thing
which they put first in a comparison. If a man
says his lady-love is like the moon, if I were she I
shouldn't l>e best pleased, for it means he cares
more about star-gazing than love. If a man says the
murmur of an excited crowd is like the roaring of
the sea, he may be able to tell you what the wild
waves say, but he neither knows nor cares much
about the feeling of a mass of men stirred by one
voice and passion. And so it is proved that I don't
stand in the first rank among the votaries of nature
when I confess that the sort of association that gives
a pleasant feeling to a walk along the cliff in the
October gales is that with the stream of traffic along
the narrow pavement of a city street at noon, with the
tide of brown or blackish human specks that pour
over Blackfriars Bridge at nine in the morning, or
the jostling torrent streaming through the doors when
Exeter Hall is going to be packed from roof to ceiling
with eager half-taught men in " demonstration " of

142 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

some half-learnt lesson of political wisdom or justice.
If I dash into the war of words myself, and turn fora
moment the argument the way I wish, I do not say
to myself, " Such as this was the pleasure I felt
when, bathing with our host, I learnt to dive through
the breakers, drift with the back-draught to the right
moment, and then dive again and swim with the
current towards the chosen lauding." I>ut I have
felt instead among the London crowd, when the excitement
of the passing contest was over, as if the
charm of this face-to-face wrestling with the stream
of kindred independent passions was to me something
like that other pleasure felt by the skilled swimmer in
the dangerous element he had learned to master.

But in general I think the things that interest me
are interesting in themselves without the help of
metaphor. I do not care so much about the variations
in an individual lot as for the ever-crowing:
intricacy of the relations between each set of lives
and a thousand other sets. I would rather be dead,
buried, and forgotten than have to live in sight of
collisions and confusions one could do nothing: to
reconcile or harmonise. I can conceive no more
fascinating ambition, no more entrancing aim than
that of unravelling the tangled threads of popular
desire, and choosing for the unconscious many the
one path along which all may move straight towards
the sought content.

MEN OUR BROTHERS, 143

Tou say it isn't easy? If it were easy, where
would the amusement be ? If it were impossible, I
for one should despair of finding an interest in life.
If you go in for practical politics, you deliberately
make it your business to discover and divine, in
order to defeat, the involuntary opposition offered by
shortsighted interests to a systematic advocacy of
the universal best. Whither one succeeds or fails,
the contest is worth trviiicr, and at least ennui is
impossible while it lasts.

Of course, my political friends call mu a doctrinal
prig when I want to stick inconveniently close to
general principles, or they are getting indefensible
warm about a temporary expedient ; and a reputation
for priggishness is rather fatal to one's chance
of becoming an accepted leader. But I would rather
be free to want things done my own way than get
more done by less logical demands. Hardly any of
the men who have ruled their fellows have the
supreme qualification of seeing their way straight to
an absolutely ideal end. They grow impassioned
and contend successfully over the establishment of
a few automata media, which, to my mind, have
neither the dignity of a first principle nor the urgency
of a concrete fact. The "practical" politician
struggles towards a favourite partial reform as I
would have men strive for the very millennium; the
sentimentalist cares for the wrongs and sufferings of

144 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

an injured few as I would have men care about the
mere possibility of iniquitous pain ; professional reformers,
demagogues, and agitators lose themselves,
and are content to lose themselves, in working the
machinery towards a near result, which is only of
value to me as a means or a symbol of approach to
some change of universal scope. The means are
good and welcome, but they are all alike mere means,
and I care no more for the means I have to use
myself than for those which prove elective in another
hand. In fact, I think I care less : one's own
range of action is so narrow, and one sees all round
one's own blunders ; but if somebody else, from
whom one does not expect infallibility at starting,
does of his own accord, even in part, what we could
only earn our own self-respect by doing completely
and triumphantly, it seems so much clear, unexpected
gain.

And then if, instead of being unforeseen, the pleasure
has been carefully prepared by our own hands,
if we have knowingly helped our neighbour towards
the wisdom with which he delights us now, there is
a double or triple satisfaction left for the mind to
ruminate upon. We have planted a tree which will
bear fruit, though our own efforts were barren always ;
and besides the fruit for this generation, seedlings
and suckers will increase and multiply, so that in
them the parent stock may remain green for ever. I

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 145

have the keenest sense of the usefulness of men who
are not much missed when they die, because their
power has been spent in rearing inheritors of their
own work and purpose. I think the Buddhists say,
'* Blessed is he who has shown the way," i.e., who
has shown it to others, whether he travelled far along
it himself or no.

Entanglement in exacting practical affairs is not
conducive to poetical meditation, even at the most
witching hour of night. But on one particular occasion
I had a companion, an intelligent fellow, but
with something of the poetic temperament and a
melancholy twist, that, if he had been an artist
instead of a plasterer, would have inspired meditations
to the full as dismal as those of our friend
"Eeuben." We had our way to make through
London pretty nearly from north-east to south-west,
and his running comments upon all we saw helped
to fix the common sights in my memory. We had
been at a local Trade Union meeting somewhere
between Whitechapel and Stephen, and when we
left, nearer one than twelve, it appeared that my
friend had told his wife not to expect him home
that night, as he would be kept late and could stop
with a chum in the neighbourhood of the meeting.
This friend's wife turned out to be ill, and as Waters
had to be at work in Lambeth by six, he agreed to halt
in my chambers for the two or three hours' interval.

U6 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

I was in good spirits after an interesting discussion
of That seemed to me an important and promising
idea. Waters aras indignant and depressed
because the idea was met by opposition of a narrow
and apparently selfish kind. The scheme was fora
so-called " Generalisation " of the various trade
societies throughout the country, a fusion of interests
between the men of different trades, like the
amalgamation already carried out in many important
trades of independent local unions. Theoretically
it seemed a logical, and indeed inevitable, development
of the fundamental principles of trade idiotism
: it seemed as it the labourer could only he reailv
strong; through association when all the different
industries were pledged to support and reinforce
each other in all reasonable demands, and to restrain
unreasonable demands by the check of a responsible
public opinion.

Just as it has been found that the men in one
town or one workshop will threaten a strike upon
trivial personal grounds which the trade society asa
body disallows, so it is to be expected that the
excited passions of a large and united body of men
may sometimes need to be overruled by the sober
counsels of disinterested persons of their own class :
that sailors might preach forbearance to weavers,
and-weavers patience and moderation to masons.
In large towns the 'trade Council" aims at doii

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 147

locally what a federal union of the trades would do
for all England, and in my ignorance I thought the
scheme had only to be proposed to meet with a
hearty welcome, notably from the existing trade
councils, whose dignity, I argued, must be increased
by their acting as intermediaries between the small
and large assemblies representing all the trades.
But there are ambitions of all decrees of narrowness,
and the men who are accustomed to be of
chief consequence on the trade council of a large
town do not care to sink their importance by taking
a subordinate part in a really national scheme ; and
there was some justification even for the doubts of
honest and unselfish practical men, who saw that
some of the most talkative promoters of the new
scheme were men who had not a solid reputation
for industry and good faith in their own trade or
neighbourhood. It was a repetition in small of the
old experience that visionaries and charlatans are
more ready to take up with even true new lights
than the sober mass of practical men.

Waters was one of the exceptional men who seethe
broadest questions in a fair light without losing
their grasp of the material details ; and just because
he knew the scheme to be practical and possible, he
was the more discouraged by finding it meet with
but flimsy support and substantial opposition. I
said, by way of encouragement, it was not so far

148 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

from the present standpoint to the realisation of
our wishes here, as it was from the old conspiracy
laws to the present state of things : with time and
patience we should arrive, as our predecessors had
done.

He said , " Aye ; and at the same cost. Did you
ever think how many of the best men of two or three
generations felt their hearts breaking, day by day,
because of just such slowness in the progress towards
right ? "

I tried again, with my own favourite topic of
consolation : " It is pleasant anyway to see that there
is a possible solution of our difficulties; that the
only thing needed is to bring the practical leaders
over to see the solution as their own,  there are no
insuperable obstacles."

He said, stopping as he spoke, and taking hold of
the lamp-post by way of a iron ara for his eloquence,
I beg your pardon, Mr. James ; but if you will allow
me to say so, you, and gentlemen like you, remind
me very much of the poet Wordsworth."

I tried to intimate that this was an undeserved
compliment, but he proceeded to explain that it was
intended otherwise.

I had never read much of Wordsworth," he continued,
" till after something John Mill said to me
once, much the same as what I read afterwards in
his autobiography. I believed in Mill in a way one

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 149

seldom believes in any one, least of all in gentlemen
and philosophers ; and I bought a complete edition
of Wordsworth, and spent one winter's evenings in
reading his poems well through. And the conclusion
I came to was, that he might be very good
reading for ladies and gentlemen who had never felt
anything like the French Revolution themselves.
Much of it was fine poetry for everybody ; but what
Mill praised in it was only good morality for born
aristocrats, who wanted to learn a little humanity,
but were never likely to curry their learning too far.
I never liked Shelley so well as when he saw through
Peter Bell the Second and his

Dim recollections
Of pedlars tramping on their rounds ;
Milk pans and pails, and odd collections
Of saws and proverbs, and reflections
Old parsons make in burying-grounds.

'Burns, Shelley were with us,' as Browning says,
but Wordsworth  I should have liked to tell him to
his solemn face that shepherds, pedlars, mad women,
and all, were good for something more than figures
in a landscape for him to feel wise and good in
looking at.

The landscape / see is the other way. I was at
Manchester for a Trades Congress once, and went
up to the Cumberland lakes for the Saturday to
Monday after. All Sunday I roamed upon the bare

ISO MEN OUR BROTHERS.

hills without meeting a living soul, and I grew
savage to think of this glorious nature being enjoyed
alone by a poet who cared no more for his fellowmen
than for the picturesque stones and daffodils ; while

T , the engineer, and P , the brassfounder,

and V , whom you knew in "Westminster, and I

and thousands more, who could love the stones and
flowers as well as Wordsworth, and our brethren
as our very selves, we by a fluke see these hills once
in a lifetime, if then, and then perhaps not without
grudging the few shillings that we think should
have sone elsewhere than on two or three days'
pleasuring. Well, if you'll forgive me for saying so,
when swells like you come among us and try to
understand what we want, and do your best to help
us, we can't help feeling now and then that what is
life and death to us is after all only a moral kind
of play to you. Like Wordsworth and his peasants,
you make a kind of picture to yourselves of the life
of the people, only you do it in scientific prose,
instead of in poetry, that I can enjoy well enough
when I forget the moral. Tour pictures and his
may be true enough  that isn't my quarrel ; but we
want to live our own lives, not to sit for our pictures
to be hung up in statesmen's libraries. You say,
Let's have a correct likeness first, and then we shall
know where we are and be able to help.' But we feel
all that you want to draw and more than you can

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 151

see towards it, and the people won't stand still when
they are hungry or in hot anger to let you find out
things about them that they know by heart themselves
already, and they aren't grateful to those who
ask them. And then I begin to think no one from
outside cadi help us  no one who doesn't feel heart
and soul with us, as no one can feel who has never
had the chance of doing more than sympathise ; and
that we must wait for one of ourselves with brains
to understand and power to act even while he feels.
But this is uncivil, ungrati.-ful talk, for which I ask
your pardon, sir. I daresay you'll understand enough
of how we feel to excuse my saying what comes
uppermost."

I frankly owned that "Waters' instinct was just
enough. As to Wordsworth, it may be part of my
Philistinism, but I don't above half like him, and
wasn't sorry to be furnished with a reason why.
But as I understood something of my friend's grounds
for irritation, I trusted that he might see enough of
the other side to excuse my reluctance to surrender
the intellectual freedom with which one starts, by
abandoning oneself altogether to the current of
sympathetic anger. When one has the good luck
not to be the victim of a bad custom in the boot
trade, does it make one a more useful citizen to feel
as if the abolition of that custom was the most
urgent duty laid on men? For a shoemaker the

152 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

evil has its natural place and proportion in life, but
if we  I said to him  " If we are to succeed in helping
you at all, I think it must be chiefly at first by
clearing away the mechanical difficulties in the way
of your helping yourselves. The social machinery
hinders you now, we ought to tinker at it till we
make it help instead ; and that is in itself such a
troublesome job that I am not sure whether you
need grudge us the unsubstantial pay of a little
harmless self-satisfaction when for a moment we
think we see the track clear for a few yards in the
jungle ahead, though we have still to get the troops
and baggage waggons over the ground."

"VVe had been standing still during this discussion,
and a policeman had stopped a few yards off to look
at us. Waters jerked his shoulder towards the
representative of the law and said, " "No. g i thinks
we are a suspicious-looking pair, and I suppose you
would like me to be thankful that nevertheless we
two meet as friends, with no worse aim than that of
setting the world to rights." I assented, and felt
mightily inclined to pass my arm through his as
we walked on and dropped into broken chat on less
exciting themes, but I did not dare. The motion
was natural, for we had reached the point of friendly
freedom at which home truths can be exchanged;
and it is possible he would have felt this as I did,
and not have resented the familiarity at the moment.

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 153

But then we should meet again, he in the company
of his daily associates, and I among mine; and I
dreaded the involuntary, almost inevitable, jar to so
susceptible a nature when he imagined that such or
such a stately swell, who might take my arm condescendingly
in St. James* Street, would stare at the
notion of my taking his in Curtain Road. So we
walked on side by side, merely keeping step together.


Presently, to prevent the silence lasting so long
as to make ic awkward to speak again, I said the
interminableness of London streets was a thing I
never quite got used to. He agreed, and linked his
assent on to our former subject by the remark that
it was easier to interest oneself in statistics about so
many thousand persons, than in their actual bodily
presence as symbolised by so many miles of dwelling
and sleeping rooms. " Cities'* he went on, " have a
solitude of their own, and I shouldn't quarrel with a
poet who dwelt upon the crowded life as a sort of
background, an inanimate scenery in front of which
the little group of actors we see and know play out
their part. When men are crowded together in
great numbers, we cannot see them all at once as
men ; at least, the only human element that can be
brought before ns vividly is the common beginning,
end, and middle of their lives as shown in the figures,
that always seem so inhumanly dry, about births.

154 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

deaths, and marriages. And yet it is just as real
and moving a fate that you and I or any other
mother's son should spend our days among this
forest of hearths and doorways, as that another
j)rancli of our same race should spend the years in
company with dumb beasts, rarely or never seeing
an unknown human face. In a since stroll wc
pass a thousand living men ; we don't so nuich as
note their features : and vet each one has a life of
his own in which the rest have no place save as an
unnoticed background. Imagine the still mountains
compact of a million heaped-up, eager, conscious
lives, and yet as still as the waste lying before us
now."

He stopped and pointed. We had reached a kind
of carrcfour ; a wide road with a tramway ended
where it was crossed at an oblique angle by another
narrower but still busy thoroughfare; opposite the
tramway two converging squalid streets met at this
centre, and at right angles to it a dark, straight
street, once of solemn, middle-class respectability,
opened with a protest against the lurid glare of the
gas-lamps and gin-palaces which stood sentinel at
every other corner. I looked all round ; it was not
the first time by many I had passed through such
scenes, but then I had not been forced to halt and
note their features by a comrade to whom no scene
could be expressionless. I am no hand at descriptio

OUR BROTHERS. 135

tions, and when I compare my recollections of that
night with the other street scenes I have tried to
notice since, I know that I only saw by the light of
his stronger feeling.

The air of London streets by night is almost always
brown, the colour that is fog by daylight ; this darkness
fills the vistas down opening streets, it hangs
between the houses, and stretches like a level sea
between the roofs and lowest clouds; but in this
region it is seldom one so much as sees the clouds
that hide the starlight ; no sees so little throu'jfh the
thick brown air that it serves itself for a cloud 
veiling no ijods, however. Now and then a red
window opens through the darkness, like the flash
in mid-air from a lighthouse when storms hide the
solid building:. One must know beforehand what is
there to guess that the light pours from the unveiled
window of some seventh story in a warehouse, where
night is being turned into day over an urgent job ;
or it may be merely the illuminated face of a church
clock, with the tower, and the hands and figures
blotted out alike, or the shell of an advertising magic
lantern, with black letters in praise of somebody's
boots or hats, ready to break out in relief against the
light.

But everywhere upon the dull brown pervading
mist there rests the reflection of a lurid glare from
the dim gas-lamps, and the light that leaks through

156 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

shop - fronts and the closed shutters or ragged
blinds, behind which women sew, and some  thank
God !  some households gather in homely happiness
for the evening's rest. And as the streets darken,
when the last shops are closed, and the ragged children
have almost disappeared up mysterious courts
and archways, when the wheel traffic is ending, and
only a few rapid, silent passengers are scattered on
the footway, it seems as if the dim light by which
all the children of misery grope their way to an
early death was turned inwards ; the streets are
darker, but the glow upon the murk air only seems
the deeper red, as if, like glow-worms in the
dark, each smoking lamp or flaring farthing candle
flickered with a living light, casting upon the
sombre streets the sad shadow of the slow agony
and dumb strivings of stupid, drunken, caged humanity.


As darkness that may be felt, the silence falls like
lead, more heart-breaking than the rarer shouts from
a brawling party still unwilling to seek its comfortless
lair within. The strange half light seemed to
mask the sordid familiarity of the street prospect,
the subdued passion in my companion's voice added
to the sense of awe ; it was like a dream, in which
some new poet, wise and merciful and stern, led the
way through a real Inferno, where sins and judgments
walked hand in hand, and the children shared

MEN OUR BROTHERS. is?

their fathers' load. The air seemed to grow hotter
and heavier ; the red darkness reminded me of the
glare round the horizon from the furnaces at night
in the midland Black Country, but the sultriness, I
thought, could come from no honest fire of coals. I
heard the tramp of heavy measured steps upon the
pavement, and something like a fear startled me fora
moment. If this was hell, who but I could be the
criminal, the stranger keeping the laws of another
land?

Waters too seemed oppressed. He had been
standing bareheaded, and now turned his face upwards,
and as he said " Thunder," I felt large drops
of rain fall one by one. We started on our way
again, walking briskly, but we had still far to go, and
as we reached London Wall, the slowly gathering
storm broke over us. As if at the signal of a clap of
thunder, the clouds came down in torrents, and my
friend had a day's work to do without changing his
clothes. We turned for shelter into the first wide
doorway, where another pair of wayfarers had taken
refuge before us. They did not notice us, but I
looked under cover of my umbrella, and I cannot
forget the two faces that I saw. A tall young
soldier, very young, with a small oval face, brown
hair, and just good, honest, boyish features, but he
was looking at the girl who held his arm with an
expression I had no words to represent. I can only

158 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

describe it now to those who have seen Calvin in

Othello. If you have seen his

Come, Desdemona, I have but on hour
Of love,

you have seen the look with which this transfigured
plough boy looked at his sweetheart's face. And she ?
Some years his senior, and looking maybe older than
her age, the girl's thin, plain face had a hard, eager
look, lier eyes moved restlessly, and her laugh
sounded strained. They had been at some music-hall
together, and were comparing the amusement
of this and other evenings. The faces interested
me, and I fancied I knew the boys regiment, but
I did not care to hear the talk. Presently, however,
the girl's voice seemed to be raised ; she was only
asking, " Did you ever go to the Oxford ? '* and then,
in a hurried, uneasy tone, like the scared restlessness
of her eyes, she added, " I went once with a cousin."
It was still the first act, and Othello only smiled
beatifically. The rain still fell, we affected to turn
our backs upon the couple and their voices sank ;
presently Waters burst out, " I can't stand this ! "
and strode off furiously through the rain. He had
keen ears, and when I overtook him he said he
could not bear to hear the woman lying ; she was
asking the lad for money and then pretending she
did not like to take it; he raged inwardly; the
divine dreaming of the youth was nothing to him,

m .  m

MEN OUR BROTHERS, 159

notliin'r to set against our instinct that his bliss
would be a shortened dream; but the end of his
indignation was charitable in a wav. He cursed
the girl and her whole tribe, and yet he turned
angrily to me : " She may be doing no harm beyond
just cheating the boy out of his few spare shillings ;
she may work honestly for a starving pittance, and
take those few shillings home as dutifully as any
other earniucrs ! "

AVe hurried on through the blinding storm ; the
rain came down like slanting sheets of water, and
then as it beat upon the pavement, the drops rebounded
and rose like a low mist along the street
and the dark glittering pavement ; and then as the
drops grew smaller the patter sank into a hiss as if
the earth itself were hot, and the fierce showers were
turned to steam as they touched the burning crust.
The air was heavy; there was no coolness in the
wind that now and then swept along the ground
whirling together the low mist and steaming spray,
which by some trick of sense looked white as it
drifted through the lurid, Malebolgian night.

We were near the Temple, and after the manner
of thunderstorm the rain was ceasing as we
reached cover. It was three o'clock; we were
both wet through, and I had no fire to dry Waters'
clothes ; but I offered him a bath, while I boiled
some water over the gas for coffee, and tossed him

i

1 60 MEN OUR BROTHERS,

a dry suit with the hope he wasn't too much
of an aristocrat to wear another man's clothes
when his own were drenched. He laughed
pleasantly and submitted, and in a slightly worn
shooting suit of mine looked more of a gentleman
than in his own Sunday clothes. He had taste
enough to see, and too little vanity to be vexed
at this, and it was in a pleasant tone of equality
that he laughed at the impossibility of men being
really equal, while they couldn't all afford to employ
the same tailors. This launched us in fresh
discussion as to whether there was really anything
in the finest fruits of social civilisation
which might not, if we all pleased, be made
cheaply accessible to every one, and whether,
further, this same every one could and would be
found able to enjoy the accessible good. A couple
of hours passed wakeful over coffee, cigars, and
this inexhaustible theme.

Then it was time for him to start, and as I
couldn't, for very shame, go to sleep when my
friend's day's work began, I decided to walk with
him across the river to Waterloo, and run down
by the 5.40 train to breakfast with the secretary
of a new branch of the Agricultural Labourers'
Union. He had wanted me to come later in the
day to a projected meeting, but other engagements
forbade, and I was glad of the chance to see him

MEN OUR BROTHERS. ici

all the same, and get him to take up the two or
three su[]G:estions I should have liked to make to his
members myself. I should thus be back in town
by twelve, when a case I was engaged in threatened
to come on, and also  right or wrong, I must confess
this weighed with me a little  Waters would
not be disturbed in his plastering by any scorn for
gentlemanly idleness. I ought not, however, to
have thought of such a chance, for the radical
refinement of his nature proved itself by the
dropping of all half-bred, jealous susceptibilities
the moment he became my guest.

We were good friends before, but the night's
intercourse left our friendship more confiding; for
this reason I am glad it should be remembered,
and remembered, if my friends will be so kind, in
association with the morning, not the midnight
sky.

At five o'clock we sallied forth again, just as
the first cold glimmer of daylight began to put
out the street lamps. We walked by the riverside,
but the reflection of the curving rows of light in
the water had lost its brilliancy, and as yet the
sky was all dark, unbroken grey, the smooth dull
grey which is the surest herald of a hot sun at
noon. It was too early for my train, so we walked
together as far as Westminster,

There had been a long sitting, and Pat 0*Eeilly,

L

ici MEN OUR BROTHERS.

who lives oyer the water, hailed me hilarious
from a cab as he was rattling home across the
bridge. I said to Waters, ** So we are not the only
ones who have been making; a nmht of it"

It is one of his eccentricities to despise parliamentary
government, and he scowled (I wasn't in
the House then), 'perhaps we are the only ones
who haven't been doing mischief the while."

After all, he is less accustomed to do without his
night's rest than I am, and he was suffering from the
reaction after an unwonted strain. We stopj in
the middle of Westminster Bridi::e, and he inive a
troubled sigh.

*man goeth forth unto his work and to his
labour till the evening I've nothing to say
against that, and it is very difficult to know, irene
are grumbling against our lot, whether we are
wanting to shirk the common, wholesome discipline
of labour, or whether we merely want to divide the
load more fairly ; whether we are wanting others to
work with us of their own accord, <y whether we
want, in malice or charity, to make them work by
loxce, since they won't choose for themselves what
tfaej tell us is the noblest calling. And if I, behave
tried to see things iaidy, and have nodding in
particular to Plain of myself  we'vegoctbeniae
hoofs; and I tiforiy shillings a week press weD all
die year touts  if I can't help feeling this act of

MEN OUR BROTHERS. 163

angry doubt sometimes, can you wonder that there is
the anger always without the doubt among the hundreds
of thousands who sometimes work long hours for
low pay, and sometimes walk the streets for no pay
at all, who want more money than they can earn
for pleasures that are, after all, no worse and far less
costly than those rich scamps enjoy without having
to earn the chance, and who would like best of all
to be as idly extravagant as their idlest * betters ' ?
Its a tangled job altogether, and though I donec
suppose we should mend it by making a clean sweep,
unless we all grew wiser first, one feels sometimes
as if it would be a relief just to clear the ground
of everything that is, so that you and I at least
might have no share of responsibility in so much
that's wrong."

The good fellow delivered himself of this charitably
subversive sentence in a slow, meditative way,
that was not without its humorous aspect. We
leant against the parapet of the bridge and looked
up and down the full stream. Towards the east the
grey mist seemed to be sinking slowly downwards,
the clouds were vanishing into a light haze overhead
and thickening fog below. The dome and cupola of
the cathedral just showed above the mist, and something
like the ghost of a pale twilight illuminated
the shadowy apparition. And upon the river below,
where the brown fog was thickest, suddenly there

i64 MEN OUR BROTHERS.

shone out sparkles, red and bright like the rising
sun, which we did not sea

Waters was easily turned from the contemplation
of his wrongs. " I always wonder," he said, " why
the ripples see the sun before we do."

I am generally divided between contempt for the
narrowness of these men when they rail at the few
for grievances which they themselves could redress
with a strong hand if they pleased, aud admiration
for the magnanimity with which they tolerate
their weak oppressors. The fortunes of the world
turn upon the magnanimity of its conquerors. I
asked Waters if he had read Machiavelli  he reads
Italian, and is an admirer of Leopardi  and when he
said no, I quoted the lines 

t e e sempre fti e sempre fia,

Che 1 bene success al male, il male al beD,

E r an sempre cation dear alto asia.

They are the key to the stationary revolutions of
the past ; if the selfish many merely divide the spoils
of the selfish few, it all has to begin over again, and
will end no better than before. Say the victory is
in your hands now; you are the strongest; your rightful
dues have been denied; you have your brother by
the throat ; he is in your power. Suppose he says,
like an ancient debtor, * Have patience with me, and
I will pay thee aU ' ? "

Waters gave a low whistle. " That's one way of

MEN OUR BROTHERS, 165

putting it. You aristocrats are too clever by half.
Have patience with me and I will pay thee all 1 *
So we are the unmerciful creditors ! " And he
laughed again with frank amusement.

There was a coffee-stall at the corner of the Bridge,
where our ways parted. A crossing-sweeper, got up
a la Tirque, whom I had always taken to be a sham,
was having his breakfast there. I answered, " Nay,
the world's future turns upon your showing mercy.
Have patience with us, and, lush allah ! we will pay
you all ! "

We shook hands and parted ; but I turned back
once more to say, " If you have patience, and we do
not pay, make a clean sweep then."

Xooinno in tbc (Blame.

Nondum amabam et marc amabam : quoercbam quod amarem,
amans aware, et ceram securities, et via sine muscipulis.

S. Augustine.

Iii.

I AM not going to trace " the epitaph of glory fled,"
but of a mistake that stopped so long to look in the
glass that it never got itself fairly made. I always
feel sorry for the noxious plants, fungi, affections,
reptiles, and ambitions that humanity sends half
grown to Hades. Poor Hades, too, thus populated
like a new Van Diemen's Land ! But to the point.

It has done nothing but rain for the last week;
yesterday twelvemonths was gloriously fine. I went,
as was my custom in those days, to watch the setting
sun and the rising tide from the dangerous height
of the Camel's Back, otherwise known as the Slab,
a miniature rocky peninsula, so called from its peculiar
shape and the character of its western surface 
a sheer reach of unbroken rock, rising some eighty
feet from an inaccessible shingle beach. The strata
have been half inverted and then stayed, so that the
action of rain and land streams cleaves the grain of
the rock in an almost vertical line. This curious
cliff stretches out into the Atlantic at right angles
to the shore; its eastern side is steep but jagged;

I70 LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

the top is an horizontal write, a faint sheep-track
taking up all the width, and even this is interrupted
by one pinnacle  the hump of the camel  round
which you must scramble to reach the end, where
showers of snowy foam dash up from the rocks
below. In windy weather this pathway was not
practicable at all. The tale was told of a coast-guardian
who was blown ofT it into the sea, as he
was trying to carry the rocket apparatus to the end
in reach of a sinking smack with tlirce men holding
on to the rigging. Once or twice, without any assignable
cause, my head failed me at the passage, and I
turned back. Ordinarily I went on to a spot about
two yards from the end of the point, where the
rock had begun to break up into spray worn fragments,
and the escarpment was a shade less steep.
Here, on a slope like a not too gothic gable, are two
ledges, just wide enough to serve, one as seat, and
the other as footstool to any lover of uninhabited
nature. The real charm of the seashore is in its
lifelessness.

On the afternoon I speak of, I had been sitting
some two hours divided between Stranger's songs
and the sense of perilous ease attendant on perfect
physical comfort in a situation where the nerves are
not quite at rest. The whole of the narrow cove
below me, or rather behind  for deep water was
running at my feet, and I had to look backwards

/

LOOKING IN THE GLASS. 171

to realise the height of the straight, foreshortened
precipice, down which the eye fell easily  the rugged
inlet that had taken lives, bad and indifferent, seemed
filled up to the overhanging turf at top with a rosy
mist. The sky had been too cloudless for much display
of colouring, but the crimson afterglow was
deep and oppressive. It was one of those nights when
the brassy red of the heavens* concave seems impending
to crush the beholder ; it draws nearer and
nearer, and then  I for one had rather die under its
ever-hearing weight  then the glorious blood of gods,
the awful spiritual life, curdles and pales ; black cinders
and ashy emptiness mock the sight, and a chill
of disappointment and self-contempt ends the diurnal
tragedy.

So it was once more, and then an masterpiece of
moony resignation ; the icy horrors of another sunrise
have frightened back to us the softest breezes
of noon, a less arrogant luminary rewards our fortitude,
and a purer light streams over sea and sky ;
but the earth is grey till morning  pale grey with
sharp black shadows.

But the last ray of sunlight had not quite left the
sky I was watching shiveringly; the plash of the
waves deadens every other sound, and I did not hear
a footstep on the path behind me. I started and
nearly slipped  where shall I find another so easy
descent to the ghostly groves of Avernus?  when

172 LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

a light rug was thrown sos tlj on my shoulders from
above. I looked up, and saw dimly the face of a
man, some five-and-thirty, whose features struck meas
familiar  I was going to say pleasing. I, at any
rate, liked the ox-like melancholy of his dark brown
eyes, and the gentleness, which one is almost obliged
to call sweetness, of his smile, candid like that of a
German professor. He smiled while apologising for
the abruptness with which he had executed sirs.
Nathan Brown's commission, and dilating on her
anxiety lest the sudden chill should alTect my chest,
then supposed to be delicate. I gravely thanked
him for having removed the only difficulty in the
way of my passing the night where I was, and then
he continued to talk.

He (I soon recognised Mr. Herbert L ) had

arrived unexpectedly on a visit to his cousins ; this
was the beginning  of our acquaintance, I mean.
Let me make haste on to the end  the end, because
of course it is a chance whether we meet again after
he has traced most rivers in Asia and Africa to their
very uninteresting sources. In the course of the
next month we met constantly, as people do in the
country, and as constantly fell into the inconclusive,
desultory converse touching nature, art, and their
compound humanity, natural to people not old or
illustrious enough to have lost the trick of opinion-redness.
He had a knack of turning up at all my

LOOKING IN THE GLASS. 173

favourite haunts, and did so with such a fatality,
that I had a momentary and absurd feeling of injury
at his not having discovered my chief favourite of
all, where I went before breakfast the morning of
the day we left Stream.

The approach was through the abbey grounds, an
unoccupied pleasure seat much favoured by tourists.
Avoiding the house, one passed into a rough shrubbery
path winding downwards on the left hand, and
on the right shortly ending in a rock-hewn staircase.
This I followed through a natural fissure
enlarged by art, and emerged on a belfry-like ledge,
just broad enough to give standing room for two, or
to let the solitary visitor lie at length, and, leaning
on his elbows, look over the edge and watch the
pebbles drop sheer into the blue water. I was near
the top of a precipitous sandstone cliff, on the face
of which sea-ferns and choice flowers defied the
collector; immediately below was a deep inlet of
clear water washing into quaint, inaccessible caverns;
in front an overhanging rock threatening my loophole
from above, while the mossy twisted roots and
stem of a stunted oak made a pillow for arm and
head. Hereon I leant, losing count of time as the
dazzling sun, the cool glitter of the early hour, the
startled breaths of a southern wind, the gulls swooping
and sailing beneath me, lulled me into a sort of
dizzy rapture, till the pleasure melted into a 

LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

conscious dread  could it be that Nature's gifts were
free?  and I wholly woke, and, roused with difficulty,
doubted what such dream, such vision might show.

That is the wooing of the great god Pan. Love is
loneliness; the self expands to cherish all it can
embrace, and, reflected upon its adopted mirror, it
expands and ascends till it becomes too subtle for a
medium, and then it is reabsorbed into the selfish,
soulless beloved. Bali ! I jjaze from a height on the
lovely colours of sky and seaweed till I envy the
birds their seasick rocking in mid-air, and would
fain dissolve into the view; but I am sane enoiigli
to know that pebbles are hard, and a corpse devoured
by crabs as unpicturesque as the public-houses where
coroners' juries sit; so I forbear to throw myself
headlong. But, as I say, that is the wooing of the
great god Pan, and it is even so the daughters of
men are won. Who will teach them that lovers'
hearts are harder than flinty shingle, and that 'twere
better crabs should multiply than sinners ?

I paid my farewells to this spot uninterrupted.
It was but three weeks ere we went our several
ways, but I felt as if something was gone to which
I had accustomed myself. During a short visit to

Mrs. in town, I met him again in society, which

allowed of shorter tSte-d'tStes than Stream, and
I attributed to the change of circumstances the fact
of his adopting a more demonstrative and less con-looking

IN THE GLASS. 175

identical manner; and yet I never knew any one try
to flirt with me. When I went home, I could not
read steadily, I wrote spasmodically, I dawdled away
the days ; it seemed as if something must happen to
break up my habits, and it was not worth while
renewing them for so short a time. By and by
he came down to our neighbourhood, to see his
publisher and the country, he said : to see me, my
aunt's maid slowly and reluctantly began to suspect.
I do believe she thinks mv aunt and I stay simple
out of deference to her advice.

The next two months were the most miserable of
jny life. There is no disguising the fact. Herbert
and I (we learnt to use Christian names in Cornwall)
Herbert and I might have loved each other more
passionately than three-fourths of the couples joined
together in holy matrimony ; but there was no faith
in our love, so pride was stronger than it. He might
have taught me to love him, I might have led him to
wish to teach ; instead, we both felt like moths of one
mind in view of a brilliant candle. In marrying me,
he would have sacrificed strong tastes to a preference
that would need explaining to his friends ; in marrying
him, I should have made the sacrifice of proud self-sufficiency
which some women will only render to
Sathanas eloquent as an angel of light. (And only
genius and dishonesty are eloquent, but the first is
rare ; that is why good women misplace their affection.)

176 LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

A woman who is won before she is wooed is the
worst part of a man : I did not even wish to be
wooed He thought me cold ; I thought him  swell,
for a poet, ungenerous ; for a man, irresolute. Sometimes
I was possessed with a nervous terror lest he
should speak words which must put an end to the
armed neutrality of our friendship, and yet I would
have given worlds could we have come to an understanding,
on points concerning which there was
nothing to explain, even if they Lad admitted of
explanation. Had we loved  for, mind you, we
never really went as far as that  had we loved, we
should have airn (Tavwur, as our neighbours say;
but a granite passion is dangerous : fate balances it
impartially between heaven and hell, and chance
may turn the scale either way. We were each
jealous, not of any third person, but of the part of
each other's mind which maintained its independence
: we were each prudent ; he would not risk
his material, nor I my spiritual future : we were
each unjust, in throwing on the other the blame of
our own conduct and character : we both, I think,
regretted the difficulties these placed in the way of
the harmony we both, I think, desired. BHs  what
shall I call it ? It was half admiration and a quarter
liking ;  his feelings towards me were manifest
enough to have compromised any one less " serious"
than myself with any one younger or less important

LOOKING IN THE GLASS. 177

than him. As it was, my friends  had I had any to
speak of  might, on the face of it, have accused him of
trifling with my feelings, had they credited me with
such weaknesses; yet at this moment he believes, I
have no doubt, that it only rested with me to accept
and recompense the homage he had not quite made
up his mind to tender. Love bought with coquetry,
or at least with the frank appeals of voluntary
fascination, may be as deep and true as any, but
the price put it out of my reach. Have I, then,
anything to complain of or regret ? I do neither,
because I make a rule of not regretting what follows
from the known and accepted nature of things. Yet

it is certain that to part from Herbert L with

the possibilities of our relation undeveloped was the
first and only purely personal and sentimental grief
I remember to have experienced.

I had better come back to narrative. Just six
months ago, at nine in the evening, the moon was
beginning? to shine and the air to soften after a
frosty day. I can never resist the temptation of
that opaque, blue brilliancy. I threw the window
up and stepped out on the lawn, sent Willy to tell
the elders I was gone down to the sea, and without
waiting for remonstrances about night air or tipsy
sailors, I jumped down the garden wall, and hurrying
over the heaps of mal-odorous debris beyond, soon
reached the firm sand.

M

Ins LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

Then I began to feel the silence and solitude oppressive,
and I walked faster and faster, as if to escape
from it. I was horribly afraid of the dark as a child,
and my own shadow on the broad sands gave me
even then a kind of shiver. I felt almost as if I
had escaped an enemy when I reached the broken
rocks where I could not see it ; there was comfort
in the fragments of sandstone, in the ivv hauinnjir
down to the water's edge, in the seaweed reefs  in
anything that shared that sweet heartless light. I
had been striding on over the rough stones for perhaps
ten minutes when I heard steps and then his
voice. He had called to bid us good-bye, and my
aunt had begged him to overtake, protect, and bring
me back ; he said nothing about the last. We came
soon to a little shingly cove, and I sat down upon
the pebbles still glistening in the moonlight from
the receding tide (except clumps of heather there
is no better couch than fine shingle). He asked my
leave to light a cigar, and I praised the fragrant
fumes as I threw stones from one hand to the other,
or into a little pool on my left. The wind was from
the land, and by and by I heard eleven strike ; we
rose simultaneously, and neither spoke till we were
half-way over the reach of sand.

Then I turned to look at the water; little but
foam to be seen sweeping down with the furious
back-draught of the waves, or tossed high into the

LOOKING IN THE GLASS. 179

moonlight on rough crests shutting out the horizon.
He asked me, I think, why I was so fond of the
sea. I answered sleepily that I felt sorry for it;
the moon and the earth were tyrannical, and I
should like the ocean with one deep sigh to find its
level over all, and then its laboured breathing would
not seem so painful to me. Then another silence.
As we neared the house he said, " I think I shall
join that tour, Hester."

/: " They have an attractive programme."

He : " Yes : a three years* absence from England."

/; " One place is very like another."

Fete : " And one woman ? "

/; "No; there is a difference amongst them:
some are handsome and some plain; all strange
countries have their beauties."

He: "I did not mean physically; some women
have a husband, and some a cat,  or a mastiff. Could
you ever care for any one besides Mephisto and your
aunt ? "

/: " What would the former says

steht mir an der Stem, geschrieben,
Days ici night mag eine Steele lichen."

"We had reached the garden gate.

Re : " Well, I shall write to you if anything amusing
happens to us."

/: " Thanks ; you reckon to be back in time for
the next general election ? "

iso Looking IN THE GLASS.

Ht: "Yes; my mother will have found out bv
then whom she wants me to marry, and I shall
have done writing lyrics on the impossible."

We had answered each other at cross purposes
before, but this was the last time ; next morning he
started for Constantinople. Impossible!

Was ever anything impossible to an unscrupulous
woman ? Whose fault was it ? Liv should I think
that anv one was in fault at all? All that I am
I have myself to thank for, and I will not be ungrateful.
Not the wealth of the riotliHchikls nor the
affection of Paul and Virginia would ever have made
a happy woman of me ; yet I, who think myself
wiser than most, need surely not be less contented
than the many. The story is really this : In love
with love, I could not love him; in love with
loving, I cursed the truth as I felt it. In good
sooth I think it was a curse, a visitation of indignant
Providence. If I did not love God whom I
had not seen, how could I love my brother whom
I had seen, pur trojpo? Was I, who had nearly
reached, and that unwounded, the point of resigned
and candid serenity, beyond which, let the Utilitarians
say what they will, evil is tolerable and
good on the whole indifferent,  was I, who had done
with the troubles of life, who seemed to have half
done with life itself,  was I of my own accord to
enter upon a triple abyss of living, to undertake

LOOKING IN THE GLASS. i8i

responsibilities heavier than the heaviest I had
ever made a conscience of evading, to trust myself
on a whirlpool of wish-breeding action, to
have two bodies and one spirit  careful and
troubled about many things? . . . The woes of a
married woman have a name and a contemptible
body apiece: they are servants, or scarlatina, or
whist parties, or a stationary income; but these
are finite, if not tolerable. If tolerable, how infinitely
vast is the vague malaise of the maiden
who, clothed with ashes and feeding upon dust,
dares not even trust the evidence of her senses
that such is the universal food of the rebellious
sons of God, who close their eyes to His mercies
lest they should be blinded by the dust and ashes,
in which, even to the elect, it does seem to me,
the mercies come enveloped 1

Ah ! well, love is an affair of confused ideas, as
Spinoza would say, and mine are clear enough and
to spare. At least I am no Narcissus ; there is
nothing so hopelessly unamiable as a malapro2yos
clearness of vision. And now to sleep: thank
somebody! I never dream . . . but I am so very
wide awake! Here is another erotic antinomy.
Love is a passion, self-impelling towards the beloved
object, but it asks for reciprocity, and if
the two subject - objects rush with equal force
each to other's embrace  why, you have a deadlock.

i82 LOOKING IN THE GLASS.

followed, if I have not forgotten my mechanics, by
a rebound. Conclusion: a perfect love-match is
humanly impossible; the practical compromise in
use waives the reciprocity; one loves, the other
is beloved ; the issue for one party, any way, either
tragic or effeminate ; in no case beautiful :  that is
why we deify courtship, where love is not yet shut
out from the possibility of return by the acceptance
which stifles or starves it.

He wrote to me once, about three months later,
with kind friendliness, after my aunt's death, asking
my plans and urging the acceptance of his sister's
invitation to spend the winter in Italy with her
daughters. I wrote half-a-dozen answers all describing
my proposed plans in terms all equally
well-adapted to distress and scandalise him, but
on reflection I sent none of them, and tried to think
that a message through his sister and another
through his nieces would serve every purpose of
courtesy. I suppose it was school girlish to take
refuge in silence, but an intellectual flirtation
seems to me the meanest of any. I dislike playacting
my life. In all contingencies the easiest
course is to do nothing  but grumble at the nothingness
of life, when ex nihil, nihil f J.

%ovc anb 3frient)Bbip.

Aflk the same for me, for friends Bhotild have all things in

common.  Plato.

VIII.

It is a mistake to say that marriage spoils friendship.
Few of my best friends have been singly blessed.
If your friend has a soul large enough to love wisely
and supremely well, whatever enriches his life and
adds to his happiness will enrich his capacity for
friendship and add to your delight in his society. It
is a poor soul that can only love one at a time. If
you lose your friend by marriage, of two things, one :
either he was not much loss, or you are not. I think
very often when people ostentatiously proclaim that
they will withdraw from an old intimacy because
their intimate has got a wife, they have an unconscious
dread of showing their souls in the undress of
friendship to an unblessed eye. It is a test, and a
severe one, of mutual love, and more rare mutual
respect, when the two who are as one have nothing
between them that an old friend cannot wholly love ;
and not less so for the friend who comes en tiers, to
ask nothing from either that he dares not ask from
both. But if this double difficulty can be overcome,
a more than commonly precious friendship survives.
The peculiar fragrance of a love d deux can only be

1 86 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

enjoyed by those who have passed master in the art
of loving, and the rarity of these, not the selfishness
of happy love, is the cause of the common error
that marriage and old friendship are incompatible
goods.

I was staying with two old and married friends in
Brittany. The so-called chateau is half a farm, the
building's more like a farmhouse than most English
manors, but all unspoilt by modernisation. I am
thinking of a ]May morning, when the roses hid the
tangled bushes with pink and white cushions of
sweet bloom that seemed to lose their beauty in
sheer abundance ; the path, down an avenue of over-arching
roses, was strewn with fallen pink-white
rose-leaves, just flecked with bloodred damask
petals ; the air was still with heat ; but Madame

V , who is a very salamander, called me to

attend her on her rounds. The white hens were
fed, the new calf talked to, and the gardener admonished
about the price of butter. It was refreshing
to see how cool and happy Madame looked in
her quaint print dress, with a huge parasol of the
same colour shielding her stately head and the fine
benignant face, of which the two chief beauties were
two bright brown eyes and a crown of silver waving
hair. With her white hair she looked, as she was,
between fifty and sixty, and very beautiful ; without
it she would have looked thirty, and handsome.

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP, 187

In watching her I forgot the heat, and was led
willingly through garden, yard, and orchard, to the
steps by the old fishpond. From a sort of grass
landing there start two flights of wide, shallow,
stone steps, grey with age, and making room here
and there in their cracks for a little pink or yellow
stonecrop ; in their deserted massiveness they seemed
fit for the approach to some palace of sleeping beauty.
Madame ascended leisurely ; I followed, listening to
her fluent, humorous chat concerning all the neiiili-
hours, in whose private affairs I was kept diligently
posted up from year to year.

Bees and butterflies filled the air with a cheerful
humming brightness. Without ceasing her talk,
Madame gathered a large sweet scabious, and let the
bloom lie loosely on her open palm. I wondered
what she meant to do with it, but half a minute
later, as I looked at her again, a gorgeous butterfly
was resting on the flower, sucking its sweetness,
and then, yes, actually walking about upon the
lady's hand; the little palm was white and pink,
like one of the blush roses climbing up the parapet ;
but when I gathered one and held it alongside, the
butterfly flew off untempted.

A narrow grass terrace, planted with cherry-trees,
lay at the top of the steps, and on reaching it one
saw that the steps only led up a mound, an embankment,
enclosing the oblong fish-tank, where perch

1 88 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

and eels were still to be caught by those who loved
such modest sport. There is something strangely
reposeful in the prim squareness of this old-fashioned
gardening ; perhaps it comes from the suggestion of
orderly abundance, where every flower and fruit-tree
grows so freely that even when all rank edges
are pruned ofT to a demure dead level, still the
remaining square-toed shrubs, straight sentinels, and
pyramidical espaliers, prove to have lost no more
than they can afford, and arc still luxuriant wiili
flowers, fruit, and moist deep greenery. After all, it
is half an affair of climate ; where plants can hardly
be coaxed to grow at all, who can have the heart
to tease them into growing tidily ? But prim tidiness
amid abundance refreshes one like a virtue; it
savours of antique temperance and all the homely
graces of the golden mean. From whichever side
one looked, the poplars and dovecote reached symmetrically
into the sky.

Madame spread a shawl upon the low grey parapet
and invited me to sit on the grass at her feet,
and faire mon salut like a good Catholic by a full
confession of all my sins and follies. "To begin
with," she said, with a caressing little air that it was
impossible to answer except just in the way she
wanted, ** why is it that you stay with us six weeks
instead of four ; and that yet you do not grow gayer
for giving us this pleasure ? "

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 1 89

I said the pleasure of being "with Madame was
that she could answer as well as ask questions more
charmingly than anybody in the world.

Then," she replied, " why do you not ask me
questions ? "

Now this was exactly what, for the last fortnight
of my stay, I had been trying to summon up courage
to do. I asked, " Ouc'ht I not to have staved this
fortnight ? "

She said, " Elma is iroincr to leave us this dav
week."

I tried to put a thousand questions into my eyes,
and as she did not speak again fell back upon an
interrogative  " Acres ? "

She accused me of being as unreasonable as the
unreasonable king who wanted his dream interpreted
before he had told it.

I said, " Is it not given to the best of friends to
answer thoughts that can hardly quite be spoken ? "

Madame answered, " You are right : it would be
wronging Elma for you to speak of her even to so
old a friend as I am; but though she is a sweet
woman, to whom I would not grudge my dearest

friend, she could not be hurt, because I To me

you are first  before her ; and I have a right to ask
what will be good, be best, for you, mon ami, now ? "

What could I say more than she knew already 
that I wanted to know whether I might dare to

\

I

190 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

think of marriage and speak of love to Elma. I
had nothing to tell Madame but what she had seen

I and knew. I only knew Elma in her unapproachable

calm ; did she ever seek or want a friend's  not
counsel  but sympathy at least ? God forbid that
I should ever discuss her feelings with another, but
she owed me no such reserve ; what had she allowed
the all-seeing Madame to divine about her feelings
towards me ?

I Some such questions as these reached my kind

friend's ready understanding with little help from

j words, but she hesitated to reply.

After a pause she began : " Elma never spoke tome
of you  she does not speak, you know, of herself,
or feelings not of every day ; but she said to me
something that I could only think of in connection
with you. If I tell it you, it sounds of bad augury,
but I do not know for certain if it is bad." She
laid her hand gently on mine and said, " One friend
cannot always save another from the pain of this
uncertainty. She is very proud and shy. Do not
think me stupid because I cannot quite guess
what, perhaps, she does not yet quite know her

self. But I am not quite, quite sure that you

j would find her heart all ice and iron behind the

I wall of proud reserve."

My friend was kind : I used to the uttermost a
friend's privileged ingratitude, and gave no thanks.

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 191

I could think only of the question, " Tell me what
she said ? "

Madame was pitiful, and only kept me waiting
for one more proviso : " I tell you the saying ; the
interpretation is not yet revealed. I was speaking,
all in the air, though I thought of more than one of
my friends, about the sweetness of a woman's life,
the glory of the power that comes when a woman
has but to let herself be loved, and a strong man
grows glad to do every deed that is fair and noble
like the lady of his love. It was all a apropos of the
age of chivalry; if any names were mentioned, it
was only in our thoughts "

And she ? " I interrupted.

Let me tell you it all at length. There was a
melancholic hero of romance, and he was pleading
with his lady-love: was there nothing in all the
world she wanted to have done, nothing that he
might have the pleasure of doing for her sake  she
asked no guerdon of love or hope ; only, if she had
the least preference, surely she could not be vexed
with him if he asked the little gift of leave to do,
with no other. reward than that, whatever she might,
with ever so faint a preference, choose not to have
left undone ? I defended the faint-hearted lover.

Elma spoke less tranquilly than usuaL

' You and these knights of yours fix on women an
ungracious rule. How if the lady's preference be that

.4

192 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

he should find elsewhere than in her wish the determining
motive of his life ? They profess modestly
they ask so little: is it a small thing to be the mistress
of a man's soul's fate ? I say it is a tyranny to tell a
woman that  whether she accepts it or not, whether
she speaks or keeps silence, whether she finds her
suitor a quest to follow for her sake, or dismisses
him at once and for ever  that the burden of his
doom is on her still, and the responsibility of his
fate lying inalienably at her door. If men are helpless
and to be pitied, what else are women, I should
like to know ? Is it a man's duty, too, to lay at each
woman's feet the very life she wishes to dispose of
at her will? We are all fates  and not all kind
ones  to each other: why should women only be
always called on to be kind ? '

Elma said all this \vith a glitter in her soft eyes,
and a colour like the faint blush of anger rising
over neck, cheek, and temples. She spoke almost
angrily, and as if she were defending herself ; and
therefore," Madame concluded, " I said to myself,
my friend's case is not hopeless; people do not
defend themselves angrily unless they suspect a
danger. Elma has played at matronly independence
so long that she has forgotten the first condition of
that state. It is not a crime if some one else has
been the first to think or speak of love ; but she hasa
generous nature, and it is possible that in her

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 193

secret mind she would count it as a crime in herself
not to have been the first to think. But I may be
wrong, my friend ; trust only your own judgment
and Elma's generous soul."

I kissed my friend's hand, and paced alone up
and down the green alley on the three sides of the
tank, learning by heart every feature in the prim
picturesqueness of the back view of the chateau and
its homely outworks. I felt chained to the spot
where the doubtful, hopeful, most doubtful oracle
was spoken. In youth one does not hesitate about
trying for the good one wishes for; if I hesitated
now, it was not because the wishes were less strong,
but as men grow older, one notices their caution in
nothing more than this : they do not like any one but
themselves to act as executioner to their own rash
hopes.

The hours passed unheeded overhead while I let
every motive have its say in turn, and it was only
when rain began to fall that I noticed the change
of temperature and an approaching storm. It was
time to prepare for the early dinner-hour and long
evening, always pleasant, but somehow strangely
dreaded after to-dayes revelations.

The wind had risen to a gale ; the roaring of the
distant sea mixed with the pelting rain, and the big
drawing-room grew chilly in the twilight. Madame
called for logs, and presently a cheerful blaze

N

194 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

crackled upon the hearth; it was like a winter's
evening; the shutters were closed against the storm,
and I felt as if six months had passed since the
summer morning by the fishpond. The drawing-room,
was large, dark, and many-cornered ; the oak
rafters in the roof added to the shade. The walls
were tapestried, not newly, with patched hangings
from the hric'd-hrac dealers ; the tapestry was worn
and dim with smoke and age, but it had grown dim
upon these walls, and the simper of the ladies* faces,
the cabbage-roses, and the spread peacock's tail had
faded into a sober harmony; the pictures on the
walls seemed in the firelight as if they had grown
there, like shadows cast by a forgotten world, or
pictures in the living mirror of the Lady of Shalt.
To know the chateau at its best you must see
it in summer days and winter evenings, but only
Madame's witchcraft could let her guests enjoy both
between two rising suns. I said so as we four drew
round the hearth. It was one of those old chimneys
in which the " ingle-nook " is not an empty word.
As the fire blazed upon the logs, there was room fora
ring of children to dance all round it safely in one
of their old heathen Christmas games. In winter
the host and hostess always drew their arm-chairs
inside the chimney, while the guests circled round
in front. This evening the husband and wife sat
opposite by the chimney breasts; I was next to

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 195

Madame, and the other lady hy the Admiral. It is
not easy to look one's next neighbour in the face :
we both kept our eyes upon the fire. I reminded
Madame of past winter evenings, and the strange
collection of stories that were told when no guest
was allowed to escape the toll.

Let us have some stories to-night," said the Admiral
; " and it is Madame's turn to begin."

The special charm of the chateau is that nothing
ever takes our host and hostess at a loss. There is
an answer ready for every saying, a prompt device
for contenting each casual wish. I wished this
evening: above everything? to avoid the risks of conversation,
and I prayed that Madame would tell usa
long, sad romance to match the failings of the
wind.

She said : " Elma and I have been reading old
French romances, but she grew tired of the hardhearted
ladies and their languishing cavaliers ; she
would read no more, and thus she missed the story
of the Lady of za and her loyal serving-man.
Shall I tell you that ? "

The listening trio with one voice bade her tell on.

She told us of a castle perched on a rocky peak
by the southern sea ; the sea washed its feet on one
side ; a torrent-bed with steep wooded sides guarded
another, and bare rocky precipices the third ; while
from the landward north a steep narrow stony track

196 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

zigzagged up the least inaccessible slope of the hill.
Long ago, when the castle was still famed for many-gallant
sieges, when Moors and pirates and near
rivals, who coveted the strongest stronghold on the
coast, brought their forces in turn against it  in
those days of long ago a fair ;maiden was left sole
heiress of the famous keep, and her youth was beset
with stormy wooing, till in her fourteenth year a
powerful baron, with scarred face and an arm few
cared to meet in battle, married her in the castle
chapel, though 'twas said he brought the priest to
read the service with him, and came an uninvited,
unwished guest.

Amon: the men-at-arms of the castle was a foundling
youth, brought up in charity by the maiden's
father  a silent, awkward youth, speaking slowly, and
with a strange accent, as if haunted by the memory
of his unknown parents' tongue. And whatsoever
the lady's wish might be, he ran to do her will, but
for the most part with a stupid haste that brought
him little thanks. When she was a thoughtless
child, and asked for a tame eaglet to play with, or
blue hepaticas to deck Our Lady's shrine in winter,
Uc, the stranger, would dash through the enemies'
border for the flowers, and lie in prison till their season
was over ; or he would haunt the rocks for weeks and
come back with the screaming nestlings and a broken
arm, when the child had forgotten her fancy.

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 197

On this night, when the Baron craved the castle's
hospitality, nd the maiden's mother dared not refuse
to let him in, the maiden whispered to her servant,
Fly, tell my cousin Perdigon of Peglia to bring fleet
horses to the road above Turbid, and meet me himself
at the cross by the fountain at foot of the castle
path. He must wait there till morning, but ere midnight
I must, I will be there."

And the serving-man stole ofT from his watch, and
rode and ran to the tall eyrie of Peculiar, the 'Azo. of the
hills, where the young knight was holding revel ; and,
pray as he would, even to the avowing that he bore
a message from the maid of lilza, either no message
reached the knight, or none was heeded in his revels.
"Next morning, indeed, he chid the lady's messenger
for not having fought his way through the guards
and forced a hearing for her words ; and he set forth
then with horses, and rode on to the very castle
gates, but maid and castle were the baron's now, and
the lady frowned upon her servant. And so, again
and again, the henchman risked life and limbs in
her service, and still her will was missed, or else
another had the thanks. Six times, as boy and
man, Uc, the stranger, pressed forward in her needs,
and each time she bade another do her will. The
last time the charge was to go and bring news of
how her true knight fared. He was with the King's
troops in Provence, while the Baron wore the cross

.:.|

198 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

h

 in Palestine. The Knight Perdigon was slain, and

the little old trooper blessed the saints that this
time at least she had refused his service.

Then the next year she died, and the bier was to
be borne solemnly to lie in state in the castle chapel,
and the chief mourners walked at the head and feet,
bearing a massive taper. Her husband, her brother
(by the left hand), and her young son were there, and
the fourth place was claimed by fierce kinsmen of
equal degree. The Baron looked round and knit his
brow, for the last eager claim was made by the twin-brother
of that dead cousin Perdigon, whose lute-twanging
was all too sweet to her ears in life. He
looked round upon the squires and stalwart men-at-arms,
till his eye met Uc, the stranger.

How long hast thou served my lady ? "

The wrinkled, wooden features hardly moved, and
a quavering voice made answer 

Seven times seven years," he said, " as the clock
strikes the hour before this next midnight."

The Baron smiled, well pleased.

The knave can reckon," quoth he ; " forty-nine
years ago, as the clock struck eleven at night, my
lady's father gave shelter to a wailing beggar's brat,
and we have heard him tell that he hath served
one mistress ever since, and because none have
served her longer  nor I trow loved more loyally 
do thou, Uc, the stranger, bear the fourth taper."

/

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 199

None can say whether it was joy or fear or a
blind awe, as of the last judgment and the open
gates of heaven and hell, that filled the old trooper's
silent soul. They bore his lady to the chapel, and
the light of his taper never shook or wavered ; then
as the priests chanted their requiem, the mourners
knelt, two at the head of the uplifted bier, and the
little son and the old serving-man side by side at
the feet. The long chants were over, the curling
incense only lingered like a cloud round the roof,
the solemn blessing had been said, and three of the
mourners rose, to return as they had come to the
world that she had left. But, upright with the
taper between his hands, like an uplifted banner in
the battle's charge, the old serving-man knelt still ;
they spoke to him in a whispered voice, and he
made no sign. No one dared to touch him, and the
little son cried out 

Father ! why are his eyes open when he does
not see ? "

The Baron said, "Let him watch by his lady
to-night. Did I not tell you his love and service
were more faithful than we all ? "

And through the night the dead henchman knelt
at the feet of the dead lady ; and on the morrow,
when they raised the chapel floor, and laid her in
the stone coffin in the vault below, the man-at-arms
knelt still, stiff and cold as a statue of stone

200 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

within his armour. So they closed his visor, and
placed a cross in the clenched hands where the
taper had burnt itself out unheeded, and left him
kneeling in the vault at his lady's feet. And five
centuries afterwards a skeleton in armour was
found kneeling still, cross in hand, at the foot of the
coffin where the Baron's bones lay at his lady's side.
Perhaps it was more the dim firelight and Madame's
sweet voice than the letter of the old romance
that held her hearers silent: it was a foolish tale
to let oneself be moved by, yet I was glad when
Elma said 

"At least, this lady was DOt cruel, and the bench-man
had his reward ; for they tell us to call no man
fortunate or wretched until we know the manner of
his death."

The Admiral said it was a dismal tale, but if the
ladies liked to cry, he would tell them another,
wherein il y en avait de gui.

The Admiral's tales were seldom short, and we
composed ourselves to listen at ease. He was telling
about a voyage of his own to South America, and it
was not necessary to attend closely. I looked furtively
at my neighbour ; it was strange how seldom it
seemed possible to let one's eyes rest upon her face
for as long as it was natural to wish, and the difficulty
added to the longing for the rare, sweet pleasure.
I watched her now ; she was listening quite pensively.

'-- -

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 201



with her eyes fixed upon a burning log, from which
red-hot fragments kept falling upon a little heap of
ashes, that turned from red to grey and white as they
lay ; I might therefore look my fill. There was a faint
far-away touch of Spanish  it might be Moorish 
blood in her veins, and there was something Oriental
in the softness of her large brown eyes, when she
was looking, as now, unconcernedly into space.

The tender sweetness of her face and movements
when she was or felt herself alone, or alone with
children, seemed to crystallise involuntarily into a
dignified reserve if any other voice or eye was near.
I do not know if it was first assumed in self-defence ;
if so, it was a useless weapon, for that unconscious
air of calm repose acted like a spell. She used to
be seriously annoyed by the hosts of applicants who,
as she travelled with her father, prayed him for
leave to seek her hand. She was eight-and-twenty
now ; the first year of orphanhood was nearly over ;
but perhaps she looked older than this. A wife of
eight-and-twenty is very young. Elma seemed to
have attained a ripe wisdom, most unlike of all to
those women, not quite young, who never cease to
be called "girls" until they marry. In travelling
abroad with her father, Elma was usually taken by
strangers for his wife  a mistake which she did
not correct unless obliged ; she said it saved trouble
and made people treat her with more respect.

202 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

Respect was the first feeling she inspired, admiration
the second  and not the last! But one was
afraid of her still ; she had such a statuesque repose,
such an air of asking nothing from any man, that it
seemed in one's imagination like an insult to offer
her the homage on which her eyes fell only with
calm surprise. She loved her father, old friends of
his and of her youth, and all little children, and
she smiled on the adoration of schoolboys ; but the
world of marriageable men seemed not to exist for
her, or to exist as it does for a contented matron.
It was one of her chief attractions to me that she
seemed to possess in her own right the composure
and content which beloniirs to men and women who
have sought and found. In unattractive women the
same indifference repels us as discourtesy; it is a
gratuitous incivility to refuse what we do not for a
moment mean to ask for, but not to offer that
which we cannot but desire eagerly seems a wise
and sweet reserve. Anyway, a man who has waited
till nearly forty without marrying has no time to
lose with a bride needing to put away childish
things. The man who could win Elma would enter
at once upon a boundless ocean of still happiness,
unchanging as the gracious calm of her simplest
movement.

Now, there are giants in Patagonia "  the
Admiral had apparently finished his voyage, and

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 203

there was a change in the intonation of his voice
which roused me like a call. I began to listen,
and as I listened, I dared not keep my eyes on
Etna's face.

There are giants in Patagonia ; and in some regions
of South America which I should not like to
name, lest any of you should have friends within
a thousand miles, there are sorceresses too. My
learned friend, the Ilerr Doctor LiebJiinkehi, who
is corresponding member of all the folklore societies
of Europe, assures me that it is from this region.,
in the neighbourhood of Patagonia, that all known
versions of a widespread folk-tale are derived 
the tale, to wit, of the giant with no heart in his
body.

According to the story, ladies " (folklore is one of
my hobbies, so the gallant Admiral did not venture
to look my way), " some princesses skilled in magic
have the art of charming the hearts of giants out of
their bodies. If, when this is done, the giant can
get hold of his own heart again, and securely wrap
it up in silver paper in an ivory casket, in a cedar
box, in a golden case, in a leaden coffer, and then
hide the coffer in a basket of flags in the nest of an
unknown bird, in the heart of the Invisible Tree
that grows at the top of the Inaccessible Hills, then
the giant will be quite safe, and the princess lives
with him, and cooks his food, and combs his beard,

i


J

204 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

and never thinks of the prince of her own race who
is roaming the world in search of her.

Now giants, like men and princes, are good and
bad, and it is mostly the bad giants who have hidden
their hearts in the Inaccessible Hills ; so in the stories,
when the true prince finds his way, in spite of dragons,
ogresses, and lions, to the heart of the Invisible Tree,
and opens all the coverings, and squeezes the giant's
heart till he dies, and the princess is set free from lier
enchantment, no one is sorry for the giant.

But in folk-tales, as Herr Doctor Liebdiinkoln
and our friend Willy Welshman here will tell you,
every story is told two ways, with the lights and
shadows changing places ; and in my true story you
will be sorry for Eieiaio. For there is a secret that
bad fairies tell to royal god-daughters, who are wicked
too, and this is, that if the princess who has charmed
the giant's heart out of his body can make him look
the other way, and snatch it from him before he has
wrapped it up in the silver paper in the ivory casket,
in the cedar box, in the golden case, in the leaden
coffer, or before he has hidden the leaden coffer in
the basket of flags in the nest of the unknown bird,
in the heart of the Invisible Tree, that grows at the
top of the Inaccessible Hills, then she wil hold the
giant's life in her hands, and instead of cooking his
food and combing his beard, she may make the giant
fetch and do whatever she is pleased to command him.

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 205

'* It is said that the first giant who put his heart
away in the Inaccessible Hills had great difficulty
in finding a sorceress to help him. They all knew
that he did not mean to let them keep it for him, and
that he only wanted to get rid of it in order to be
invulnerable in battle ; for, of course, when a giant
has no heart in his body no blows can hurt or
weapons slay him. A sword or bullet can pass
right through where men's hearts grow and he only
laughs  a terrible laugh, that freezes the enemy's
blood, and sometimes kills him with terror before
the return blow falls. A giant with no heart in his
body is never tired, or hungry, or disappointed ; he
can conquer kingdoms, because he never wants them
too much to be able to wait for the right moment ;
and when the kingdoms are his, he gives them away
as easily, to the first who asks him, because (people
whisper) he 'has no heart to keep them.' These
giants are cruel, and some people mistake them for
vampires, because they often stab their victims
through the heart and then pretend they did not
know such wounds were mortal.

Well, after the voyage in La Belle Jouvenec, about
which I was telling you, we were put ashore in Patagonia,
and before we left the country I learned to
know some of the giants who live there, more particularly
one of them, whose name was Eieiaio, and 
ladies, don't be frightened  you may believe an old

2o6 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

sailor when I tell you ?u had got no heart in his lady.
He walked about and was none the worse ; but the
place where his heart had been was just a hollow
cavity, quite healed and skinned over, so much so
that he said it would be no use to put his heart back
now  it could never grow again so as to live and
beat inside him.

It is not etiquette in this country to ask a giant
any questions about where he keeps his heart, because
everybody knows that if the answer was overheard
by or repeated to any rash or mischievous
persons, they might use the power thus given them
to murder the confiding? giant. Still even in Patagonia
there are whispering gossips, and I soon found
it was generally believed (and this was one reason
why good mothers and daughters were a little cool
to my friend), that instead of being safely stored
away in the Inaccessible Hills, Eieiaio's heart wets
kept by a strange princess from the Lands of the
Rising Sun, called the Dona Violante.

"She had long black hair that reached down to
her feet, and large black eyes that sometimes flashed
and sometimes melted, and she had tiny pearl-white
hands, and a foot so tiny, Chinese women's slippers
were almost long enough for her to wear. Her dress
was of soft amber silk, and black lace hung over her
head and neck and round white arms. She carried
a large fan of peacocks' feathers, and a little round

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 207

white fluffy dog, both of which, it was said, she
used in her enchantments; and when she danced
the ZamaQueca, the stars stood still to see her, and
the giants' hearts leapt for joy.

After setting our party ashore, Za Belle Jouveiicc
was to go through the Straits of magellan, and take
observations of the tides and currents about that
dangerous coast. I had leave to make an expedition
across country and rejoin the ship at Santiago, and
Eieiaio agreed to accompany the exploring party.
The Inaccessible Hills were said by tradition to lie
somewhere behind the highest peaks of the Andes,
that would be in sight from our route ; and he had
some thoughts of persuading Doria Violante to relinquish
her prize and let him follow the custom of
his fathers, and place his heart in safety in the nest
of the unknown bird.

The lady dwelt in a magic palace by a lake ; an
impenetrable hedge of aloes and cactus surrounded
her magic garden, where all the gorgeous flowers of
the tropics bloomed among delicious fruits from
every clime. There was a spell upon the palace,
forbidding any kind of human work to be done by
its inmates ; to eat, and drink, and sleep and play,
and sleep and play, and drink the sweet iced juice
of the abounding fruits, and eat and sleep again :
this was the day's business for the human guests ;
but we could not escape the dread conjecture that

2o8 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

unearthly rites went on unseen, and that it was here
the awful spells were worked by which the hearts
were drawn out of the groaning giants' bodies. By
night unearthly shrieks and sighs were heard  at
least I thought so in my sleep, though by the time I
had awoke these sounds were changed, no doubt by
magic, into the twanging of a guitar outside the
window, or a whispered duet under the magnolia
boughs. And when I ventured to speak to Eieiaio
of these sounds, he warned me to let no one know I
heard them ; and he added, as if to comfort me, that
though the cry sounded like a human agony, still
they were uttered by beings whom none can force to
undergo the pain. The giant and the sorceress must
agree together for the horrid spell to work.

** Now, ladies, I have seen many horrid things in
my travels : I have seen a human body half-carved
by feasting cannibals ; I have seen starved families
lying dead by the roadside in India ; I have seen the
dungeons of Bomba's Naples and the prisoners in a
Eussian mine ; I have seen the hideous gaiety of
drunken vice in a Parisian den ; but I never felt a
shudder of more horrid fear than on the day when I
found out where Eieiaio's heart was kept.

But I must tell you first about another way in
which the giants' hearts can be kept safely.

If they are hidden away in the Invisible Hills, it is
just the same as if the giant had no heart at all, it

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 209

grows cold and hard because there is no warm blood
to fill it ; they feel no pain or pleasure, and if they do
good or wicked things it is without knowing what
they are doing. But if, when the heart first comes out
of his body, the giant can find a little child or a maid
who has never had an evil thought, and gives his still
warm heart to one of these to have and hold and
cherish, it is just the same as if his heart were still
beating and living in its proper place, with a happy
glow all round. The little child or the maid who
has never had an evil thought carries her charge
about with her tenderly, in soft warm hands, and if
she is obliged to lay it aside for a moment, she puts
it down gently, with a kind caress, and says to it,
Lie still, little heart,' and then the heart and the
giant sleep and have happy dreams till she comes
back and bids it wake, and carries it again tenderly
as a mother does a child.

Now when Eieiaio gave his heart to the Senora,
he thought she was one of those guileless maids or
children, for she was able by her enchantments to
make herself look young and good, half like one of
these true guardians and half like the other, for no
magic can quite imitate a true child and maid. But
Eieiaio was deceived, and still when I urged him to
break the enchantment and let me force the Senora
to relinquish her prey, he would not quite believe
me, and said, *Nay, but surely she is young and

210 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

good : she plays with my heart now  she is only
young ; but when she has done with playing she will
take it up again in soft gentle hands, and carry it
with her tenderly, and I shall live again, and feel it
beat within me, with a happy glow all round.'

But though he said this, and by her enchantments
she had power to make him almost believe it,
I knew that he had come to the macjic villa now in
hopes of moving her to let him have his heart again,
because of the strange fits of sickness that had
attacked him of late. He went to English medicine-men,
and they talked about angina ]pectoris and
rheumatism of the heart: the science of the Old
World is in its infancy, and Eieiaio did not dare to
tell them, lest they should have thought him mad,
that the gnawing ache which seized him could not
come from rheumatism of the heart when his heart
was a thousand miles away.

And now I must tell you how I learnt where the
Senora really kept his heart.

She used to feed the little white flufify dog, who
was one of the instruments of her enchantment,
with chocolate and sweetmeats, and there was an
embroidered velvet reticule full of these dainties
always lying about upon her sofa-table. One day
I noticed that there were two such reticule, just
alike, lying together. Fluff was begging, with one
paw up, his head cocked wickedly on one side, and

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 2 1 1

a black eye winking at his mistress. She took up
one of the velvet bags, and carelessly, while she
was looking the other way, seemed to feel in it fora
bonbon,

"Eieiaio turned pale, the veins on his forehead
were knotted as if with pain, and I thought he was
about to faint. I got up to go to him, but meanwhile
the colour come back to his face, and I heard the
Senior laugh, and say she had been looking in the
wrong bag.

The little scene made an uncomfortable impression
on me, and gradually I made sure that Dona
Violante kept the giants heart in the second velvet
reticule, and that when he turned pale, as if on the
vere of death, it was because she had tossed the
reticule upon the ground for Fluff to play with, or
was scrunching it unkindly into hidden corners
when she wanted it to be out of the way.

Once I came in as Flufif was worrying the bag,
which she pretended was the one that held the bonbons,
and he was to show his cleverness by untying
the strings and getting one out for himself. Eieiaio
was in the room-as the sorceress watched this cruel
sport, and he sat pale and silent as a ghost while the
little fiend's paws trampled on his life. I snatched
the bag away, and was about to give it back to Eieiaio
and make the sign of the cross, upon which, you
know, the sorceress and all her enchantments would

212 LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP.

have vanished away into a shower of sulphurous
dust. But a spell was on my friend, and with a sad
smile he gave it back to the Senora, saying, * Keep
it, or give it back to me yourself

Well, this is nearly the end of the story. Things
came to a crisis after Dona Viol ante was appealed
to by another giant, whose name was Eieiulo, to
take his heart and keep it too. He had been caught
as a young orphan by some Wesleyan missionaries.
and brought up by them in a college where he had

a

learnt arithmetic ; and though he had escaped from
them and returned to the manners and religion of
his ancestors, still he could do simple sums in a way
unusual among; the wants; and he reckoned that
the Senior had only two hands, and that therefore
she could only take charge safely of at most two
giants' hearts at a time.

After the sien of the cross, there is nothing? sorceresses
dread so much as arithmetic ; and Dona
Violante was very angry at being asked how many
hearts she had in her keeping. She showed her
empty hands, and pretended she had none, and all
the while she had got Eieiaio's heart tucked away
under the sofa-cushion, between a rosary and a
French novel, and she leant her elbows on it as
she talked, and I saw my friend writhe under the
malicious digs she gave his heart as she moved languidly
from one graceful pose to another.

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 213

"After this there was an angry scene between
them, and at last Eieiaio uttered the fatal words,
Give me back my heart,' and in his anger he added
rashly, ' and then you will have room for Eieiulo's,
if he isn't too wise to give it you.'

"They were the last words Eieiaio spoke. She
smiled fiendishly, and opened the strings of the little
bag and took his heart in her hand, saying, * When
you gave it me I promised to keep it as long as you
lived ; I will be better than my word, and keep it
longer. I will never part with it at all ; its ashes
will take very little room  I will wear it in my
ring, instead of this black drop of mortal poison.'
She kept one hand clenched round his heart 
Eieiaio felt his life ebbing  as she showed him a
ring like that King Mithridates wore, and then she
let the one black drop of mortal poison fall on
Eieiaio's heart.

The stories say that the giants fall down dead
when their heart is killed, but to get at the whole
truth about these strange things you must hear the
story from somebody who has seen what happens.
The giants whose hearts are in the right place are
not so very much taller than ordinary men; they
only seem so because of their wonderful strength
and other gifts. They can hear the grass grow, and
see what men and women think ; they know where
the Spice Islands are without crossing the sea, by

214 LOVE ASD FRIENDSHIP.

their scent; they eat the sunlight and drink the
falling dew, they understand the language of birds
and beasts, and their hands grasp tools a thousand
miles away.

** All this is chanced when their heart is killed :
they fall into a heap that is still shaped like a deadman's
body, and the shape moves about by cords
and pulleys, like a frog wound up to jump ; but they
neither see, nor hear, nor taste ; they know and feel
and understand nothing any more, because their
heart is killed. All this Eieiaio knew, but he could
neither move nor speak ; the sorceress let the black
drop fall upon his quivering heart  there was a
sudden flash "

At this moment something uncanny happened !
The fire was burning low, and the Admiral's voice
was hollow, to match his grisly theme; at this
moment there was a flash, and a sharp explosion
sounded. It was enough to make one believe in
witchcraft. A piece of flaming wood had broken off
with a crack, and leapt, all glowing, into Elma's lap.
I started forward to snatch it away before her dress
was scorched, but she too started, and as I grasped
the burning fragments in my hand, her hands
clasped mine above it: she held them fast, and I
thought the tears stood in her eyes. My hand felt

LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. 215

like the giant's heart, caressed by a maid who has
no evil thoughts. Then she recollected herself, and
I threw the cinder back upon the hearth. Madame
poked the logs into a blaze, and the Admiral said
that was all the story.

We had been married seven years before I ventured
to ask Elma if she thought it was the giant's
heart that had leapt into her lap for safety. She
smiled then a little consciously, and for all answer
asked, " Shall I write to Madame to expect us on
the first of May ? "

Yes," I said, " and tell the Admiral, with Elmira's
love, to get his stories ready; but he must never
tell her about Eieiaio, because that made mamma
cry once.

}

fat.

iScUpse.

I



The sun shall be darkcnoc], and the moon shall not give

her light.

IX.

When I was young, I had great difficulty in entering
into the mental state of persons who were unhappy
on account of their beliefs or doubts. That people
should doubt and wish to believe, or believe and
hesitate as to whether they ought not rather to
doubt, was something of a psychological mystery tome.
I was myself much given to doubting accredited
propositions, but then I never doubted the appropriateness
of my own doubts, and, as an undergraduate,
I earned the character of being, like Macaulay,
enviably " cock-sure" of all my own opinions. My
mind seemed to be incapable of real indecision : if
there were a subject on which I had no fixed opinion,
I was provisionally confident that the materials for
certainty were absent, and I was untroubled by the
desire for baseless results. I felt for the victims of
doubt as for those of any other unfortunate passion,
and pitied them the more because I was not able
literally to sympathise. But at last my own turn
came, and a long year of indecision remains in
memory as one blank moment of exasperating pain,

220 ECLIPSE.

associated, by a quaint chance, with a cold spring
day and an eclipse of the sun.

I had left Oxford for some years, during which a
school and college friendship with a man two or
three years my senior had continued to grow in
strength and intimacy. At the time I speak of, he
had made a good start at the bar, and was engaged
to be married. I had a fellowship, wrote occasionally
for the papers, and nursed a secret resentment
against fate for not having planted me in surroundings
which would have allowed my voun' wisdom
to contribute to the councils of the nation, without
the double difficulty of earning money enough to
contest a borough, and popularity enough of the
platform sort to do so successfully. The only strong
natural appetite with which I was troubled was a
taste for holding the reins, and feeling the congregation
of my fellows answer to the guiding hand upon
their necks. I hadn't any exaggerated ideas of
parliamentary importance, but I felt that it would
have suited me to be an hereditary legislator, while
it didn't suit me at all to be a candidate for popular
favour, as if I had wanted power for personal reasons
of my own. Besides I foresaw that when the struggle
for place or power is long and hard, almost inevitably
the nearer end becomes substituted for the true
and remote aim, so that one risks beginning the real

ECLIPSE, 221

struggle lamed in one's best limbs and forgetful of
the chief reward.

Hence it was with a rather sulky sense of renunciation
that I held back on the occasions when
ardent youth is wont to bray disinterestedly in
accompaniment of political conflicts or advance. I
could not have what I wanted on my own terms,
and I was not inclined to put up with makeshifts.
Very likely there was a sub-conscious hope or expectation
that my rctirincf merits would be dragged
to the licht bv others, and influence attained at once
without the struggles of competitive self-assertion ;
and as this was far from befalling, naturally the
haunting consciousness of deprivation remained the
same. I acknowledged the unreasonableness of my
discontent, but the fact remained, to the disgrace of
my philosophy, that I was both discontented and
unreasonable. Stray bits of more or less desirable
work that came in my way were not neglected, but
on the whole I was idle, uncomfortably idle as well
as uncomfortably ambitious.

After a while it struck me that I was playing a
childish part ; it was true fate had not cast me for
the rule of hero that I was so assured of playing
best, but it was a confession of imbecility to give up
in consequence the attempt to play any part at all.
The Laureate had written that " Man is man and
master of his fate," and it was one of the things I

A

222 ECLIPSE.

had been wont to feel "cock-surest" of, that the
man who could only do his best by the help of Fortune's
favours had a screw loose somewhere in the
knitting together of his mental system. Fortune
aiding, middle-sized folk might play a conspicuous
part, but what young man ever cared, in the secret
recesses of his soul, for a mediocre celebrity ? True
greatness would be its own circumstances.

In the absence of peremptorily determining motives,
I was only too free to choose a career, and, asa
first step towards the candid consideration of alternatives,
I thought I would have a talk with my
thriving practical friend. We were both going upto
Oxford for a college meeting  his last, as he was
to be married in a month or two. The morning
after our arrival we started for an early walk ; an
eclipse of the sun was to come off, and we agreed to
see the end of it from Leamington Hill rather than
be bothered with science and petticoats at the Observatory.


I wonder why romance still keeps its hold upon
the phenomena of sunrise and sunset, whilst eclipses
are altogether given up to astronomers and smoked
glass ; not so much as an old woman deigns to be
awed by them. Either I am more superstitious than
the general, or I was strangely affected by a mere
coincidence ; any way the overcasting of my life
seemed always afterwards to date from the strange

ECLIPSE. 223

chill darkness of that morning's eclipse. The sun
was high up in the heavens as we started, and still
so brilliant that the naked eye could hardly be said
to perceive any lessening of the radiant orb ; but a
more than wintry dulness was upon the landscape,
the blue of the sky to the west and north was colder
than any grey, and the towers and spires of the
ancient city had a spectral air of stillness.

My friend  I will call him Anson  responded
readily to my hint that I wanted to talk about plans
and prospects of my own. This was nothing new
between us ; he had before now taken much trouble
to induce me to stand for a certain professorship, and
I had followed with at least equal interest the story
of his briefs and his courtship. We should each
have been equally ready to claim from the other
such services as pass current in fraternal friendship,
equally ready to rely with cheerful confidence on the
gratitude of whichever had the luck to play benefactor
for the nonce. But this time I wanted Anson
not so much to help as to advise, and with this intent
I thought it needful to put him in possession of all
the circumstances. Now to me the first essential
circumstance to take as a starting-point was the
underlying feeling that fate was against me, and that,
in common wisdom, I had to put behind me all
tempting dreams of ideal achievement. Anson received
all this very impatiently. I could hardly tell

224 ECLIPSE,

from his abrupt protests whether he thought that it
was not true or that it did not signify. He was
quite sure it was irrelevant. Had I no positive,
definite tastes or wishes ? A man must have some
life and purpose of his own; let me say what I
wanted to be at, and he would know how to advise,
sympathise, or dissuade. I said, " Don't think of it as
my difficulty only. I represent some thousands of
living agents, free to choose for themselves what it
is best for them to do ; special, accidental determination
is wanting, and surely that is no loss, seeing
how often accidental ties hinder the individual from
doing what could be best for himself and others. Is
there nothing of which we can say, ' This is best
in the abstract, and to be preferred, therefore, if circumstances
grant us the luxury of choice ' ? "

The shadows of the willows across the stream were
growing paler as we spoke ; suddenly they vanished,
but not as indicating the height of the eclipse; a
column of fleecy cloud had risen from the east, and
now began to cross the sun. In five minutes the
zenith was overcast, and a darkness like that of early
sunrise fell upon our path. As we turned into the
highroad and began to ascend the hill, a sort of constrained
silence fell upon us. The sun had now
lost its dignity as well as its power ; the filmy mist
showed as plainly as a piece of coloured glass the
long crescent shape of divinity under a cloud, the

ECLIPSE. 225

silver arc slid like the moon between the drifts of
brown vapour that seemed to hang half-way between
the earth and the round masses of soft grey cloud
which melted into white as they neared the sun.
Body and mind shivered together.

I hardly know how much of the pros and cons
that haunted my mind afterwards were explicitly
discussed between us then ; the very fact that I had
looked forward to this conversation as a starting-point
for more hopeful action made the chill of discouragement
more cnishingly complete, and I felt an
insane readiness to take the innocent eclipse for an
omen. I know I argued that it was absurd, in the
face of the countless failures in each generation, to
assume at starting that one's own life had a right to
count upon success, and if not, was it anything but a
folly to start burdened with the hopes that were only
so many empty packing-cases to hold the coming
load of disappointment? On the other hand, if I
put myself out of court altogether, and resolved to
work only for my fellow-citizens, according to the
cynic, " On a toujours assez de force pour supporter
les malheurs d'autrui," and the probable disappointments
met with here should be endurable; I admitted
this would be an ungenerous calculation if it constituted
one's real, sole motive ; but Anson called
himself a utilitarian, and I thought it was a valid
argument that the greatest happiness of the greatest

t

l

226 ECLIPSE.

number must fare best if the greatest number adopt
it consciously as the goal of their several efforts,
instead of aiming only at their own happiness, which
we know beforehand so many of them will miss.

But he would not have it so. Leaving my argument
on one side, he insisted that I took an unhealthy
J and distorted view; whether the end pursued was

i one's own good or that of somebody else, the only

sane and natural state was one of keen personal

desire, an appetite for that particular good too real

to be argued out of existence bv the thought of its

possible non-indulgence. I said that too is a form

of happiness, to have before one the clear vision of a
good attainable through one's own action, whether
for one's self or another ; but such blessings are rare.
What right has one to claim or count upon such fortune
for one's self ? And I remembered, though I
did not say, how in all dabbling with small social
reforms I had felt the necessity of choking off one's
inborn hopefulness and forcing one's self into content
so long as action seemed to be going the right way,
though the end of it was still hopelessly out of sight.
And now the friend I loved and trusted, whose
practical judgment of life and character had always
seemed riper and wiser than mine, this friend takes
the painful conclusions of my best wisdom and intentions
and imputes them to me for sin or feebleness.
Meanwhile the sunlight was growing fainter, and

ECLIPSE. 227

the clouds seemed to spread into a thin smooth mist,
which in its turn melted into space, and the blue
grey sky was clear again. We leant upon the top of
a five-barred gate and looked back down upon the
valley of the Isis. The whole plain was lost in
silvery mist, a grey cloud hung heavily over Oxford,
and the only spot of light in the view was far off
where a gleam of sunlight caught the passing smoke
of the up express, just as sometimes, when the sky
is almost wholly overcast at sea, one thin streak of
red or yellow light glitters through the shadow midway
to the horizon. I looked dreamily from the
spray of flowering blackthorn that bent over the
gate post to the dim wide prospect, and it seemed as
if the living world was a very long way off. I do
not know how long we stood in silence ; it was one
of those moments that seem as if they might last forever
without change, and then Anson's voice was
heard, even and unimpassioned, as if still in the
middle of a sentence : " The fact is, you ought to
marry ; it's exasperating to see a fellow with your
sense wriggling like a contrary eel. Fall in love with
a nice girl, and either take to a profession or write a
book. Go into society, make friends, forget yourself
and those nightmares about fated disappointment.
Do what work you can; don't be always
hanging back with some sickly apology that perhaps
somebody else would do it better ; and, for heaven's

228 ECLIPSE.

sake, don't think there 13 any saintly virtue in never
doing anything 70U like!"

There is no describing the whirl of bewilderment
that fills a single moment, when one feels a thousand
things at once, and each several shock combines with
the others to swamp one's consciousness with a single
comprehensive, overwhelming thrill of startled pain.
Had I said something quite different from what I
meant, or was he answering something quite different
from what I had said ? I kept silence and looked
up. Did I say that the eclipse was annular ? Overhead
was to be seen a black ball with a silver line
outside it, like a celestial bull's eye. I laughed
aloud. It seemed an absurd mockery of human
aspiration that Phoebus Apollo should glower at us
with one blind eye at the moment when any hint or
glimpse of light or mercy would have seemed, indeed,
an oracle from heaven. Anson thought for a moment
I was laughing at his advice ; but when he, too, looked
up, he owned that the awe of impending darkness was
over. We gave one look round, shivered, came back
to the road, and in easy talk of college matters strode
homewards down the hill.

There are mistakes one does not make twice ; but
just because I was not going to risk my pleasant
friendship on the rocks of quasi-theological debate, I
felt inwardly the more bound not to disregard the
chance of undiscerned truth lurking in what seemed

ECLIPSE. 229

to me the unsympathetic and superficial Welland
thrust in my face by this untameable friend.
My thoughts dwelt on every word he had said, on
every half-meaning I could imagine latent in his
unspoken thoughts. Instead of dwelling on the
materials for self-justification, I turned advocate on
the other side; it seemed so much better that I
should have been egotistically stupid than that he
should have failed in understanding kindness.

I say I have no divine right to a likeable function
in life ; he says ii is a disease of bodvor mind if one
does not like the function which it is objectively best
for one to discharge. Lut can there be a duty in
liking ? Is it possible that one's chance of doing a
plain duty should hinge upon the luck which makes
the accessible duties pleasant ? And yet it is true
also, as he contends, that there is virtue in the joyous
fulness of objective life to feed the powers by which
men do their best for the world. Week after week,
month after month came and went, leaving me revolving
in the same vicious circle of recurring moods,
all coloured by the same sense of emptiness and discouragement.
Though I refused to complain of the
need or abandon the attempt to endure to the end, .
to my feeling it was endurance, a prospect at which
to set one's teeth and stiffen the muscles in stern
preparation; and then I felt that such a mood,
indeed, could not invite the tender sympathies of

230 ECLIPSE.

friendship. Is Anson himself nothing to me, that I
should din into his ears the complaint that my life
is all endurance, all hardship, that one can no more
than endure ? Vf[\y cannot I escape from the cramp-ins:
sense of endurance and been to achieve ?

He does not understand that one should do any
kind of uncongenial work for the benefit of others
without the stimulus of sympathetic affection or
personal desire. He calls it insanity to act without
either love or liking, liking for the mere act or goodwill
towards the object. I say, God help the world
if none can serve but those who love it !  and all the
while I know that the intelligent acceptance of a
rule is but a feeble motive in comparison with the
spur of personal affection. The intention to do one's
duty to one's neighbour is too wide ; one must want
to render concrete services to A and B. Victor
Hugo's epigram on Cimourdain will bear extension:
On lui avait refus une femme, il avait Spouse
Inhumanity. Cette plenitude enorme crest au fond le
vide."

I go over without bitterness all the common-sense
reasons against my life (or yours) laying itself out on
an exactly ideal plan. I am incapable of the half-mystical
" trust that somehow good " will come to
save one's soul without works or grace of one's own.
Content is a subjective feeling and may come either
after victory or defeat, but not while the issue is

ECLIPSE. 231

uncertain, or, as is more often the case in peaceful
daily life, when some of the possible issues are still
regarded as evil, without therefore being the less
likely to occur. My experience is all against any
"unearned increment" of virtuous power, while
Anson argues that the Egotistical doctrine of
"leadings" rests upon a sound induction. It is
the inward impulse to seize a given opportunity
which inspires action and gives to the result its
providential character. But the question is this:
every one has opportunities of acting somehow, and
may use these opportunities better or worse; but
is it certain that every one can have a selfish
liking for the best actually in their reach ? are
opportunities certain to offer of themselves for the
individual to do the best he can ? or may it not rest
vnih the judgment to inspire the initiative effort in
the silence of congenial impulses ?

If one aims at doing what one conceives to be
right, is it any use torturing oneself about what
one does or doesn't feel, like so many unconverted
Evangelicals ? I don't care, and don't want to care,
for any of the goods of life ; by nature I cared for
very few, which I couldn't have, and after arguing
myself out of the desire for what I used to want (in
vain), I would rather not, even if I could, fall again
under the sway of self-regarding wishes, running
the same chances of distracting disappointment and



232 . ECLIPSE.

stupefying indulgence. I should wish to be content
to have no life of my own, to exist as an atom in
the social machine, working without hunger or
thirst, consuming nothing, and following without
-> \ will of its own the " leadings " of adjacent springs.

But if I lived for ever, as, praised be the solar
system ! is not dangerous, I should have no selfish
delight in the function, for my inmost nature recoils
from the invitation to be glad that other people care
for such lives as would be hateful or intolerable
to me. My friend says (and with some reluctance
I believe him to be right), that one cannot discharge
even the most mechanical function in the social
body unless one feels with the impulses that direct
the living atoms. And I do not feel with them,
even when I feel very heartily /(?r them. I cannot
feel for myself as they do ; I cannot wish so to feel,
and though I could give almost my hopes of death
to have an ideal towards which it was possible to
strive, the best possible to me is not an ideal, but a
calm solitary stoicism, to which he gives much

harder names.

It is human fate to have to struggle after something
better than one is, but merely to wrangle
with oneself for not being already other seems a
waste of force ; and yet I wrangle and for the first
time in my life doubt and dispute my own strongest
mental instincts, because I cannot rest content with-eclipse.

 233

out an ideal aim, safe from the blight of my friend's
contempt.

The fact is, though I love my fellow-creatures
dearly in the abstract, all concrete relations with
them are so complicated with depressing difficulty
that I can hardly keep myself from feeling as if I
disliked the relations. I never come in contact
with people without wanting to act on them or
their circumstances ; but perhaps they don't want
to be acted on, or they want to act on me, or want
X and y to act with or on them in quite a different
direction. On the whole, I believe most of the
things that I feel inclined to do mii?ht as well be
done as let alone. I am sure I had better do some
of them than nothing ; but unless one is quite sure
that the very thing one wishes to do oneself wants
doing more than any other possible thing, one is
apt to wait for encouragement or sympathy before
one begins ; and then again there is always a likely
chance that the thing one is encouraged to do, if
one meets with any encouragement at all, is the
third best of the whole lot. And then one drifts
back upon the knowledge  none the less certainly
true because it is a sentence of death for such as I 
that no particular good thing will be done by anyone
who has not a personal selfish desire prompting
him to do just that. I have wasted the strength of
my life in always trying to do some unprofitably

234 ECLIPSE,

distasteful thing. All my days have been spent in
doing or trying to resolve to do what I disliked, and
Anson seemed to make himself the mouthpiece of
the world's unkindness in giving a verdict against
me on this very ground. Not that I appeal against
its justice. Where is the merit of a martyrdom
that serves no creed ? With chances to favour, I
micrht have done something:  it is useless to wonder
how much or little  but that acjain was what I
hated to admit, that one's fate was in the hands
of chance.

But I hated, too, the misplaced sympathy which
congratulates you pleasantly on the pleasantness of
an irksome task, and is ready to encourage your
despair by auguries of undesired rewards and unattainable
results. There is nothing more maddeningly
discouraging than the suggestion of a friend,
who, ignoring the impalpable sources of one's distress,
points to imaginary prizes in the coming
years : an author's fame, a happy marriage, or the
like. If friendship's self can only hope to make
the present bearable by the prospect of a future
that will never be, that is a confession that the
present is unbearable, not a help in bearing it. Asa
mere boy, I had hailed as deliverance the doctrine
that it is wise and right to renounce, not to set
one's heart on pleasure ; it is a small thing as well
as unattainable,  strength and virtue lie in being

ECLIPSE. disable

to do without it. And so I lived, asking:
nothing, and not complaining when I got it. * But
this philosophy does not teach one what to do ; and
while I told myself and believed it was right to be
able to do without pleasure, I did not think and feel
it to be right or possible to do without action. And
I sought the inspiration of friendship to tell me how
to act. My friend answered, or so his words sounded
to my soul's ears, " Act as you like, and like what
other people do ; " or perhaps it was, " Like what
other people do, and then you will act with them of
your own accord;" any way, translated into doctrine,
the conclusion seemed to be that virtuous action was
the natural fruit of unsought involuntary happiness,
and that no good thing came from any other root.
And I understood how people have called Calvinism
a damnable creed ; for by that, as by this, we are
shown men and women, as it were alive, but a doom
not of their own making holds them back from
living rightly. That this was horrible gave no
assurance that it should not be true, but if true it
was a damnable, a damning truth. It seemed to bea
light thing to give up happiness, but I did not
care to give up my conscience too. Had only the
fortunate a right to be good? was I to renounce
the first fruits of my life's stem teaching and learn
to wait upon Providence for luck that should inspire
me with virtuous power ?

236 ECLIPSE.

i I knew Anson did not ar<iue thus, but where else

was his reasoning to lead ? I have two exorbitant
appetites  to rule the wide world beneficently, and
to have all my friends' best love. I feel the monstrousness
of these pretensions, but if I choose toi
accept all or nothing, who has a right to blame my

j choice? We have each a double ideal. There is

J the self that one would have liked to be. and the

 self that one feels one might and ought to become.

I would have triumphed if I could in and over the

world by nature ; if that is denied me, shall I not

triumph by grace over my own regret ?

j In point of orthodoxy there was little to choose

j between us ; Anson swore by " Evolution," and I by

j a philosophy of my own, as yet imperfectly evolved ;

but the difference between us seems almost theological
in character; so might a Calvinist and a
Utilitarian Pelagian debate as to the duties of the
unconverted. But Anson, when I hinted at the
parallel, only accepted half of it.

Exactly ; there's an ascetic twist, as if one of
your great-grandfathers had been a Trappist monk.
What other good is there on earth but natural
earthly happiness, and what have positive philosophers
like you and me to do with transcendental
visions of some hyper-sensible state of ' blessedness,'
which, if you analyse it, must turn out a pure survival
from states of thought which owed all their

ECLIPSE. 237

meaning to theological preconceptions that you
accept as little as I do ! "

Well, I had no special preference for the word
blessedness," but I thought Anson and his favourite
philosopher rather missed sight of the motives which
have led to the revival of its use by some fairly
"positive" moralisers. Let us take some moment
of extreme personal happiness. A long-sought-for
discovery has been made, merit long denied has met
with public recognition, a rival has been ignominiously
defeated, a risky speculation has turned out
fortunately, a beloved bride has been won. Now in
all these cases the feeling of personal delight maybe
equally intense, but a moralist, while admitting
all alike to be happy after their own fashion, would
only aflSrm those to be possessed of " true blessedness
" whose happiness was compatible with the true
good and gladness of others. Supposing the bride's
consent has been extorted by domestic coercion,
supposing the speculation to have succeeded by the
ruin of honest traders, supposing the rival to have
felt no evil passions, and to be pained and injured
by his defeat, suppose the acknowledged merit to be
spurious, and the imagined discovery an hallucination,
the happiness remains the same at the moment,
and in the worst cases there is least danger of its
being cut short. But this is not blessedness. You
may call it good luck if you think it such, but if

238 Eclipse.

there is any highest wisdom at all, any immaterial
prize of righteousness, it most be something independent
of good and evil chances, something that
a man may conquer for himself out of the deepest
abysses of calamity. If there is a supreme, impersonal
divinity of right, if a man is in love with this
divinity, and has vowed himself body and soul to
its service, he may find in faithfulness to this his own
ideal vision a source of satisfaction potent to outweigh
even an acute sense of personal suffering, so
that the righteous man may choose, and choose
happily, his own pain rather than the surrender of a
wider good. Even of the elements of what we call
personal happiness, many are external to ourselves,
confer on us no direct pleasure or advantage, and it
is only going a step further in the same direction to
admit that under some circumstances the consciousness
may prove to be most satisfactorily occupied
with experiences that are in no sense self-regarding.
It is a commonplace almost beyond dispute that
men may sometimes be called upon to renounce
their happiness if they would keep their hold on
the eternal good ; but it seems to me that there is
yet a further step, and none but religious ascetics
have dared to take it. I say we are called upon to
recognise that the answer of a good conscience, the
blessedness " or content born of complete devotion
to the highest Best, may prove to be as little in our

ECLIPSE. 239

reach as the ordinary good luck of earthly fortune.
Any life would be worth living that could be spent in
the service of the ideal best; but what if for some of us,
for me myself, no ideal was possible or conceivable ?

By the time I had got the problem clearly stated
on this wise, I ceased to wonder that Anson had
failed so much as to understand its terms, let alone
the formula for its solution. And yet, if there is no
such fate, what did the old monk mean? "Magnum
est et valde magnum, tarn humano quasi divino
posse carre solution, et ]ro ashore Dei linter exiliuni
cords velle sustinere, et in nullo se ipsum quicker,
nee ad proprium merit respire." To live for the
love of good, cut off from all living, loving goodness,
alike of gods or men, if there were no such damnation
as this, why did the Apostle of the Gentiles
challenge the doom as what he would risk to save
his brethren's souls ? But this is-still to the Jews
a stumbling-block, to the Greeks foolishness.

Anson was to have been married in ]Via, and we
did not meet again till the following autumn. The
wedding had been put off on account of illness in
the bride's family, and he bad been spending all his
spare time with them, so pretexts had not been
wanting to help the postponement of an encounter
that I dreaded. We met at lost in an out-of-the-way
court off the Strand, at a working men's meeting
called to discuss an inconvenient technical con*

240 ECLIPSE,

sequence of some recent attempt at law reform. I
was presiding, and had just finished a short introductory
statement when Anson came in.

I asked him if he, as one " learned in the law,"
would speak next

He said, " Presently ; " and when the next
orator was well started on an eloquent, exasperated
harangue, he whispered to me his congratulations
on the part I was taking in this affair,
and in one or two others of the same inconspicuous
sort ; and added what was meant for an apologetic
Afraid I was awfully uncivil to you in the spring,
but it made me savage to see a fellow like you
wasting his time and spirits over cobwebs. More
glad than anything to see you're all right now."

I laughed, and asked if it was a psychological
axiom that a " chairman " never suffered from religious
difficulties, and he took the query to be a jest.
I did not think it necessary to explain that when I
was first asked to preside at this meeting, I refused
and suggested the name of a rising M.P., and that
it was only at the eleventh hour, when the latter
telegraphed an excuse, that I consented to take his
place, when I had literally not five minutes to spare
in which to invent a speech. According to Anson's
ideas, nothing could well be less sane or more perverse
than to decline the opportunity of making a
good speech and then submit to the necessity of

ECLIPSE. 241

making a bad one. However, the very completeness
of the malentendu encouraged me to renew our interrupted
intercourse. I was safe against inconveniently
keen discernment.

He offered to bet the fees of his last case (a big
one that was sure to go to the House of Lords) that
before another seven years were out I should be as
well pleased with myself, the world, and the one
woman in it as he was now.

It is impossible to dislike a man at the moment
when he is giving you the strongest expression he
can of his good-will ; the feeling of horror, even disgust,
which seized me irresistibly as I listened to
him, was altogether impersonal. I thought then
that my rage was righteous. I felt as if a brutal
suggestion had been made to me, and I justified the
exaggerated resentment by taking it as an accusation,
as if I for one should care no more for the
common lot of men if only my own hearth were
warm. But the resentment was too venomous to be
wholly just, and I have thought since that I might
have been less angry if I had not felt the augury to
be ill judged. He did not in his heart accuse me of
the kind of selfishness I could repudiate aloud ; he
only credited me with some of the common qualities
of our kind in which I felt myself to be wanting. I
thought it was his duty as a friend to have understood
that little short of a miracle was needed to

Q

242 ECLIPSE.

secure me the private felicity he promised with so
light a heart. And because I could not resent this
misconception as bitterly as I felt it, I resented all
the more the cognate assumption that, if I were
thus consoled, the remaining wretches of the same
order would be too few to count.

I was helped to this discovery by another experience
on which this is not the place to dwell.
Suffice it to say that complaints very like my own
were made to me by a comparative stranger just at
this time. I was careful to avoid the rock of offence
upon which I had stumbled so painfully, and I said
nothing to encourage visionary hopes ; but, as kind
luck would have it, I was able to bring my client
within reach of the needed chances for his own
lifers growth, and with this change in the environment
his mood changed too for the brighter. I
had a pleasant letter from him, acknowledging the
change and expressing a hope that he was not therefore
going to forget the doomed many, in whose lot
no change for the better could be made. He added
that the unexpected help was doubly valuable to
him, both as a personal advantage and as an answer
to the troublesome problem whether help might
come from man to man in the time of need. I had
just read and answered this letter, and was revolving
in my mind the bearing on the general problem of
the corresponding truth, that help also might not

ECLIPSE. 243

come from man to man in the time of need, when a
telegram was brought me.

It was February. Anson had been married the
beginning of December, and travelled straight south
to Naples ; he wrote to me from Amalfi, and then
from Some ; all went merrily as marriage-bells.
There was a new tone of tenderness here and therein
his letters which reconciled mc to the volleys of
jubilant rapture which he felt it due to friendship
to fire off every few weeks. The last letter warned
us to expect him lioine in IMareh. I opened the
telegram without thought of harm. It was from
an Italian doctor at Perugia. Anson was dying of
fever and had bid him send for me. There were
thirteen minutes left in which to catch the night
mail ; the cabman drove furiously, and I just had
time to throw myself into the guard's van without
a ticket, before the moving train had left the platform.
In fifty hours I was at Perugia. He still
breathed ; three hours before he had asked for me,
and they took me to his room at once. His eyes
were open, but with a strange look. I tried to speak
his name cheerily; slowly a feeble look of recognition
broke over the changed features. He whispered,
"Thanks"  a gasping space between each
word  '* Thanks  old boy  for coming." Then his
hand moved faintly, and with yet more effort, as I
bent over him to catch every breath  " Take care of

lii



I



'A

rf i

244 . ECLIPSE.

f

her' The next moment she was a widow and I
had lost my friend.

The sad slow homeward journey ended upon the
anniversary of that accursed eclipse. Need you ask
why, from that day to this, I have never asked myself,
nor willingly let another ask, any question
bearing upon the share of Fate and Eight in ruling
the life and determining the duties of men ? And
from that day to this I have had a superstitious
horror of the Evil Eye as I see it sometimes in
dreams, a black sightless ball, with a narrow silver
rim, watching with blind, baleful stare the far-off
struggles of a human soul.

 .*

Postscript hy the Master,  I asked Egerton to
write the above, one day when we had been talking
of young men's intellectual difficulties. He referred
to these difficulties of his, and I found so much
difficulty in understanding them that I asked him,
in pure curiosity, to write them out for me at
length, as his contribution to our volume of disguised
confessions. Either I am stupid or the
written statement is hard to follow, and as I am
guilty of getting the riddle inserted here, perhaps
i I ought to add what little I can in explanation. I

think the chief trait in Egerton's character was
something that I can only describe as a conscientious
wilfulness. He wanted to do right, but it must be

I



/

ECLIPSE. 245

a right of his own choosing, and he never felt as
if he had done enough original right to be worth
having. It was true, and a thing that troubled his
friends, that his life did seem always partly wasted,
less productive than it should have been considering
his real ability, perseverance, and unselfishness. As
one follows his argument, one is vexed with what
seems like a shifty perversity, a determination to
have always some unanswerable reason for making
himself miserable ; but now that we have lost him,
in looking; at his life bv the licht of this, in itself
sufficiently undecipherable key, I seemed to understand
him better than while he lived and we persisted
in expecting from him the performance that
did not come. He asked for a theoretical solution
of difficulties that only admitted of a practical solution,
which he always just missed. It is a fact, a
simple fact of observation, needing no more explanation
than young Martin's broken leg, that the
prosperous contented man died young, that one
uncomfortable youth was helped to a career by a
good-natured stranger, and that the unhelped helper,
who was uncomfortable too, did a score of things
middling well, but always just fell short of excellence
or supreme efficiency. He had a high standard
and knew he failed to reach it. He chose to consider
his modest, useful life a failure, and I think
his friends judge more kindly in saying he failed

246 ECLIPSE.

than in saying, " What right had he to judge himself
by so high a standard ? " I think his character
had enough elements of greatness in it to justify him
in resenting the friendly suggestion that he was no
worse than his neighbours, and should be content to
know it For him it was a failure to be no better
than they.

His weakness  he himself was capable in later
years of seeing that it was a weakness  lay in this :
He was not by nature so much in sympathy with
any one external tendency or so much in love with
any single outer aim as to feel his whole nature
satisfied by the effort to co-operate with the one or
attain the other. And as the world is wide enough
for all vigorous human passion to find or make itself
a field therein, this imperfect adaptation of a too
fastidious soul to its surroundings is and stays a
defect, albeit a defect that calls for more pity than
blame. It calls for pity the more because patient
and pitying wisdom may not prove powerless to
supply to the young groaners in eclipse some foot or
hand hold whence they may struggle into possession
of the missing aim or motive.

As to Egerton, 'Requiescat in pace'' He preached
the courage he did not feel, and left his part of the
world a shade the better for his passage through it.

3C.

Zbc $bat>ow of eatb.

Let not my love be called idolatry.

Shakespeare.

X.

He had been dead a year and three days. Two
years ago we were married. One of the vows we
spoke as married lovers said that each day and hour
of our life should add something' to the force and
tenderness of our wedded love. I asked him for the
vow, saying love seemed to grow less if it only
stayed the same ; one feels less the feeling one has
got used to ; and he said, Yes, but a growing love
grew dearer when it had been growing long. For
that short year we kept our vow unbroken, unforgotten,
and then I was left alone, alone, alone, with
the ghostly memory of a short years moments to
defy the grim presence of interminable years of life
to come.

I fled from every one at once. I was thankful I
had no child. Every face and voice were hateful tome
; every word they spoke seemed to scream to me,
All love has left the world with him." They spoke
as if they had never loved, never loved even him, nay,
as if they neither knew nor guessed what love might
be. If they had known, surely they would have left

iso THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

me to mourn in peace. I fled ; I sought a prison
where none could follow. Money will buy even that,
and in this convent by the sea the nuns do not think
it strange that one should kneel all day before an
unseen presence, and weep and still kneel weeping.

After the first long months my tears fell more for
him ; waking in the night, waking at dawn, I thought
what it must be for him to wake and find himself
alone. For me it had always been enough to know
that he was happy, either with me or apart ; but to
him no happiness was possible unshared. The sun
is shining to-day; if it were not for the peasants'
vineyards I could wish the storms were back again.
I hate the light he does not see. My heart is sore
for my dead love's sore desolation. They talk of the
Joicr les morts and a life beyond the grave ; I think
I could bear my own life if I thought Charlie were
too dead to miss me ; but I feel as if love could not
die, as if, whatever else was dead, the aching pain at
his heart must last as long as my heart aches with
lonely love.

The convent stands on a promontory ; the church
and bell-tower are a landmark to the sailors ; the
convent garden has a level terrace walk leading to
the churchyard, and there are hours in the day, when
the nuns and school-girls are at their duties, that I
have the garden to myself. I pace up and down,
gazing blankly into the formless void. The world

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 251

is empty when one has nothing left to lose. One
can always be alone, too, by kneeling in the little
church. The visitor of the convent is a high ecclesiastic.
I had met him in the world, and I told him
I would live for months or years at the convent if he
would see that no one ever spoke to me of my creed
or theirs, or the grief that sent me to this shelter.
He has kept faith, and I endure the village priest's
kind benedicite.

Can it be that I was a faithless or unhappy wife ?
I try in vain to conjure up the image of my own
lost bliss. Surely I loved him and was blessed in
his dear love, and yet I cannot feel as if I had a
loss of my own to weep for. It is Charles life,
strong, bright, and joyous, as we traced its course
in thought; that' is what I have lost, the loss for
which my tears fall still. I was four-and-twenty
when we met, and had never thought of love or
marriage. I heard people say it was not good to
live alone, but I was not alone in the large ever-widening
circle of a merry marrying family. I had
never thought of wishing for the happiness of love
in marriage for myself; it seemed there were so
many wanting it, I had no right to claim such a
lot before so many others with a better claim to it
than I. Indeed, when Charlie came to see us, I never
thought it was for me he came, and I was slow to
understand or be persuaded that he claimed me

252 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

with a love that had a right to the best answer I
could give.

Surely I loved him ; why else did the world end
for me with his death ? And yet my heart seems
cold, as if my very love were dead as welL Grief
seems to choke me, and yet I cannot grieve, because
it seems to me a little thing, among the million
sorrows of the poor, the anguish mixed with wrong
and shame, the cruel losses through which other
wrong is wrought, it seems a little thing by the side
of these that the joy of my one life is dead. It was
not to win love's joy that I let my life unite with
his; one must answer to a call; and now there is
silence everywhere, and in the dull heartlessness of
my grief, it seems to me that it is not his love I
mourn and miss; it is the sweetness of the voice
calling on me for love. Who is it says that 

Youth is blest
Because it has a life to fill with love ?

I am not old even now, and shall I fill my life with
love of that lost blessedness ? Though I asked for
nothing, that sweet voice came to me : shall I have
learnt from it only to ask angrily in vain? The
memory is mine ; it is not a small thing, that and
my constant soul bound together like lovers in a
first embrace,  Oh, the memory of his first kiss ! 
that memory and I will live unflinchingly through

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 253

all the years, and we shall die undivided when I
go to rest with him.

An old lay sister died this week, and has been
buried to-day. It was May when I wrote last, and
October finds me still here, alone with the sad
memories that are turning to reproach. Those unexplained
last words of his : " I leave it all to you,"
they thought he meant the land  as if he or 1
could have thought of that at the last hour of parting:.
I have thoiit'ht acjain and attain of the trust
those words conveyed, and no meaning ever joined
to them till now. I thought perhaps he meant
rest was for him, he left the pain and grief to me ;
but the slow months bring understanding, and I
think he meant that the life we thouiiht was his
was left to me, and to me he left the doing, the
causing to be done, all we had planned together
that he should do to justify his life. In a book of
his I found this passage marked with an index
finger : 

*o'

"You may learn to know yourself through love, as
you do after years of life, whether you are fit to lift them
that are about you, or whether you are but a cheat, a
load on the back of your fellows. The impure perishes,
the inefficient languishes, the moderate comes to its
autumn of decay ; these are of the kinds that aim at
satisfaction, to die of it soon or late. The love that sure



i 254 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

it

'i



vives has strangled craving ; it lives because it lives, to
nourish and succour like the heavens. But to strangle
craving is indeed to go through a death before you reach
your immortality."

My love is not dead ; it has turned into a hungry
craving. I thought I loved him purely, and I grieve
i that he no longer needs my love. All the springs

f of human feeling dried up in me when he died.

For longer than our married life, half as lone? acrain
I as my whole life's share of happiness, I have lived

in selfish, barren solitude. At first I wondered,
could this last for ever ? As the days and months
passed, it seemed there was no force to end it. I
had no force to question, was it right ? What was
the use of asking, though it were wrong, was anything
else so much as possible ?

Is anything else possible ? I dwell apart from
the little cares and brawls of the convent life, and
standing thus apart, the stillness and the peace, the
remoteness from the eager life of towns, the near
presence of the church and graveyard  it seems so
short a step from the nun's cell to the bier on which
the old lay sister sleeps, while the psalms are chanted
round her  all this reminds me of an early longing
for something like a cloister, where a sad laity could
take vows not quite like those of Christendom. I
could not take these sisters' vows, even if I shared
all their faith. It is too easy; it is seeking a coward's

/

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 255

ease to build walls and bar the windows against the
world's wickedness, and then, like raw troops grown
bold in garrison, rail at the enemy who challenges
us to conflict in the field. I want a cloister whose
walls are faithfulness and its bars love, a fortress
invisible and present everywhere, a refuge from the
world's temptations, and one's own soul's hungry
craving, the craving whereby the cunning world
tempts to angry, covetous discontent.

The world has robbed me of mv love ; can I take
a vow of loving service to the cruel world ? Can
one wish to return Good for such an utter evil ? The
love that has *' strangled craving," that is stronger
than death or any other distance, can live without
happiness ; but can love prosper a whole lifetime
widowed of perfect joy ? The perfect love gives
everything and receives everything, without thought
or effort, almost without consciousness of desire.
But how are the affections of the heart to remain
ever tender and responsive, so strong and ready as
to give their own tone and cour to the whole of
life, if the self-abandonment of answered love is
made impossible for ever, if at every turn the feeling
must be checked that grows unchecked into an
exacting clamour, a cry after the answer that does
not come ?

I suppose there is still too much self-seeking
self-assertion, too little disinterested love while

256 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

I

r


one has the feeling of such check. In regard to
him, I never felt the room for any check or chill,
not only because I had his love : I felt, whether or
no, that he must have had mine, and that only to
love is blessedness enough, divinely more than

I enough. If one loved others with as pure a tenderness,

there would be no painful sense of self-repression
or repulse. I cried yesterday because a little
black-eyed baby in the convent school cried when I
stooped to kiss her ; but it was not to give the child
pleasure that I stooped ; it was to feel once more
the nearness of some human love. I was not thinking
of the child, rather, already, before I knew it,
the question was framing itself in my thought: 
One cannot live without love ; can one live without
the joy of love, which is not to be loved again, but
that the beloved one should be blessed in our love ?
lily beloved lives still,  he lives in ray unchanging
love, but oh ! the impotence of mortal loving ! What
profit has he in the silent grave ? I am desolate,
and the sad faithfulness avails him nothing. Woidd
God I too were dead ! Can one live, I was asking,
when love itself grows barren at the icy face of

I death ?

And even now I answer, without haste and after

j listening to every doubtful pause :  This too is

j possible. Married love and the passionate friendship

which is as the marriage of twin souls, these

I -

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 257

are the first open gates ; the way of salvation leads
plainly through them, and the flames that dart
across the portal and fasten consuming upon the
selfish lusts of those who would pass through the
gates have not much terror for the blest elect who
enter hand in hand. But there is another gate,
narrow, obscure, to which each one draws near
alone, and the path to it is through the valley of the
shadow of death. We tread barefoot and the stones
are sharp, we fall, the ground is a flame, the air is
a suffocating smoke, invisible demons ply their
scourges, the burden of lost gladness is a crushing
weight. There is one strange pleasure in the agony,
to feel sharp flames consuming what was left in
us of selfish lust ; and there is one pain passing all
the rest,  to feel the same flame fasten thirstily
upon our every wound, within, without, and consume
the very pain, as if that too was sin.

The path is long through the dark and winding
hollow; who knows if we shall live to reach the
end, where is the gate of religious love, and few
there be that And it ? But that fierce trial can teach
as much as the sacramental mysteries of twice-blessed
love; and it is lawful for each of those
who have followed the divine teaching to the end
to feel that no other lesson could have been so full
of deep instruction for themselves. God forbid I
should blaspheme the sacredness . of the love that

R

ft

258 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

r

r; was once his life, because the gladness of it is now

at 

turned to a spreading desolation. Only to me this
death is-not the end of life, rather the beginning of
a lifelong worship, and this too is a way of salvage
tion. Desire is past; what could he desire at my

hands ? He has passed from me, out into the unseen,
unfelt world, upon whose bidding I would wait
in meek obedience. It is as if I and my God were
alone in the infinite space ; the void world is not too
wide for a devout enclosure, and it is there my vows
are to be paid.

It is not laid upon all as a duty, but it is lawful
to a few when the necessity befalls to dwell in the
world, in the bright, wholesome, sunlit world  in
it but yet not of it. "When the world's best has
vanished from the body's sight, it is lawful, nay,
it is good, a high and blessed privilege, to cleave
for evermore to the lost divine invisible love, to
worship and adore the dear unseen, rather than
quench the spirit of faithful renunciation and seek
scraps of feeble consolation among the so-called
goods of earthly life. Good indeed and in truth for
those who are born to find their own good there;
but to the spouse of a heavenly love, false and mocking
shadows, a feeble mimicry of the true inalienable
spiritual inheritance that remains for ever to;
solace those who are faithful in bereavement.

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 259

There are two sisters in this convent and there is
one priest in the adjoining town whose faces are like
a sermon on the poetry and the meaning of the religious
life. The refined, exalted expression of spiritual
"detachment" from the momentary interests of life
is a permanent but not an exclusive characteristic
of the countenance. Interest, concern, sympathetic
alarm or pleasure, kindness, deference, amusement
sometimes, and sometimes even indignation, appear
on the sweet face in their due turn, without prejudice
to the lasting dominant air of absorption in the unseen
world, as if the true " religious " had lived face
to face with the embodied eternal realities of human
life, as if the personal life had been lived out alone
with the unchanging divine and spiritual essences ;
and then, for love of the divine in God and man,
they consent to live again, without personal life of
their own, among the mixed and impure lives of the
myriads in whose personal life the divine element
is so faint, so feeble, so fragmentary, so inseparably
entangled with base and earthly matter, that few
among them can recognise its divinity unaided, and
fewer still be brought to apprehend the glory of a
life that should be all divine.

The Catholic Church was not far from the truth in
its recognition of the two vocations outside the doom
of sinful failure. There is the secular ideal, reached
or sought by men like my own lost Charlie ; natural,

26o THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

prosperous human lives, spent in doing willingly
naturally good, self-chosen work, in the beneficent,
enjoyable exercise of power, in the delightful indulgence
of beneficent desires. The earthly paradise is
when such souls as these live in unbroken unity
together. But earth is not Paradise, and some who
have seen the gates of heaven open have seen them
open only to close behind all that made their heaven
on earth. And for others they have not opened at
all; the natural life is dull and mean and mischievous.
And alone, near and yet apart from both the others,
the religious life follows its calm, strong, unvarying
course  a life that spends itself in joyful worship of
the living good, in sad, devout commemoration of the
good that has been living, that lives now only in its
fruitful memories, and the sad devotion born of loss
and worship, and in faithful, patient strife against the
tyranny of evil nature, in loyal championship of the
feeble tribes, the scattered units who cling feebly
through oppression to a worthier birthright. Thus
rich, thus varied, thus fed by nature, outlined and
sustained by the chronic necessities of human life
and labour, the religious life follows its solitary
course,  alone, yet not alone, engaged at every turn
in the countless interests of unnumbered daily
lives, but with the deepest inner consciousness of
the soul consciously possessed by something else
than the personal care for these succeeding acts of

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 261

faith or hope or charity ; possessed, namely, by the
overmastering, undying passion of adoring love for
the spiritual source and centre, the conceived impersonation
of the divinely wise and tender power in
whose strength alone the worshipper goes forth to
conquer and to die,  to die the living death of those
who live, by faith, the life of the immortals which is
death to man, instead of by sight, by the very beatific
vision of an incarnate good, which overshadows
blessed life by the impending shadow of a personal

death.

 

I am driven to say all this more plainly to myself
than I had wished by the insistence of kind friends
kinder than wise I think them, and one is apt to
feel unwise kindness as a cruelty. They scold me,
with gentle sympathy, it is true, for giving up the
world, my friends, and duties in it, to live alone
here with an idle memory. Do they think I would
have done this if I amid have done otherwise ? Now,
it is not because of their kind moralities, nor because
I see new light upon the path of duty, that I feel
the hour for some change is at hand. There is a
duty owing to the deepest feelings of the heart If
we feel it possible to obey their silent urging, impossible
not to wait and follow in submission, who
shall dare to say that we and the irresistible impulse
are wrong and blameful ? The passion that possesses

262 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

XLS wholly, body, soil and spirit, mind, will and
conscience, all at once has a right to rule us as it
does and must, and to resist the promptings of such
passion at the bidding of remembered platitudes is
like sinning against the Holy Ghost within us; it
is a lie against our own soul's truth, of which the
fruit is that worst damnation, the silencing of the
soul's native voice, banning the sinner to drift
rudderless through the remaining days.

ally friends say, is it not an indulgence of the
selfishness of grief that holds me here alone ? They
say, though he is gone-are there none left that
need your love ? I listened silently ; I did not
choose to answer sternly ; " The heart knoweth its
own bitterness," and who is such a stranger as a
mere good friend to the mystery of its joy and grief?
Have I said  I hardly care to say, because it would
have hurt my Charlie's soul to hear  that in losing
him my most utter loss was the losing one who
could not live without my love? For his sake I
could have surrendered all the rest; but that one
worst loss had to be borne. I am alone ; the others
can do without me :  for you see they have. One
cannot even wish to cease to feel this desolation as a
pain. One loves all the same, and chooses, since] it
must be so, to have that pain to bear ; it takes all
one's strength to bear it without bitterness. And
then kind friends break in with warning voice :

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 263

You are wasting your love upon a memory ; he
needs it not ; do you go and love those .who need "

Charlie ! they are cruel! Charlie! if any knowledge
could haunt you now, would you not know it
is my hardest grief that the love I bear to you is
fruitless for your good ? But, my love, my love ! is
the fault of that in me ? Should I not have served
you with eager faithfulness and glad devotion through
a life of love if fate had left you in my arms ? Who
dares to reproach the stricken victims of the pitiless
death ? Let the rest find their happiness where they
may ; what have I done that they should call on me
to go out into the highways and hedges and beg
amongst the starving beggars for a pauper liiate,
because the king has no profit from his subjects'
love ? Let those who must or may love once, or
twice, or thrice, let their happiness be born again
when it is dead, but earth held one only joy for me,
and that is dead, and my love still worships at its
tomb. Though my love himself came back to chide
me, I could say no other than that I do well to love
and worship mournfully.

There is but one love to which, without faithlessness,
the widowed soul may be abandoned with the
boundless self-abandonment of the one sole, infinite,
undeniable passion  the love of the infinite, impersonal,
spiritual divinity, the passionless calm of
infinite truth, the ideal of perfect wisdom, strength.

Jt

264 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

and mercy, which we see as in a glass darkly, when
a noble human soul casts its shadow on the troubled
stream of life. It may be that without this fleeting
vision of the God in man I had been left godless in
the lonely world. But to have seen once is to love
for ever, and all the pure goodness that I loved in
him is with me now as a God immortal, adorable,
and present everywhere. He lives in God, God lives
in him ; my life is hid in the worship and the love

of God in him.

 

He had plans of what we and our children should
do. He said it took two generations working together
to do the best that might be. But I am widowed,
and no child of his is with me. He said, playing
reproachfully with my lack of high ambition, that I
was born to be the mother of great sons, " or," he
added, "great daughters, which will be more originaL"
And yet no child of his is with me. It was always
my delight to believe his jesting words ; he laughed
in kindness, and his kindness fulfilled many prophecies.
Can the dead work miracles, and the
barren widow be a joyful mother of children?
Charlie! love is cruel as the grave, and instead of
peaceful sorrow you bid me seek the trembling
pain, the heart-sick, helpless longing of the mother
who has power to bring forth  who is there that
cannot bring forth something  but has so little

THE SHADOW OF DEATH, 265

strength to bequeath along with the doubtful boon
of life, that she sees, with the second sight of love,
her feeble offspring struggling vainly with the world
it cannot mend or master because of its feebleness, or
rather hers who gave it no better strength. Is it
not so with mothers ? The child and the anxious
pain and grief are theirs ; how little of the triumph 
if it came  would they dare to call their own?
Only the mother's pang, without which this place
would have been left for another to fill. Less well ?
Then we have not lived in vain.

I cannot do your will, my own, but as I go through
the wilderness, the piercing voice of anguish crying
aloud, and calling in the name of our love, " Let his
good will be done," here, and here, thus and now, 
this voice crying in the wilderness will touch some
ears, it may be, and what I cannot do for you, my
love, myself, may yet be done at the long last by
many who will scarcely know why or whence the
call has come to them. My life is ended, yet I am
not dead. I am a voice crying in the wilderness,
calling to the living from the sanctuary of the dead,
My children, my children ! do the will of the blessed
who are gone, and a double blessing will be upon

your love and on your lives."

.-*

Still the months went by. I knew that light and
guidance would come, were coming to me ; it was

366 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

mine to wait. There was one sweet-faced girl from
the convent school who wished to take the veil, and
she had a friend who, half for company, thought
that she too had a vocation. The latter had rich
parents and a hopeful marriage ready arranged for
the completion of her eighteenth year. I had come
to know these girls well, and they told me of their
innocent young dreams and longings. I was not in
haste to leave the convent, for no one else in reach
could or was likely to tell these children all that I
could. I spoke freely of the difficulty of the religious
life, translating all that makes its rightful charm
into the orthodox language of the cloister. I think
they understood. Both grew to feel a girlish fondness
for the English stranger, and I think it was
not without my help that one consented to do her
parents* bidding and seek her mission in the world,
while the other with open eyes chose the strenuous
peace of cloistral vows.

I waited for her profession. The service is sad to
those who think that the young life might be better
spent, but it is a pretty and a touching thing to see
a young soul dare to vow eternal faith to the divine
ideal ; and I, who hold as strongly a very different
creed from theirs, chose nevertheless to let that
service stand as the symbol for one more profession
than the sisters guessed. I knelt unseen in an outer
chapel, and one by one my vows went up with hers.



THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 267

When all was over, a solemn stillness seemed to
fill the air. For the last time I paced the terrace
walk alone that evening; a row of cypress trees
edged either side, like black spires shooting into the
blue overhead, and between these grim sentinels
pink roses flowered against the foliage of newly
budding lemon trees. The air was still, and the
sun had already sunk behind the mountain shoulder.
There were no clouds overhead, and the line of sea
and sky was clear, but above the sea a low line of
curling cloud, like the level smoke from a giant
steamer, lay motionless along the horizon, and the
setting sun dyed it a deep, luminous, rose red. And
the coast line opposite grew to a deeper and deeper
rosy red ; cliffs and woods were bathed in crimson,
the little fishing-boat had a crimson sail, and something
strange, like a rosy veil, seemed cast over the
stillness of the blue sky and sea. The transparent
light was like the ruby glow of a summer sunlit
dewdrop. The glory and the peace were supreme ;
it was the crowning moment of the day's rich beauty.
I had watched the crimson deepening to the last ; it
had not yet begun to fade ; it seemed to me the hour
had come.

I rose and crossed the terrace without a backward
glance. I sought my convent room, and that
same night were written the letters pledging me
to return. The next day's dawn found half my



268 THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

luggage packed for England, and in three days more
the convent grating was a memory, the wide enclosure
of the world a present truth of sense. And
the deep crimson glow of that sunset scene lives on
for ever in my thought undimmed, like the undimmed
memory of deathless love.



I
I

IE

Sat est IDiyisse.

f

The day is short and the work is great. It is not incumbent
upon thee to complete the work, but thou must not therefore cease
from it.  Talmud.

XL

I SAY, Philo ! how is it that most people's lives
somehow don't seem to come to much ? "

The question began with a rush and ended rather
hesitatingly, as if the problem, which had been occupying
the speaker's mind for at least ten minutes,
did not appear quite as large, when reduced to words,
as he had expected. There was a deprecating fall
in the boy's voice which disarmed severity ; besides,
he is the son of one of my best and oldest friends,
and I answer to the name of " Philo " in token that
I have accepted the rule of guide and philosopher,
which he has been pleased to assign me ;  partly, I
suspect, with a view to combining the requisite
modicum of respect with an epithet of handy brevity
and a comfortably familiar sound.

It was Sunday; we had been for a walk over
the downs, and were resting on the steep sloping
summit. Lying on one's back one looked up into
the deep blue of a cloudless May sky ; a faint hum
of insects broke the silence at intervals, or was
drowned by the note of a distant bird ; a light wind.



SAT EST VIXISSE.

neither cold nor hot, but soft like the touch of a
child's hand, blew through one's hair and played
with the blades of grass and tiny gold and violet
flowers of the short-cropped turf as the broad winds
play upon the waving cornfields, scattering lights
and shadows in a dreamy network. On one side
there was a glimpse of blue sea cut by the green
slope below us. We had thrown ourselves upon
the grass to rest, but there is a difference between
sixteen and sixty, and Johnny's mind having been
more active than mine, the result delivered itself as
above.

We were staying at the house of a rather distinguished
political personage, and the night before
several ex-celebrities had been brought together ina
kind of family reunion, early friendships or cross
marriages supplying the link when there was no
actual relationship. The dinner had been one of
those social successes which are growing more and
more rare, so that I was curious to know why my
young friend's impressions should have been of the
vanity vanitatum order. It appeared presently that
the disappointment did not begin with the public
conversation of the great men ; the dinner had been
delightful  " at least," he went on, " it was delightful
to me ; but most of the men were thirty or forty
or fifty years older than I am, and I thought I
should like to go on talking like that for ten years

SAT EST VIXISSB. 273

or so. Bat then one would have talked about
everything, and I shouldn't like to go on saying the

same thing; and when Lord was talking tome

this morning, he did say the same things that

Mr. had said the day before yesterday at

breakfast, and it wasn't for the sake of making
talk to me, because he stuck to it after I had
begun to ask questions about something else. And
Mr. * * * was just the same ; they all seemed content
to talk about things as if they had nothing todo
with making them happen ; and the things that
they do talk about doing, and care about a great
deal more than I could, all seem so small, so faraway
from the things their best talk makes one
feel like caring about a great deal ; and what I mean
by its all coming to nothing is that they don't seem
to care now, and if I do, it's only  they all three as
good as said so  it's only because I'm a boy. When
I'm as old as they are I shall care as little and have
done as little too ; for after all, I couldn't help thinking
that they had all given up caring because it was
no use. They could never do all they wanted ; and
as they all started meaning to be great men, when
they found they couldn't do what they wished, they
turned round and tried to make other people wish
for what they could do, and so went on doing
middle-sized things without caring much." And

not yet out of breath, the boy proceeded to subs



274. SAT EST VIXISSE.

satiate bis indictment by sophie personal illustrations,
never very bard to find, of the discrepancy
between the young ambitions of divers men of the
time and their mature achievements.

I intimated that sweeping criticism was an easy
and an idle task ; it was for the rising generation
to achieve more if it could. But this the boy declared
to be a subterfuge unworthy of myself : '* For what
I like in you, Philo, is that you never snub a fellow
in that way, talking as if one could never do any
2:ood now because it isn't a dozen years hence. Of
course you are a walking wet-blanket and all that
sort of thing, but then your cold water," he was
pleased to say, " takes the form of making one feel
everything worth doing so tremendously fine and
great that it is too difficult  one has no chance of
getting through with it; and that's quite different
from the feeling that it is foolish to care at all
because one can't do anything big enough to be
worth caring for. And then if one says anything
like this to people who used to care and don't now,
they look wise and say, 'Wait a few years, and

then ' And then, / say, if I end by not caring

either, does that make it any better? Doesn't it
make things all the worse if one generation after
another begins the same way to end alike, beginning
with mistaken zeal to end in contented
failure ? "

SAT EST VIXISSE. 275

There was nothing very novel in the boy's confused
account of his first impression of disenchantment
with the world's " distinguished names' But
it brought back to me some of those questions which
it is usually the last act of expiring youth to put
on one side, which it is the triumph of successful
middle age to bury in oblivion, but which, after all,
it seems can only be kept out of sight for less than
half a lifetime. I had been much given at one time
to asking myself, Does it all come to much ? and
though, for reasons of my own, I dropped the
question about the same time as most men, I
always retained a kind of sympathy for boys and
men who have the courage of their foolishness, and
refuse to ape the virtuous content to which their
young souls are strangers. Somehow a bachelor
always seems to be thought of as a youngish man
until he is unmistakably an old one, and to this
day I feel more sure that the young Irreconcilable
who make a confidant of me may easily live to be
wiser than I am now, than that I am already so
very much wiser than they (and I needn't say they
humour the belief).

There are some things that one gets to know by
the mere fact of living long enough, but very few
people are able to spend all their time in learning
and none in forgetting. An idle man who has sat
loose to practical affairs has a chance of acquiring

2/6 SAT EST VIXISSE.

his worldly wisdom so superficially that its lessons
need not quite efface the naive first impressions of
earlier days ; and so perhaps I was born to mediate
between Johnny's frank severity and the self-satisfied
wisdom of his elders.

There is surely something to be said on both sides.
The young hardly allow for th intense difficulty
material and unromantic difficulty  of choosing
an admirable course, and pursuing it with sure feet.
The old are apt to see shallow scorn and ignorant
irreverence in blame which has its truer motive in
respect for ideals still missed. But, as I think
slightly of the senile wisdom that cannot be communicated
to a younger understanding, I wished to
rehearse for Johnny's benefit a few of the reasons
why it is fair to judge men by their attempts as well
as by their achievements, and why, even in youth,
it is as well not to set the whole heart too fondly on
the attempt at achievements in which we may fail
without guilt of our own.

I said : " Is it reasonable to ask of life that it
should always be * coming * to something different
from the living moment that is ? The moments that
interest us most in life and attach us to it most do
not hang together like the parts of a syllogism ; our
living interest is in the elements, not in the whole
they form at last ; and perhaps that is why those
who have not yet lived through those thrilling

SAT EST VIXISSE. 277

moments are least ready to accept the moments as
themselves the crown of life. But we will talk of
this again upon the island."

Johnny had been a privileged visitor at the castle
since he was nine years old, and the next September,
just after his birthday, I reminded the Master
that he was entitled to initiation as an " old friend "
now, for I wanted to know whether the " Vignettes "
would leave the same kind of impression on his mind
as the conversation of cabinet ministers. For two
or three mornings he kept away from us, reading
them seriously alone ; then I met him returning the
volume to the tower, and as he followed me silently
to the observatory roof, I asked in his own words,
*' Well, what does it aU come to ?"

He was still grave, silent for nearly two minutes,
and at last asked, " May I say just what I think ? "
To do him justice, he seldom pauses for permission,
and I nod encouragement, but he still hesitates
before beginning a slow reply: "Well. I hardly
know, you see, if it were all true,  but of course,
even if it isn't true, it might be  I think that's just
it. I've read all the reminiscences straight through,
and I feel at the end just as I did that day on
Beachy Head when you pulled me up for saying
most people's lives didn't seem to come to much.
What does it all come to ? I understand that there
is a difference between talking or thinking about

'278 SA T EST VIXISSE.

things and living through them, and that if one
feels one is living the right life for oneself, one
needn't be able to make one's feeling into something
like the answer of a conundrum. But  you won't
mind my saying?  I do think the clever people
who have lived through a real life ought to be able
to tell us, who have hardly begun, whether we shall
think it's worth doing when it's done, or whether
that depends on how we do it ; and if so, which is
the way they would try, ' if,' as they're so fond of
saying, * I had my time to come over again.' You
and I now," and here he looks me ingenuously in
the face,  "I feel as if you ought to know just everything
I want to be told. I don't say you ought to
be able to answer any or every body, but on your
honour as a philosopher, am I so stupid that you
can't tell me what you feel in phrases that one can
understand in less than a quarter of a century ? "

It was a fair challenge, and I promised the boy
that my long-delayed contribution to the castle
records should consist in no ambiguous passage of
romance, but in a few abilities on the ancient
theme, " Sat est viocisse"

The question that all young people want to have
answered beforehand is, " What had I better do with
my life, and what am I likely to meet with in it
to enjoy and to endure ? " Perhaps good advice
would be less unwelcome than it often is if those

I

\

SAT EST VIXISSE. 279

who gave it avowed at the outset that it is likely-enough
to be unpleasant to take ; that the fullest
knowledge of what might be best to do in any crisis
goes little or no way towards making it naturally
easy or desirable to do that best. I, at all events, will
not tempt you to hear me by any hope or promise
that I am going to prophesy smooth things.

At starting, I find it very difficult to innovate
in substance upon the commonplaces accepted by
good folks before me. I have often been amused at
myself for having arrived, slowly and by devious
routes, at elaborately expressed conclusions, which,
as soon as they got finally stated, turned out to bea
mere paraphrase of the moral platitudes from
which my mind wished to emancipate itself at first.
However, here is a safe rule to begin with. I do
not know in which form it is most likely to be acted
on, but you may have it in the farthest fetched.
The younger you begin to act on it the better ; it
is never too young.

In the moments, however short, when there is
nothing that you wish to do, and nothing that you
are obliged to do, do not wait and wish for wishes
to arise ; spend the interval in cultivating, by preference
a talent, or, if you can lay your hand on
none, at all events without fail a faculty. The
odds are overwhelming that any acquisition will
come in useful some time, and in any case the

iso SAT EST VIXISSE.

%

power of working without the stimulus of desire,
the habit of working whenever you have nothing
better to do, are themselves among the most valuable
of acquisitions. I do not say that you should
force your nature into wholly uncongenial efforts ;
no good is done against the grain, and there must
be some knots and knobs in all our scaffolding ; but
we may train the young growing wood as we please,
and we cannot make up our minds too soon as to
the supreme desirability of growing strong and
straight, and as tall as we can without risking a
feeble stoop.

But the advice sometimes asked for is of a sort
that in the nature of things cannot be given. Such
questioning as this: What is my nature, or what
shall I allow it to become ? or again. My untried
nature being (as I guess) thus and thus, what life
will it be best for me to aim at leading? Such
questioning involves the hidden answers to so many
other questions, that simple folks are not much to
blame for bidding the curious ones bide their time
in silence.

It is possible to think over the commonest relations
of life and generalise about the safest way of
dealing with this or that ordinary complication, but
when you come to individual appeals, I must know
your circumstances and powers before knowing what
you can do; and I must know the circumstances

SAT EST VIXISSE. 281

of your circumstances before knowing what hints
they proffer for your guidance in the way of hindrance
or opportunity. It is easy to say, follow your
own innocent impulses, unless they come in collision
with your neighbour's ; the impulse may be wanting
or collision probable; any way the counsel is too
vague to be of use. And yet you need not blame
your counsellor ; the question itself is vague ; perhaps,
(but do not dwell on this parenthesis), its vagueness
marks the want of strength in those characters that
cannot forbear to ask it.

Still, in dealing with external obstacles as well
as with subjective difficulties, one may repeat the
warning, Do not force your nature. In choosing
the occupation of your life, if you are content to
work in a groove traced out beforehand, do not
despise yourself for such docility, and imagine that
if only you were cleverer you would invent new
ways of disagreeing with your neighbours. Accept
your good fortune, for it is such, and remember that
if you have to waste none of your strength and
patience in clearing a field of action for yourself,
you should have the more left for raising the
standard of efficiency in meeting the demands of
indispensable routine.

On the other hand, however, supposing, after a
candid trial and the modest reflection that there is
nothing creditable in any kind of incapacity  

SAT EST VIXISSE.

posing after all that sou still honestly and trnlj
eannci make the best of yourself hj acting upon
the lines prescribed, then, in almost any case, jon
may and should assert your claim to strike another
path. There is so little of providential adaptation
between young people and their surroundings, that
it is always possible the former may be right even
in rejecting opportunities of a distinctly favourable
kind ; and besides, the offered opportunities are not
by any means always favourable. Only remember
this: it is easier to live the life that is expected
from us, and you have no right to undertake a
work of needless difficulty, unless you are able
and willing to subdue the difficulties and justify
your rejection of the lighter task.

It is possible that fate has been hard, and only
given you a choice between uncongenial opportunities
and the encounter with obstacles beyond
your strength. Should this be so, try to see the
bearing of the facts so justly for yourself that you
may accept which ever fate needs must, instead of
having it thrust upon you in a worse form by force.
It belongs to the A B C of sanity not to rail at
luck. It is perfectly true that some people have just
so much strength as will enable them to succeed
if the chances are favourable, and to fail if luck
goes against them. If you are one of these, you
have my deepest sympathy, but you can only

SAT EST VIXISSE. 283

compel xnj respect and admiration by rising above
your fate  by consenting  you are still free in
this  either to sacrifice your own imagined best,
in order that your part in the world may be the
most effective in your reach, or to renounce the
prospect of personal success for the sake of faithfulness
to your inner conviction as to what success
alone is supremely worth having.

But a consistent run of luck for or against the
individual is rare: The majority may count upon
an average lot, though all begin with desires and
aspirations after something better. Supposing, asa
schoolboy or an undergraduate, you feel, let us
say, like one of Buller Lytton's heroes, an interesting,
intelligent youth confronting an interesting,
perplexing, tantalising world. Rote, I beseech you,
the vagueness of your own feeling, the diffused
indefiniteness of your sense of power and longing.
At a very early age one can understand that the
world has no answer to such unconditioned appeals,
and that no one has a chance of living to accomplish
great things who has not patience to livelong
enough for his own powers to specialist and
develop.

I understand the youthful intolerance of le provision
: there is nothing more pitiably pathetic thana
middle age spent in waiting for the chances that
come of themselves to one in a thousand. But if

<-

284 SAT EST VIXISSE.

we consider the case dispassionately, that is not the
alternative. It is abnormal  not sane or natural 
to wait half a lifetime for a chance of beginning to
live ; but it is natural, normal, and even necessary
to begin life by gathering impressions and information
which can only attain their full significance
later, when turned into material to feed the powers
that have meanwhile been cultivated in blindfold
faith. I would urge no one to be content with a life
at once idle and empty, but I contend no one of us
has a right to reckon on the full contentment afforded
by an adequate share in the fruit of our own and
others' work until our own contribution has passed
the margin of average sufficiency, and left a balance
over by way of insurance against mischances. If
you are always unlucky, ask yourself through what
defect you fail to give the world a fair chance of
doing indifferently well by you.

One of the most damaging indecision of youth is
to feel or say, " I would give all my time and pains
gladly and obstinately to this art, that science, the
other branch of industry, if only I could be assured
that my work would reach eminence in the end ; if
not, I will prefer a less arduous road into obscurity."
As one looks upon the hundreds of young ambitions
near at hand, who can have the heart to say, " Probably
none of you will attain any kind of eminence,
and in a little while very few of you will care." I

SAT EST VIXISSE. 285

cannot outline m j pity for these doomed aspirations.
Bat there must be something Throng in our whole
was of looking at things if each generation is condemned
to begin with lesions and end with indifference
or despair. Can we not procure acceptance
among old and jonng for the belief that the best
good is not just the pre-eminence of one small head
aboTv' the rest, but some amelioration of the gross
result, in the attainment of which no single particle
of obscure labour can be dispensed with ? We may
not hare the choice of eminence, but obscurity is no
bar against the charge of treason. I grant, foolish
youth, you cannot lead in the vanguard of the grand
army of progress ; but know this likewise, so precious
is the safety of the host, so great the prize of victory,
so calamitous the annihilation of defeat, that even
you, loiterer, shall not escape the gibbet if but so
much as one lean and feeble baggage mule goes lame
in your charge for want of grooming.

See, my children, you are but a feeble folk if we
take you one by one, but the spirit of the ages has
fed your dreams, and the ambition that throbs within
you is for a greater result than the great man  whom
you are not  could himself effect without you. This
is your inheritance, to understand how the feeble
millions may join together, how the single efforts
will gather into groups, and how, as first the units,
then the groups learn to cease from evil, to cease

I

286 SAT EST VIXISSE.

from laying stumbling-blocks in each other's paths
at length there will arise a social fabric of which
I the glory and the good shall transcend the fairest

h imaginations of a solitary genius as far as the loyal

service of enlightened millions will outweigh inefficacy
your boyish efforts at creative independence.
This, and not eminence, shall be your reward at last,
to see more and more clearly how each step towards
the great result was won by the co-operation of
countless lives, disciplined each in action and forbearance,
and all alike gloriously indispensable to
the final triumph of the race. The verdict. Sat est
vixissCj comes from those who have shared in such

life as this.

 

And it does not follow that all who have ceased



to talk of their ideal have ceased to care for it. We
leave off talking when we find that it is as hard to
match our thought with words as our ready words
with action. The oracle in " Wilhelm Meister " says
truly, " To think is easy, to act difficult, to act
according to our thought troublesome." One of the
best fruits of age is an appreciation of the slender
shades of difference which mark off our doings from
our intentions; we have a scruple in saying what
we intended when we know how much our act has
fallen short; and yet it may be that both act and will
are better, more purely good, than in the bolder days

/

SAT EST VIXISSE. 287

when we boasted of aiming at nothing short of perfectness.


But does the boy ask that our lives shall " come
to something " in his eyes or our own ? Is the test
objective worth or subjective satisfaction, and shall
he or I be the judge of what is " enough " of either ?
or is he still exercised by the same problem as
Patriarchs and Psalmists before him, with the added
discrepancy between recompense and merits, that
the largest merits no longer carry with them at least
the cheap salve of self-complacency ? Does he want
to know whether it is enough to live righteously
without flourishing like a green bay tree in consequence,
or has he a formed opinion that it isn't,
and that therefore the righteous must either flourish
or let him know the reason why ? Does he . . .

 

What he actually does at this point is to interrupt
my disconnected sittings and summon me to join
the Granny and Hester at tea in the upper chamber
of the tower. It is one of the unwritten laws of the
island that the visitors do not break up into smaller
knots than four for excursions, luncheons, afternoon
tea, &c., unless sweethearts or invalids receive a
special dispensation, and I obeyed willingly enough,
not observing that Johnny had meanwhile possessed

 ;

>

f

288 SAT EST VIXISSE.

himself of the loose sheets on which I had been
writing. He produced them after tea, saying, ** In
the multitude of counsellors there is wisdom," and
insisted on reading my platitudes to the ladies as the
day grew pale.

Alien he came to the last paragraph he said, " Of
course, this isn't finished, but if dear old Philo is
left to himself, he will wander off into moral reflections
that maybe worthy of the seven sages, but
that don't tell me exactly what I want to know.

I asked, " What is it that you want to know ?

"That is exactly what I want you to tell me,"
he observed, and Hester smiled, as if the remark
was more than usually to the point. She is five
and twenty, rather handsome, rather clever, and
rather sarcastic, one of the girls usually spoken of
by lady friends with some " wonder that she doesn't
marry." She says that she will do so when anyone

as nice as Mrs. Charles A (otherwise

known as the Granny) asks her. This lady is
twelve or fifteen years older than Hester ; she was
left a widow young, and undertook the charge of
an elder brother's daughter after his wife's death.
This niece also married young, and the climax was
put to a long series of family bereavements by the
death of husband and wife, drowned on the passage
out to India. One little girl of theirs was left
behind in England. Mrs. Charles A adopted

SA T EST VIXISSE. 289

her orphan grandsire, but insisted on marking the
interval between the two generations by teaching
the child (who was by this time about ten) to call
her Granny instead of Aunt Silver hairs and some
of the serenity of beautiful old age joined with
the name to make young and old accept the little
fiction which warranted her grand-maternal airs.

There was a pause as I did not respond to
Johnny's ingenious appeal, broken presently by
Hester. "Johnny is rather rude, Cousin Philip;

but I think girls, at all events, want to be told "

and then she stopped ; and the Granny said, " Both
boys and women have a notion, which they are too
shy to express, that life isn't all learning and
doing. Its happiness depends on our pleasures
and what we call our 'feelings,' and this is the
terra incognita of which they think a guide, philosopher,
and friend should give them news before
they embark towards it."

I said, "If talk about what people ought to dois
wearisome, what words will you find to describe
the frigid dreariness of talk about what people
ought to feel? Besides, most people admit that
they don't do all they ought, but who is willing
to admit that his own natural feelings can be in
the wrong ? "

At least," said Hester, " it doesn't make much
difference whether one ought to have felt this and

iso SAT EST VIXISSE.

that or no, so Ions: as one has felt or feels it still.
We can't help ourselves ; perhaps we oughtn't to have
eaten ginger ; but if we have, what is the sense of
saying we oughtn't to feel it hot in the mouth, or of
telling us to try and believe we don't ? "

The right and wrong of feelings," I replied, " if
there is such a thing, must answer to health and
disease in tastes. One's moral stomach, for example,
must be out of order if the sweets of natural affection
have an acrid taste. Sometimes the desires
which it is natural and wholesome to indulge may
not be gratified, but the world, not we, is to blame
for that. It is a suicidal kind of adaptation which
would try to strangle such desires because they lay
us open to fresh risks of disappointment. We shall
not mend the world by trying, chameleon-wise, to
take the colour of its blemishes. Whatever our
desires may be, now and again they will suffer disappointment
; but those who have the courage to endure
the still-recurring disappointments without hardening
in resistance will not always desire in vain."

That," said Hester, " is just what we were asking.
Looking dispassionately at the experience of
most other people  (why should we expect to be
wiser than they ?)  what do the results of their lives
enable us to predict about our own ? "

'' It is as a generalisation from experience that I
offer you the opinion that generalities will give

SAT EST VIXISSE: 291

you little help. Every passage of individual experience
is sui similis, and the theoretical solution
of a difficulty is seldom of much practical avail,
even when we know it. While the feelings are
entangled in the act of forming effective premisses,
what satisfaction can be derived from ffuessin at
the ultimate result, which most probably will follow
after the intervention of other factors as yet unfelt ?
People are seldom left to reason themselves out of
a difficulty with unchanged feelings."

But," said the Granny, by way of guidance, " do
their feelings change in the direction needed for
their satisfaction? Do people as a rule get what
they want, late if not soon ? Do they, at least, as
the Spanish proverb advises, and Johnny reluctantly
suspects, do they end by wanting what
they can get, since they cannot get what they
wanted ? "

The Master had joined us unobserved, and he
answered, "Life modifies their wants more than
their getting; but you young people can't be expected
to understand beforehand how tastes give
way to habit as the years go on. There is no end
to a boy's difficulties because misfortunes and discontents
that are confronted a priori leave no
motives behind them. Real adventures, whether they
turn out well or ill, leave a legacy of incentives both
to action and forbearance ; and in the long-run men

H

1 I

!I

. 
I

i'

I '

IJ92 SAT EST VIXISSE.

more often suffer from the presence of inducements
to do wrong than from the absence of inducements
to do right, or to do anything at all."

And this being so ? " said the Granny.

The Master and she have a way of continuing
each other's sentences, and he continued, "This
being so, it is not unreasonable for the question
to state itself a priori in youth : What clue should
a man grasp beforehand to serve as a guide when
overmastering passion threatens to sweep him off
the beaten track ? "



"What, indeed?" said Johnny, who adopts a
fresh creed every vacation and for the moment calls
himself an agnostic.

"Does it seem a trifling answer to say that in
hours of passionate trial or temptation a man can
have no better help than his own past? Every
generous feeling that has not been crushed, every
wholesome impulse that has been followed, every
just perception, every habit of unselfish action,
will be present in the background to guide or to
restrain. It is too late, when the storm has burst,
to provide our craft with rigging fit to weather it ;
but we may find a purpose for the years that oppress
us by their dull calm if we elect to spend them inlaying
up stores of strength and wisdom and emotional
prejudices of a goodly human kind, whereby,
if need arises, we may be able to resist hereafter

'/

SAT EST VIXISSE. 293

the gusts of passion that might else bear us out of
the straightforward chosen course."

"Let an old woman have her turn at preaching,"
said the Granny, with the discriminating smile that
often heralds a bit of casuistic subtlety. " In looking
forward for oneself it may be well to say, ' It will be
my own fault, the outcome of my ill-spent days, if
my strength fails me in a time of trial ; ' but we all
do fail again and again in our least endeavours, and
none of us, therefore, can sit in judgment on another.
Who can say but what we should have failed yet
more utterly under the same temptation ? The one
favour we have a right to show ourselves, the one
concession we need not grudge to the ineradicable
instinct of self-esteem, is to view our own failures
with the largest measure of intolerance. Other
people fail, no doubt  it is likely enough they should
but how come we of all men thus to disappoint our
own reasonable expectations of something better than
common faQure from the cherished self ? "

"One topic of consolation may emerge," I said,
"from the midst of failure. It is a form of good
fortune not to have been the vehicle of evil, and as
one's experience of the number of possible calamities
increases, one's appreciation of the felicity involved
in escaping them increases too. Some people count
among their mercies the crimes they have not been
tempted to commit."

294 SAT EST VJXJSSE.

She continued : ** I know it is a doubtful consolation
to say, either of a real trouble or of one's own
wickedness, only that * It might have been worse.'
As a plea for contentment, this argument is about
on a par with the other favourite suggestion, ' It is
a hard case, but that of somebody else is harder
That some one else is worse of than I am can hardly
be an alleviation of my trouble  an aggravation
rather. It is Mephistopheles who sneers the consolation,
' Sie list die Este nights "

"But there are two parts in our indignation
against what is wrong in the world," said the Master,
"and they have a different origin. There is the
spontaneous revolt of our feeling and the deliberate
disapproval of our judgment. As a philosopher, I
have no more reason to denounce the order of creation
because I happen to be one of its victims than
because Notes or Styles are victims. As a man, my
denunciations of the wrongs of Notes or Styles
usually borrow half their fervour from the resemblance
between their wrongs and mine, and half the
remainder from my imagination of their wrongs as
so nearly within the range of possible contingencies
for myself as to stir the sympathetic wrath which is
the earliest phase of fellow-feeling. But supposing,
as is the case with most young people, I have little
personal knowledge of my fellow-sufferers, and an
absorbing sense of the wrong or hardship of my own

SAT EST VIXISSE. 29S

lot, ought I to find any motive for fortitude and
patience in the abstract certainty that I have fellow-sufferers
I do not know ? "

I don't," observed Johnny ; and we smiled parenthetically
at the notion of the cheerfully argumentative
youth being claimed as the fellow of any
sufferer.

"Still, if it were not indiscreet,"  and Hester
leant back in her chair with wondering, interrogative
glances.

Well ? " said the Master as she paused.

She laughed, and tried more than once before
arriving at her question.

I should like to know, supposing you do get the
thing of things you wished for, the very best pleasure
of one's dreams, or rather 

A pleasure as much better than one's dreams
As happiness than any longing seems 

What comes after that? If I am walking about
in and out of doors all day, I feel neither cold nor
heat ; but if I've been for a sharp walk in the frost
or sitting over a snug fire, I am very critical of the
temperature of the room one goes into next."

A "Well bowled!" from Johnny was the only
immediate response.

I feared lest the accidental silence might give the
question the effect, or rather the appearance, of indies



296 SAT EST VIXISSE.

Cation, ind stumbled to the rescue with a story.
Hester should haire the Verdict of a better authority
than any one present. I named a great poet, who
was popular and successful besides; he was not
supposed to have passed an entirely tranquil youth,
but he was happily married long ago, and has never
ceased to be in love with his wife. He was prevailed
upon by an undergraduate son to assist at
a college " wine : " the vounij fellows were excited
over the honour done them, and talked fast and
furiously, each one wishing to have the poet's verdict
on the wildest of his pet beliefs. At last we got
to the originals of Goethe's "West-ostriches Divan,"
and thence to the extravagances of passion and the
superstitious reaction of belief in Nemesis and the
Being of Polycrates."

The poet said there was wisdom in all superstition,
and most of all in this. He rose from his chair,
towering like a giant in the low room, and said :
** If any of you live to be as happy as I hope you
may, you will know what it is to feel that you must
ransom your treasure of delight, or cold fate will
sweep it from your arms. It is a strange feeling :
one does not dream of earning one's good luck  that
is sweet beyond the imagination of desert  but one
has an impulse to atone, to pay back, it matters not
to whom, something of the undeserved treasures of
delight which have fallen to our lot from heaven.

SA T EST VIXISSE. 297

Not being a moral philosopher, only a poor poet' he
went on, " I am not obliged to find a logical reason
why I should cherish this superstition, but a scientific
friend offered me gratis an explanation that will
pass muster if you want one.

"However fortunate we may be, the supreme
ecstasy of fruition cannot last at its interest point
for ever: when the climax is reached, we must
either stop short or risk descent ; and there are
moments after which even common happiness seems
a cruel falling short. We cannot prolong the ecstasy ;
we cannot bear to feel ourselves falling? short of
what has been. There is but one way to propitiate
Nemesis and avoid the judgment of the gods  to
make ourselves their executioner, and not tempt
them with prayers for the mortal draught of unending
joy. You were speaking of the Persian poet's
intoxication : whether he is drunk with wine, or
love, or piety makes little odds ; my worship of
Nemesis is but a practical expression of Byron's
bugbear, ' Sermons and soda-water the day after.'
Drink your deepest, drink till you have drained
creation's sweetest goblet dry, then do not hold it
out to be filled again from heaven, but take off your
coat and go out to plough ; work, endure, open your
eyes to the unendurable suffering and the unrewarded
labour at your very door, and only when
you have paid your tribute to the jealous goddesses

298 SAT EST VIXISSE.

whose snares are set for presumptuous feet, only then
dare to desire, if it may be, the renewal of your bliss.
So, and only so, can one who has it in him to be
ravenous escape the curse of greed, which is to enjoy
the less the more there is given it to enjoy.

"One grows thirsty preaching:"  the poet held
out a goblet of heroic proportions, and the Amphitryon
of the evening drew the cork of his last bottle
of champagne. The poet raised the glass with an
inch of foam upon the surface and drank-drauk
all the foam and three-quarters of the wine  to
Temperance and Nemesis. " A perfect draught," he
said with a sigh, and added meditatively, "but a
mouthful more or less would have been a mistake."


He balanced the glass with an absent air between
his fingers, till they clenched upon it and snapped
the slender stem, letting the bowl fall and the
wine spill where it would. All whose glasses were
not empty followed his example (though some, I
fancy, cut their fingers), shouting, "A libation to

Nemesis 1 "

Amphitryon's papa thought the bill for broken
class and wine-stained carpets immoderate, but was
propitiated by the gift of a Venetian goblet with
a silver sheath holding the two parts of a snapped
stem together. On the sheath was engraved, "To
Nemesis and Euphrosyne,"

SAT EST VIXISSE. 299



After a whispered consultation with her schoolboy
ally, Hester observed that the ancient Greeks
had made a mistake about the gender of the latter
noun.

The Master remonstrated: "Hester wishes to
keep us to her point, but I will not be allured
from mine. If it is well to indulge moderately in
the taste of supreme felicity, a fortiori it must be
foolish to fill our pipe with the consciousness of
woe and smoke that sour opium to excess. Besides,
unless we carry off this pipe of displace into a
desert, we find always so much of good and bad
still in the world outside our woes, that we end by
feeling it to be reasonable to give them less than all
our thoughts. It is while we have no feelings but
our own to think about that we think our feelings
afford a rational base for conclusions about the
nature and worth of life'*

"Propositions of this kind," I said, "may be
understood as soon as the reasoning powers are
awake, but only exceptional natures are born with
the temper that leads some persons in each generation
to find out their truth afresh, and to turn
the insignificant phrases into a fact of living and
fruitful experience."

There are some truths, I grant," said the Master,
"that it seems almost impossible to convey in
words except to those who know them already,

300 SAT EST VIXISSE.

and yet it is worth while to make the attempt.
The statement that passes half-understood from
the unready mind may yet serve as a finger-post
pointing towards the after experience which is the
more easily understood because of the premature
explanation of it that was not understood at all.
We cannot help our juniors to know, of their own
knowledge, what the lapse of time will show to
them as it has to us, but we may prevail on them
so far as to rank the fulfilment of our prophecies
among the category of possibilities, which of itself
is a step, sometimes the first and costliest, towards
understanding and belief,

And the dull chorus of greybeards all agree in
prophesying your life will be what you yourself
choose and will to make it  subject to the real conditions.
Subject to the conditions in which you
find yourself, and can only modify within limits,
there is no limit to your power of living the best
possible life  there is no limit but your own foolish
choice and feeble will; and if you have wit and
strength to see the folly and foolishness behind
you, there need be no limit to your hope and
purpose of escaping even yet from their dominion.
Make to yourself friends of all the powers of
righteousness, and study as a science or an art
the art of scientifically circumventing your own
base propensities. The largest ambitions are a

SAT EST VIXISSE. 301

safeguard against ennui, and the least good habit
against sudden failures."

Hester said, colouring slightly as she ended:
Is there any ambition without arrogance ? Too
arrogant good intentions are apt to form no other
habits save that of falling short of them."

The Granny received the observation with a smile
of recognition, and added that St. Theresa took a vow
of perfectness from which she had to be absolved
because her director had not time to tell lier always
(perhaps he did not know) which of two courses her
vow prescribed.

It was hard upon the saint," our friend continued,
" and it is hard upon us sinners to know too
much of human nature to dare to wish to inherit her
ambition; but I think there is this reward in store for
modest and feasible good-behaviour  to wit, a growing
sense of the attractiveness of the saint's ideal.
Surely, in these days of world-weariness, no revelation
can be more welcome than that of a goal which
attracts the more the longer we pursue, which
appears in all its divine beauty the more plainly to
our eyes as they learn. to measure the impassable
and infinite abyss across which its radiance shines
as we worship afar off. The best possible life, of
which we spoke, is the one that enjoys most largely
the beatific vision of an ever-impossible Better.

Many have asked, ' Is there a good on earth to

302 SAT EST VIXISSE.

live for ? * but no one ever questioned whether the
best good of earth was good, if so be it might be
had. Earth's happiest best is realised, as the
happiest among us know, in the * eternal marriage
of love and duty,' when the love of one and the
service of many go hand in hand  when choice and
obligation point one way, and the whole soul exults
in glad obedience to their joint sweet urging  when
the devotion of heart and will is such as to make
even the answer of love and praise sound far away,
faint and sweet, like the memory of over-paid desert.
Such a moment translated beyond the grave inspires
the Christian text, 'Well done, good and
faithful servant; enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord.' I do not think it is given us to imagine any
brighter crown of life than this, or indeed any other
crown for the whole of life. Love alone, victory, or
fame  each counts for much, but which alone canso
fulfil the widespread cravings of the human heart
as not to leave one aching blank, with power in its
season to poison all the rest that is enjoyed ?

That is the best ; and for the man who has done
nothing worse than fail innocently  and the worst
luck forces on us no worse fate than this  who has
failed to do great deeds, and win a greater love (and
for each one the love and deeds are great which are
great enough to content his own desire), for such
there is nothing worse in store than this, to know

SA T EST VIXISSE. 303

that there are others in the world better off than
he. There is one thing I should have liked to see
before I died. I sometimes wished to try and
hasten the good day, but I was not the chosen
prophet ; yet let it be remembered of me, when he
comes and others see it, that I said the day of his
coming was near. I speak of a day when all my
understanding friends will dare to join together in
uttering, one with another, one to another, their
deepest feelings and beliefs concerning man's life,
the place of our life in the infinite universe, and
the answer of the human soul to the omnipotent
urgency of the infinite : and when once more deep
faith will dare to trust itself to act.

I write my own epitaph, Sat est vixisse, without
mourning because I shall not see that day, because
I see so clearly that it must come  a day when my
friends' jarring paradoxes and the demands of incompatible
prejudices shall crystallise into a broader,
more luminous, more stirring whole, acceptable
alike to all the many, growing day by day more, to
whom human life is sacred, and who are willing to
accept for their own life the rule, which is also a
religion, of tender reverence for human sorrow, glad
sympathy with human joy, and, as the source which
feeds all wholesome natural life with its choicest
treasures of emotion, the stress of active energy, the

304 SAT EST VIXISSE.

steady exercise of every power of mind and will to
order and create.

We have to make the world in which we live and
act, in which our fellows have to find the objects of
their love, in which their love may join with ours in
the joyous passion of unwounded sympathy. In sofar
as I have taken part in the work and shared the
feelings of those who strive creatively after a better
order, in so far as my mind has rested, filled and
satisfied with the vision of its not impossible avatar,
in so far I am prepared to fall asleep with the grateful
sigh that ends a day of pleasant labour, with the
absolute content that is as free from desire as from
regret. I have lived 1 Sat est vixissc,

Life's duties leave us content to live, its pains
and pleasures content not to live for ever*'

And the white-haired vounc; widow added : " More
than content to live and die if our dearest one may
live for ever in the changeless memories of almighty
love."
