CHAPTER I.

MRS. PAUL Wentworth.

Is it worth a dream, is it worth an hour.

To think of things that are well outworn? "

SwiNBUiixi:.

The London season was fast drawing to its
close. By the fortunate participators in its
magic delights it was pronounced to have been
a peculiarly brilliant one, marked by more
striking social successes and fewer astounding
social failures than had signalized the career of
its predecessors for some years past. The
Parliamentary session, too, had been sufficiently
lively, and productive of such an amount of
useful and important legislation, that both noble

VOL. I. 1

lords and gentlemen fighting more stoutly
contested battles in " another place " were alike
justified in looking back upon it with feelings
of complacency ; but it had not been disturbed
by any great crisis either in the home or foreign
affairs of the nation, and the most ardent legislators
had had ample leisure for indulgence in
those lighter pastimes which, at critical moments,
are deemed unworthy of men to Avhom the
honour of their country should be the all-absorbing'
interest. In addition, London had been
revelling' for three months in weather of the
most perfect kind  weather such as a glorious
English summer, when that infrequent blessing
is vouchsafed to the unfortunate inhabitants of
these wind-blown, rain-washed islands, alone
brings with it.

But all pleasant and enjoyable things have
their term of life, and the lease of this sunshiny,
joyous, intoxicating season's brief existence had
almost run out. Some there were who regretted
the near approach of its hour of dissolution :
some who, though they had spent the past four
months in an incessant round of riding, driving,
dancing, and flirting, giving dinners and making
speeches, paying visits and contriving costumes,
would fain have prolonged those laudable exercises

lor a space. These enthusiastic votaries
of fashionable dissipation were, however, few
and far between, and belonged for the most part
to the weaker sex. The great majority of the
lords of creation, however agreeable they might
have found the course of time since the Easter
recess, were sighing for " fresh fields and pastures
new," and looking forward with ill-restrained
impatience to the approaching twelfth of August.
Not a few shutters in Park Lane were finally
closed, intimating to all whom it might concern
that the owners of the dwellings thus shrouded
from the public gaze had left town. But in the
streets running down from it at right angles,
inhabited to a great extent by professional men,
whose avocations debar them from spending
their lives in a perpetual chase of the goddess
Pleasure, nearly every house still displayed open
windows and well-replenished window-boxes,
glowing with the floral beauty so welcome to
the eye amidst the general grime of a great city.
One house, so large that it seemed to dwarf its
more modestly proportioned neighbours, occupying
the corner of one of these streets, was especially
remarkable for the magnificence of its
summer decoration, which overflowed every
window and balcony and coign of vantage,

clothing the grey stone walls and the Corinthian
portico, blackened by the London atmosphere,
with a many-hued mantle of rich and delicate
colouring. People who took a utilitarian view
of the value of money wondered idly, and a little
indignantly sometimes, how much of the precious
commodity Mr. Wentworth  the house in question
being the residence of that eminent barrister
was in the habit of squandering annually
this favourite vanity.

At all events he left himself a margin for
exercising his taste indoors as well as out. A
sense of luxury and charm pervaded every
corner of his house, and the hand of an art
collector who thoroughly understood his hobby
was apparent in the disposition of every picture
and bronze and bit of china which adorned its
handsome rooms. There was something absolutely
soothing to an artistic mind in the perfect
unit' of design which prevailed unbroken from
hall to attic.

Unfortunately  since men and women have
not yet learnt, like the lower forms of organic
life, to adapt themselves invariably to their
environment  such surroundings are but poor
evidence of the higher kind of harmony which
should prevail throughout the human lives of

which they are the setting and the outcome.
A fretful temper is ill soothed by the contemplation
of the most matchless Sevres and AVedg-
Avoid, nor can the most truly aesthetic of rugs
and curtains minister tranquillity to an unquiet
spirit ; so it came to pass that, on the particular
July day of which we are treating, it would
have been difficult to find in London a more discontented
woman than Mrs. Wentworth, as she
sat alone in her artistically draped and furnished
morning-room  perhaps the most delightful
nook in the charming home over which she
presided as mistress.

The day was unpleasantly hot; people were
leaving town in shoals; and the first of Mrs.
Wentworth's country-house invitations would not
be available for more than three weeks to come
all which grievances combined to form a very
good and sufficient set of reasons for any amount
of ennui and dissatisfaction on that lady's part.
Not that she was in the habit of justifying her
moods either to herself or to others. Discontent
was too common a frame of mind with her to
induce her to seek very earnestly for its causes,
and she usually made no effort to rid herself
of the incubus, but endured it passively, as she
would have endured a cold or a toothache, till

some pleasurable excitement chased away the
brooding cloud. Yet, as she reclined in a low
chair near her pretty tea-table, with its dainty
equipage of silver and porcelain, her fair head
resting on a silken cushion, and the unmistakable
hue of perfect health brightening her still
transparent cheek, she looked like one to whom
the lines had fallen in pleasant places enough.

Alice Wentworth, as a bride of nineteen, had
been a very pretty girl ; and though fifteen years
had run their course since she became a wife, she
was a pretty woman still. She had a tall, well-formed
figure, not too plump for matronly grace,
and small, shapely hands and feet. Her profile
was far from perfect, but her full face, though
deficient in animation, was decidedly pleasing;
her cold blue eyes were large and clear, and her
admirably poised head was crowned With heavy
coils of bright glossy hair. But her great glory
washer complexion  smooth, delicately coloured,
and, despite her habitual air of discontent, not
yet marred by faintest line or wrinkle. You
might safely pronounce her a woman who had
never known either sorrow or disappointment,
save of the most trivial kind ; a woman whose
heart had never suffered the fierce pangs of
jealousy, whose mind had never been racked by

the intolerable torments of suspense. Nevertheless,
there had been moments in her life's history
which might well have awakened these feelings
in her breast, moments which might have been
expected to stamp furrows on her unruffled brow
and dim her unclouded eyes with bitter weeping
; but her countenance bore no trace of such
storms. A species of fretful impatience seemed
the most vehement expression of emotion it was
capable of

This look had been gradually creeping over
her features all through the long dull hours of
the sultry July afternoon, and this emotion
evinced itself plainly in her languid and irritable
movements. Both languor and irritability, however,
vanished suddenly at the sound of the
opening door, and the announcement of a visitor
who, though shorter, plainer, and less faultlessly
dressed than her hostess, yet bore a sufficiently
marked resemblance to her to proclaim their
sisterly relationship.

Mrs. Wentworth welcomed her sister with a
becoming show of cordiality, alike removed from
frigidity and effusion. In very truth, Emily's
society was a relief to trio tedium of an unoccupied
afternoon, a bore which Alice, by careful
and provident forethought, usually managed to

avoid. Hence there was a shade more warmth
in her greeting and her proffer of the indispensable
cup of tea than she usually threw into
her manner when receiving Mrs. Chamberlain, a
less fortunate and brilliant woman than herself,
beneath her roof

A few unimportant remarks were exchanged
while the tea was being discussed, and then Mrs.
Chamberlain, setting down her cup, inquired,
And now, Alice, I want to ask you what plans
you have made  no more tea, deaf, thanks; I
never take a second cup  plans for the autumn,
I mean ? Of course you will be leaving town ina
few days ? "

"I don't know, I am sure," Mrs. Wentworth
replied, somewhat disconsolately, but still in the
measured and carefully modulated tones on which
she prided herself " I have a heap of invitations
for the autumn months, and the Logan Fraser
have asked me to go to them in Perthshire on
the eleventh of August, but I hardly know how
I shall fill up the time till then."

Would you come to us for a fortnight before
you go to Scotland ? We are almost on your
road, and George would be proud to drive you
about and show you the country. It might be
good for you after the racket of the season,

though I cannot say yon look much the worse
for it at present."

Thank you, Emily," Mrs. Wentworth answered
dubiously, speaking even more slowly and
deliberately than her wont, while she mentally
reviewed the situation and balanced the arguments
for and against accepting Mrs. Chamberlain's
hospitality. " You are very kind, and it
would be a great treat to me  yes, I will certainly
come for ten days. By the end of that
time you and George will have had quite enough
of me," she added, with the arch smile her
admirers reckoned amons her most winning
charms.

In her heart she was thinking, " Ten days will
save me from beings left in town after AuOTst
has actually begun, and I really could not stand
a longer spell of George's society. If Lady
Philippa should ask me to join her yachting-party
after all, I can easily make some excuse
to Emily ; one needn't stand on ceremony with
a sister."

Mrs. Chamberlain was overjoyed. She was
honestly fond of Alice, and pleased at the prospect
of her companionship for an uninterrupted
period of ten days; pleased too at the thought
of the social lustre Mrs. Paul Wentworth's

presence would shed over the garden fetes and
dinner-parties she intended organizing for her
benefit during her stay at Crowley Grange. It
had long been the desire of the younger sister's
heart to exhibit her beautiful and brilliant
relative to the elite of that county society of
which she and her husband where respected,
though undistinguished members, but hitherto
Alice had not been willing to fall in with her
schemes. On this occasion, therefore, she had
preferred her petition with diffidence, and without
much hope of success ; and Mrs. Wentworth s
ready acquiescence filled her with pride and
delight.

Much elated, she spent some twenty minutes
in arranging a select house-party to meet Mrs.
Wentworth at Crowley on the last day of July.
Alice listened graciously to her eager talk, putting
in a languid Avord now and then to suggest a
fresh name, or to negative one proposed by Mrs.
Chamberlain; but, although she spoke little, it
came to pass at the close of the consultation that
out of Emily's original list of guests to be
invited, only one or two remained  the rest had
been struck out in favour of her own nominees.
She had a habit, brought to perfection by long-practice,
of getting her own way in these little

matters in a singularly ladylike and unobtrusive
fashion.

Mrs. Chamberlain, having despatched the business
of her visit, was preparing to take her leave
when a thought seemed to strike her. "How
foolish of me not to have remembered them
sooner I " she exclaimed in a tone of real regret.
There are the children, Alice ; I dare say you
would like to bring them with you, and now we
have filled up every room in the house. Never
mind, I need not ask the Maxwell. We know
them very slightly, and owe them no special
civilities, so I will cross out their names, and
then there will be plenty of space for Stella and
Mabel."

"Pray don't trouble yourself to do an' thing
of the kind, Emily," answered Mrs. Wentworth,
with just a tinge of asperity in her dulcet voice.
I should like to meet the Maxwell ; and as for
Estelle and Mabel, their father will probably take
them down to The Cottage next month as usual.
He is an infatuated parent, you must know," she
added, with a slight laui;h.

"Oh, well!" said Mrs. Chamberlain, feeling
herself rebuffed, " if you think the' will be happy
with him "

"Perfectly happy," interposed the mother of

the young ladies under discussion. "Certainly
very much happier than they would be under
my wing. I don't approve of spoiling children,
nor do I see my way to being at their beck and
call mornings, noon, and night. Paul does."

To this decided expression of opinion on her
sister's part Mrs. Chamberlain made no rejoinder.
She rose and deliberately buttoned her long
loves, lino-erin' over every fastenings with the
exasperating dilatoriness of a person who has
something special to say but shrinks from saying.
When she had arrived at the fourth button
of the second glove, she summoned courage to
remark, without raising her eyes, " I met Paul
at the Comptons' on Wednesday. He was not
looking very well, I fancied."

He is all right, I believe," replied Paul's wife
carelessly. "He is always well. I wonder at
it sometimes, I am sure, Ashen I think of the
railroad speed he lives at. Adhere did you say
you saw him, Emily ? "  with a faint accent of
surprise.

At the Comptons'  a musical ' At Home. I
half hoped to have met you there also."

"Oh, I never go to the Comptons' parties.
The music is first-rate, I admit, but the rooms
are too small, and they fill them with a terrible

conglomerate of all kinds. I am .surprised at
my lord's condescending so far, unless"  with
a sudden dawn of mischief in her countenance 
Mrs. Stuart was there ? Ah ! she was ; I see
it in your ingenuous blush, Emily ! And Paul
doubtless played devotion in his very best
manner, and was to be seen at her side the
Avhole evening in a variety of Early English
attitudes ? "

Alice's gibing tone evidently jarred upon Mrs.
Chamberlain. "He certainly made himself 
and her  very conspicuous," she answered, with
flushed cheeks, giving her whole attention to
the seventh button. Alice rose to her feet with
a little laugh, and laid her hands lightly on her
sister's shoulders.

My dear Emily, pray don't look so distressed.
You see I can bear the recital of these harrowing

o

narratives quite calmly, so it is really beside
the purpose for you to feel, or feign, confusion.
When a woman has a husband gifted with the
insatiable vanity of my amiable partner, she
very soon learns her lesson. Vanity, my innocent
sister, is a deity which will have its daily
sacrifice. I found out that loner ao'o, and resin-ned
myself to the inevitable with a perfectly good
grace."

What right has he to neglect you for other
women ? " said the indignant censor, looking up
from the engrossing buttons in the heat of her
anger.

"Oh, as to neglect," Alice answered, with a
shrug of her shapely shoulders  'please don't
place me in the despicable category of neglected
wives. The neglected wife is the most tiresome
female of my acquaintance; I decline to be
classed with her. For that matter, I dare say
Paul would tell you that / neglect 1dm, The
long and the short of it is, Emily," she went on,
resuming her seat and her former comfortable
lounging position, " Paul, like many other men,
I suppose, requires a certain amount of incense
to be perpetually offered at his shrine. Now,
Nature never fitted me for an incense-burner,
and very soon after we married I had to make
this fact unmistakably clear to him. He was
quick to take a hint, I must say, and has never
given me any trouble on the subject of household
worship since. But his incense he must have,
so he seeks his devotees elsewhere, and chancres
them pretty often, I fancy. That last fact does
not surprise me : no woman born could ever for
any length of time keep up the fervour of
admiration he requires."

"We all thought he cared so much for you
when you were engaged," Mrs. Chamberlain
murmured.

Cared for me ? Oh yes, he cared, as you call
it, immensely then ; and perhaps, excitable as he
is, if I had chosen to make myself a white slave
to his Majesty from the first I might have
retained his gracious favour. That's a moot
point, of course, but sometimes I fancy his
earliest little affairs were intended to pique me
into jealousy. It's all a matter of ancient history
now, and, whatever his intentions at the commencement,
the habit has clearly outlived the
original motive. In any case, I never disquiet
myself."

It makes him dreadfully talked about," Emily
said, fingering her parasol nervously. The subject
had a fascination for her, but at the same
time she was a trifle afraid of angering Mrs.
Wentworth by saying too much. She could not
bring herself to believe that her sister's cynical
indifference was real, and not assumed.

Talked about ! Of course it does. But what
harm does that do him  or me ? Hasn't lie been
talked about ' for  say fourteen years ; and
doesn't he thrive upon it like the proverbial
bay-tree ? So long as there is nothing further

than talk, I am no worse off than half the women
in society. I'll tell you, Emily"  suddenly
sitting upright in her chair  "what I should
dislike: any open scandal or esclandre, for tilsit
is a thing neither he nor I could ever recover.
To a man in his profession it would be a deathblow
 even his reputation would not stand it.
Colonel Stuart did not show any dangerous
symptoms at the Comptons', did he ? "

Oh dear, no ! On the contrary, he seemed
rather gratified by the attentions your husband
paid his wife." There was a touch of scorn about
Mrs. Chamberlain's brief reply, and she laid an
emphasis on the possessive pronouns it contained
which may or may not have been altogether due
to her contempt for the gallant colonel's insensibility
to the passion of jealousy. But Alice
Wentworth was not a sensitive person.

"I am very glad to hear it;' she answered,
subsiding after her momentary attack of energy
and apprehension. "But I might have trusted
my lord and master ; he has a very long head.
Are you really going, Emily ? Good-bye for the
present, then. It is five o'clock, I see; I must
go and dress for my drive." So, suiting the
action to the word, she smilingly followed her
sister from the room.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

The heart's division divided us."

Swinburne.

It was not, however, destined to remain long
untenanted. Hardly ten minutes had elapsed
Ashen a quick firm step ascended the stairs,
and the door opened to admit no other than
Mr. Wentworth himself  the very " Paul " whose
wife seemed to look upon him chiefly as a
capital subject for ladylike cynicism. Finding
the room unoccupied, he appeared for a moment
inclined to beat a hasty retreat; but catching-sight
of a certain pretty card-case lying on a
little table near the window, he checked himself
abruptly and took up a place by the mantelpiece
to await Alice's return.

It might easily have been surmised, from that
lady's recent utterances concerning her husband,

VOL. I. 2

that he was a weak and feather-brained personage
; hut nothing could be further from the
actual truth than such a surmise. A mere glance
at the man himselfe his straight, alert figure
and sharply cut, resolute features  would have
sufficed to demonstrate the fallacy of the overhasty
conclusion. Keenness and strength were the
most marked characteristics of Mr. Wentworth's
thin, olive complexioned face, with its square
forehead, penetrating dark eyes, and determined
mouth ; intellect and will had stamped themselves
indelibly upon every line of it. It was
not a handsome face  it was too worn and
colourless, as well as too irregular in feature, to
be called handsome ; but it was an attractive
face, nevertheless, by reason of sheer intellectual
force, and an individuality so strong as to be
almost aggressive. At first sight it seemed
wanting in animation and mobility, but a longer
study of it would discover the fact that it was
capable of softening very considerably under
stress of emotion, and kindling into life in a
manner altogether surprising at the touch of
passion or enthusiasm. Not an easy face to
decipher by any means. Certain records of the
past had undoubtedly traced themselves on its
surface, but they were written for the most

part in a hieroglyphic character. The dark and
rather mournful hue of the handwriting alone
gave any clue to their possible meaning.

Mr. Wentworth, leaning quietly against the
mantelpiece, with his eyes fixed expectantly on
the door which was to admit his wife, looked
like a man accustomed to face the world without
flinching, and to get his own way in it. His
whole figure had something commanding about
it, which was certainly not due solely to physique
; for, although he was fairly entitled to be
called a tall man, his height was by no means
exceptionally great, and in build he was rather
slender than imposing. But thews and inches
have really little to do with dignity of bearing.
Giants of magnificent proportions often lack it
altogether, while it may not infrequently be
found abnormally developed in the person of
some attenuated little student who would never
have a chance of obtaining the modest situation
of second footman in any well-regulated household.


I have said that Mr. Wentworth looked like a
man accustomed to get his own way in the world,
and perhaps it would have been singular had
he not carried about him some subtle hint of the
success that had waited on his footsteps throughout

his career. His mental powers were naturally
very great, and they had had full play at
the Bar, where he had risen with marvellous
rapidity, winning his way to fame and fortune
over obstacles which to a less determined man
might have appeared insurmountable; and at
an age when many of his less gifted contemporaries
were just struggling into notice and
competence, he was already in enjoyment of a
splendid income and serenely conscious that the
highest legal honours lay within measurable
reach of his vaulting ambition. As an authority
on International Law  a subject which, in consequence
of certain grave political complications
on the Continent, engaged men's minds to an
extraordinary degree at the date when this
story has its commencement  he stood unrivalled
among English jurists ; and his recent appointment
as legal representative of Great Britain at
a General Conference of the Great Powers about
to meet in London, for the purpose of settling
a disputed point in the code of nations (a point
on which the peace of Europe might be said to
hang suspended), had added fresh lustre to a
reputation already sufficiently dazzling.

All this had come to Paul Wentworth so early
in life, that at the age of forty he had begun to

weary a little of purely professional toils and
rewards, and to weave new and larger schemes
for the future satisfaction of his ambition. He
was a keen politician, though he had never yet
sat in the House of Commons. Men who knew
him well, however, asserted that he was only
biding his time, and that he looked forward to
a political career as his ultimate goal, caring-little
for professional prizes  he was never more
than half a lawyer at heart, they said. Certainly
he seemed calculated to make his mark at St.
Stephen's. Together with strong practical sense,
and a large allowance of what are known as
business qualities," he possessed all an orator's
gifts  including a remarkably fine voice  brought
by long training and practice to something very
nearly approaching perfection ; and these facts
might well render it a matter for surprise that
he should so long have resisted the temptation
of appearing in the Parliamentary arena. But
however dilatory he might seem in executing his
intention, no one doubted but what it would be
executed in the end. Despite a certain superficial
variability of mood, and an inconsistency and
caprice marking many of his actions, there were
few who did not credit Wentworth with a secret
Firmness of will and tenacity of purpose beyond

that of most men, and amonof his more useful
qualities might be reckoned an inexhaustible
amount of patience where an desirable end was
to be attained.

He had full opportunity of calling this valuable
gift into play while awaiting his wife in her pretty
sanctum, for she spent quite an unconscionable
time adorning herself for her afternoon's drive.
However, he bore the enforced delay with heroic
fortitude, and when Alice at length returned to
the room, he was still in his old place and attitude.

She was an agreeable vision in her harmonious
draperies of silver-grey, and the eyes of the man
who washer husband rested upon her with a glance
of approval as she came forward. Wentworth
was always keenly alive to any social beauty
or fitness in a woman's attire, and though his-wife
was invariably faultlessly dressed according
to the fashionable code of the hour, it was only
now and then that she gratified his fastidious
taste with such completeness as at this moment.
For an instant his face was lit up by a gleam of
artistic satisfaction, such as might have been
evoked by the sight of a well-planned flower-bed
or a pretty genre painting; then it faded as
quickly as it came, and left him looking even
more impassive than before.

Alice Wentworth saw her husband distinctly',
but for some reason or other she chose to ignore
his presence for a few seconds.

"I wonder if I can have left ni}- card-case
here ? " she murmured half aloud, moving towards
the window. Then, halting with a well-feigned
gesture of surprise : " You  Paul ! " she exclaimed,
pausing just long enough between the two
monosyllables to show that she merely added
the second lest the first alone should sound discourteous
or unladylike. "Did you want to
speak to me ? " she inquired in her usual soft
voice, but with a subtle intonation which conveyed
an undercurrent of meaning to the acute
ear of her auditor. He translated it without
difficulty into some such phrase as " To what am
I indebted for the honour of this visit ? "

Yes," he answered a little stiffly ; " I was
anxious to see you before the six o'clock post
goes out. I wanted to know when you were
thinking of leaving town  you spoke vaguely
yesterday of some time next month  and whether
you would be inclined to take the children with
you, as I am thinking of going abroad ? "

You are thinking of iroino- abroad ? " Mrs.
Wentworth repeated slowly in genuine astonishment.
She was thoroughly surprised and a

trifle uneasy. (" He can't be going to do anything
desperate about Mrs. Stuart, surely," she
reflected mentally, "or he would hardly come
and confide his plans to me, tolerant as I am")
Shall you be away long ? " she inquired aloud,
taking a seat at the same time.

"About a month, probably. Certainly not
looser, for I must be in London for the International
Conference on the third of September.
Indeed, I have had difficulty in making up my
mind to go at all, there were so many obstacles
in the way. But I have not felt quite the thing
lately  I suppose two or three almost unbroken
years of work such as mine would tell on any
man at last  and I find I must have a real
holiday, if only a short one."

'' I think you are perfectly right to indulge
yourself; you certainly do look a little fagged,"
Alice rejoined politely. "Do you mean to go far
afield ? "

"No, I think not. I merely want a complete
change of air and scene, with plenty of outdoor
exercise, and a quiet place where I can be at
peace to get that new book of mine through the
press. The book is my reason for not taking
Stella and Mabel with me. Otherwise they are
quite old enough to travel now, and I should

have been glad of their companionship, for I
mean to keep out of the stream of tourists and
try a solitary existence for a while."

(" Is this a deep-laid plot, and is he trying to
throw dust in my eyes ? " Alice pondered. " No,
that was never his way. More probably he and
his latest worshipper have quarrelled, and he is
going into temporary retirement in a huff")

I am afraid you will find that dull work,"
she observed sweetly. " But if you don't wish
to go far, why not try the Italian lakes ? They
are almost deserted at this season, and you don't
mind any amount of heat. It's a long time since
you saw them, too ; I don't think you have been
there for fifteen years."

She raised her head as she spoke and looked
him deliberately full in the face, smiling steadily,
yet with an expression closely akin to malice
sparkling in her keen blue eyes. She was
anxious to see if her last shaft hit the mark at
which she had aimed. For Paul Wentworth
and his girl-bride had spent their honeymoon
on the shores of Como and Lugano just fifteen
years ago.

His dark cheek grew two or three shades
darker, unfailing evidence in his case of some
feelings that would have made a fairer man

colour hotly. But whether the feeling now was
one of shame, regret, or simple annoyance, it
would be hard to determine.

''No, I shall not go to Italy," he answered
briefly. "I am a little surprised at your suggesting
it. Norway I had thought of," he continued,
with a manifest effort at returning to his
former manner, " but there is a terrible want of
the ordinary comforts of life to be encountered
there, and I have no wish to live on hermit's
fare, even for a month. Most likely I shall goto
Switzerland. I know of two or three pretty
sequestered places there, any of which would suit
me very well."

When do you start ? " Mrs. Wentworth asked.
Her experiment had succeeded in a manner, but,
curiously enough, she felt rather vexed than elated
by the result.

I should like to be off* by the first of August,
if possible. That is the reason I wanted to hear
if sou had made any definite plans for yourself,
so as to arrange for the children."

I am sorry, but I cannot possibly take them
with me," Mrs. Wentworth returned calmly.
"Of course I relied on their going to The Cottage
with you as usual, or perhaps I might have been
able to manage differently. As matters stand

now, I go on the thirty-first to Emily, Who will
have every room in her house full, and after
that to the Logan Fraser."

'you don't think your sister could possibly
find room for them ? " Mr. Wentworth inquired,
with a slight curl of the lip. He had chanced to
meet his sister-in-law in the hall on her way out,
and she, being in a somewhat perturbed state of
mind, had fallen upon the idea of having the
two children to stay with her as a safe topic
of conversation. But Alice knew nothing of
this.

"No," she replied decidedly; "I happen to
know that she has filled up every available nook
and corner. But why shouldn't Estelle and
Mabel go down to The Cottage without you ?
They like the place, and Miss Lawson "

Mr. Wentworth interrupted his wife with less
than his usual courtesy. " Miss Lawson's holidays
begin next week."

So they do ; I forgot. But Dickinson can go
with them, and she is a thoroughly trustworthy
person."

"Doubtless she is; nevertheless, if you have
no other plan to suggest, I will send a line to nne
Margaret, and ask her to take them in fora
month. I should wish them to have some

better protector than Dickinson while I am
away."

As you like," Mrs. Wentworth said, rising to
her feet as a signal that she considered the
domestic conference at an end. " They are very
fond of their aunt Margaret, and will be very
happy With her, I have no doubt ; and Margaret
is always so kind about receiving them. We
may consider that settled, I suppose, so I will go,
for I have kept the horses standing an unconscionable
time already."

'You will find it sultry driving," was her
husband's sole rejoinder, as he held open the door
for her to pass through. He was leisurely
descending the stairs some ten or twelve steps in
rear of her graceful fissure, when there was a
sudden rush of light feet behind him, accompanied
by a whirlwind of gauzy summer frocks and
floating hair, and a cry of delight from two shrill
treble voices.

Father ! father ! here you are at last ! We
have been looking for you everywhere for the last
half-hour."

Father, let me bring my drawing into your
study and show you what I've done since breakfast."


"Father, Miss Lawson is very unjust. Do
tell her "

Can this be the Wentworth of a few minutes
ago  this man with the kindly smile on his
lips, the loving light in his eyes, on whose arm
his little daughters hang so confidently and
caressingly, pouring out grievances, recounting
schemes, happily secure of his ready and well-tried
sympathy ? Two very ordinary little
maidens of eleven and twelve they are, with
irregular features and rosy cheeks remarkable
for health rather than beauty, yet he beams down
on them as if they Vvere paragons of childish
loveliness. On the doorstep, Mrs. Wentworth,
about to enter her victoria, turns to give a parting
order to the servant, and catches sight of
the closely linked trio on the stairs.

"Paul is certainly a compound of contradictions,"
she said to herself as she drove away.
No wonder people in general find him a riddle.
I have been married to him for fifteen years, and
I own he puzzles me yet."

MURIEL.

A rose with all its sweetest leaves yet folded."

Byron.

In London, with its overheated atmosphere and
overcrowded thoroughfares, with its glowing
pavements and glaring stucco, its incessant din
of traffic and whirl of excited, eager living, the
summer day of which I have written might well
be called sultry and oppressive. But on Atherton
Common it was not oppressive, only brilliantly,
gloriously hot. Floods of golden sunshine out
of a cloudless dark-blue sky illumined every tree
and juniper bush, every flower and blade of grass,
with a transient glory, but the fierce rays were
tempered by a soft breeze that set the luxuriant
bracken waving gracefully as it passed, and
rustled pleasantly in the belt of pine-trees bounding
the common on its south-western verge.

The scene was a fair one. Atherton Common, at
all times undoubtedly one of the most beautiful
in England, could not fail to look fair on such a
day. It had once formed part of a royal demesne,
and still bore the appearance of a chase rather
than a common, being thickly studded at various
points with timber, over and above its pine wood
boundary. Its configuration was very striking.
Starting from an elevated plateau on the side
nearest the village, the common sloped away
past the church, parsonage, and old-fashioned
Manor House towards the south, breaking into a
hundred graceful hollows and fantastic dells,
carpeted at this season with a thousand mosses
and grasses and wild flowers, and alive with
bees and butterflies and countless myriads of
short-lived insects rejoicing in their brief summer
of existence. This favoured spot, lying as it did
in a thickly populated home county, had become
a kind of show place to the country-side ; and it
was naturally a special source of pride to the
well-disposed inhabitants of Alderton in general,
and to Mr. Ferrars, the lord of the manor, in
particular. For this last reason, it was the
peculiar pleasure of those inhabitants of Alderton
who might be described as ///-disposed  especially
towards Mr. Ferrars and the party of order

he represented  to injure and deface in anyway
that might occur to their limited intellects
this beautiful survival of the old feudal times.
When the great common-burning mania spread
through the home counties, Alderton suffered
severely at the hands of the population that
squatted on its borders  for the most part a
rough, lawless set, with a strong sprinkling of
the poaching and gipsy fraternities among them.
But it was too large to burn satisfactorily (as the
incendiaries speedily found) in a damp climate
like ours, and a few months sufficed to repair all
traces of the wanton ravages wrought on its
smiling countenance.

It was hard to decide at which season it
looked its best. To a stranger's eye nothing could
be more attractive than its midsummer garb.
Mr. Ferrars preferred it when the snow covered
it to the depth of a foot or so, and the fir-branches
were laden with icicles. While with
his two daughters it was always a disputed
point whether it should be pronounced loveliest
in springtime, when the gorse covered it with
a .sheet of yellow bloom and the cherry orchards
(for Alderton was the centre of a great cherry-growing
district) encircled it with a girdle of
snow-white blossoms, or in the autumn, when

the woods began to wear the hectic tints of
decay, and the purple heath which Muriel loved,
but which Lucy called " a poor thing by way
of a flower," took the place of its more splendid
elder sisters.

People said sometimes that Mr. Ferrars'
daughters were singularly unlike him in disposition
and character. This may have been
true in many ways, but in one respect at least
they both resembled him  in an intense affection
for their home and all pertaining to it, and
especially for Alderton Common, with which all
their earliest associations were indissolubly connected.
It had been their playground in their
motherless childhood, their outdoor schoolroom
as they grew in years and sedateness, the scene
of their only brother's first triumphs in running
and tree-climbing, cricket and football ; and now
that womanhood was dawning upon them it was
their favourite haunt still. Nowhere else did
they feel so entirely happy and at home. Muriel
daily carried her books and her day-dreams tc>
the pine wood in preference to pondering over
them in the Manor House garden or under the
trees of the park beyond, and Lucy as rcgularl--
followed her thither, with her work, and chatter,
and endless schemes for the future*

VOL. I. 3

They are there as usual this magnificent July
afternoon, looking delightfully cool in the simple
white dresses which contrast so strikingly with
their dark hair. Superficially alike, in reality
their faces have as many points of difference
as their characters. Lucy, sitting upright in a
kind of natural chair formed by the roots of two
neighbouring' trees, is a brilliant little brunette
of seventeen, with great sparkling eyes, a trim,
dainty figure, and pretty, plump, notable-looking
hands. Hers is not the beauty of the rosebud ;
she suggests rather a very fresh but perfectly
opened flower, since, for all her extreme youth,
there is about her a rounded completeness and an
air of self-reliance usually wanting in very young-girls.
Far otherwise is it with her sister, a slender,
willowy figure leaning against the pine-stem at
her side. Muriel is two years older than Lucy,
and quite a head taller, but she is much younger
in expression and bearing. Less attractive to
the casual observer through lack of the colour and
animation so conspicuous in Lucy's inqiiante
little countenance, her face is nevertheless more
regularly beautiful, and, by reason of its very
incompleteness in point of expression, far more
interesting. A young face should be full of
hints, suggestions, possibilities, and there is no

want of these in Muriel's, where a keen eye may
already read the promise of intellectual power,
individuality, will, and a touch of gentle humour,
in spite of its prevailing characteristic of innocent
softness. It is not what people sometimes
describe as ''a face with a history"  as yet.
But it is assuredly one of which a history is
bound to be written some day, and whose history
should be worth the writing. Helen Brethren,
her dead mother's cousin, who loved this girl
with the passionate affection which a warmhearted,
lonely old maid gives sometimes to her
relations of the younger generation, and sometimes,
for want of a better object, to her pug or
her canary, used to say (with a touch of the
romance which had come to her with the German
blood in her veins) that there was a beautiful
soul in Muriel Ferrars' face, but it was a sleeping-soul.
" Some day it will be roused," the kindly
little woman would add, with the ready tears in
her eyes, " and, oh ! I pray God that it may be a
happy waking."

Just now there is abundance of life and
joyousness glowing in the tranquil, dark-grey
eyes, and playing about the sensitively moulded
mouth, as she scans an open letter in her hand,
while Lucy glances at her from time to time

with manifest impatience, which at last finds
an outlet in speech.

I believe, Muriel, you must know the contents
of that letter by heart. You have read it,
at the very lowest computation, at least twenty
times since you first opened it at breakfast seven
hours ago ! "

I beg your pardon, Lucy. But this is such
a wonderful, beautiful letter  to me, at least 
that I feel, except when I am actually reading
it, as if I must have been dreaming ever since
morning."

One would imagine it was your first love-letter,"
Lucy rejoined tartly. "What does it
amount to, when all is said ? An invitation to
spend a month with a professorial uncle and a
literary aunt, both of them thorough bookworms,
and so absorbed in each other and in
their work for posterity that they scarcely ever
speak 1 "

To spend a month with them in Switzerland,
remember," Muriel corrected eagerly " That
makes all the difference. Not but what I
enjoyed my visits to them at Oxford very

much "

Oxford was a totally different affair," interrupted
the other. " I should have no objection

to spending May or June with Uncle Alec and
Aunt Isabel myself  in Oxford. There, I daresay,
you did enjoy yourself. You might be a
prey to dulness in the mornings, perhaps ; but
then you always had the cathedral, and Magdalen
Chapel, and the river in the evenings, and
clever people  clever people unlike Uncle Alec,
who did speak to common mortals sometimes 
coming in and out at intervals. I have no doubt
one could amuse one's self very well staying
with them in Oxford. But to go abroad with
them !  not to travel, for Aunt Isabel expressly
says they don't mean travelling, but to rush in
express trains to some remote corner of Switzerland
' off the beaten track of tourists ' (I know
Uncle Alec's ways), and there vegetate in loneliness
for the space of one calendar month  why,
you would be far better off at home, playing
tennis with me and Jack ! "

I can play tennis with you and Jack at anytime
; I shall not have another chance of seeing
the Alps for years perhaps. I am nineteen,
remember"  this was said rather magnificently
" and this is the first opportunity I have had.
I might have to wait as long again before such
another came in my way a second time."

What are the Alps ? " quoth Lucy sententiously.

"Like the Gogmagogs in the Cambridge
anecdote, they are very high hills. In
addition, some of them are covered with snow.
You can't live upon the companionship of very
high hills  even when they are covered with
snow  for four weeks and not find their society
tedious. The same set of hills, too, recollect, as
you will not be moving about. Perhaps there'll
be a lake as well; I'll throw that into the
picture, if you like. And by that lake you'll
have to wander alone, a female St. Kevin, while
Uncle Alec sits within-doors surrounded by a
pile of manuscripts, with Aunt Isabel mending
his pens and bidding you ' Hush ! and run away,'
when you burst in occasionally to describe a
sunset or a storm."

'' I dare say I shall feel dull sometimes," the
elder girl confessed frankly, "but still I think
it is worth while to run the risk of feeling dull
occasionally for the sake of seeing even a corner
of Switzerland." There was a quiet determination
in Muriel's voice which showed that, gentle
as she was, she had a will of her own capable
of withstanding her younger sister's impetuous
onslaughts. " Of course," she went on, " it
Avould be far nicer if you were coming too, for
I cannot expect Uncle Alec or Aunt Isabel to

have much thine to give me, and I must makeup
my mind to being a good deal alone."

'you had better do so, certainly," Lucy
answered grimly, " for I shall expect you to
return having become quite unfamiliar with the
use of your native tongue. Uncle Alec is silent
enough in his family circle at the best of times,
unless you start him off on one of his enthusiasms
 and then he doesn't talk, he harangues
or rhapsodizes  so in the absorption of revising
a metaphysical work, he will probably prove a
veritable Trappist. As to Aunt Isabel, she is
simply his shadow ; I don't believe she has an}
individual existence apart from him at all."

No, they are an ideal husband and wife,"
Muriel answered thoughtfully, looking away
between the smooth boles of the pine-trees at
the bracken dancing in the summer breeze on
the open common.

Ideal as regards each other," replied practical
Lucy, " but not at all ideal  if by that you
mean perfect or even admirable  in the other
relations of life. With the best intentions, I
dare say, I believe Uncle Alec to be the most
inefficient parish priest of our acquaintance
and look what a father and mother they make !
Mildred might have been alive now, if Aunt

Isabel had looked after her when she was first
taken ill, instead of going on unconcernedly-copying
for Uncle Alec till poor Milly was literally
dying of consumption; and as to Harry,
I am sure I don't wonder he ran away from
home  a home where the stairs were never
swept and the handles were off half the teacups
I "

Muriel looked perplexed and a little distressed
at this outburst of indignation. " I fancy people
married women  find it very hard sometimes
to reconcile their duty to their husbands and
their duty to their children," she said. " Perhaps
it was so with Aunt Isabel. She may
have found it necessary to make an election,
and she elected Uncle Alec because she found
he would have all or nothing."

Then she should have taught him to be less
selfish," answered the censor of seventeen, with
the uncompromising severity of her years.
But I am afraid they are both past cure now,
so there is no use discussing their failings.
You are bent on going with them, I suppose ?
Mind, I speak in your interests. Of course I
.shall miss you very much; and as you had to
wait a year in order that we might come out
together, it does seem a pity to separate during

the first summer and with the nicest parties
just coming on. But that's a minor matter. I
am really afraid you will regret going off in this
way."

"I don't think it is likely," Muriel replied.
"I won't venture to mention the mountains
again, after your late tirade against them, but
think how amusing the change of scene and
customs and life will be ! Recollect how little
I have seen of the world. And everything in
Switzerland will be ncAV to me."

You won't see the life," Lucy persisted. " It
is not as if you would be staying in one of the
great hotels, where you would meet plenty of
English people to fraternize with, and foreigners
to study or laugh at as you felt inclined. Do
you imagine for a moment that Uncle Alec is
going to revise a great work on metaphysics in
what he would call a caravanserai of that kind ?
Not he. He'll carry you off to some remote
chalet perched on the top of an inaccessible cleft',
or three parts surrounded by water (as my first
geography book described a peninsula to be),
and calling itself a pension, where you'll never
see a soul to interest you."

Muriel's laugh rang out pleasantly in answer
to this sally, subdued but heartily mirthful.

Lucy, Lucy, you prove too much ! A extension
implies pensionnaires."

I did not deny their existence. I only said
you would find no one to interest you, for, asa
matter of fact, it is the baser sort who frequent
pensions, as you will find."

How about Uncle Alec and his party ? ""
Muriel inquired, laughing still.

"Uncle Alec is an eccentricity, a man apart,
and you have to follow at his chariot-wheels
perforce. But I know what I say holds good asa
rule. There will be no one in your pension
but two or three bourgeois German families
taking an economical holiday, all wearing spectacles
and eating with their knives, and a couple
of strong-minded British female tourists, duly
equipped with knapsacks and waterproofs, perpetually
executing libellous likenesses of your
beloved mountains. Now and then the monotony
will be enlivened by a poor curate or
schoolmaster on a pedestrian tour, who will start
off on excursions with the dawn each day, and
only reappear about nine o'clock at night with
dishevelled hair and hobnailed boots covered
with dust. See if I am not a true prophet."

You're a very dismal one, at any rate," smiled
Muriel. "I won't let my anticipations be damped

by your doleful prophecies, though. Seriously,
Lucy," she went on, " I cannot quite understand
why you should be so set against my going.
For you are set against it, you know."

"I am against it for a great many reasons,"
Lucy replied, suddenly dropping her half-jesting
manner and assuming an air of worldly wisdom.
For a great many reasons," she repeated. " I
think you will be bored. I think it is a pity
you should be out of everything here this
summer. I think "

Well, Lucy, go on."

I think  at any rate, it would be better  I
mean, I should not mind your going so much, if
you were really engaged to Jack. As it is
now "

Really engaged  to Jack ! " Muriel repeated
indignantly, her fair face suddenly aflame.
What reason have you for supposing that I am
likely, ever likely to become engaged to him ? "

"Well," Lucy answered, a little abashed in
spite of herself, "sou know it is plain enough
what he wishes."

I know nothing of the kind "  with great
energy. "He has never spoken one Avord to
lead me to think that he has any such wishes."

And why hasn't he spoken the one Avord ? "

cried Lucy, recovering spirit again after her
momentary discomfiture. "Because you won't
let him. Because you know how shy and diffident
and easily silenced he is, and never give
him a chance of speaking. Because you turn
the edge of every remark he makes with a Iftugh
or a sarcasm, as if you thought it all fun, or else
change the conversation so suddenly that you
put him quite out of countenance.

If I do, what of that ? " Muriel answered,
still with some heat, and shifting her ground,
womanlike, to parry this fresh attack. "It is
the only right and proper thing for me to do.
You take a perverse pleasure in making yourself
out very worldly and heartless, Lucy, but I don't
believe you would affect to think that a girl
would be doing right in encouraging a man to
propose to her, just to have the opportunity of
saying 'No' to him."

But why should you say ' No ' ?" retorted the
juvenile matchmaker at her feet. "I am sure
Jack is very nice, quite the nicest fellow in the
whole neighbourhood; and he is dreadfully in
love with you, Muriel."

Muriel blushed at this assertion of the absent
Jack's desperate devotion, but not altogether
with displeasure. What girl of nineteen, let herbe

ever so heart-whole, would not feel a thrill
of gratification on being assured that the best-looking
and most eligible young bachelor for
twenty miles round was "dreadfully in love"
with her ?

"I am sorry if what you say is true', she
answered, with a pretty air of dignified regret,
neither accepting nor contradicting her sister's
statement, " for I am very certainly not in love
with him. How could I be ? To begin with, I
always feel years older than Jack, and how could
one be in love with a person who seems like
one's younger brother ? "

Your feelings are very absurd, as Jack is in
no way related to us, and happens to be six
years older than you are."

Yes, I know he is in reality ; in actual age,
that is to say. But I am the elder in mind,
Lucy. Jack is very young in knowledge of the
world."

I think you are growing very conceited.
What do you know of the world, pray ? " (This
was really a pertinent question, and Muriel felt
it to be such.) '' Surely a young man who has
been at Eton and Oxford ought to know a good
deal more of the world than a girl like you ! "

"He ought to, no doubt  but he does not.

I don't think Jack is receptive of new ideas.
His views of life are his mother's views ; he has
never learnt to think for himself about anything."


"Well, take him away from his mother, and
give him the necessary independence of character,
then," Lucy retorted. "You are determined to
find fault with him, but I must say you are very
hard to please. I think Jack is quite a lover
to be proud of He is very good-looking "

I am glad you admire him so much," Muriel
put in sarcastically. " But I am quite ready to
admit his good looks."

Very good-looking' continued Lucy, nothing-daunted
by the interruption, " a thorough gentleman,
well educated  though I don't pretend he
is clever  comfortably off too, and a person whose
family we know and whom we have known,
himself, all our lives." She closed her long
catalogue of gifts and graces with a triumphant,
What would you have more ? "

Muriel looked away through the pine-trees at
the dancing bracken again before she answered,
"A good deal more, I think." After that she
remained resolutely silent.

I know what it is I " Lucy exclaimed, when
the silence had lasted a minute or two. " You

are altogether too high flown for ordinary practical
life, and you'll end as everybody does who
sets up impossible standards  that is to say,
you will probably fall lower than those who
never aspired to climb so high. Most likely
you will marry some man who has made an
enormous fortune by dishonest speculation on
the Stock Exchange, and is a widower for the
second time ! Come," she added, as the neighbouring
church clock struck five, "let us be
moving. Cousin Helen will be expecting us."

"I might be deceived as to the origin of the
fortune," Muriel returned gaily, as she hastily
collected a pile of books and shawls, "but I
protest against the twice bereaved widower. I
should not care to play the part of a mere angel
of consolation."

A Leave-taking.

Know you not
Such touches are but embassies of Love,
To tamper with the feelings, ere he found
Empire for life ? "

Tennyson.

Just a week later on, as Alderton church clock
again rang ont the hour of five, a young man
and a dog were to be seen making their way
over the fields leading from Eversleigh Court to
the pine wood which was the favourite resort
of Muriel and Lucy Ferrars. The da', like so
many o its predecessors that summer, had been
brilliantly fine throughout its earlier hours, but
now a kind of sultry, oppressive haze was settling-down
over the landscape, and the sun showed
himself through its heavy curtain only as a ball
of sullen blood-red flame. There was no healthful
breeze rustling in the tree-tops, or sweeping

gaily over the bracken and heather which clothed
the open common ; every leaf and frond hung
immovable in an almost unnatural and deathlike
stillness. The very hum of the insects had
ceased; the birds preserved a silence utterly
unbroken, except by the faint and infrequent
cooing of a single distant wood-pigeon.

The young man and his canine companion
appeared but little affected by the condition of
the atmosphere, for the former strode on for a
couple of miles at a rate denoting unusual haste
or eagerness without once modifying his pace, and
the latter, a lively little fox terrier not long
emerged from puppyhood, frisked to the right
and left of the field-path, taking advantage of
his master's mental abstraction to indulge a little
in the pleasures of the chase on his own account.
At length, however, even this vigorous pair
showed signs of feeling the change which had
taken place in the weather. On arriving at the
stile which separated the meadows they had
been crossing from the pine wood, a sudden halt
was called. The man took off his hat and drew
a long breath, as if he found the air heavy and
the supply of oxygen insufficient, and the dog
reluctantly relinquished his pursuit of a stray
rabbit, and lay down panting at his owner's feet.

VOL. I. 4

That gentleman, having once halted in his
rapid career, appeared in no hurry to resume it.
He seated himself with great deliberation on the
stile, and gave himself up to reflection and meditation
for the space of twenty minutes ; and his
cogitations were apparently of a perplexing
nature, for he knitted his brows profoundly, and
more than once pushed back his reddish chestnut
hair from his forehead with a gesture of annoyance.
Yet that they contained pleasurable elements
also, the shy half-smile of satisfaction on
his lips gave incontrovertible evidence.

The emotions of Mr. Geoffrey Arlingham 
for this was the young man (affectionately styled
Jack by his intimates) on whom Lucy Ferrars
had newly bestowed such enthusiastic encomium
were indeed at that moment of a highly complex
and disturbing nature. The causes of this
unpleasant complexity of feeling may be said
to have been mainly three in number. He was
very much in love with Muriel Ferrars; his
mother disapproved of his attachment ; and, for
reasons both moral and material, he earnestly
desired to avoid offending his mother. Could he
venture to defy her in obedience to the dictates
of a passion commonly supposed to be stronger
than either self-interest or fear ?

A young man who imagines that he has found
the one woman in the world for him, and in the
same breath debates whether he shall not drive
up all thought of winning her because his mother
has more ambitious dreams for his future, is nota
very attractive specimen of young manhood,
no doubt ! Yet, in order to discern poor Jack's
position rightly, it must be admitted that his
mental vacillation had certain excuses. Habit
is such a heavy fetter with most men  and
Jack's life had been one of habitual subjection
from his youth. Naturally timid, always willing
to forego his own wishes and pleasures, rather
than make a fight for them, he had easily become
the slave of a strong-willed, imperious woman,
to whom power was the dearest earthly good,
and who counted no effort too great to secure
the coveted possession. Left early a widow, and
appointed sole guardian of her son in his infancy
and boyhood, Mrs. Arlingham ruled for twenty
years as absolute sovereign at Eversleigh Grange,
and when the young monarch himself nominally
assumed the reins of government, she still retained
virtual power, after the manner of regents who
have made themselves indispensable. Jack was
too indolent, too timid, and perhaps too anxiously
alive to his own pecuniary interests to quarrel

with her. The rent-roll of the Eversleigh estate
was a modest one, and without the help of his
mother's fortune he would often have found it
hard to make both ends meet in his annual
expenditure.

It will easily be believed that Mrs. Arlingham,
happy in her vicegerency, had no desire for a
queen-consort at court to dispute her well-established
supremacy. She would prefer Jack's
remaining a bachelor for the present ; but if the
risk of his marrying were to be incurred at all,
it must only be in view of certain indisputable
advantages, great enough to counterbalance the
almost inevitable drawbacks involved to herself
personally in any and every alliance her son
might form. She must, first of ail, choose the
bride herself, in order to feel assured that the
young lady in question possessed all the attributes
necessary to make Jack happy  and among
these Mrs. Arlingham reckoned a handsome
dowry, influential connections, and a leading
position in the county.

Muriel Ferrars possessed none of these good
gifts, therefore Mrs. Arlingham decided summarily
that she could by no possibility make
Jack happy, and that it was mere presumption
and frowardness on his part which had caused

him to fall in love with so very ineligible a
damsel. And she worked all the levers of persuasion
and threat so cleverly, playing now upon
Jack's rooted abhorrence of discussion, now upon
his keen consciousness of the material disadvantages
attendant on an imprudent marriage and
a breach with his well-dowered mother, that,
great and increasing as was Muriel's attraction
for him, he had never allowed himself to be
betrayed into anything like a declaration of his
passion. Perhaps uncertainty as to how such
a declaration would be received by the object of
his hesitating devotion helped to seal his lips.
She seemed to him often so very bright a particular
star as to be almost beyond his hope of
winning, notwithstanding her modest position
as the daughter of a small landowner, and her
absolute lack of a substantial " tocher."

Things had drifted on in this manner from
week to week for more than a year, and the
situation still showed no symptom of approaching
an acute climax, when the announcement of
Muriel's intended journey abroad fell upon Jack
Arlinojham's ears with the force of a disagreeable
surprise. He suddenly discovered that it was
high time to look about him, or he might chance
to lose altogether the prize round which he had

been hovering so long in indecision  a startling
and wholly unacceptable idea  and the intimation
of Miss Ferrars' speedy departure sent him
hurrying into her presence, for once resolute and
defiant, ready to end all uncertainty by the
utterance of a few unmistakable words.

Circumstances intervened to prevent their
utterance on that occasion  do not circumstances
invariably intervene to prevent the execution of
a hesitating man's tardily formed resolution ? 
and though he had twice seen his princess since,
he had never summoned courage to pick up and
weave afresh the broken thread of his intention.
Now, as he sat on the stile ruffling his hair and
knitting his forehead, he knew that the decisive
moment had come. Muriel was to leave Alderton
early next morning ; if, therefore, he spoke at all
before she left, he must speak that evening.

He had set out from Eversleigh, fresh from
one of his endless contests with his mother, fully
resolved to do so. It was the enthusiasm born
of this resolve which had carried him so swiftly
over the fields leading to Alderton. When he
started, he felt himself quite capable of defying
his mother and her threats. If he married
Muriel Ferrars, she would cease to join her
income to his, and retire to her own house at

Henley, she said ? Very well : so much the
better for Muriel and himself. They would, of
course, have to be economical in consequence,
and to live rather differently from the way in
which living at Eversleigh had been carried on
hitherto  for instance, he would have to give up
hunting. His wife must have a pair of carriage
horses, naturally, and perhaps he might keep a
hack in addition, and a pony for riding round
the farm ; but a hunting stable would be out of
the question. To this sacrifice, however, he felt
sure he could easily make up his mind. Possibly
it might also be necessary to dismiss his present
expensive bailiff, and manage the home farm
himself, with a good working Jieadman under
him ; but this he should not mind at all. As to
his moor in the autumn, he could resign it without
a pang of regret. His mother should be
brought to see that her money was in no way
necessary to his existence, or even to his prosperity.


Jack, for the space of a two-mile walk, felt
quite heroic. But by the time he had rested ten
minutes on that unlucky stile which so inopportunely
interposed itself between him and
his place of destination, the demon of indecision
had begun once more to torment him. The other

side of the question began to come uppermost
again. It would be very trying to get no change
from home all the year round, and he should feel
the loss of his autumn shooting the more when
he had no hunting to look forward to in the
winter. So disagreeable and humiliating, too,
having to withdraw his subscription to the
Hunt ; it was almost tantamount to taking your
name off the roll of county society. Then he
knew really nothing about practical farming, and
if he tried to manage without Rodgers, he should
probably burn his lingers, like his neighbour,
Clayton of Stoke Lydia. In that case, without
his mother's assured income to fall back upon,
where should he be ? Perhaps after all he had
better not be rash, and so offend his mother past
forgiveness. Surely no mother on earth could
hold out permanently against her only child's
dearest wishes, and Muriel would be back ao-ain
in little more than a month's time. Still, if he

let her go away without saying anything

Altogether, by the time Jack descended from his
rustic seat, and began to cross the common at
a much slower pace than he had traversed the
fields which led to it, his mind was in a tolerable
and by no means enviable state of commotion ;
nor had it subsided into calm even when he

reached the Manor House, and rang the bell for
admittance.

It was a quaint, old-fashioned place, separated
only from the white line of road that intersected
the common by a stretch of soft turf about fifty
yards wide, and a magnificent belt of wych-elms
which partially shielded, though they did not
altogether screen it from observation. The
entrance was through a high iron gate, which,
with the equally lofty railings flanking it on
either side, was of simple light metal-work,
guiltless of tracery or ornamentation, so that the
visitor could look straight up the wide flagged
walk between the trim flower-beds to the hall-door
standing fearlessly and hospitably open
alike in winter and summer. A second door, also
wide open except in the very coldest weather,
was visible at the far end of the vista formed by
the hall. This led into the garden behind the
house, and through it, even from the outer gate,
might be descried a pleasant glimpse of turf
walks, shaded by overruling trees and bordered
by a gay mixture of many-coloured old-fashioned
flowers. Altogether a sweet, wholesome, homely
old place, with a flavour of romance clinging to
its unpretending simplicity which is rarely to be
met with nowadays, whether in town or country.

The drawing-room into which our young man
was ushered corresponded admirably with the
impression produced by the house at first sight.
It was thoroughly in keeping with the flagged
entrance walk, the open hall-door, and the
glimpses of quaint trim gardening beyond. A
large low room, panelled throughout with oak,
and hung with pictures intrinsically of varying
value, but all toned by the hand of time to a
certain harmonious mellowness ; having three
recessed windows, with deep window-seats, looking
towards the common ; and furnished without
any pretence at a plan with furniture of all
styles and dates, from oaken cabinets black with
age and filled with china as old or older than
themselves, down to the thoroughly modern
Broadsword piano  there was a touch of poetry
about its undesigned, spontaneous, old-world
charm which no Persian ortieres from Liberty's,
no Chippendale chairs and Sheraton tables from
Pillow's, can give a modern apartment.

This antique interior formed a picturesque
setting for the fresh beauty of the Ferrars sisters
as they sat, Lucy in one of the window-seats,
Muriel in a low chair by the tea-table, when the
door opened to admit the much-perturbed Jack.
The only other occupant of the room was Helen

Bretlierton, a spinster cousin of the late Mrs.
Ferrars. She was a slight, colourless little woman
of about two and forty, who had inherited her
light hair and eyelashes, and a soul brimming
over with sentiment and romance, from a North
German mother. For the rest, she had the
kindest heart in the world, and her innocent
affectation of so-called aesthetic modes of dress
and poetical forms of speech veiled a good deal
of real cleverness and genuine feeling:. She had
one marked weakness ; an aptitude for taking-violent
fancies and equally violent antipathies
to people on first acquaintance ; but hitherto this
peculiarity had not been productive of any
specially disastrous results to herself or others.

The three ladies received Jack with words of
hearty welcome, but he was so intent on watching
the effect of his arrival on Muriel that he
scarcely noticed the greetings of her companions.
She met him very kindly, very sweetly, he
thought. Perhaps the thought of her approaching
departure had, unconsciously to herself,
softened her manner ; perhaps (who knows ?) the
floating recollection of Lucy's assurances concerning
Jack's devotion influenced her a little.
Certainly she had put off the scornful princess
for the day.

We thought you would come, but you are
late, Jack' she said, as she poured out his tea.

Did I  did you expect me ? " Jack asked
rather blunderingly. He was given to blundering
in these little things, if taken by surprise.

Well, I thought you would probably come to
wish me good speed before I set off on my
adventurous journey," Muriel answered, "and I
believe I should have felt rather hurt if you had
not."

She spoke easily and unconstrained. They
had been playmates in childhood, and friends all
their lives; there was no latent coquetry, intentional
or accidental, in her words. But she
was handing him his cup as she spoke, and ashe
took it from her, his eyes met hers with such
a look in them as made her regret having given
utterance to the innocent little bit of raillery
At the same time she was conscious of an odd
inexplicable thrill, caused by the glance of mingled
reproach and appeal which encountered her own
calm gaze. The sensation startled her by its
absolute novelty, for though this was by no
means the first such glance that Jack had given
her, she was not apt to feel moved by his pleading
looks. Jack, it may be here observed, had
fine blue eyes ; and not being specially ready with

his tongue, relied on the former, rather than the
latter, for expressing his tender sentiments.

He sat almost silent while Muriel, recovering
from her momentary agitation, enlarged with
more than wonted vivacity upon her plans and
anticipations. Miss Bretherton joining in now
and again with an expression of sympathy, Lucy
as usual inclining to carp and criticize. Having
intimated with some vehemence her opinion of
Muriel's extreme folly in going at all, and given
a lively sketch of Mr. and Mrs. Erskine and their
supposed place of temporary abode in Switzerland,
Jack meanwhile remaining speechless or
assenting only in monosyllables, she at length
appealed to him abruptly.

What do you think of it. Jack ? I should
like to get some one to support my view of the
case. Father will not trouble himself to aro-ue
the matter, and as to you. Cousin Helen, you are
ten thousand times worse than Muriel herself
I should like to hear Jack's opinion."

Here was Jack's opportunity, if not to declare
all that was in his heart, yet at least to hint at
his feelings, by showing a decided objection to
Muriel's quitting the neighbourhood, even for a
time. But he did not avail himself of it. He
was not sufficiently clever to frame an impromptu

reply which should be graceful without being
unmistakable in its drift, and he had a suspicion
that Lucy was trying to draw him out  and on.
His self-communing at the stile rushed back
upon him with redoubled strength, and filled him
with resentment at the notion of being led into
committing himself before he chose," as he
termed it.

I don't know, I'm sure," he faltered out. '' I
suppose, as your sister says " (somehow, though
he had called her Muriel all his life, he had
grown a little shy of using the familiar appellation
lately), " it is a chance one does not get very
often, and it will be a great change. Oh, I daresay
she will find it very enjoyable," he added
rather savagely, with a sudden revulsion of feeling
and ebullition of jealous anger at the idea
that Muriel should be able to find enjoyment in
scenes and circumstances from which he should
be wholly absent.

Muriel noted the hesitation with which he
uttered the first part of his incoherent little
speech. Dimly guessing the cause, it offended
her so deeply that she scarcely noticed the
runs: of resentment with Which the stammering
utterance closed. Sh caught up her role of
sarcasm in half a second, and for the next twenty

minutes dazzled Jack with a brilliant display of
what he considered her abnormal cleverness. At
the end of that time he was more in love than
ever, and Lucy, who saw that things were not
progressing at all as she desired, proposed adjourning
to the garden.

Yes, go," Miss Bretherton said ; " it is unnatural
for young creatures like you to be spending
this sweet summer-time within four walls. I
have a letter to send off by this post, but I can
finish it in twenty minutes, and then I too shall
come out among the lilies, though my days for
such wanderings are long since past."

Muriel was indignant with Lucy for making
the move, hotly indignant with good Cousin
Helen for her little speech, which meant neither
more nor less than the majority of Cousin
Helen's little speeches. They were generally
susceptible of a romantic interpretation, if you
chose to give it them. But Muriel was in no
mood for just and reasonable consideration just
then. She slipped round to Lucj's side and took
hold of her arm with a grasp so firm that that
wily damsel despaired of making good her escape
on any terms, and for half an hour the trio
wandered up and down the softly carpeted alleys
of the garden, all equally ill at ease. Jack, who

was now quite as anxious for Lucy to second
him by retiring judiciously as he had been
shortly before to discard what he conceived to
be her lead, was almost driven to invent some
frivolous excuse for inducing her to go into the
house for a moment, when Miss Bretherton's
voice broke in to his aid.

Lucy ! Lucy, dear child ! Can you tell me
where to find the key of the bookcase in my
room ? I want to look at that volume of Christina
Rossetti." (For your letter by this post, O crafty
Cousin Helen ?)

Lucy snatched her arm from her sister's with
a feeling akin to triumph.

"I have the key in my wardrobe, Cousin
Helen; I'll come and get it for you at once.
You go, Muriel ? What good would that do ?
The thing's put away in my old key-basket, and
where that is, I haven't the smallest notion. It
is months ago since I saw it last."

She sped away on her errand, delighted with
her own acuteness in having set Jack at his ease
by intimating that her absence would probably
be of considerable duration.

Jack and Muriel were left standing together
at the end of the garden furthest from the house,
a point where all the walks converged in an

expanse of green turf which was neither croquet-lawn
nor tennis-court, but simply a genuine old-fashioned
bowling-green. It was bounded on
two sides by the park palings, and on the third
lay a clear pond full of water-lilies.

"Come and look at the lilies. I  I want to
show you something," the young man said, with
a tremor in his voice. Muriel went, a little unwillingly,
but with that curious thrill she had
experienced once before during the evening running
through her for a moment.

o CD

When they reached the water-side, they both
stood silent for a few minutes. Jack had forgotten
 if indeed he had ever known  what it
was he wanted to show Muriel ; but he gazed at
her with looks so mutely eloquent that they
reached her very heart. At last he said, in low
husky tones, " You are really going tomorrow ? "

"Yes, by the first train from Northam. I
shall have to be up with the dawn to be intime."


Her voice was not quite so steady as she could
have wished. She felt so conscious of her young
lover's love as he stood beside her, that her own
heart involuntarily responded to it. She did
not really love him, she knew that ; but for an
instant she could almost have persuaded herself

VOL. I. 5

that she did. Just as a child, carelessly sweeping
his hands over the keys of an instrument of
whose nature he is ignorant, may now and again
accidentally strike some true chord of harmony,
so Arliugham had touched a responsive chord in
this girl's soul. But it was only by accident;
the secrets of the instrument were secrets to
him still, nor was his the hand that should
ever succeed in drawing them from their hiding-place.


Are you so very anxious to go ? " Jack
went on.

Isn't it natural that I should be anxious ? "
Muriel cried, moved to defend herself from the
implied reproach. " I have seen so little of the
world, and I do long to see something more.
Besides, I shall only be away a month, and you
all talk as if I were leaving Alderton for years ! "

Would nothing persuade you to give it up ? "
Jack, instead of going straight to the main point,
persisted in fencing with the question. Muriel's
spirit, which had nearly died within her, revived
as she perceived his fatal blunder. Instantly
there returned upon her the old irresistible desire
to turn the conversation, to make it safe and
commonplace, anything but romantic and emotional.


It would have to be something very extraordinary
indeed which should persuade me to do
so. I don't think anything would stop me short
of a sprained ankle, or some other accident which
rendered me incapable of moving. Think of
getting away from this sultry heat  how hot it
is in the garden to-night ! we had far better
have stayed indoors  getting away to a peak
a couple of thousand feet above the sea, and
being ' blown crystal clear by Freedom's northern
wind ' ! "

"I don't mean that," answered Jack angrily
and incoherently. " I mean, do you really care
so much to go ? Don't you feel the least regret
for those you leave behind ? "

Regret ? For those I leave behind ? " Muriel
repeated ironically. (She had quite recovered
now.) " Really, Jack, your tone is tragical. You
speak as if I were starting for a distant quarter
of the globe, never to return, or lying on my
death-bed, surrounded by a sorrowing family,
instead of going to Switzerland for a month ! "

If at that moment Jack Arlingham had had
courage and decision to rebuke the girl he loved
for her unseasonable levity, and to tell her in so
many plain words of his love, he might perhaps
have won her there and then, and the course of

this history would have been altogether altered.
But he hesitated, and while he did so, his last
chance was gone. Before he quite came to himself
in a tumult of pain and disappointment,
Muriel was talking gaily of indifferent matters,
and he knew that to attempt to guide the conversation
into its former channel again was a
task wholly beyond him. How either of them
got through the trying five minutes which
elapsed before Jack despairingly moved to go,
neither could have given a clear account; but
when Lucy came down at last, pausing discreetly
in the hall to take her observations, they were
painting  it would seem, very calmly and prosaically
 at the front gate.

Perhaps the prosaic calm was more in seeming
than reality.

"Good-bye, Jack," said Muriel, very softly.
Her little ebullition of wounded pride was over ;
the need for self-defence was over too, and she
could not bear to part in anger from her old
playfellow and friend. " Lucy shall tell you
whether her dismal predictions come true or
not."

Good-bye," Jack answered resentfully. The
young man's heart was hot within him: angry
with her, he was still more angry with himself

Oh, I have no doubt you will enjoy yourself
among the snow-peaks," he said, with a bitter
little laugh.

"Won't you wish me a safe and happy
journey at least ? " Muriel pleaded, with tears
in her eyes. The girl's tender heart throbbed
compassionately at the look of angry pain in
her friend's face  for, as her friend, Jack was
really dear to her. " I am afraid I spoke sharply
and flippantly just now  I cannot think what
possessed me. Forgive me, Jack, and give me
your good wishes."

I don't think my good wishes will help you
much," he began sullenly. Then, with a sudden
softening of manner, " Don't quite forget us all.
And perhaps when you come back  dear "

He uttered his last timid monosyllable almost
below his breath, clasping her hand very tightly ;
paused a second longer; then, as she did not
speak or stir, dropped the passive fingers he had
been holding, and went silently away.

ALL ON A SUMMER DAY.

Days dawn on us that make amends for many,
Sometimes,
When heaven and earth seem sweeter far than any
Man's rhymes."

Swinburne,

Muriel is certainly a very charming travelling
companion," Professor Erskine remarked to his
wife about ten days later. "As a rule, I find
sight-seeing with young people a sadly disappointing
affair, but with her it is a positive
enjoyment. She does not say very much, except
to put questions, but every now and then there
is a flash of quiet enthusiasm in that expressive
face of hers which does a man's heart good 
especially the heart of a blase old traveller like
myself. At Cologne the other day I could
almost have fancied that thirty years had been
wiped out, and that I was showing yoii the
cathedral for the first time, wife."

Mrs. Erskine blushed like a girl at the implied
compliment. She was a tall, slight woman, with
a pale, refined face, and a dreamy, absorbed expression
not often found on countenances over
which fifty years have passed. But the hand
of Time had dealt gently with her, leaving but
few traces of the passage of half a century on
her delicate features. Her husband was fond
of noticing the strong resemblance she bore to
a bust of the poet Schiller which stood in his
study at Oxford. The likeness was undoubted,
as far as the outlines went, but no vestige of
the strength and purpose stamped upon the
marble features of the man appeared in those
of the living woman, who looked a complete
personification of gentle feminine weakness.
There could not well have been found a more
striking contrast to the big, broad-shouldered,
loose-umber Scotchman who sat opposite her.
With his shock of reddish-yellow hair and beard
just beginning to turn grey, his weather-beaten
complexion and rugged profile, no one could
have called Professor Erskine handsome ; but
the intellectual power which sat enthroned on
his broad forehead and the mingled lire and
humour which lit up his light blue eyes amply
atoned for the want of mere good looks in a

man of his years. He was rather unconventionally
dressed for a clergyman ; and he spoke with
a slight Scotch "burr," which his friends were
apt to think only added a piquancy to the manifold
charms of his conversation, since, when he
could be persuaded to speak at all, Oxford itself
could boast no more brilliant and original talker.
But except in the society of a few congenial
spirits he generally entrenched himself in a
fortress of silence. With his wife alone was he
always accessible, always expansive ; the other
members of his family often jarred upon his
taste or humour  for he was above all things
what his countrymen call humorsome. His
niece Muriel, however, had always been a
favourite of his.

' There is another great advantage in lionizing
her," he went on after a moment's pause, while
the faint flush of gratification still lingered in
Mrs. Erskine's thin cheeks ; " she never affects
to admire anything she does not really admire,
nor does she pretend to understand allusions
that are as Greek and Hebrew to her. I have
tried her in that way purposely once or twice,
and she has stood the test triumphantly."

'' Yes," Mrs. Erskine answered, " I fancied you
were bent on something of the kind at Antwerp

from the remarks I overheard you making to
her, and when I saw how pleased jow looked
as she frankly confessed her ignorance of your
drift, I knew I had guessed rightly. As you
say, where she does understand fully, she is
wonderfully appreciative."

'marvellously so, I think. I often wonder
where the child got the poetry of her nature.
Our good brother-in-law Ferrars is a most
worthy man, but without a spark of the immortal
fire in his composition; and although
poor Amy was a good deal like you in someways,
yet she died too early for it to be possible
she should have influenced her children intellectually."


May they not have inherited the faculty ? "
Mrs. Erskine adventured rather timidly.
Neither of them none of them, I may say,
for in this respect George is like his sisters 
take after their father in any one particular.
Lucy, of course "

Lucy ! " interrupted the Professor with profound
scorn. " Lucy is of the earth, earthy 
a type of the smart, would-bes witty, worldly
wise girl of the period  the very type I specially
detest. George is an unknown quantity. At
present he is merely a clever schoolboy, and no

one can forecast with any certainty what he
may turn out in the future. I suspect much
will depend on his circumstances and friendships,
for I should imagine him to be pliable
and easily led. But Muriel is of a different
mould. There is a hint of the Thekla character
latent in her. I wish, for her sake, that we
could have devoted more time to travelling and
sight-seeing, but it was impossible."

Quite impossible," responded the devoted
wife, almost scandalized at the mere notion of
her idol's plans being disturbed in the smallest
particular by so frivolous a consideration as a
girl's enjoyment. "And she seems just as happy
since we came to the Axenstrasse as she was
when we were moving from place to place. The
mountains and her books and drawing together
content her perfectly."

I wish there were some congenial souls in the
place for her to make friends with," said the
Professor kindly. 'but of course in a lonely
little mountain hotel it would be unreasonable
to expect amusing society  the very thing too,
by the way, that you and I wanted to avoid.
Only I am afraid we hardly considered our young
companion sufficiently; it must be trying for a
damsel of nineteen to spend the greater portion

of the day in solitude, I would think. I hope
she will find means of entertaining herself during
our absence to-day," he added.

(This dialogue had been taking place in a
railway-carriage on the line between Lucerne
and Bale, to which latter place the Erskine
were journeying for a few hours' visit, in order
to verify a statement introduced into the Professor's
new book by researches into certain
documents supposed to exist in the Town
Library.)

"I have no doubt she will," replied Mrs.
Erskine tranquilly. " Muriel is by no means one
of those girls who are necessarily dull or unhappy
because they are alone."

Mrs. Erskine was perfectly right. Muriel at
that moment was certainly neither dull nor unhappy,
though she was quite alone in the simple
little sitting-room appropriated to the Erskine'
private use at the Hotel Mythen. It was a
room on the first floor, with two windows commanding
a fine view of the lake below and the
distant mountains on its further side. Into one
of these windows Muriel had carried her chair
and a little rickety, spindle-legged table which
barely held her desk and inkstand, preferring
this indifferent writing: accommodation combined

with the immediate neighbourhood of the magnificent
panorama outside to the solid piece of
furniture which did duty for a library table,
and whereon were ranged her uncle's books and
papers, standing well out of reach of all distraction
sights and sounds against the wall. She
had apparently found her epistolary labours easy
and delightful, for although three closely written
sheets of thin foreign paper, together with an
envelope addressed to her sister, already lay
on the window-seat at her side, her pen was
still flying briskly and unflagging over the
pages of a fourth. .

"If it were not for my drawing," she wrote,
and for the boat Uncle Alec has hired for my
own proper and peculiar use, perhaps I might
be a little dull at times, for the society here is nil,
as you predicted it would be. I could have
laughed aloud the first day we went down to
dinner, and found assembled at the table dlwte
the very company you prophetically destined
me to meet. I at once recognized the German
family (seven in number) on economy intent,
and the English lady-tourists ; besides these, we
had two highly respectable but grotesquely
comical-looking Swiss ladies, two or three Dutch
gentlemen, and a white-haired lawyer from

Brussels. You will observe that your friend
the curate is as yet missing from the list. I
don't know if you will consider his place in anyway
supplied by a solitary Englishman who lives
over our heads. Unfortunately we never see
this personage, as he has a sou] above his fellows,
and keeps entirely to his private rooms, avoiding
the garden and every other frequented haunt.
I fancy he fulfils your conditions as far as
making excursions with praiseworthy regularity
may be considered to fulfil them, for although he
has never yet condescended to show himself
dusty and dishevelled in the dining-room at the
close of the day, yet I have several times seen
from my window a tall figure in a very shabby
old shooting-coat swinging itself up the steps
of the boat-house just after dark. More of this
mysterious individual I cannot tell you, except
that when the windows are open I occasionally
hear him whistling old German airs, and he
whistles in capital tune."

Here the letter branched off* in a view direction,
that of home affairs  a subject so engrossing that
it might very likely have overflowed into a fifth
sheet of paper, had not the clock given warning
of the approach of the post hour.

Muriel hastily folded, closed, and stamped

her voluminous epistle, donned her shady hat,
which was lying close at hand, and ran down
into the hall just as the sturdy, stolid Swiss who
acted as postal messenger between the Hotel
Mythen and the little town of Drunken was
shouldering his leathern wallet to depart. Her
letter despatched, she wandered out at the wide-open
door, through the rustic verandah, down
the green slope of turf on which the hotel stood,
crossed the broad dusty Axenstrasse lying, a line
of dazzling, unendurable whiteness, in the glare
of the brilliant August sunshine, and passed
through the shady garden on the other side till
she reached the edge of the lake itself. There
she paused, her lips apart, her eyes softened
almost to tears.

How beautiful it is ! " she exclaimed half
aloud.

The scene before her was indeed beautiful.
Overhead, a sky without a cloud, its deep blue
tempered by the silvery haze which tells of intense
heat. At her feet, the tranquil waters of
the Bay of Uri, blue likewise, but of a paler and
more delicate azure than the glowing heavens
they reflected, shimmering in the golden radiance
with a thousand sparkles and jets and lines of
living light. Far away on her left, at the

extreme end of the lake, the white houses of
Fluelen set in a framework of green meadows
and wooded heights, and the snowy conical peak
of the majestic Bristenstock keeping solemn
watch and ward over town and valley ; on the
opposite side of the bay, a prospect of frowning
mountains and waving woods, pines and birches
feathering down to the water's edge, with the
solid granite of the Frohnalp and Giitschenstock
rising above them in massive grandeur, and
seen as through a rent in the magnificent
rampart  a glimpse of the cold white shoulder
of the Uri Rothstock. It was a glorious sicrht ;
and the young, fresh, unspoilt soul of the girl rejoiced
in it, saddened vaguely at it, fell down
in instinctive reverence before it and all it
symbolized.

When she had gazed her fill, however, she
began to cast about for some means of occupying
the long summer evening before her. It was
only four o'clock, and, for all her faculty of
dreaming and idealizing, Muriel's was essentially
a healthy, active nature, which craved employment.
She did not care to sit down and readjust
then, having been busy among her uncle's
books all the morning, and she had done writing
enough for one day. she was young and strong,

and longed for something in the way of active
exercise. A bright thought ! She had still three
or four hours of daylight before her, and the lake
was as smooth as glass. She would take her
portfolio and row across to the exquisite little
gorge she knew lay opposite, and try her hand
at a sketch of the Axenberg from that point.
The very idea for such an afternoon ! and she
ran lightly up the steep incline to the hotel to
fetch her drawing materials, eager to put her
plan into instant execution.

We talk glibly of the warning voice of presentiment,
but unhappily it is a voice seldom
heard in the seat crises of life. Often at such
turning-points of fate how little  oh, how very
little !  would have sufficed to check us before we
had entered the fatal path, or crossed the fatal
bridge on the other side of which awaited uso



some destiny that we would have given worlds
to avoid ! But the arresting word remained
unuttered, and the step forward taken in ignorance
can never be retraced.

Thus Muriel heard no voice at her ear that
day insinuating vague alarm or inexplicable
hesitation as she prepared to set off on her hastily
planned expedition, but merrily tossed her 
into the clumsy boat, and pushed oft

gaily into the glimmering sapphire of the sunlit
waters. She was fond of rowing and tolerably
expert in the use of oars, so, heavy as was her
present craft compared with that she had been
used to handle on the Thames, she managed to
make it travel fairly fast over the smooth waveless
expanse, and it was not till she had reached
the middle of the lake that she paused to rest,
and discovered, on looking idly at the bottom
of the boat, that she had left her pencil-case
behind. Uttering a little exclamation of impatience
at her own forgetfulness, she began to
turn the boat round, with the intention of
returning to fetch the missing object. But if
she did this, she remembered, it would be too
late to cross the lake again that evening. Should
she give up the excursion  for to-day, and content
herself with sketching in the garden ?

She hesitated, resting on her oars in indecision,
and the boat floated round to its former position.
Could she have had a glimpse of the future just
then, she would have gone back, perhaps. Even
the loss of a pencil-case might have decided the
destiny of more than one life, had she chosen to
yield to what appeared the leading of accident.
But she did not so yield. She went on. The
mechanical return of the boat to its original

VOL. I. 6

direction was sufficient to decide her onward
course, and she gathered up her oars with vigour
and rowed on untiringly until the keel of her
little craft grated on the white pebbles of the
farther shore. There she secured it to the overhanging
branch of a tree, and landed well
pleased.

The gorge she had come to visit was quite as
beautiful as she had pictured it from the other
side. Although its banks were steep, they were
not precipitous  well-worn though narrow paths
intersected them, and even off the beaten tracks
there was safe and easy foothold for any active
pedestrian. On both sides they were thickly
wooded, the ground being covered with short
mossy grass and wild mountain flowers, while
along the watercourse below a tiny stream, which
in the winter would probably become a brawling,
turbid torrent, sweeping all before it, now sang
softly as it came leaping, limpid and shallow
over its bed of yellow and white pebbles to lose
itself in the lake.

Muriel was delighted. Her regret at the loss
of her pencils was forgotten ; she had no wish to
sketch now. She was quite content to wander
up and down this enchanting glen, gaining every
now and then through the trees lovely glimpses

of the larger world of lake and mountain outside
and above it, turning ever with renewed pleasure
to the miniature realm of thicket and waterfall
within. Tired at last, she threw herself down
on the grass beside the stream where it dipped
into the bay, and taking out her pocket Schiller,
completed the charm of the entrancing solitude
by peopling it with the poetic creations of
Wilhelm Tell."

Suddenly she was startled by a distant sound,
like yet unlike the note of a bird. Involuntarily
she dropped the book on her knee, and raised
her head to listen. There again ! The sound,
very faint and distant at first, was growing more
and more distinct, and now she could hear plainly
that it was no bird's note, but a human voice,
and (alas for romance !) it was whistling. Nearer
and nearer it came, till she could distinguish the
air of " Die Beaten Grenadiers ; " then it ceased
abruptly, as a faint cracking of branches and
rustling: of leaves indicated that the whistler
was close at hand.

Muriel looked up, but no one was visible from
where she sat. " I wonder if it could be our
mysterious Englishman ? " she thought to herself
"It sounded very like his whistle." But lier
speculations were interrupted by the unseen

musician's breaking without warning into full
sono, in a fine baritone voice which seemed to
come from the clouds.

Gell roll mir zu Meissen der brausende Kur
Im tanzenden Wellengetriebe,
Es rachel die Sonne, mein Hers und die Four,
O ! went es doch simmer so bliebe ! "

he sang. Muriel listened smilingly, for the
voice was flexible as well as sonorous, and
trolled out Rubinstein's florid melody with practised
ease. But the singer was evidently moving
away again. The repetition of the refrain was
almost lost upon. Muriel, though she strained her
ears to distinguish it, and before it was ended
the vocalist was too far off for her to hear
whether he went on to the second verse or
ceased altogether.

How well he sang, whoever he was ! " thought
the girl to herself. "If it was our next-door
neighbour, and not a native-born German, he
has an uncommonly good pronunciation. I wish
he would have stayed till he had finished his
ditty. However, I suppose it is time for me
to be moving."

She looked from the sun, which was getting
rather low, to her watch, and found that it was
already half-past six, so that an immediate start

homewards was imperative. To spring into the
boat and untie the rope which held it fast to the
overhanging tree was the work of a couple of
moments ; Muriel unshipped her oars deftly, and
prepared to push off without further delay. But
she was not fated to return so easily. The patch
of apparently hard sand on which she planted
her oar proved treacherously soft and yielding ;
the oar sank into it to a depth of several inches,
and as she strove hastily to release the clumsy
implement, it gave an ominous crack and broke
short off about a foot above the blade, which
remained embedded, leaving only the handle in
the girl's grasp. She had the presence of mind
to draw the boat close again to land by means
of the oar left her, and, having regained terra
firma herself, to secure it by clutching the line.
Then she stood still, with the rope in her hand,
to reflect on her predicament.

It was not altogether a pleasant one, for it was
growing late, later than she would have chosen
in any case for her homeward row, had she
been more observant of the flight of time. Her
return across the lake was rendered impossible,
unless she could get some one either to convey
her over, or to lend her an oar, and there was
not a single chef, much less a village, in sight

on any side. Muriel was constitutionally fearless,
but she began to feel slightly uncomfortable,
and a little less enthusiastic in her appreciation
of the delights of solitary excursions by water
than she had been five minutes earlier. Still,
there was no use wasting time in vain regrets
or unpleasant anticipations ; it was needful to
act, and act at once.

Let me see," she reflected : " if I go to the
right, I must come at last to Fliielen ; if I go to
the left, to Treib. As long as I keep to the lake
I cannot go wrong ; and there will be an early
moon to-night, . fortunately. I only hope they
will not oet home before I do, and be alarmed at
finding me away. I wonder," she exclaimed
aloud in her perplexity, as she looked on either
side of her, " which is nearest, Fliielen or
Treib ? "

I beg your pardon, but you seem to have met
with an accident to your boat. Can I be of
any assistance to you?" said a man's voice just
above her.

Muriel started round, half frightened by the
friendly accents that seemed to fall from the
clouds, but she recovered herself and her composure
instantly. There was indeed nothing to
be frightened at. The words were courteous, the

accent unmistakably that of an Englishman and
a gentleman  and there was the speaker himself,
a tall dark man in the inevitable light shooting
jacket of the British tourist, coming down the
path behind her.

Excuse me," he began again, lifting his hat,
I am afraid I have startled you. But I fancied
you had met with a mishap, in which case I
might possibly be of use. Can I help you in anyway
? "

Thank you ; you are very kind," Muriel
answered. " I have been unlucky enough to
break one of my oars, and I have not an idea
where to go in search of such a thing. Perhaps
you could direct me ? "

"I am afraid I can't do that, for I am quite
ignorant whether there are any habitations
within reasonable walking distance or not. But
may I ask where you are staying ? "

At the Hotel Mythen, just opposite."

Muriel spoke a little disconsolately now. Her
new acquaintance seemed likely to prove less
helpful than he had at first sight promised to be.

At the Mythen ? " he repeated. " Then there
is no difficulty whatever, for I am staying there
too, and can row you across. My boat is on
the other side of the gorge ; I will go and fetch

it immediately. We can tie this one on behind."


Thank you exceedingly' said the girl simply
and gratefully. "I am very sorry to give you
so much trouble  but it is too late to start on a
journey of discovery, so I must accept your kind
offer. Only I regret putting you to such inconvenience."


"It is no inconvenience, no trouble at all."
There was something more than mere politeness,
there was real kindness in the tone, Muriel
thought. " I shall be as quick as I can, but it
will take me some little time, I'm afraid, to
reach my boat and bring her round to this place
the path is a very winding one. However,
there is an hour and a half s daylight yet remaining.
You will not be alarmed ? "

No, indeed," Muriel answered, half lauohincj
at the idea. " Now that, thanks to your kindness,
I have the means of getting home within
reach, I feel quite at ease. Pray do not hurry :
I shall not mind waiting in the least."

So saying, she seated herself composedly on
a fragment of rock, while her newly acquired
friend dashed up the side of the glen at a pace
which augured well for his speedy return.

FROM SUNSET TO MOONRISE.

Then, how grace a rose ? I know a way :
Leave it rather."

K. Browning.

It was not, however, quite so speedy as she had
expected, and she had plenty of time to indulge
in speculations concerning her timely rescuer's
identity.

He was "the Englishman overhead," undoubtedly,
but this was rather a vague and
unsatisfactory definition. Muriel had never
heard his name, and she felt that she should be
puzzled to guess his possible calling or profession.
He was not a clergyman, nor a country gentleman
 of this much she felt sure ; no, nor yet a
soldier, nor a doctor, nor a savant. A literary
man, then, or an artist ? Either of these, possibly
; but if the latter, would not his dress have

inclined a little more to the picturesque ? Perhaps,
though, he was some really great painter,
who disdained all petty affectations. If he
should turn out to be Sir Frederick Leighton or
Mr. Long, or some other equally famous light in
the artistic firmament, Muriel felt she should be
ready to rejoice in her adventure. On reflection,
however, he could not be the bearer of either of
those celebrated names; his age settled that
question out of hand. He was evidently a man
still in the prime of life ; probably about six and
thirty, Muriel decided. Perhaps he was not an
artist, after all. Mature consideration, indeed,
suggested that he looked much more like a distinguished
member of Parliament : say a rising
statesman belonging to some patrician Whig
family. He would be just the right age for that.
And if he were a Secretary of State, why, his
voluminous correspondence  Muriel had noticed
that his knapsack and his pockets seemed filled
to overflowing with papers  and his long mornings
of retirement would be alike accounted for.
This hypothesis pleased Miss Ferrars so much
that she set her mind instantly to work trying
to recall the names and approximate ages of the
Ministers in office, whether of Cabinet rank or
not. Without the friendly aid of a " Who's

Who ? " it proved a laborious task, and occupied
so much time that the minutes stole away unperceived.
Muriel was still hunting the inmost
recesses of her memory for a missing Undersecretary
when a boat shot round the little promontory
formed by the right bank of the gorge,
and the gentleman whose appearance had given
rise to so much speculation greeted her by exclaiming,
" I am indeed sorry to have kept you
waiting such an unconscionable time ! "

Pray do not mention it," said Muriel hurriedly.
She spoke with rather less than her
usual composure, her colour heightening a little
as she did so. " You are very kind to take so
much trouble at all. Am I to get in ? " she
inquired, as the subject of her meditations paused
with one foot on shore and the boat-line in hand.

"Not for a moment, please. If you don't
mind giving me the line of the other boat, I
think I can tie it on so that it will follow us
safely. There ! " he ejaculated after the lapse
of two or three minutes, when she had silently
complied with his request and watched him
deftly knotting the two ropes together, " I think
that is perfectly secure. Now your things " 
turning with a sudden abrupt movement towards
Muriel's belongings, which lay in a heap under

the rock  "a shawl, book, a portfolio  is that
all ? Then I think we may start "  holding out
his hand to assist her into the boat ; and Muriel,
as she just touched it in passing, noticed the long,
slender fingers, " the true artistic hand," she said
to herself, feeling half inclined to return to her
earliest surmise.

Her cavalier unshipped his oars and pushed
off. Taking his seat opposite the girl, he demanded,
" May I ask if you are very anxious to
get back as quickly as possible ? because, if so, I
will put on as much pace as I can. Will your
friends be alarmed at your absence ? "

No, happily," replied Muriel, feeling quite at
her ease again, and unconsciously flattered by the
deferential courtesy of her companion's manner.
They have gone to Bale for the day, and I do
not expect them back till late to-night. My
fear was that I mioht not be able to 2fet home
before dark, but I suppose we shall manage that
now ? "

"Easily," was the answer; "and as your people
will not be looking out for you, we may venture
to travel at an ordinary rate. You see," he
added, with a half-smile, as he struck out into
a long workmanlike stroke which seemed very
swift to Muriel after her own short girlish rowing,

" I am hardly equipped for a row at racing
speed ; but if you had had parents watching for
you on the other side, I should have felt bound
to do all I knew. It is not fair to keep any one
in that kind of suspense if it can possibly be
avoided."

I hope you will not hurry yourself at all on
my account," returned Muriel. '' I am sorry to
think I have burdened you with this extra boat
as well as with myself, but I cannot help feeling
very thankful you happened to come my way.
Considering how lonely the place is, I was most
fortunate, I think."

"I am very glad to have been there," he
answered gravely ; and then followed a silence
of several minutes, broken only by the even
sweep of the oars and the soft ripple of the
water washing against the sides of the boat.
Muriel profited by it to steal some surreptitious
glances of inquiry at her nameless vis-davis, and
recognized, on nearer scrutiny, that he was considerably
older than her first hasty inspection
had led her to suppose. The active figure and
the thick dark hair untouched with grey might
indeed have belonged to a young man, but the
keen face opposite her had parted with the freshness
of youth years ago.

How fast the light is fading ! " she observed
presently, feeling that the silence had lasted long
enough. " It is almost twilight already."

Yes, these August evenings are provokingly
short. If you look back at that glen we have
just left, you will see that it must be getting
tolerably dark there."

Muriel glanced behind her, gave a little shiver,
and said, " I am glad I am not wandering there
disconsolately at this moment."

'but you would not have been there," returned
her companion, with a faint gleam of amusement
in his face. 'you were resolute, I think, in
your determination to find your way to Fluelen
or Treib, and were only debating which to make
for, weren't you ? You must excuse my having
played the part of an eavesdropper, by the way ;
the offence was quite involuntary on my part, I
assure you."

"I am not sure that I should have improved
matters much if I had started on that adventurous
walk," Muriel replied, "except that I
should have been trying to do something. That
is always better than sitting down and despairing."


 Always, under all circumstances "  with a
sudden energy which surprised her. "It is

always better to occupy 'one's mind, and defy
the despair, whatever it may be. Pardon me,"
he added in a more measured tone, " I am quite
aware that I transgress in speaking; but such
distant solitary expeditions are really rather
dangerous  at least, for you. Unless you have
a companion, it would be wiser to keep near
home."

He spoke with a certain air of authority, as of
one accustomed to have his advice respectfully
received ; and Muriel resented this by flushing
slightly and replying with more reserve of
manner than she had previously thought necessary
to adopt.

I am not at all timid," she said, " and I am
thoroughly accustomed to boating. I have frequently
rowed on the Thames  not in a heavy
tub like this, but in a lioht scullion-boat  and
I was always considered quite competent to take
care of myself Then of course on the Thames
you have to consider the currents, but no one
ever thought there was any danger for me."

She stopped, feeling she had shown rather
more eagerness than the occasion demanded, but
terribly anxious lest her new acquaintance
should take upon himself to remonstrate with
the Professor on the propriety of her boating

any more alone. She thought he looked capable
of it.

"Very likely," was the provokingly cool and
unmoved rejoinder. "But, you see, on a solitary
excursion everything does not depend on statesmanship.
When an oar breaks, for instance,
and you are miles from home ? On the Thames
it would generally be comparatively easy to
supply the deficiency or get home some other
way, but here "

Muriel laughed and interrupted half angrily,
That was an accident, and one not likely to be
repeated, I hope."

His face darkened. " I hope not, either," he
answered, in a tone plainly implying that this
self-willed maiden need not look to his gracious
intervention a second time for deliverance from
the consequences of her rashness. Evidently he
chose to take Muriel's fervently expressed aspiration
for immunity from such mishaps in future
as a veiled desire that she mioht not ao-ain be
troubled with his society. Inexperienced as she
was, she perceived the false step she had made,
and being genuinely distressed at having given
offence to a stranger who had shown her such
unsolicited kindness, she hastened to try and
repair it.

This time, at any rate' she remarked shyly,
I have not suffered for my temerity, thanks to
you." Then wishing to vary the subject of
conversation, and seizing on the first topic which
presented itself to her mind, she asked, " Did
you know I was English before you spoke tome
just now, or did you merely speak in English
without thinking ? "

I heard you speak first, remember," he
answered, his brow clearing, and the faint gleam
of humour crossing his face again, "so there
was no room left for doubt. But in any case
I should have felt sure of your nationality," he
continued, coolly perusing the fair face opposite
him with his penetrating dark eyes, as if it had
been a picture held out for his inspection, and
noting its delicate outlines with pleasure.
Yours is an English face ; a high type of the
race, certainly, but possessing its characteristics,
nevertheless. The colouring might be Italian ; but,
no  I don't think I could have been deceived."

He spoke with such quiet assurance, and such
apparent unconsciousness of having given utterance
to anything that could be construed into
a compliment, that Muriel could find no excuse
for resenting his speech. Nevertheless, it embarrassed
her slightly.

VOL. I. 7

Now I think of it' he resumed, after a
moment's pause, during which Muriel looked
just a trifle uncomfortable and her companion
very much at his ease  perhaps, to tell the
truth, he rather enjoyed the situation  "I am
sure I must have seen you before, though only
in the twilight and at a considerable distance.
Don't you sometimes walk in the garden with
your father after dinner ? "

Yes," smiled Muriel, " but not with my
father. It must have been my uncle. Professor
Erskine, whom you saw with me."

'' Professor Erskine ? Not Erskine of Oriel,
the Professor of Comparative Mythology at
Oxford ? "

The very same," answered the Professor s
niece with pardonable pride.

Ah, then I have the pleasure of knowing
him a little. If I had seen him by daylight
since he came here I should of course have
recognized him instantly. We have met one
another several times in town ; and, in fact, I
heard him read a very able paper at a meeting
of the Royal Society not a fortnight ago. And
I have dined with him once or twice at Balliol,
and had some little talk with him afterwards."

That is indeed curious," replied Muriel. " I

have no doubt he will be very glad to renew

his acquaintance " She hesitated suddenly,

recollecting that her uncle had registered a
solemn vow to renew acquaintance with no man
during his stay in Switzerland. *' So you know
Oxford ? " she inquired with interest, escaping
as she best could from the dilemma in which
this awkward prick of memory had placed her.

"Yes, I know it pretty well," was the reply.
I am a Cambridge man myself  Oxford does
not offer quite the same advantages to intending
members of my profession in some ways  but
I have a young brother resident there, Fellow
and tutor of his colles, in fact, and I run down
every now and then to spend a day with him.
It is one of the most charming places to be
found anywhere in the spring and early summer.
In the winter I should fancy it would be rather
cold and damp. Don't you find it so. Miss
Erskine ? "

I have never been there in the winter," the
girl answered with that irrational feeling of
annoyance common to every human being when
addressed by a name that does not belong to
them. "I don't live at Oxford, I only stay
there occasionally ; my home is in Holmshire.
And I am not an Erskine, by the way," she

added, with what she flattered herself was an
air of easy unconcern. " I am Mrs. Erskine's
niece, in reality ; my mother was her sister, and
my name is Muriel Ferrars." After this confidence,
she thought her interlocutor might as
well reveal his identity also, and even vouchsafe
to explain what he meant by that tantalizing
phrase, "members of my profession." But
having acquired all the information he desired
to gain himself, he did not seem inclined to
impart any. Perhaps he liked playing the part
of rami inconnu a little while longer.

What a beautiful name ! " he murmured half
to himself  audibly enough, however, to be distinctly
heard by Muriel. Then aloud : " I beg
your pardon ; I leapt too hastily to a conclusion
from your saying you were Professor Erskine's
niece. I trust he is quite well ? He is recruiting
after the labours of the Easter term, I suppose
? "

Well," Muriel said laughingly, " one can
scarcely call it recruiting. I should rather say
he was trying whether a change of work could
be made to take the place of rest and recreation
this vacation. He is bringing out a new edition
of his book on the Neo-platonist, with a second
preface and additional notes  in fact, there is

quite a mass of fresh material to be worked in
with the old. And as his doctor said he really
ought to have change of air, he thought he
would come here and combine the change with
quiet for his work."

A capital plan"  rather mischievously  " buta
little monotonous at times for you, I should
think."

"Well  it leaves me a good deal to myself,
certainly, for my aunt helps Professor Erskine
in his work, whatever it may be, and very rarely
leaves him. That must be my excuse for the
solitary expeditions you seem to think so dangerous.
But I don't find it dull. We did a good
deal of sight-seeing on our way here, which has
given me plenty to think about, and I have by
no means got tired of the Yierwaldstattersee yet.
How beautiful it is ! "

Beautiful indeed," said Muriel's companion,
observing with admiring approval the flush of
girlish enthusiasm which overspread her cheeks
as she spoke. " Look round you for a moment
now," he added.

Muriel complied. The sun had nearly set
behind the western mountains, and a few lingering
rays of burnished gold were all that remained
of his actual presence, but a halo of fiery crimson

marked his setting-place and gave promise of
a morrow as bright as the day now closing.
Immediately overhead, two or three fleecy clouds
tinged with a soft shade of pink hung almost
immovable, and the distant east was lit up with
a complete fairy symphony of colour, faint but
none the less lovely reflection of the ruddier
splendours of the west  such green and rose-colour
and saffron hues as might drive even a
Turner to despair. The snowy slopes of the Uri
Eothstock glowed with a warm effulgence caught
from the ruby light above them, while in the
shadow his darker and sterner brethren, the
Frohnalp and Giitschenstock, loomed lofty and
mysterious in their robes of mist purple almost
to blackness. The little glen that had been so
bright and sunny two short hours before was
now plunged in impenetrable darkness, but
through a fissure in the rocks which bordered
it on the southern side a single ray from the fast-sinking
sun fell like a flash of glory on the water
lying in its shadow, and transmuted it suddenly
into a sheet of gold. The old allegory of light
and darkness  illustrated by one of Nature's
most exquisite dissolving views.

I have never seen it so lovely as this before,"
Muriel said in a subdued voice as she turned back.

You are exactly placed for the sunset' was
the response. "I doubt, if you were on some
great height at this moment, whether you would
not lose in detail as much as you would gain by
a more extended view. To-night all the conditions
are perfect, and you looked up just at the
right moment. I was waiting till the climax
arrived to direct your attention to the sky. Did
you see what a cave of blackness that pretty
little cation you were exploring this afternoon
has become ? "

Yes, I noticed it," Muriel answered, shivering
again. The rapid transformation of the sunny
spot which had so won her fancy into a gloomy
chasm of the hills affected her imagination in a
strange and inexplicable manner.

You are cold, I am afraid," said the supposed
Secretary of State. " Surely you had a wrap of
some kind ? Ah ! here it is. Now don't move "
with an imperious gesture  " I can reach it
easily ; " and, suiting the action to the word, he
rose, caught up the garment, and stepping warily
towards Muriel, that young damsel found herself
cloaked without having had time to protest or
demur. She was just realizing the fact of her
companion's height as he stood towering over
her, and beginning to falter in her astonishment

a few words of rather unwilling acknowledgment
of his attention, when he retired as precipitately
as he had advanced, and betook himself to his
oars again.

Is this your first visit to Switzerland, Miss
Ferrars ? " he asked after a while.

"My very first. I have been abroad several
times before, but only in Paris and Germany, so
the scenery here is quite new to me."

You outfit to see Chamounix and Interlaken
and the Engadine before you go back, then ; but
I suppose Professor Erskine does not care to give
up much of his time to travelling ? "

Muriel shook her head. " He won't leave this
place till he has finished the work he came hereto
do. After that, perhaps, T might persuade
him, if there is time enough left before he has
to return to Oxford  he always likes to be in
residence a week before term begins  to go a
little further afield. He said something yesterday
about taking me to the Italian lakes for a fortnight,
if he could manage it. That would be
delightful; I think I should prefer it even to
Chamounix or Interlaken. You know them, I
suppose  the Italian lakes ? "

It might have been fancy, but it seemed to
Muriel, that something very like a spasm of
angry pain passed over the face opposite her.

Yes, I know them "  after a minute's pause 
"but I have not been there for some years  a
good many years, in fact ; and I dare say they
may be altered in some respects, perhaps not for
the better. Probably many of the towns may
have grown larger and so lost some of their
former beauty ; but I cannot tell you positively
it is so long since I was there." He spoke at
random, as if his words were not following the
current of his thoughts, but were uttered mechanically
while his mind was engaged in working
out some mental problem wholly distinct from
the subject of conversation.

My uncle was afraid the lakes might be too
hot in September," Muriel adventured next.
Do sou think we should find them so ? I
believe the autumn is hardly the best time for
them, but it seems such a pity to have Como
and Lugano almost within a stone's throw, just
across the St. Gotthard, and to miss seeing them
after all on account of a little heat."

Como ? " he echoed. " Certainly it would bea
great pity to miss seeing Como, if it is at all
possible. I don't know the place, except in the
spring season, so of course I am not a very good
judge ; but from what I have been told, I think
you would find the heat in September quite

bearable." This utterance was delivered in the
same random manner, with a curious contraction
of the eyes which had struck Muriel as resulting
from her first introduction of the topic, so she
let it drop, seeing that it was for some reason or
other an unwelcome one, and the boat swept on
for a while aoain in silence. At length her new
acquaintance, shaking off the abstraction which
had crept over him, exclaimed : " What a sky !
It is just such a one as I have seen sometimes
in South America."

The sunset flush had almost entirely faded by
this time, and the whole expanse of sky was of
that indescribable shade of colour which is as
much green as blue, melting towards the horizon
into a pearly grey. Although it was still tolerably
light, a few faint stars were beginning to
twinkle in the vault overhead, and the rising
disk of the harvest moon already cast its beams
on the wooded sides of the frowning ranofe ot
heights they were rapidly approaching. The
night promised to be as serene as the day had
been splendid.

"In South America! Then you have been
there ? " said Muriel, after a prolonged gaze
upwards. " I remember you spoke of a canon
just now."

It was rather a misnomer in that case, I fear.
The wild vast South American canons would
hardly acknowledge that miniature glen even asa
distant relation. Yes, I have travelled a good
deal in America, both North and South, in times
gone by  when I was not so busy a man as I am
now. Of late years I have had to content
myself with a short holiday nearer home, or
perhaps with none at all."

This was all decidedly confirmatory of the
rising statesman theory.

"It is a beautiful country, or assemblage of
countries, South America," continued the traveller
who had visited it ; " but one soon tires of it.
All that tropical magnificence becomes very
wearisome to the eye after a few months, or even
weeks, and one longs for the infinite variety of
Europe. This is far better."

They were gliding into the tiny boat-house
attached to the hotel garden as he spoke, and
Muriel's little excursion was at an end. As she
stepped on shore, she summoned all her courage
for a direct effort to pierce the mystery in which
her escort had hitherto seen fit to shroud his
identity.

"I cannot thank you enough for your great
kindness," she said warmly ; then, with a secret

aspiration that the Professor might not prove
intractable and decline to "see the fellow" on
any terms, she added, " My uncle will, I am sure,
be greatly obliged to you too. You have met
him before, so may I tell him to whom I am
indebted ? " She stopped in trepidation at her
own temerity.

"I am delighted to have been of any use,"
was the reply. " My name is Wentworth  pray
give my compliments to Professor Erskine. I
hope you have not taken cold  if I had been
speaking with authority, I should have pronounced
that cloak to be hardly warm enough
for a boating wrap. But fortunately there is
very little breeze."

'' I do not feel at all chilly, thank sou. Goodnight,"
answered Muriel, frankly giving her
hand. Wentworth  Wentworth? Neither amos
political celebrities nor royal academicians could
she recall such a name. She turned away feeling
utterly baffled in all her conjectures.

The bearer of the name in question paused a
moment before securing the two boats in their
places, to watch the light figure flitting upwards
through the dusky garden.

"She has a sweet face," was his unspoken
comment, as he returned to his task, " and quite



the look of a girlish Beatrice at times. Very
charming manners too ; the way in which she
accepted my offer to row her back was perfect.
It was a pretty little adventure altogether.
However, I saw she looked upon me with the
eyes of an Evelyn Hope  * fellow mortals, but
nought beside '  considered me solely from the
fatherly point of view, and so felt quite at her
ease. Well ! better so, perhaps. It would bea
shame to engage in even the most harmless
flirtation with such a child ; she would be sure
to take mere sport au grand series!'

'm-

A NEW EXPERIENCE.

O brave new world,
That has such people in 't ! "

Shakespeare.

Remember him ? " quoth the Professor, as he
helped himself to a second slice of toast.
Certainty I remember him very distinctly. A
tall slim fellow with very dark eyes  and carried
his head like a stag. Rather remarkable-looking
altogether ; not the kind of man one would fail
to recognize after seeing him even once. And I
have seen him some half-dozen times, all told 
perhaps more."

Professor Erskine was breakfasting in good
earnest before entering on the labours of a fresh
day, which may account for the spasmodic
nature of his utterances. The best part of his
attention was plainly given to some excellent

lake-trout before him ; he only bestowed such
remains and fragments of it as he could conveniently
spare upon the hero of Muriel's adventure
on the preceding evening.

I thought him an uncommonly brilliant
fellow," continued Mr. Erskine; "oh, very
brilliant indeed. Quite a phenomenal intellect 
sharp and strong at once, like a finely tempered
steel blade. He carried those two qualities of
sharpness and strength in his face, if I mistake
not. (Muriel, my dear, I shall trouble you to
pass me the salt.) I have a prejudice, perhaps
an unreasonable one, against men of his profession
in general, but I always admired Wentworth.
He is so totally unlike the tribe of clever
advocates, who as a rule appear to me to be cast
in one unvarying mould, mental and moral. I
can usually tell what a specimen of that order
will say on certain subjects, and very nearly how
he will say it, before I even set eyes upon him.
Now, Wentworth deals in surprises. I don't
mean intentional surprises  he never struck meas
artificial or melodramatic  but his nature is
original and he cannot help showing it. Perhaps
I should rather say he has not chosen to let his
originality be crushed by the weight of his
forensic learning, but has had the courage to bea

man per se. There may be profounder lawyers
at the Bar than Wentworth, but I doubt if in
point of genuine talent there is a man among the
younger generation of barristers who can touch
him. All the same, I expect he would prove a
failure on the Bench. Either the ermine would
prove too stifling a wear for him, and reduce his
mind to the ordinary judicial level, or his native
audacity would break out in some unconventional
fashion, and set all his learned brothers trembling
for the dignity of their order."

The Professor chuckled modestly over his
own joke, and applied himself vigorously to his
coffee-cup.

He is a lawyer ? " Muriel exclaimed in astonishment.


Most assuredly he is, and a very distinguished
lawyer too  one of the most distinguished men
at the English Bar. In addition, he has a reputation
which may fairly be called world-wide as
an international jurist. How surprised you look,
Thekla ! " (This was the Professor's pet appellation
for his favourite niece.)

"I am surprised, Uncle Alec. When I was
speculating on Mr. Wentworth's probable profession
yesterday, I decided that, among other impossibilities,
he could not possibly be a lawyer."

You confirm my view of his personality then,"
returned Mr. Erskine, " but I wonder you have
not heard of him before."

I don't think I ever did. In what way is he
so clever, Uncle Alec ? What has he done ? "

If you ask me what he has done, I must refer
you to the newspapers and legal records, for of
course his greatest triumphs have been won in
Westminster Hall; and I don't profess to have
gone very deeply into his pet subject of International
Law. But he has a pretty taste in art
and literature, where I can follow him better,
and I should certainly gather from his non-professional
talk and writing that he is a man of
very unusual gifts. He happened to choose a
legal career, and he has succeeded marvellously ;
but he would have succeeded equally well in
half a dozen others for which he was at least
quite as well fitted."

"Then Mr. Went worth writes?" Muriel asked
in an awestruck tone.

Yes, he writes a good deal  chiefly on scientific
or purely literary subjects as a rule," said
Mrs. Erskine, joining for the first time in the
conversation. "Are you sure you never heard
of him, dear ? "

Never, Aunt Isabel. You see, I have been so

VOL. I. 8

little in London, or in society at all as yet, that
I know nothing about any one, excepting people
whose names are constantly in the papers."

"Paul Wentworth's name is mentioned there
pretty often, I fancy," remarked the Professor,
with a flourish of the bread-knife. " In many
ways he is quite one of our men of light and
leading, and he does not repose himself upon his
early laurels. He evidently considers it the duty
of a leader to keep his place in the van of progress,
so he is often before the public in one
capacity or another."

"Well, I must plead my youth and lack of
general information as an excuse for such shameful
ignorance," said Muriel merrily. " It is the
only one I have to offer."

"A very sufficient one," answered the Professor
; " and as you have made Mr. Wentworth's
acquaintance, you can easily make up for your
deficiency of information touching the facts of
his past history by inducing him to relate them
to you at first hand. I have no doubt he will
be quite ready to impart the tale. I have noticed
that he has a very good opinion of himself, like
most of these young fellows in the present
day."

Surely," Muriel said questioningly, " you

would not call Mr. Wentworth young ? I don't
mean that he is old, of course "  with an apologetic
air  "but I never thought of him for a
moment as a young man."

Ah, to you ! " returned Professor Erskine,
with an expressive gesture of indulgent condescension
highly irritating to the youthful
mind. " Let me see, how old are you, Muriel ?
Eighteen, nineteen ? Well, Wentworth might
number years enough to own a daughter of your
age, and still be reckoned a comparatively young
man. Perhaps, however, he may be rather older
than I imagined or recollected at first. I believe
we have been in the same room on semi-public
occasions once or twice lately, but it is several
years since we met each other face to face, and
if you don't see a man, you forget how time has
sped with him. I caught myself, only last night,
thinking of poor Jamie MacDonald  him that
went out to Sydney in '47, you will be recollecting.
Belle, my dear  as a fresh-coloured lad with
yellow curls. Doubtless by this time he is a
worn, grizzled old fellow like myself But what
a handsome laddie he used to be; and how
bright and hopeful ho looked when I saw him
last ! Ah, well, his has been ' a tale not new,
nor joyful, but a common talc,' I fear. And how

he despised me in the days lang syne for having
no ambition beyond my books ! "

The Professor, who had brought his meal to a
conclusion some minutes before, sat on with one
arm leaning over the back of his chair, lost for a
moment or two in a rush of memories and associations
which softened every harsh and unlovely
line in his rugged Scotch face; and his wife's
countenance caught his altered expression, and
reflected it like a faithful mirror. She did not
speak; the entire sympathy between her and
her husband needed no vehicle of words for its
conveyance from heart to heart. She simply
smiled at him ; and a close observer might have
noted a suspicion of tears in her faded blue eyes.
But the girl on her right hand was not observing
her closely. This sudden divergence from the
former subject of conversation to unintelligible
reminiscences of obscure persons  unknown, and
therefore, from her point of view, uninteresting 
provoked and disappointed her. Mr. Wentworth
was the living interest of the hour ; why could
not the Professor continue to discuss him, instead
of flying off at a tangent about this tiresome Mr.
James Macdonald, who was evidently no credit
to his friends? It really was very annoying
that whenever Mr. Erskine, in his family circle

at least, happened to state any general proposition,
the examples he adduced to illustrate it
should be so apt to divert his flow of talk into
some fresh channel leading anywhere but in the
direction which his mind appeared to be taking
originally. Muriel felt indignantly that he would
not venture to ramble on in this inconsequent
fashion in Balliol common-room, or elsewhere
among his male acquaintance. Why should
she, his niece, be so treated ? She determined
on a desperate eftbrt to recall his wandering-thoughts.


Do you know," she said (in what she herself
felt to be a rather over-bright and incisive
manner), 'what I did suppose Mr. Went worth
to be at first sight, Uncle Alec ? "

She watched the effect of her interposition
with anxiety. Would the Professor remain, ashe
sometimes did, sunk in the half-pleasant, half-melancholy
abstraction which had seized upon
him, and which his devoted helpmate would
never have dreamt of disturbing by a word ?
Would he, as was his habit on other occasions,
go on with his own topic of interest, wholly
regardless of the query addressed to him; or
would he be persuaded for once to resume the
dropped thread of his former discourse ? To her

delight, he awoke from his reflective dream, and
replied at once to her question.

Oh, you had a theory about him, had you ? "
he said banteringly. " You are exactly the kind
of girl to go about the world fitting caps to
heads, my dear Thekla, Let us hear if this one
is a tolerable fit."

"On the contrary, it is a ludicrous misfit, I
am afraid. I made up my mind that he was
a distinguished M.P., and probably a Cabinet
Minister."

Upon my word, a very dignified top-knot !
Wentworth need feel no resentment at its imposition.
I think  I would tell him of it when
I see him, but that I should be sorry to feed
his conceit any fatter than it is at present."

The Professor laughed good-humouredly, while
Muriel was conscious of a feeling of unreasonably
strong satisfaction that he should, by his last
words, have implied some intention of making
an exception to his rigid rule of abstention from
the society of his fellow-countrymen in the case
of Mr. Wentworth.

I am surprised," continued the speaker, after
having his laugh out, " at your assigning Wentworth
so grand a part in the drama of life. From
the disparaging manner in which you dismissed

his claims to youth just now, I concluded he had
not impressed you very favourably." (Which
conclusion showed that the Professor, however
acute he might be as a metaphysician, was not
keenly alive to the peculiarities of maidens in
their teens.) " Yours is not a bad idea, after all ;
we may see it realized some day, perhaps. I
fancied three years ago that Wentworth had a
hankering after political life. He seemed rather
contemptuous of legal honours and rewards, and
in spite of your unflattering judgment, Muriel,
he is young enough to enter on a new career
with good prospect of success. As to money, he
must have made a considerable fortune already."

Perhaps he has a family for whom to lay up
further treasure," suggested Mrs. Erskine. "Is
he married, Alec ? "

I am sure I don't know," replied her husband
with an air of perplexity, rumpling his parti-coloured
locks into hopeless confusion. " I have
met him more than once at mixed parties, but no
Mrs. Wentworth appeared on the scene, nor did
I ever hear that such a lady was in existence."
(The worthy Professor's knowledge of the world
of London society was of a very limited order,
as may be observed.) " I fancy Wentworth must
be a bachelor  or he may have married young,

possibly, and been left early a widower. I
know nothing of his private history, nor of his
antecedents, beyond the fact of his being a
Cambridge man. I dare say your cousin Noel
Johnston could tell you all about him, Belle, if
you are curious on the subject."

I am not in the least curious," Mrs. Erskine
rejoined in her most impassive manner.

"Which reply was very provoking to Muriel,
who would have been ready to put Mr. Noel
Johnston through a searching cross-examination
on the spot, could she have had the opportunity
of an interview with that estimable Fellow of
Trinity. This privilege being denied her, she
was fain to content herself with her uncle's
desultory remarks. He went on, warming to
the subject of his discourse :

Probably Wentworth has made a bride of his
ambition. He is a very ambitious fellow, that
has always been plain to me. He is quite aware
of his own talents, and I will not say values them
unduly, but at any rate values them fully, and
can estimate correctly to the uttermost farthing
the interest such capital should bring him in.
He is not a pottering old bookworm like me " 
here Mrs. Erskine shook her head in affectionate
deprecation of this self-depreciatory utterance 

but a man of energy and enterprise, who loves 
quite naturally  to shine in the world, as he is
very well fitted to do. And why on earth should
not he ? " demanded the Professor argumentatively,
as if one of his patient auditors had
advanced some proposition to the contrary.
Why not, I say ? If a man knows all the
light he can give out will never exceed the
illuminating power of a miserable farthing
candle, of course he had better hide his modest
lamp under a decent bushel of humility ; but if
he feels himself capable of shedding real radiance,
in Heaven's name let him shine ! The business
of a star is to give light. And would you have
such a man brighten the world for his fellowmen,
imagining himself a useless dark globe
all the while ? The thing is impossible. No
man ever taught or benefited humanity unconsciously;
and a healthily constituted mind
will always feel its own powers without dwelling
on them more than is fit and needful." The
orator paused, not for tokens of assent or applause,
which he neither required nor expected, but
simply to take breath after his outburst of indignation
against an imaginary opponent ; then
he resumed in more measured accents the tenor
of his oration. " Wentworth's ambition would be

specially useful to him in a public career," he
said; 'useful after a peculiar fashion. In the
majority of cases it acts as a spur, but in his it
would be a curb to keep him from running his
head against stone walls. He has the elements
of recklessness in him, but his ambition would
probably save him from anything outrageously
desperate and unconventional. Don't look so
scornfully superior, Muriel. Of course you think
every member of the national legislature should
be actuated only by pure patriotism. I thought
so once too, my child ; but I have learnt to my
cost that we must reckon with the world as it is,
and not as we would have it. However, there
are some noble fellows who realize, or very
nearly realize, one's ideals  but they are few in
number, Thekla, very few. Well," he added
more cheerfully, rousing himself from the melancholy
abstraction into which he seemed inclined
to sink again, " I think we must break up this
conference. We must to work, my dear Isabel ;
you have the paper of notes we made yesterday
down here, have you not ? " He led the way
into the next room. " If jou will turn to Book
III., page seventy-one, tenth line, 'Porphyry' " 
He had forgotten Muriel's presence and Wentworth's
existence as completely as if both were
denizens of another planet.

The girl betook herself to her old refuge in
the garden, and spent all the hours of the long
summer morning there. She held a book in her
hand most of the time, but it is doubtful whether
she actually read half a dozen pages. To begin
with, the day was very hot, and therefore unfavourable
to any kind of mental exertion, while
the volume Muriel had brought with her to the
lake-side was rather abstruse, requiring something
of a mental effort to discover and enjoy
its obscure beauties. Then the scene before her
was so lovely  she found her eyes wandering continually
from the printed page in the calf-covered
volume to the exquisite poem written in lines of
light on the sleeping lake at her feet and its surrounding
rampart of guardian heights. And as her
eyes travelled from peak to peak, her thoughts
half-unconsciously traversed again the brief history
of her yesterday's adventure. She must have
been a little excited at the time, she supposed,
or else why should every word of the desultory
and apparently unimportant talk which passed
between herself and Mr. Wentworth have become
indelibly impressed upon her memory ? She
found herself treating her uncle's statements and
remarks at breakfast that morning as a kind of
commentary upon the original text of this conversation,

and trying to elucidate the latter by
their light. Finally, she fell to wondering
whether she should have any opportunity of
verifying the conclusions at which, upon these
somewhat meagre data, she had arrived. Would
the interesting person whose acquaintance she
had made in so unconventional a manner stay
much longer at the Hotel Mythen ? Very likely
not; he had been there five days already, and
the place was not calculated for a lengthened
sojourn. Even if he did remain some little time
longer, and Professor Erskine continued in his
present amiable and sociable frame of mind, it
would be a difficult task to bring the two men together.
Mr. Wentworth had hitherto scrupulously
avoided all the other inmates of his temporary
abode, and never showed himself in any public
room or frequented spot out of doors ; while as
to the Professor, now that he had entered again
with redoubled zeal on his work, and allowed
himself to become absorbed in Messrs. Porphyry
and Co., as Muriel flippantly styled the transcendental
philosopher and his school, there was
no saying how many days might elapse before
he would again condescend to turn his thoughts
to sublunary matters. It was, undeniably, very
provoking to live in the house with so distinguished

a man  one, too, who had rendered you
a signal service  and yet be cut off from all
possibility of intercourse with him. Books are
all very well, but one cannot read for ever, and
Muriel had heard some one say that you might
learn more in a few days by association with
an original and cultivated mind than could be
acquired by years of study. In such speculations
did the morning wear away ; so swiftly,
indeed, that Muriel was slightly ashamed as well
as surprised when the luncheon-bell roused her
from her reverie.

Her midday meal was eaten in haste and in
solitude. Mrs, Erskine had sent down a message
desiring her own luncheon and the Professor's to
be brought to them upstairs, the morning's work
having reached a stage which would not admit
of more than momentary interruption, so Muriel
hurried over her cutlets and omelet with a
certain trepidation at finding herself alone in
the bare, half-furnished salle-manger, the sole
object of attention to the host and his two
heavy-handed subordinates. She was glad when
she could escape from the wide, sunshiny room,
with its light walls and empty tables, into the
open air again.

Everything was very still. The landscape

slept under the steady brilliancy of the afternoon
sun ; not a creature stirred in house or
garden. The German family and the English
and Swiss spinsters were alike away for the day,
making excursions in one direction or another ;
the Belgian lawyer had left for Italy in the
morning. Upstairs, behind the closed persiennes,
Muriel could just distinguish her aunt's sweet
monotonous tones, as she read a passage aloud
from time to time. On the verandah, a sleepy
cat basked in the sunniest corner, and blinked
lazily at the girl as she passed. "Everything
seems asleep this afternoon," Muriel said to herself,
" but I am not going to follow everything's
example. Four hours wasted in one day is
enough in all conscience."

She returned to her morning's seat, but as
reading had already proved itself so unattractive,
she did not this time take a book with her.
Instead, she spread out her sketching paraphernalia
with much care and pomp, and applied
herself vigorously to a half-finished drawing of
the Frohnalp. For about twenty minutes she
worked steadily. Then her pencil began to pause
and waver, and at last stopped altogether. She
was again busy interpreting yesterday's text by
the light of this morning's commentary  so busy,

SO absorbed even, that she did not hear a footstep
crossing the grassy slope behind her, and started
perceptibly when a voice said over her shoulder,
You are putting this heavenly afternoon to
exactly its proper use."

Mr. Wentworth came into view as he spoke,
raising his hat, and smiling slightly.

Muriel coloured as she returned his salutation.
I should be puzzled to know what use I am
putting it to," she rejoined. " I fear I must
plead guilty to having spent a considerable part
of it in doing nothing."

Absolutely nothing ? " inquired Wentworth,
fixing his keen glance full upon her.

'' Well," answered Muriel, laughing to conceal
her embarrassment under this sudden cross-examination,
" I came out with the full intention
of drawing, but I am afraid I have spent my
time in thinking idly."

I was right then. You were dreaming, as I
supposed when I looked down upon you from
the top of that bank just now ; and this afternoon
was specially made to dream in. You have
shown your artistic sense of the fitness of things
in so employing it."

"I am very much obliged to you for judging
me so leniently." Muriel tried to speak lightly

and unconcernedly, feeling unaccountably confused
all the while, and conscious of a momentarily
increasing desire to get up and run away.
However, she decided that this course would be
both childish and ill-bred, and she was further
aware, in spite of her fears, of a lurking wish to
stay where she was. So she sat resolutely still,
though the complete silence of the next few
moments tried her composure sorely. Perhaps
her companion, who remained perfectly cool
and collected, noted the nervous pressure of her
hands one over another, and took pity on her
embarrassment, for he strolled leisurely nearer,
and asked kindly,. "Will you let me look at your
work ? "

With pleasure," Muriel responded with alacrity
 anything was better than sitting still
under scrutiny in dead silence. " But I fear it
is not worth the looking at. This sketch is only
half done, and I have had very little practice in
drawing from nature."

"Your middle distance is a little out of perspective,"
said Mr. Wentworth straightforwardly,
*' and there is something wrong with these trees
in the foreground. Do you see what it is ?
They give one the impression of growing actually
in the water itself, instead of on the ledge above

it. Can you put that right ? Or "  as Muriel's
pencil moved hesitatingly towards the spot
indicated  "perhaps you will allow me to show
you what I mean ? "

Muriel held out her drawings-board like a child
who has received its master's orders, and Wentworth
seated himself on the bench at her side.

"Forgive my tutorial airs," he said, as he
rapidly effaced Muriel's error, and traced in its
room a fresh foreground, workings with swift,
easy movements, very unlike poor Muriel's painstaking
and deliberate outlines. " I act so often
as my little girls' drawing-master, that I fall
into the part unconsciously."

His little girls ! Mr. Wentworth was married,
then, after all.

Of course they are not such advanced pupils
as yourself," he went on without looking up.
The youngest, indeed, is a mere beginner ; but
I think Estelle, the elder one, will sketch very
prettily in a year or two. She takes great
delight in it." His face was very pleasantly
transfigured as he spoke; every severe line in
it gradually relaxed and softened, while his eyes
grew bright with a subdued radiance.

"How old is lie ? " Muriel inquired.

"My Stella?" Paul Wentworth was fairly

VOL. 1. y

smiling now. " She is between twelve and thirteen
; Mabel is a sear younger. They are very
bright children," he added, " and wonderfully intelligent
for their age. But for having some rather
engrossing work to complete by a fixed date, I
should have brought them with me to Switzerland
this time  they would have enjoyed the life here
excessively. But I really dared not. Had they
been here, I should have felt bound to spend
most of my time in boating  in fact, very little
choice would have been left me. There are no
tyrants like one's children. So I was obliged to
send them to their aunt in Devonshire instead.
Poor little things ! it is hard on them."

Mr. Wentworth spoke so much as if he were his
little daughters' sole guardian and protector that
Muriel began to think her uncle must have been
correct in his surmise, and that her self-constituted
drawing-master was really a widower.
His next words confirmed the idea.

They are so accustomed to have me for a
companion in their holidays, that I am afraid
they look upon me as a heartless deserter this
summer. I have a little cottage in Surrey," he
went on, turning towards Muriel and balancing
her pencil between two of his fingers, "and I
spend the greater part of my holidays there with

them, and my Sundays as well whenever I can
manage to leave town. So we are rarely apart."

Not a word, not a hint breathed of the possible
wife and mother ! Muriel thought there was
only one conclusion to be drawn from this significant
silence.

"They must miss you very much when you
are away," she murmured, feeling compelled to
make some remark.

"Not so much as I miss them," returned
Wentworth, with a half-sigh. "But for their
companionship, I should be often lonely indeed."

He glanced at Muriel in order to see what
effect this little speech, sincere enough in sentiment,
yet not uttered without deliberate purpose,
and curiously typical in its mixture of truth and
art of the strange contradictory elements which
went to make up the speaker's nature, produced
upon her. To his surprise he found his words
had conveyed an impression he certainly had not
intended them to convey. The questioning look
he had observed hovering on the girl's face a
moment or two before gave place to one of
reverent sympathy, while her eyes wandered
stealthily to the fingers which held the pencil,
as if seekini2f there a tangible evidence of his
bereaved condition. He had difficulty for the

first minute in stifling his amusement at the mistake
in which she had fallen, although his inward
mirth was to a certain extent dashed with
bitterness.

When he had recovered himself sufficiently,
he rose and returned the little sketch. " Can
you manage to work on from this ? " he inquired.

'' I will try. Oh, thank you ! but think how
my work will look beside yours 1 "

He smiled indulgently. " You must remember
that I have had a good many years' intermittent
practice at this kind of thing. You have plenty
of time before you ; you have only to work
hard."

I wish I had worked harder at school, when
I had so many opportunities of improving,"
Muriel answered regretfully. " I always neglected
landscape in those days and insisted on drawing
figures, to my master's great disgust. Now I
feel the ill consequences of my self-will."

Did you draw from the life ? "

"Figures? No, not at school; it was not
permitted. But during the last year, since I
went home, I have taken every one's portrait
who would condescend to sit to me."

Have sou any examples in this ? " asked
Mr. Wentworth, possessing himself of Muriel's

portfolio. " You have no objection to my looking
at them, I hope ? Ah ! whom have we here ? "
as he extracted from the portfolio's depths a
vignette drawing of a handsome elderly man
with well-cut features and a frank bonhomie
of expression.

My father," replied the young limner with a
blush.

"It is capitally drawn. You knew your line
in art best, Miss Ferrars  there is a great deal
of life and vigour in that head. And this is a
brother, doubtless ? The likeness to the first
portrait is very marked."

Yes, my brother George. He is a scholar of
St. Bride's."

Of which fact you are no doubt justly proud.
I know several of the Fellows of St. Bride's
rather intimately, by the way. But what is
this ? A study for a head of Permit, or La
Petite Fayette ? " He held out a half-length in
water-colours of Lucy in a blue cotton gown and
a wide gipsy hat.

Your sister ! "  when Muriel had murmured
the requisite information. " Are you considered
alike ? "

Generally. We are often mistaken for one
another, though Lucy is a head shorter than I."

There is a certain likeness, I see," Wentworth
said, looking from the living to the pictured
face and back again, "but I cannot understand
mistaking one for the other. The difference is
at least as strongly marked as the resemblance.
And is this another brother ? " He had drawn
out a fresh portrait, and was scanning the features
of Jack Arlingham.

No," answered Muriel, colouring furiously, to
her own great annoyance. " We have only one
brother. Jack  Mr. Rhino-ham  is our nearest
neighbour, and we have known each other ever
since we could speak. In fact, he is almost like
a brother, though we are not related."

I see," returned Wentworth stiffly. He put
down the picture without further audible comment,
but inwardly he relieved himself by
ejaculating, " This girl is like the rest. I thought
she was fresh, and simple, and unsophisticated,
and now behold her all blushes at the mention
of that excessively ordinary looking youth, who
should be a thorough yokel from his expression.
However, it is no business of mine."

I think you have a decided talent for figure-drawing,"
he continued aloud, politely, "and
I recommend you to cultivate it." He replaced
the drawings as he spoke, and re-tied the strings

of the portfolio. "Very interesting work you
will find it, and far more exciting than landscape.
It is so pleasant to be able to preserve portraits
of your friends to carry about with you ; intime
you will get quite a gallery. I am sorry to
say I must not linger longer over your pictures
now ; my work claims me."

He was turning away abruptly, when a glance
at the girl's startled face, and the faltering sound
of the thanks she interposed for his advice and
assistance, arrested him for a moment.

"I am extremely glad to have been of any
help to you," he answered in a mollified tone ;
then, relaxing still further after a second glance
at her, he added, '' I will only say au revoir ; we
shall meet ao-ain this evening." He raised his
hat and left her.

Muriel came down to dinner at seven o'clock
with those last words still rino-ino- in her ears.
All through the protracted meal she sat on
thorns, alternately wondering whether she should
be able to beguile the Professor into the garden
after it was over, and reproaching herself for
having omitted to introduce her uncle's name into
the morning's conversation, since its introduction
might have paved the way for an interview between
him and his quondam acquaintance. Mr,

Wentworth interested her personally ; but she was
dazzled chiefly by his reputation, especially as a
writer. Like most imaginative girls of her age,
whose knowledge of books greatly exceeds their
knowledge of the world, she looked upon a man
of letters as belonging to a higher order of beings.
To associate with such a one would indeed bea
supreme honour, which she would not forego
for worlds. And in addition, there is no doubt
that the subtle fascination which Wentworth
exercised, when he chose to do so, more or less
over every one who came in his way, already held
sway over Muriel's girlish imagination; the
peculiar force and intensity of his nature seemed
to act like a magnet on hers. Something there
was so suggestive of facile power, and harmonizing
so perfectly with her uncle's estimate of
his remarkable intellectual gifts, about all
Wentworth did  even his fashion of correcting
her poor little sketch  that she felt justified in
her desire to know him better. '' He is so
different from any one I ever knew before," she
pleaded inwardly in self-excuse, while endeavouring
to entertain the Professor between the
courses of the slow-moving repast.

That gentleman considered he had done a
good day's work, and was disposed to spend

half an hour in agreeable relaxation. Therefore,
when they rose from table, he delighted his
niece by proposing a turn in the garden while
he smoked his post-prandial cigar.

Then I shall wait for you here," said Mrs.
Erskine, turning into the salon on the opposite
side of the hall. "I am rather afraid of the
night air myself. I suppose. Alec, you will be
back in time to write those letters ready for the
early post ? "

Certainly, certainly," said the Professor,
drawings his niece's hand throao-h his arm. The
pair were turning away together, when Mrs.
Erskine's voice stopped them.

Muriel ! Before sou go out, I wish you
would run upstairs to my room and see if you
can find the Revue des Deux Mondes for April.
I believe it is either in my russet-leather trunk,
or at the bottom of your uncle's smaller wooden
case."

The Professor let 20 Muriel's hand with a
good-natured nod and " You will find me by the
lake when you have fetched your aunt's magazine."
Then he leisurely pursued his way, while
the maiden flew upstairs to perform Mrs. Erskine's
behest.

Of course the book was not in either of the

places suggested by its owner. Muriel's search
was a honor one, and when at len<:th she had
unearthed the coveted review from among a heap
of rugs, shawls, and old newspapers, and placed
it, breathless, in Mrs. Erskine's quietly waiting
hands, quite a quarter of an hour had elapsed.
Her aunt looked after her for a moment as she
sped with glowing cheeks down the steep incline
towards the garden. ''A very excitable child,
I am afraid," she said to herself, as she turned
back to her periodical. Then she lost herself in
an article on recent translations from Sophocles,
and thought no more about the matter.

In the lime walk which ran along the edge of
the lake it was already dusk, but Muriel could
just distinguish her uncle standing close to the
water's brink, with a taller, slighter figure beside
him. The Professor and Wentworth had met,
and were already engaged in earnest conversation.


Muriel was seized with a sudden and unaccountable
fit of shyness just as she was on the
point of joining them. After having hurried
desperately to meet the Professor, her first
thought was to make good her escape without
his seeing: her. She was turning back amonj
the trees unperceived, as she imagined, when her

uncle's companion stepped forward, exclaiming,
Miss Ferrars at last ! We have been waiting
till you came to stroll to the point yonder " 
indicating it with his hand  " where we shall get
a good view of the moon rising over the Bristen-
stock. You are coming with us, I hope ? "

"Of course she is," the Professor answered for
her, as the girl slipped round to his side, murmuring
a half-audible assent. " My niece hasa
passion for moonlight, like most girls of her
age." (A remark which profoundly irritated the
subject thereof) " About these papers of poor

Lewes', Mr. Wentworth. You were saying "

He picked up the thread of the literary discussion
which had been ooino forward at the
moment of Muriel's appearance on the scene, and
continued it as if he and Wentworth were still
tete-astute.

Arrived at the "point," a small elevated promontory
from which a sheer cliff ran down
into the lake, the girl withdrew from her uncle's
side, and, seating herself on the low stone wall
which bounded the plateau, gazed down into
the tranquil depths below, where a single beam
of silvery light from the rising moon served to
throw into stronger relief the intense blackness
of the surrounding shadows. Truth to tell,

she was a little hurt at the total disregard of
her presence shown b} her companions. She
was accustomed to such oblivion on the Professor's
part ; but hitherto Mr. Wentworth had
been so kind and courteous ! However, it was
absurd of her to feel annoyed. A mere country
girl could have no subjects in common with a
clever man of the world, and it was natural that
Mr. Wentworth should prefer her uncle's more
interesting conversation.

If Muriel had been more observant and experienced,
she would have seen that while Paul
Wentworth talked to the Professor, his keen eyes
scarcely quitted her own downcast face. Not
an effect of light and shadow, not an expression
of interest or a shade of disappointment which
crossed it, was lost upon him. He was watching
her still as she sat drooping on the wall, her
very attitude unconsciously expressive of annoyance
and dissatisfaction, with the suggestion of
a smile on his lips.

When she looked round, after a minute or
two, he had moved away to some little distance,
mountain-glass in hand. Her uncle, however,
was still close to her, and she seized the opportunity
of this disengaged moment to proffer a
petition which had been hovering on her lips

for the last half-hour. She was still warmly
arguing and pleading her cause when Wentworth
rejoined them.

Tell this importunate damsel' said the Professor
to the other man, " that time and the post
wait for no man  and no woman ; and that her
romantic fancies must give way to my business
letters."

How comes it that the two interests clash
on this occasion ? " inquired Wentworth, with
one of his swift glances at Muriel.

She wants me to throw all consideration of
tomorrow's early post to the winds, and row
her out to look at the Axenberg by moonlight,"
replied Erskine, with a deep resonant laugh.

And you are not tempted, as an indulgent
uncle ? " Wentworth spoke to Mr. Erskine, but
he looked again at Mr. Erskine's niece.

''I am an exceedingly indulgent uncle  I
appeal to you for your testimony, Thekla  but
one must draw the line somewhere, and I draw
it at leaving necessary letters unwritten. I am
very sorry for your disappointment, my dear."

Wentworth drew out his watch and glanced
at it. " It is just ten minutes past nine," he
said. " I have one letter to write myself, but
it is a short one. I have plenty of time to take

Miss Ferrars out for half an hour, if you will
trust her to me. Will you go ? " he asked, with
a sudden softening of his voice as he turned to
the girl.

"Of course she Avill be delighted." (The
Professor was answering for Muriel again.)
Very kind of you, I am sure. I hope it will
not cause you any inconvenience ? You are
certain? Then I will to my correspondence
with an easy conscience."

The care of a beautiful niece of nineteen sat
very lightly upon the shoulders of Oxford's foremost
metaphysician !

I'll go on and get the boat ready," Wentworth
responded with alacrity. His quick intuition
had enabled him to gauge the depths of
Mr. Erskine's simplicity and ignorance of the
world's ways from the first moment, or perhaps
he would never have made his rather audacious
proposal. However, if slightly unconventional,
the expedition was also perfectly harmless  Miss
Ferrars being, as he had remarked the night
before, almost a child in years.

You had better bring a cloak with you," he
added, addressing her more particularly ; " we
shall find it fresh on the water. Surely you are
not nervous ? "  in a lower tone, as the colour

came and went in Muriel's cheek. " You have
tested my powers as an oarsman already, remember."


*' Oh no ; I am not nervous."

I am very trustworthy," Wentworth called
out over his shoulder as he strode away. " I
have learnt to be careful myself, though I have
not yet succeeded in persuading my children to
learn prudence from me."

"Paterfamilias after all, then," remarked the
Professor, as soon as Wentworth was out of
earshot.

Yes," returned Muriel ; " but you must be
careful not to say anything about his wife,
Uncle Alec. From what he let fall this morning,
when talking about his little girls, I fancy
he is a widower."

"Ah! a tender subject, very likely. Poor
fellow ! poor fellow ! "

The Professor did not speak again till they
reached the hotel and his wife came out to meet
them. Then he suggested that she might lend
the shawl she was wearing to Muriel for a boating
wrap.

Are sou going out so late alone, dear ? " Mrs.
Erskine asked doubtfully.

"Not alone, Aunt Isabel. Mr. Wentworth

offered to take me for half an hour, as Uncle
Alec could not go, and Uncle Alec accepted forme

; but if you have any objection " Muriel

was not wholly free from misgivings as she
looked up inquiringly into her aunt's face. But
she had not sought for counsel in the right
quarter.

*' Very kind of Mr. Wentworth," answered
the guileless child of fifty whom she addressed,
unconsciously echoing her husband's lately
uttered words. " I am only too glad you should
have some responsible friend to take you,
Muriel. . I don't quite like those solitary boating
expeditions of yours. Run away and enjoy
yourself, but don't keep Mr. Wentworth out
too long and make yourself a trouble to him."
She spoke exactly as she might have spoken to
a child of seven years old sent out to play.

As long as she lives Muriel will never forget
that evening, when the cloudless skies above her
head might fitly have symbolized her unclouded
enjoyment of the hour. She had not been
seated three minutes in the stern of Wentworth's
boat before all her embarrassment and
shyness left her. Her companion applied himself
to putting her at her ease, and he succeeded
marvellously well. He talked on general subjects

 books, pictures, plays, scenery; even
touching lightly on politics by the way  talked
as Muriel had never heard any one talk before,
yet with such simplicity and absence of affectation
that she was not overpowered by his
brilliancy. On the contrary, she found herself
replying with ease and fluency, and with an
absence of constraint such as she had never
experienced before, except when alone with her
brother and sister.

Meanwhile the oars kept up their rhythmic
music, and the keel of the boat rippled softly
through the glassy waters ; and the Axenberg
loomed frowning and mysterious against the
sky, its peaks all white and shimmering in the
transfiguring moonlight, while the kindly darkness
veiled its scarred sides and rugged precipices;
and the moments glided by so quickly
that Muriel could scarcely believe her ears when,
just as she sprang ashore at the landing-place,
eleven strokes rang out from the village church
tower a little way off.

I had no idea it was so late ! " she exclaimed.

Nor I," said her companion softly. " I think
it has been pleasant ? " There was a note of
interrogation in his voice.

Oh, I have enjoyed it more than I can tell !

VOL. I. 10

Thank you so very much for taking me." She
gave him her hand as she spoke.

He answered, as he held it for a moment,
"You must let me take you again. Goodnight."


LE MOT DE l'ENIGME.

This should have been a noble creature ; he
Hath all the energy which would have made
A goodly frame of glorious elements,
Had they been wisely mingled ; as it is,
It is an awful chaos light and darkness 
And mind and dust and passions and pure thoughts,
Mix'd and contending without end or order,
All dormant or destructive."

Byron.

The following day was Sunday. It broke upon
the Lake of the Four Forest Cantons as brightly
as those which preceded it, and seemed the
earnest of another week of " blue, unclouded
weather." The atmosphere was so thoroughly
sun warmed, that to an English frame, accustomed
to the damps and chills which too often pervade
the air during the reign of that chequered and
tantalizing season which we are pleased to call
summer in the British Isles, it suggested repose

rather than exertion. Under such skies, beside
such waters, what need of seeking further for
scenes of beauty and interest ? Surely an attentive
eye for what already lay within view, and
a capacity for idly enjoying the beneficent rays
of Phoebus Apollo, as he flung them abroad in
careless profusion, piercing the shade of the
thickest trees, and penetrating into every crevice
and cranny of the granite cliffs, seemed all that
was required of any intelligent being on that
tranquil sunshiny sabbath morning at the foot
of the Axenberg.

So at least Paul Wentworth thought, as he
extended himself lazily on the grass in a pleasant,
shady spot near the Mythen boat-house. In
obedience to that force of custom which holds
sway over the habits of many Englishmen who
have almost ceased to regard the first day of the
week from a religious point of view, he had laid
aside his usual literary occupation, and was
keeping holiday after his own fashion, with a
new poem of Mr. Swinburne's in his hand in
place of a volume of sermons. As far as he
knew, he had no opportunity of attending public
worship that Sunday ; but I am bound to confess
that, had the opportunity presented itself, it is
more than doubtful whether he would have

embraced it. Like a former worthy Bishop of
the Church in East Anglia, whose laxity of
attendance at the cathedral services 2:ave seat
occasion of scandal to his venerable verger,
Wentworth must be acknowledged by any biographer
with the faintest regard for historical
accuracy to have been " not at all a church-going
gentleman." Such rare attendances as he vouchsafed
from time to time within the walls of any
sacred building were generally due to a desire
to gratify his children's wishes, or to avoid
shocking what he called their innocent prejudices;
for the rest he was too careless of the
world's censure to attempt to buy its good
opinion by acts of spurious piety. He cherished
a profound and manly contempt for weaklings
who would fain compound for the sins of the
six working days of the week by punctual
attendance at matins on the seventh.

Yet Wentworth was no unbeliever. He
would have repelled with indignation a charge
of agnosticism, and an accusation of atheism
would have made him shudder. His was the
eager, restless, impassioned type of intellect
which will not suffer its possessor to rest content
with mere negation, or to acquiesce in the complete
suspension of judgment upon all subjects

outside the range of scientific demonstration
which is the leading feature of the agnostic creed ;
while from the darker abyss of materialism his
powerful imagination alone would have sufficed
to save him. No highly imaginative man ever
made a thoroughgoing sceptic ; and Wentworth,
though without distinct poetic gifts, possessed
many of the peculiarities inherent in the poetic
temperament. He spared not to pour out the
vials of his deepest wrath and finest scorn on
the devoted heads of those arrogant members of
the scientific hierarchy who would banish the
Creator from His own world, and correct His
designs by the light of the lamp which burns in
the nineteenth-century laboratory. The materializing
effect which the study of physical
science  a very favourite study of Wentworth's
is popularly supposed to have on many men's
minds, his mind had succeeded in throwing off"
altogether. He yielded to no man in his frank
reverence for Nature, the divine masterpiece
which it was his delight to investigate ; and the
flippant blasphemies of certain German scientists
shocked his moral sense  a sense of which he
was by no means destitute, faulty as were his
methods of practical living  by their impiety no
less than they revolted his refined taste by their

coarseness. The truth or falsehood of Christianity
was a question which as a rule he declined
to discuss ; but there was nothing supercilious
in the attitude of silence he assumed towards the
subject. Pressed hard on one occasion for his
opinion, he had contented himself by replying
that it seemed to him the world was a conundrum
sadly in need of explanation, and that, on the
whole, Christianity offered the best solution of
the riddle. " I will accept it till you offer me a
better," was his brief conclusion of the whole
matter, nor could anything induce him to adda
syllable more to this meagre and unwilling
confession of faith. Perhaps, having a keen sense
of the fitness of things, he perceived a certain
incongruity in the fact of such a confession being-made
at all by him, whose practice was in outrageous
contradiction with his half-acknowledged
theory. Beyond this point it is to be feared his
religious intuitions did not carry him, simply
because they remained intuitions only, and never
took rank as principles.

In few words. Went worth was a man who
lived by impulse ; and this fact, could it have
been thoroughly apprehended by those whom
his inconsistencies amused, puzzled, and irritated
by turns, would have proved a very master-key

to unlock the most intricate wards in his self-contradictory
nature. How should a character
in which now one impulse, now another was
suffered to assume the reins of government unchecked,
appear consistent? Most men's minds
are more or less ill regulated, it is true : Paul
Wentworth's was simply not regulated at all.
Qualities at first sight apparently irreconcilable
flourished in bewildering confusion side by side
in a temperament whose natural fervour forced
each into a more than tropical luxuriance of
growth ; and on every varying impulse which
swayed it the whole force of that strong, passionate
nature was for the time being; concentrated.
People in general did not understand this strange,
vehement many-sidedness. Men found it difficult
to comprehend how a stern and determined
intellectual ambition like Wentworth's could
coexist with such genuine satisfaction in ephemeral
social success, and were hardly brought to
acknowledge the fact that a profound love of
scientific research might inspire a man who had
the appreciation of an Oriental for all sensuous
delights of eye and ear. He was equally inconsistent
where his deepest feelings were concerned.
A disappointment bitter enough to mar his life
as a whole did not nevertheless altogether mar

his enjoyment of the fleeting excitements in
which that disappointment first induced him to
take refuge.

And yet he was no weak-willed featherbrain,
the mere sport of his own passions. When it
pleased him to practise self-restraint, no man
understood better how to rule himself; but unfortunately
the virtue was one he exercised very
fitfully. At heart profoundly unhappy, he was
resolutely set on finding some substitute for the
happiness that had escaped him, and dangerously
reckless of consequences to himself and others
in the process. It frequently puzzled men who
knew only the better side of Wentworth's
character  its fine instincts, its generous enthusiasms,
the kindly feelings of which the man was
still capable  to understand how others, viewing
him from a different standpoint, could call him
heartless and unscrupulous ; but in a manner
both his admirers and his detractors judged him
correctly, though from opposite sides of the
shield.

He was something of a social riddle, you perceive
; nevertheless, the riddle was not without
its key. It is indeed almost impossible to
decide how a man would have shaped his course
had his circumstances been all other than they

are, but certain it is at least that when Paul
Wentworth laid his young passionate heart,
together with his brilliant gifts and all the
splendid future even then opening before him, at
the feet of Alice Carew, the poor country clergyman's
daughter, he stood at a turning-point in
his moral history from which the simplest girl
who really loved him might have urged him
onward and upward to the loftiest heights of
noble living. Alice Carew did not love him.
She took indeed the heart he offered her, and the
other things he had to bestow  these last, to do
her justice, she valued profoundly  but when he
clamoured for something in return, she smilingly
made it plain to him that, as she euphemistically
expressed it, "Nature had not intended her for
an incense-burner." And Wentworth, too proud
to console himself with a mere mockery of
affection, blind with misery from the unexpected
blow he had received, turned despairingly from
the ascent which had suddenly grown unspeakably
hard and toilsome, to wander haphazard
down the first flowery byway that
invited him.

Byways are not only proverbially attractive,
but proverbially numerous, and rarely far to
seek. In Paul Wentworth's case the primrose

path lay very close to the gates of his own unsmiling
demesne, and there was no need for him
to force  barely even to demand  an entrance.
If his wife's feeling towards him amounted only
to tolerant indifference, there was another woman,
equally young and equally beautiful, who regarded
him with very dissimilar feelings from
Alice's  as he well knew. Amy St. Clair, a
mere girl in years married to a jealous, fiery-tempered
military martinet old enough to be
her father, highly imaginative, inordinately vain,
and with about as much sense of right and wrong
inherent in her airy nature as one would expect
to find in the composition of a butterfly, had
seen fit to fall desperately in love with the
brilliant young lawyer whom she perceived to
be burdened with a cold-hearted and unappreciative
wife, and she asked nothing better than to
be permitted to console him in his troubles.
Wentworth let her have her way, and the
sequel of the story soon become a fruitful topic
of conversation in scores of London clubs and
drawing-rooms. It was such a sequel as any one
might have predicted, people said  given an
impulsive, disappointed man of strong passions,
a pretty, flighty, excitable woman who fancied
herself an ill-used wife, and who was entirely

at liberty to do as she pleased, her domestic
tyrant being most inopportunely absent in a
distant and unhealthy climate on her Majesty's
business  let these two set to work to console
each other, and a scandal was the natural result.

Mrs. St. Clair and her indiscretions afforded a
certain amount of amusement to a great number
of persons for a season or two, and shocked a
few of the more sober-minded and old-fashioned
folk, whose stiff, antiquated morality prevented
their viewing with perfect complacency the laxity
of modern manners. Only one person looked on
in a wholly unconcerned manner at the progress
of the unedifying little drama. Alice Wentworth
remained either persistently blind or
sublimely indifferent to her husband's part in
the play, and if he had any idea of punishing
her by enacting the role of Mrs. St. Clair's lover,
he failed signally in the object he had at heart.

The smouldering scandal smouldered on for
three years, and then it was all at once unexpectedly
extinguished by the hand of the lady
herself. Mrs. St. Clair announced one fine day
that she was going to India to rejoin her
husband.

Her romantic passion for Wentworth had
by this time worn itself thoroughly out, and

she felt the need of a fresh excitement. Such
feeling as she was capable of "gathered its
fervour from novelty," and from that only ;
anything that was not new was dull, and she
hated dulness with a mortal hatred. She had
had no hesitation in seriously compromising
her reputation for Wentworth's sake, to say
nothing of flinging aside without scruple all
regard for her wifely duty to her absent
husband, but she utterly declined to complete the
record of her sacrifices by adding her vanity and
her love of amusement to the votive heap.
Possibly, too, she was becoming uncomfortably
conscious that she had occasionally outraged conventionalities
a little too freely, and that certain
influential members of society were beginning to
show an increasing tendency to forget that they
had ever enjoyed the honour of her acquaintance.
Society as a rule pauses long before pronouncing-its
final adverse judgment on man or woman ; it
is rather shy of resorting to the extreme penalties
of the unwritten law  "still," as Lady Jane
Chamberlain observed, when discussing ' the
St. Clair affair ' one day with a few intimate

female friends, "there is a point " and the

use of this mysterious and deadly formula by
such influential lips sealed Mrs. St. Clair's fate.

Perhaps some echo of the fatal phrase reached
her ear  but, be this as it may, her resolution
to depart remained unshaken, and three weeks
after she announced it to the world, she had
ordered her outfit, packed her numerous trunks,
and sailed for Bombay, where she speedily found
congenial employment in turning the head of
General St. Clair's handsome aide-de-camp.

It might have been supposed that the perfidy
of such a woman  the natural and fitting close
to this ignoble and discreditable episode in his
life  could have little moral effect on Wentworth.
But this was hardly the case. When he
gave himself up to Mrs. St. Clair's consolations,
he had been in a reckless mood; she had succeeded,
by means of her utter heartlessness, in
stereotyping this mood into a permanent frame
of mind. Wentworth had gone through a process
of moral hardening ; he had been thoroughly
educated into cynicism. From henceforth he
determined to put small confidence in men, and
none at all in women, since they all appeared to
be made after the same contemptible pattern.
He did not swear a melodramatic vengeance on
the sex  indeed, had he done so, he would have
been puzzled to find time in which to execute
his revenge, his busy, ambitious life leaving him

small leisure for indiscriminate love-making ;
and he felt no inclination to plunge into a course
of commonplace dissipation, a course which would
have been equally prejudicial to his ambition
and odious to his taste. But he deliberately
cast behind his back all linoferinof remains of the
nobler ideals of his youth, and proposed to himself
to concentrate his energies thenceforward
entirely on two objects, both purely selfish. He
would rise in the world, and, as far as was compatible
with this main purpose of his life, he
would amuse himself in it.

After a fashion, he kept this bitterly worded
resolution of his. Kept it, that is to say, just sofar
as a naturally warm heart and a nature not
altogether warped from its finer impulses would
allow him to keep it. It is true, ambition was
now his acknowledged master-passion; but his
quick sympathies and a certain quixotic enthusiasm
for unpopular causes disturbed the regularity
of its sway over his mind and actions, and
saved him from the danger of growing consistently
selfish. And though, to his shame be it
spoken, more than one woman had bitter reason
to regret the day on which she first crossed his
path, yet the pages of his history were not without
their records of moral victory alternating

with those of moral disaster  and where disaster
had been deliberately preferred to victory, the
humiliating election had only been made after
an inward struggle that assumed the proportions
of a moral convulsion. The centre round which
everything that was best in his nature had revolved
was gone, but there were elements of
good as well as evil remaining in it. All things
considered, it was perhaps scarcely wonderful
that the world pronounced him the most incomprehensible
of men. His greatest inconsistency
could scarcely draw forth an expression of surprise
from any one who really knew him ; the
more paradoxical the action, the more characteristic
it seemed of the man himself.

Perhaps it was, then, characteristic of Wentworth
that, as he lay idly contented by the lakeside,
enjoying the actual moment after a sybaritic
fashion, he should listen with almost a touch of
emotion to the tiny tinkling bells of the Alpine
chapels ringing out their summons to the faithful
round, and conjure up a mental picture, that
brought a smile to his lips, of his fair-haired
children passing through the Devonshire lanes
on their way to morning service ; and then that
he should turn back to his Swinburne, and
dream agreeably over Tristan and Iseult

(having previously noted on the flyleaf of the
poem a few ideas that had occurred to him for a
critical essay demolishing the lately published
work on Hindu law of a professional rival he
particularly disliked), and think lightly, now
and again, of his moonlit row with Muriel
Ferrars.

The chapel bells ceased at last. It was very
hot and still  silent but for the grasshopper's
chirp, and the monotonous hum of the wild bees.
Early as it was, Wentworth felt almost inclined
to yield to the drowsy influences of the day and
place, when the sound of footsteps and voices
approaching roused him from his dreamy lethargy.

Raising himself on his elbow, he could see 
himself unseen, for he was completely screened
from observation by the thick foliage of the tree
under which he lay  a little procession proceeding
from the hotel to the boat-house. Down the
sloping pathway came the Professor, attired for
once in full and correct clerical costume ; Mrs.
Erskine, pale and placid as usual ; Muriel, looking
very fresh and flower-like in her white dress
and bonnet; and the two English ladies who
were their fellow-guests, in Sunday apparel fearfully
and wonderfully made, noisy with a superabundance
of bugles, and brilliant with an

VOL. I. 11

incalculable number of fluttering ends of primrose
ribbon. Most of the party carried books of
devotion, and their general aspect was that of
persons on church-going intent. They disappeared
behind the rough wooden walls of the
boat-house, and then ensued a continuous murmur
of voices, amongst which the Professor's deep
hearty tones predominated. At length the murmur
ceased, and a single voice spoke; a gruel'
Swiss voice, which Wentworth rightly judged
to be that of a waiting boatman, and a few
minutes later he saw one of the heavy gondola-like
craft which ply for hire on the Lake of
Lucerne, gay with striped awnings and manned
by two stout oarsmen, pass by on its way to
Fliielen. It had on board the party of churchgoers
he had been watching. Wentworth half
raised himself to glance at them again as they
swept by him, and then returned unconcernedly
to his poet, in whose pages he remained absorbed
till the noonday heat forced him to abandon his
leafy retreat for the more effectual shelter of
stone walls.

When he emerged again from his rooms, the
afternoon shadows were already beginning to
lengthen, though the full rays of the sun still
burnt with so tierce a heat as to render a stroll

on the open road highly undesirable. The garden
Acis completely deserted, and although very pretty
and pleasant, its interests were of a limited order,
like its extent. Wentworth soon grew weary
of sauntering in so circumscribed an area, so he
presently opened a wicket which he had chanced
upon in the course of his pacing to and fro, and
struck into the rough sloping fields outside. A
few minutes' walk brought him to the Amen
road, which he crossed ; and being by this time
in the humour for pursuing his expedition, he
proceeded to ascend the face of the hill on the
other side. Disdaining the rude path, he kept
bravely to the springy turf, the elasticity and
vigour of his movements arguing well for his
strength of wind and limb. The point at which
he aimed was a small clump of pines, noticeable
for their position on the bare hillside, where they
grew clustered under a vast boulder-like mass of
granite projecting from the face of the mountain.
The little nook looked very inviting, promising
a pleasant combination of welcome shade and
healthful breezes, so Wentworth made up his
mind to establish himself and his book there in
solitude for the next couple of hours.

But solitude was not to be his, for when lie
reached the group of trees he found its welconic

shade already occupied  by Muriel Ferrars. She
sat on the bank at the foot of the tallest pine,
with her hat tossed carelessly on the carpet of
tir-needles at her feet, and her slender fingers
clasped contemplatively round her knee. Above
her the sunshine glinted through the sombre
branches, touching her graceful head with its
shimmering rays, and casting a network of shifting
lioht and shadow over the skirt of her white
gown. There was a book on her lap, but she
was not reading it ; and she looked so composed,
so smiling, and so tranquilly pleased as the intruder
on her maiden meditations advanced
towards her, that Wentworth shrewdly suspected
she must have been watching his toilsome course
from the beginning to the close.

I suppose I am trespassing on vested rights,"
he began, as soon as the first greetings had been
exchanged. " Don't answer ; I see I am. This
place belongs to you, naturally  you look like
its presiding genius. I will never set foot in it
after to-day without special license, but please
let me stay a little while now, if I am not greatly
in your way."

"Pray stay," responded Muriel, rather less
cool and collected than she had been two minutes
before. *' I have no wish to keep this place to

myself; I should be unwarrantably selfish if
I did."

But you often come here ? "

Yes, very often. I can walk the distance
easily in a quarter of an hour, and it is worth
the trouble of a short climb. The air is so fresh
up here, and the view so glorious ! I can't think
how it happens that no one else should have
found it out as yet."

"So much the better," replied Wentworth. "I
advise you never to hint at its existence. If you
are unwary enough to do so, you will find it
turned by common consent into a general lounge,
and Herr MUller will probably send up a set
of garden-chairs and tables for its proper furnishing."


"What sacrilege !" Muriel returned laughingly.
Nevertheless, I suppose it would be considered
very selfish to keep the knowledge of such a
charming spot to ourselves. I mean," correcting
herself hastily, " other people might enjoy it
as much as I do, and "

Don't go back from your first impulse," said
Wentworth pleadingly.

I beg your pardon, but I don't quite understand
you."

Alien you said ' ourselves ' just now, I hoped

it meant you were going to enlarge your special
permit into a general one, and make me free of
the pines for ever. Why should you retract
now ? "

"You mistake me' said Muriel, growing a
little angry. "I should not dream of talking
about permission to you at all, Mr. Wentworth.
Of course you know you have a perfect right to
come here whenever you choose."

'' One does not always exercise one's most
undoubted rights. I should certainly never
exercise this one, unless I were sure that my
use of it Alas in no way a trouble to you."

How could it be ? ' the girl demanded hotly.
I am only here myself from time to time,
and next week I may find some place I like
better "

"Don't be angry with me, at least," Wentworth
interposed. " I am afraid you don't believe
that I encroached unwittingly on your solitude.
If so, I Avill go at once. Shall I go ? "

"Please do not," Muriel entreated, with a
sudden lapse from indignant majesty. "Indeed,
you are entirely mistaken ; I am not in the
least angry, and you did not disturb me at
all."

Then you freely give me leave to stay, and

to come again ? " He held to his point with
cahii tenacity.

Certainly "  in rather a subdued voice.

And we are friends again ? "

"I did not know we had ever been unfriendly."
This was said very timidly indeed.

Oh, but you must learn to speak less severely
to your friends, you know," Wentworth said.
Then he laughed faintly, and sat down with his
book. "You see I am availing myself of your
kindness at once," he remarked, "and it is a
perfect light for reading, so we need not disturb
one another."

As far as he himself was concerned, Wentworth
demonstrated the correctness of his assertion
with the most complete success for the space of
half an hour. Never was there a less " disturbing"
companion. The impassibility of his features
was only equalled by the immobility of
his figure, and by the steadiness with which he
kept his eyes fixed on the page before him.
Apparently he had forgotten Muriel's close proximity,
so that damsel endeavoured to emulate his
unconcerned air, but succeeded ill in the attempt.
She could not become absorbed in her book and
lose all consciousness of her companion's presence
; on the contrary, she felt his presence to

be an obtrusive and annoying reality. Although
he appeared to have forgotten her existence, she
was secretly convinced that whenever she turned
a page, or tore a blade of grass to pieces, or
merely fidgeted, Wentworth was well aware of
the fact; and this conviction destroyed all her
peace of mind. The time grew increasingly long
to her ; surely hours had passed since Mr. Wentworth
first came up. If so, it must be fully
time to go and prepare for evening church.
Muriel stole a glance at her watch, and found
that though the afternoon was less advanced
than she had supposed, she had at least a reasonable
excuse for shortly taking her departure.
She was just nerving herself for the effort, when
Wentworth looked up suddenly, and said 

Where did you and your party go this morning
? I saw you pass about half-past ten."

We went to church." This reply was given
with a severity induced partly by a remembrance
of the fact that Wentworth had not
been at church also, and partly by a feeling of
irritation which had gained ground during the
last half-hour.

I did not know there was an English church
at Fluelen."

Neither is there "  in a mollified tone. Perhaps

he had only sinned throughlgnorance, after
all. "The service was held in a room at the
hotel, and the congregation was quite small ;
about twenty English people besides ourselves,
and a few Americans. There is no regular chaplain
there either, so they cannot hold a service
at all unless some clergyman who is willing to
officiate happens to be staying in the neighbourhood.
Mr. Miller only heard this morning that
one had been found for to-day, and sent up to
tell us about ten o'clock."

I wonder why he did not tell me ? I am
afraid he must have thought me an unpromising-looking
individual for news such as that. Yet
I don't see what right he had to judge me in
that offhand way. I appeal to you  do you
think I look hopelessly irreligious ? "

Perhaps you were out when the message
came," said Muriel, ignoring his question. " He
would be sure to let all his English guests know
of it, I should think."

Wentworth gave her a quick look, in which
a certain surprise was mingled with a new kind
of admiration. Then he answered in a tone
totally different from that in which he had
hitherto spoken : " Well, I heard nothing of it.
Perhaps I might have gone, had I known "

He stopped abruptly, and an acute ear might
have detected that he left his sentence unfinished.


Muriel took advantage of the hiatus in the
conversation to put on her hat and prepare fora
start.

Are you going down already ? " asked Wentworth
regretfully. " What a pity ! You will
find it so much hotter by the lake."

I am going to church again, and the boat is
to leave at six. I would rather not have to
hurry, if I can helj it."

Notwithstanding, she was hurrying as she
spoke. Before the words had well left her lips
she had turned into the rough downward path,
and was beginning to descend it at a great rate
of speed. Her companion turned likewise, and
walked on the grass at her side, his long strides
keeping pace easily with her short, flying footsteps.


We have plenty of time before us," he remarked,
looking at his watch, after they had
pursued their course a little way in silence.
"There is really no need to walk so fast; you
will only tire yourself out unnecessarily."

"Am I walking so very fast?" Muriel rejoined
apologetically, slackening her pace. " I

was a little afraid of being late, and so I
suppose I hurried unconsciously. I beg sour
pardon."

Oh, I am not hurrying," Wentworth answered.
There had been a gradual but perceptible
change in his manner during the last
few minutes, and it was now one of the simplest,
friendliest kindness, just tinctured with a shade
of well-suppressed amusement. " I did not
speak selfishly this time; but August sun on
unsheltered rock is no joke, and you don't look
made of iron. You must not resent a word of
warning," he added pleasantly.

The kindly intonation was still lingering in
his voice when, as they reached the hotel, he
asked, "At what hour did you say the boat
started ? "

You are i]roino, then ? " Muriel exclaimed
with frank pleasure, and a look of surprise and
relief.

Yes, I am going. There will be room forme,
I suppose ? "

Oh yes ! We leave at six punctually."

TWO SIDES TO THE SHIELD.

He had his gracious moment
Although you'll not believe me."

Tennyson.

When Wentworth presented himself at the boathouse
at six o'clock, he found that the rest
of the church-going party consisted only of
Muriel and the ladies of many bugles and
ribbon-ends. Mr. Erskine had a severe headache,
and his wife would not leave him.

The Miss Richard sons and Mr. Wentworth
are going, you say ? " she had inquired of her
niece when the latter stole into the carefully
darkened sitting-room for her orders. " Then
go too by all means, dear, if you care to." And
Muriel had accepted the easily granted permission,
nothing loth.

The presence of the Misses Richardson in the

boat proved an effectual bar to conversation, as
far as Mr. Wentworth was concerned. Like the
immortal Mr. Jinks, he retired into himself, and
refused alike to the neatly turned questions
of the elder lady, who believed herself to have
a thirst for information, and to the bird-like
sallies of the younger, who aimed at wit and
espieglerie, any but the most frigidly courteous
replies. Even these were uttered in a tone
so cutting in its severity that Emmeline the
sprightly was moved to remark that night, in
the privacy of her apartments, to Henrietta
the inquiring, "Mr. Wentworth Alas enough to
freeze Etna itself in an active condition." And
when, in answer to a last desperate appeal on
the part of Miss Henrietta as to what constituted
the radical difference between moss and
lichen, he had replied with an alarming accession
of icy politeness that " he regretted to be
unable to give her any information on the subject,
but it was one he had never had occasion to
study," both sisters gave him up as hopeless,
and turned a sulky ear to poor Muriel's well-meant
efforts to be amiable and sympathetic.
By the grand air of condescension with which
they responded to these advances, it Alas evident
that in their indictment against Wentworth.

Muriel herself was included. Probably they
perceived that, resolute as he was not to improve
his chance acquaintance with them, he was on
perfectly cordial terms with his younger companion,
although in their unwelcome society
he refrained from addressing to her any observation
beyond an occasional remark directing her
attention to some special point in the surrounding
scenery.

When the goal of their expedition was
reached, the offended spinsters clambered hastily
on shore, ignoring Went worth's proffered assistance,
and started up the narrow main street of
Fllielen at a rapid rate, the very oscillation of
their voluminous skirts betraying the warmth
of their indignation.

Muriel, as she prepared to follow, cast a look
of distress at Wentworth. He smiled back at
her reassuringly.

Did you specially wish to sit next them in
church ?" he demanded, almost with boyish glee.
I have been hardening myself against your
appealing glances for the last twenty minutes.
You are a great deal too tender-hearted ; one
must be resolute sometimes, in sheer self-defence."

It was not kind of you," Muriel said bravely
and seriously, without a suspicion of raillery in

her tone. But lier heart quavered, if her voice
remained steady.

Wentworth looked at her with a kind of amused
astonishment.

No," he answered, after a moment ; " I grant
you that. It was not kind, perhaps. But one
cannot be kind to every one, and I prefer keeping
my kindnesses for those I like or admire.
I cannot pretend to either liking or admiration
in the present case, Philistinism and humbug 
a pleasing and attractive mixture ! "

You are hard on the poor Miss Richardson,
Mr. Wentworth."

Can a woman who calls the Pass of Glencoe
'quite too charming' be anything but a Philistine;
and how much genuine craving for knowledge
do you suppose there was in the other sister's
desire to be instructed on the subject of mosses
and rock crystals ? JSon rational di lor. This
must be our ' church,' I suppose."

The white-washed walls of the building they
were in search of rose but a stone's throw distant
from the little quay of disembarkation, and
two minutes later Wentworth and Muriel found
themselves sitting side by side in the large bare
salon which had been temporarily fitted up as a
place of worship.

The congregation was even smaller than it had
been in the morning, and numbered barely a
score of souls, all told ; while the room in which
this scanty flock assembled could have held with
ease five times that number. There was a big
unshaded window at the western end, through
which the sun still pelted fiercely, tracing bright
streaks on the dusty floor, and throwing the
twenty figures scattered about the wilderness
of unoccupied rush-bottomed chairs into conspicuous
relief. Years afterwards, Muriel remembered
distinctly the square patch of moving light,
caused by an angle of refraction in one of the
window-panes, which danced untiringly up and
down the sleeve of Wentworth's coat ; and how
a kind of dreamy wonderment as to the reason
of its peculiar shape had vaguely possessed her
mind and mingled with more interesting speculations
touching' the new friend she seemed to
have suddenly acquired, on whom the officiating
clergyman was bestowing so many half-puzzled
but wholly interested glances of inquiry and
recognition.

This clergyman was a tall, thin, elderly man,
with a refined ascetic countenance, and an unaffected
reverence of manner which could not
fail to impress the members of his congregation.

And they were impressed : there was an atmosphere
of reality pervading the worship uttered
in the unadorned room among the fastnesses of
the Alps, which the earnest-minded priest who
conducted it had often felt to be lacking in the
stately services of his own beautiful and thronged
London church.

The prayers were over, the hymn before  the
sermon was given out, and the preacher looked
down from the simple desk which served him
as a pulpit upon his scanty congregation. Again
his glance wandered to the row of chairs on his
left hand, where Wentworth had placed himself
and Muriel, motioning the girl to her seat
beside him with an imperious gesture which
admitted of no question ; again it lingered there,
and withdrew disappointed.

So familiar," he said to his sister afterwards,
as they walked back to their mountain tension
" so familiar that face seems to me, and yet I
cannot put a name to it ! It is not a face one
should forget either."

The girl with him was very lovely, I
thought."

Yes, quite Madonna-like. His daughter, do
you think ? No, hardly that. Rather too old
to be his daughter, and rather too young for his

VOL. I. 12

wife. Yet she was probably the one or the other,
the latter more likely. A union of May and 
September, let us say."

She at least looked exceedingly happy."

But he did not. They were a strangely contrasted
couple altogether : her face such a picture
of purity and content, and his so darkened and
saddened in every line. Yet it has the makings
of a noble countenance too. Those people interested
me immensely, Mary."

They had interested him so much that in
delivering his sermon he had felt himself preaching
to them, and them only. It was a simple,
touching little comment on the parable of the
lost coin, which went home to the heart of one
of those two auditors at least. Muriel sat listening
with all her ears, and all her soul too.

And Wentworth ? There were indeed swift
subtle changes in the expression of that proud
face ; a sudden softening of the eyes, a transitory
relaxation of the firm mouth, and, once, a quick
involuntary clenching of the hand betrayed that
some sudden emotion was at work inwardly 
but the preacher who should flatter himself that
this emotion was the result of his moving
appeals imagined a vain thing. In spirit Wentworth
was miles away from the place which

held him in bodily presence ; the preacher's voice
fell upon his ear only as an indistinct murmur,
signifying nothing. He stood in an old ivy-covered
chancel far away in the west of England,
where a delicate-featured, white-haired man ina
shabby surplice drooped in the clumsy reading-desk,
and faltered out the prayers in a feeble
monotone very unlike the full and varied tones
of Fllielen's temporary chaplain, and beside him
knelt the shadowy figure of a girl, a girl not
more beautiful in reality than the flesh sands
maiden now at his right hand, but whose
loveliness was all-illuminate with the golden
glamour of a young man's first passion. Lang
radiance ! For fifteen years he had known it
for a baleful cheat, yet the mere remembrance of
its brightness dazzled his senses for a moment ;
he could not altogether resist the sweetness of
the recollections he had evoked. Those Sunday
evening wanderings in the old-fashioned garden
when the last service of the day was over ; the
gathering round the antiquated piano after the
lamp was brought in, with the little brothers
and sisters clustering round, while Alice lifted
her voice and sand; 

O Paradise ! Paradise ! "

It was not the phantasm he had summoned Iron

its grave, only the living girl at his side joining
her fresh young voice to the closing hymn ; and
it brought Wentworth back to life again, to his
life as it actually was. He turned and looked
at Muriel as she sang on. So Alice had once
looked and once sung  was the almost ideal
sweetness which seemed to hang about this child
as delusive as that with which his own fancy
had adorned his early idol? The question tormented
him.

The last words of blessing died away, and
they came out into the calm evening air. It
was still warm and balmy, but the heat of the
day was over, and long purple shadows already
lay upon the mountain-sides. The little congregation
was dispersing quickly and noiselessly;
down at the water-side the Misses Richardson,
whose sense of injury had not been obliterated
by the act of worship in which they had joined,
were hastening into their boat. Muriel and
Wentworth came out last, and walked slowly
towards them. They were only twenty yards
off when, with one of his sudden impulses,
Wentworth stopped.

It is quite cool now," he said. " Why should
we go back in the boat with those people ?
Suppose we walk instead ? "

"The road looks very beautiful' Muriel answered
hesitatingly, " but I hardly know "

Are you too tired to walk ? " He spoke in
trenchant tones, and his look matched his intonation.


Muriel quailed before him. She really did
not wish to go, but she was afraid to resist his
will. Also she had a suspicion that if she went,
she should be doing wrong; but Wentworth's
glance confused her on this point. It was a
way Wentworth's glances had  they were apt to
produce a mental and moral dizziness, alike
inexplicable and dangerous, in those on whom
they fell. They had this effect on Muriel now,
and Wentworth knew it; so he kept his eyes
fixed quietly upon her while she faltered, " No,
I am not in the least tired."

*' Then you would really prefer walking ? "
He was determined to carry off the honours as
well as the fruits of victory.

Yes, I should like it very much."

Just wait for a minute here, then, and I will
explain matters to Miss Richardson."

He was gone ; he was back again. They had
left the town and entered the path which would
finally lead them into the Amen road, and several
sentences had been interchanged before Muriel

recovered herself sufficiently to know what she
was talking about, and to find that her companion
was discussing the service they had both
been attending.

"Now, tell me truly," he was saying, "don't
you feel yourself that there is great unreality in
giving people such hymns to sing ? You sang
O Paradise ! ' as if you fully meant it to-night,
and I have no doubt you thought you did  at
the moment. Perhaps you were a little exalted
by the sermon  I don't know whether it was of
an exalting nature, for I must plead guilty to not
having heard a word of it  and so had worked
yourself into an exalted state of mind,  also for
the moment. But think of those words now,
calmly and coolly, and then tell me if you think
it reasonable that you and the dozen other good
people present  I say nothing about faulty individuals
like myself, mind you; we have no right
to expect our feelings to be considered ;  but is
it fitting that even you and others like you
should be required to profess this profound contempt
for all things earthly, and these fervid
desires to become disembodied spirits on the
instant ? It is a fitness I fail wholly to perceive."

Muriel was equally surprised and bewildered
by this sudden outburst.

"I suppose the sentiment of some hymns is
exaggerated," she said slowly, *' and this may be
one of the number. But I believe the idea is 
I can't express myself properly, Mr. Wentworth,
but perhaps you can understand what I mean 
that it is our duty to aim at such feelings, and
that if we were better we should actually feel
in that way."

"Meanwhile," Wentworth retorted, "I see no
advantage in uttering untruth. You will say I
use harsh words, but think what would be your
estimate of a man who in ordinary society
habitually stifled his real opinions, and expressed
those he fancied he ought to hold ! Yet the
cases are precisely analogous."

"There may always be some people present
who are in harmony with what they sing. It
would be impossible to suit everybody's individual
frame of mind."

*' Granted. But what I maintain is that some
of the sentiments we were called upon to express
to-night were such as no ordinary human being
ever experiences. I appeal to you; I put it to
you to be frank with yourself. You enunciated
with great earnestness the view that you were
weary of earth, and desired to be removed from
this sublunary sphere as soon as possible. Now

I don't believe that you are in the least weary
of earth, and I do believe you would like to
spend many years yet in this much-abused, but
still pleasant world of ours. If I mistake not,
you had been feeling very happy before you
went to church, and you had a tolerable prospect
ef subsequent enjoyment. Yet you almost 
mind, I only say almost  deceived yourself into
thinking you shared in these outrageous notions.
As two contradictory states of mind cannot coexist,
it follows that there must have been a
certain amount of insincerity in your utterances."

Perhaps there was," Muriel answered humbly.
I did not intend to be false, nevertheless."

You ! " returned Wentworth with an indescribable
intonation. "Did you think I
supposed you capable of such a thing ? I merely
hate to hear false sentiments  false in themselves
put into lips like yours."

I have always had such a happy life," Muriel
went on, bent on exculpating herself, "that I
cannot yet feel as people do who have suffered
very much. Why, I never had a trouble of any
kind in my life ! "

Wentworth gave a sort of shiver. " What a
thing to say, even at your age ! But do you
imagine that people, when, as you say, they have

suffered, come to look upon the world as your
hymn-writer would have them do ? "

"There are different ways of taking trouble,
of course."

I never yet met with any one who took it
in the hymn-writer's way. I have known men
and women too  who would have been heartily
glad to leave this world, it is true. But why ?
Simply either because they had grown sick of it,
or else were so faint-hearted that they preferred
dying to enduring  not because they had an
irresistible longing after ' Paradise.' " He spoke
in a tone of mingled bitterness and mockery.

Those were but weak mortals, after all," he
resumed more lightly ; " I mean those who preferred
death to further struggle with their
destiny. Generally speaking, they were men
who succumbed to some isolated stroke of misfortune,
or grew tired of everything in life before
life was half over. The latter catastrophe only
overtakes exceedingly dull people, who have no
resources; and as to allowing one's life to be
overshadowed or one's purposes turned aside by
a single disappointment, only a coward would
act such a craven part. Be the loss ever so great,
there are compensations to be had." He spoke
as if arguing with himself

"You don't say anything, Miss Ferrars," he
continued presently. " Girls of your age always
think an absorbing sorrow a thing to be proud
of; but when you are a little older you will find
that it is, on the contrary, a thing to be lived
down and forgotten  forgotten." He uttered
the last word with an emphasis almost savage
in its intensity.

I suppose he is thinking of the loss of his
wife," Muriel reflected. " So he considers that
a sorrow to be lived down and forgotten ! I am
sorry for him ; he is far harder and more worldly
than I thought at first, but it is probably his
trouble which has embittered him so deeply."

Wentworth was quite unconscious of the turn
his companion's thoughts had taken. Once for
all, he may be acquitted of any intention of
deceiving Muriel as to his wife's existence. Her
erroneous supposition on the subject of his
widowhood had amused him for a moment,
but he had concluded that her uncle, doubtless
better informed, would correct the mistake into
which she had fallen  and then he thought no
more about the matter. It was not his habit
to discuss Mrs. Paul Wentworth with any one :
there was, therefore, nothing remarkable in his
refraining from any mention of her name in his

intercourse with Muriel Ferrars. But he was
secretly annoyed at having permitted himself to
be betrayed into something like an outbreak
of feeling, and this secret annoyance caused him
to lapse abruptly into silence for a time. When
at last he broke the silence, it was only to make
a few conventional remarks in no way connected
with the previous topic of conversation.

Now he is simply making talk," Muriel
decided. " He is difficult to understand, I think,
I wish he had not made that heartless remark
about compensation. I suppose he has knocked
about the world, and worn his feelings out."

Hark ! " exclaimed Went worth, suddenly
breaking in upon her reflections, " what was
that ? " He halted, bending forward his head tu
listen.

I heard nothing," Muriel began.

There it is again ! " he cried, interrupting her
without ceremony. " Listen ! Down below 
on your left hand  just where the brushwood is
thickest. Don't you hear it now ? "

Their road at this point led them through a
little copse where the undergrowth was very
dense. Turning towards the spot indicated by
Wentworth, and listening intently, Muriel
fancied she heard a faint shrill cry.

I do hear an odd sort of ciy," she said. " It
does not sound like a bird, unless  could it bea
night-jar ? "

"A night-jar  no, indeed!" Wentworth's
eyes were all afire with eager excitement.
There  don't you hear it again ? It is a
child's voice  a little child's ! Good God ! and
that cliff runs sheer down into the lake ! "

He plunged into the tangled undergrowth ashe
spoke, and went bounding down the slope in
the direction of the faint sounds. Just before
he disappeared from view altogether, he turned
to shout, " Stay where you are ; don't attempt to
follow ! I shall be back in one moment."

He was almost as good as his word. Three
minutes had certainly not elapsed when he
reappeared, carrying in his arms a tiny white
bundle; and the bundle proved to be really a
child, a little girl of about three years old,
whose daintily embroidered garments were
soiled with dust and rent in some places by
thorns and brambles. A small fragile creature,
with soft pale locks, pathetically transparent
baby hands, and a forlorn little white face, lying
motionless in the abandonment of complete exhaustion
on Wentworth's shoulder.

I was just in time," he panted, as he came

up pale and breathless. " She was crawling about
three yards from the edge of the precipice ! "

How did she come there ? " asked Muriel,
barely repressing a sob.

Wentworth looked at her with answering
emotion in his face. " Heaven knows ! She
must have strayed away, I think." Then stooping
over his burden : " There, darling ! you are
quite safe now. I am going to take you to
mother directly. Why did you run away from
her, little one ? Or from nurse, was it ? "

Milly lost nurse  long, long ago," lisped the
child. " Oh ! "  with a feeble wail  " Milly so
tired i Take Milly home and let her go sleep."

Wentworth laid his fingers tenderly on the
little wrist for an instant. " I can hardly feel
any pulse at alt," he said, addressing Muriel.
She is terribly exhausted ; I think she must
have been lost for a good many hours. You see
she is too worn out even to cry. I believe we
ought to give her something before we take her
back to Fliielen  it is there we shall probably
find her friends  but the great question is whereto
get it."

He stood still a moment in thought, and then
began to walk rapidly on. " I have it ! There
is a herdsman's chalet on the hillside just beyond

this copse. I will carry her to the foot of the
hill, and then you shall sit down and hold her
she is not fit to sit up  while I go and ask for
some milk, which I suppose is the best thing to
give her. You won't mind my leaving you alone
with her for those few minutes ? "

'' Mind ! " said Muriel. *' No, indeed. Poor
little thing ! Oh, Mr. Wentworth, what a mercy
that you heard her ! "

Wentworth made no rejoinder. Had he not
been listening ?

When they reached the spot he had indicated,
he signed to Muriel to sit down under a solitary
pine which grew there. " I shall be as quick as
I can, of course," he began, " but "

Oh, please do be quick ; I am all on fire to
take her home. Think of her poor mother 1 "

If she at all resembles some mothers I know,"
drily retorted Wentworth, "you need not waste
much pity on her. Now, darling "  in his most
persuasive accents to the child  " let this lady
hold you for a moment, while I fetch you something
nice."

But Milly liked her present nurse, and would
hear of no change. She hid her face on Wentworth's
shoulder, and when Muriel held out her
arms invitingly, vociferated, "No! no lady!

Milly stay with you ! " Wentworth tried by
turns the effect of kisses, expostulations, and
arguments, but all were without avail. Milly
accepted the kisses graciously, but she turned a
deaf ear to the expostulations, and utterly
declined to be convinced by the arguments.
When Wentworth at length said, "Very well,
dear, if you won't go to this lady, I must put
you down on the grass by yourself," and seemed
about to carry his threat into execution, she
wound her little fragile arms round his neck and
clung to him convulsively. " No, no ! stay with
Milly. Milly 'ill be good."

What is to be done ? " said Wentworth, half
annoyed, half touched, disengaging the tiny
clutching hands from his throat and caressing
them softly as he spoke. "I don't like to insist
"

I'll run up," Muriel responded promptly.
I can go almost as quickly as you would have
done." She was gone without waiting for an
answer.

Keep to the path ! " Wentworth called after
her. (" I don't half like this," he muttered to
himself) Then aloud, as Muriel turned to nod
acquiescence to his commands : " Be careful of
yourself, my child; this Alpine grass is so

treacherously slippery sometimes. Keep strictly
to the path both going and returning. "

I will, I will ! " Muriel answered earnestly,
for there had been a ring of unmistakable solicitude
in his voice as he spoke his warning, and
even after she was out of earshot she could see
him anxiously watching her course. She did not
pause to analyze the feeling which, more than
the steep hurried climb, made her heart beat
quickly as she knocked at the door of the rude
hut above.

The inmates were excessively dull of comprehension,
a little inclined to be churlish, and very
slow to understand Muriel's careful Hanoverian
German, while she found equal difficulty in
grasping the meaning of their uncouth patois ;
but at length she succeeded in obtaining what
she had come for, and set off on her return
journey. This she accomplished much more
slowly than the ascent, being now burdened with
a cup and a pitcher of milk, while the path,
though not positively dangerous, necessitated
careful walking. She was long enough on the
road for Wentworth to feel a certain relief when
she tripped up to him safe and smiling.

He was sitting under the tree where she had
left him, still holding little Milly, who, worn outwith

fatigue and fasting, had fallen peacefully
asleep in his arms. That she might rest more
comfortably, he had taken off the child's hat, and
her flaxen head lay pillowed on his breast ; from
one tiny hand, relaxed in slumber, drooped two
or three Alpine flowers which he must have
picked for her amusement, and round the other
she had twisted a straying lock of his dark hair.
As Muriel approached the pair, Wentworth looked
first up at her and then down at the sleeping
child with an expression on his face such as the
girl had only once before seen there  a beautiful
tenderness which softened and glorified it.

'* I am glad you are back again," he said in a
low voice, so as not to disturb the little sleeper.
I was reproaching myself for having let you goat
all. Now, if you will put those things down
for a moment, you might help me to complete
this piece of work before we wake her."
It seems a pity to wake her at all."
But it must be done, and I want to finish
with her foot first. Don't you admire my skill
as an amateur surgeon ? " Then Muriel perceived
that the child in her wanderings must have
injured her foot, for Wentworth had removed
one little shoe and was extemporizing a bandage
with his handkerchief

VOL. I. 13

Is she badly hurt ? " the girl inquired, as she
knelt down to give the required aid.

No, a mere graze ; but this is a delicate little
fairy, unfit to bear much pain." He looked down
kindly at the childish face now growing flushed
with, sleep. " Just hold this  so  for a minute,
and give me the other corner. There ! that will
do ; we won't try to put the shoe on again. Now
you shall wake the Sleeping Beauty."

How am I to wake her ? "

As the Prince did, of course. Being of such
tender years, she may well be satisfied with a
Princess this time."

But she is afraid of me," said Muriel, drawing
back a little. '' I shall only startle her. If you
would rouse her gently yourself, I am sure it
would be much better."

I think not. I particularly wish you to do
this', said Wentworth with sudden vehemence.
I ask you to do it  to please me." He looked
straight into Muriel's eyes as he spoke.

Muriel stooped obediently and laid her lips
on Milly's cheek, but the child did not stir.
Wentworth, watching the two with a glance of
mingled triumph and admiration it was as well
Muriel did not see, smiled and said lightly, with
an abrupt change of mood, " You see she does

not wake for you. It never answers to alter the
lines of these old legends. For the matter of
that, you are asleep as yet yourself, I believe ; so
how should you wake another ? "

He bent over the child again. " Milly ! " he
said softly, as he set a kiss on the waxen brow.

She woke immediately and smiled at him.
"Now the cup  quick!" he commanded, practical
again in a moment, " before she has time
to get frightened or fretful." Muriel passed it to
him, pondering his last enigmatical utterance the
while.

How your hands tremble ! " he said. This
time he was not speaking to Milly, yet the tone
of his voice was like a spoken caress. " That
hurried climb has been too much for you; I
ought never to have allowed you to attempt it 
and now unfortunately I have to take you back
a little way, for you cannot go on by yourself,
and we must restore this little maid to her
friends."

It has not been too much for me, indeed,"
Muriel protested.

I think it has," he answered with equal
determination. "There, she has had enough
now, and we Avill start. Come, Milly, we are
going to take you home."

The short walk back to Fluelen was accomplished
almost in silence. Milly slumbered contentedly
in her new protector's arms, and Muriel
did not venture to intrude upon the thoughts in
which he seemed lost. Only when they passed
the steep wooded incline where the child's cries
had first been heard, Wentworth turned to his
companion for an instant. " You spoke truly,"
he said in a half-audible voice. " These things
make one believe in a Providence."

And Muriel answered him only by her parted
lips and kindling eyes. Words seemed superfluous
she was drawn strangely near to Wentworth
at that moment. But when, a quarter of an hour
later, he rejoined her in the hotel garden at
Fluelen, where he had left her while he went to
deliver the little waif into her parents' hands, he
had again undergone a sudden transformation.
Well ? " she had inquired eagerly at his approach.
And then she saw that his face was a
fine study of scorn.

Oh, my surmise was quite correct : she belongs
to a worthy couple here, whom I have just seen.
The nurse has not come in yet, so they suppose
she is looking for the child. I am glad somebody
had the grace to do that."

And the mother  the parents  were not they
alarmed ? "

How could they be, seeing they never knew
the child was lost until she was found ? The
lady ' believed all the children had been out since
midday, and supposed they had come in and
gone to bed while she was at dinner.' Truly an
anxious parent ! "

But she must have been horrified when she
heard ? "

She was so greatly obliged to me," answered
Wentworth drily; "that seemed to be her
chief idea. Her politeness was intense and her
thanks profuse. And her husband must come
and call on me  I believe they have serious
thoughts of asking me to dinner. Poor little
Milly ! I am sorry for her." He dropped the
subject abruptly, and during the homeward walk
spoke only on indifferent topics.

When they reached their destination the moon
was already up, flooding everything with an
intense silvery whiteness, and Wentworth paused
on the steps of the verandah to point out the
deep shadows cast by the Frohnalp on the
glistening surface of the lake below.

You must let me give you some more 
this week," he said.

(Then he was not going away at present, at
any rate.)

"Thank you very much. If the weather is
ne

'sit will be fine. This has been a halcyon
Sunday, and it is the threshold of a halcyon
week, I am sure."

And it was a halcyon week to Muriel. In
after-life she learnt to look upon it as the
happiest in her life. She still passed many
solitary hours, it is true, for the Erskiness were
more than ever engrossed in their work and in
each other, while Wentworth necessarily gave up
much time to his proof-sheets; but there were
no days of unbroken solitude for her now, none
altogether without interest and companionship.
As the week grew older, Wentworth gave her
more and more of his society, and the society of
such a man proved to Muriel the unlocking of
a new world, a world of fresh ideas. Hitherto
the girl's eager intellect had been checked in
its development by the narrow bounds of her
monotonous existence, and she had found few
indeed, among those with whom she held daily
intercourse, who could so much as comprehend
her cravings after a wider and fuller life, or her
passionate sympathy with such manifestations of
it as reached her through the medium of books ;
now something of the great mechanism of the

world-machine was constantly being laid bare
to her by one who had personal experience both
of its inner and outer workings. She was behoof
taught to see men and things, no longer only as
they were portrayed for her by poetic, or historic,
or even journalistic pens, but as they appeared
viewed through the living lens of a very gifted
and powerful mind that had had excellent
opportunity to study them attentively. Small
wonder if she found the hours spent with her
new friend delightful, since each one represented
a widening of her mental horizon, an addition to
the sum of the things it was possible for her to
know and enjoy.

Intercourse with Wentworth had, besides,
the charm that only the unexpected can give.
He was rarely twice alike  the subject that
absorbed him in the mornings was exchanged for
one wholly dissimilar at night, and if specially
discursive and airy in his talk one day, he would
probably be inclined for graver topics the next.
But, whatever his mood in other respects, he
preserved an unvarying kindly regard for Muriel,
and with this kindly regard she was well content
she desired nothing more. For she was not in
the least in love with Wentworth (except perhaps
in the moments when she thought of him

with Milly in his arms). Her admiration for
him indeed knew no bounds ; but admiration,
though closely akin to love, may exist quite
independently of it. Wentworth fascinated
Muriel's intellect, dazzled her imagination,
swayed her will, daily and hourly, according
to his pleasure in a thousand insignificant determinations
 but as yet this was all. And
therefore she was still supremely happy, totally
ignorant of the smouldering volcano actually
heaving under her footsteps, and contented to
play like a child with the flowers on the very
crater's edge.

Meanwhile, the worthy Professor and his wife
watched her at her dangerous sport, and smiled
well-pleased  although she made no secret of
the hours spent in Went worth's companionship,
the morning drawing-lessons, the afternoon
rambles, the sunset excursions on the lake.
Sometimes Mr. Erskine would join his niece
and his friend on these last occasions, it is
true. But if his books or his pipe proved more
beguiling, he had no scruple in speeding them
on their way without his supervision. He and
his Isabel were emphatically of those who think
no evil; and, besides, Muriel was a child still
in their estimation. It was a great satisfaction

to know her safe in such keeping as Wentworth's,
a man old enough to be her father, and
with children of his own to boot.

As to Wentworth himself, if he had ever had
any prevision of danger, it vanished like a smoke-wreath
before the rising sun of his new fancy.
The girl interested him, pleased him, satisfied
his fastidious taste ; her evident admiration for
himself was a source of gratification to him;
and, solitary as he was for the time being, an
occasional hour spent in converse with that
bright, unsophisticated mind and in contemplation
of that mobile, spiritual face was too great
an attraction to be lightly foregone. Echo ! The
die was cast.

Besides, what danger could there be to apprehend
? Muriel Ferrars was a mere child (it was
curious how every one insisted on keeping up
this convenient fiction) : was it likely that a
man of his age and mould would be taken
captive, after nine days' acquaintance, by an
untutored girl of nineteen ? Folly ! Absurdity !
He thought her charmingly pretty ; as a study
he found her interesting; he enjoyed the responsive
thrill with which her thought answered
his just as a skilled player might enjoy running
his fingers over the keys of some delicate new

musical instrument ; lie would even go so far as
to say he was fond of her, as one does grow fond
of an engaging child  but that was all.

After some such fashion did Wentworth argue,
when he paused to argue with himself at all.
But he was not given as a rule to much self-communing.
And so the week went by, and
melted into a second.

UNDER THE PINES.

She should never have look'd at me
If she meant I should not love her;
There are other . . . men you call such,

I suppose . . . she may discover
All her soul to, if she pleases,

And yet leave much as she found them ;
But I'm not so."

R. Browning.

"You need not wear such a look of indignation.
I admire him too, only with more discrimination
and less fervour than you. You must allow
something for first enthusiasms and the natural
bent of the youthful mind towards hero-worship.
Don't think me unsympathetic. I can be indifferent,
enthusiastic myself, when I find any
objects worthy of enthusiasm."

But you find them so seldom ! " Muriel cried.
She was sitting, work in hand, among her
favourite pines, looking up at Wentworth ashe

lounged against a tree beside her, on the
bright Monday morning which ushered in the
fourth week of that month of August she had
hitherto found so pleasant.

"More often than you imagine," Wentworth
returned quietly. " You judge rather hastily."

Muriel's mind miss-ave her lest her eagerness
should have carried her a little too far. " I beg
your pardon, Mr. Wentworth," she said quickly ;
I had no desire to judge at all, believe me. But
you seem to me to live in such an atmosphere
of criticism, that I have wondered sometimes
whether you could ever be lifted quite out of
yourself, and carried away by an enthusiasm
of any kind." She hesitated a moment. " I
should like  I wish I could see you so once,"
she added timidly.

Would you really like it ? " inquired Wentworth,
with a dangerous gleam in his eyes.
'' You may have your wish some day. It has
happened before now, though you may not believe
it. Perhaps I am not altogether such an
iceberg as I appear  you have not known me
very long, remember, and you are a young observer
of human nature. Meanwhile "  returning
to a lighter tone  " rest assured that I fully understand
your appreciation of Cavour, and even

share it to a considerable extent ; only I know
how to use my telescope, and it shows me some
spots in the sun. I am ready to acknowledge
that he was a celestial luminary  cannot you be
satisfied with this admission ? Or do you insist
besides on my closing my eyes to those very
palpable dark places on his photosphere ? "

No, no. Only I would rather not see them
myself. I prefer admiring ignorantly to having
my favourite ideals destroyed by learning to
detect their imperfections, I know it is foolish
on my part."

"Why should such knowledge destroy your
ideals ? Cannot you admire any one who seems
to you less than perfect in his deeds ? "

Not quite in the way that I admire Count
Cavour."

'' How you hold to your point ! " exclaimed
Wentworth, half angrily, half admiringly.
Well, you are a hopeless hero-worshipper ; I
give you up. There is no indoctrinating you
with even the smallest tincture of latter-day
scepticism, and the higher criticism does not
impress you one whit. I am not quite sure
that I should feel gratified if I could succeed in
shaking your faith in your pet heroes and
fetishes, and I cannot honestly say that I ever

expected to succeed ; I saw from the first that
you were a born enthusiast. In this particular,
at least, my surmises concerning you have proved
correct; but in other respects I own you have
surprised me."

As how ? " inquired Muriel saucily. Constant
intercourse with Wentworth, and unfailing
indulgence on his part had gone far to
dissipate the feelings of shyness and constraint
of which she had formerly been sensible in his
society.

"Well, I used to fancy you very gentle and
pliable, and I am finding out by slow degrees
that you can be excessively self-willed  at least,
in little things. We have not yet met one
another in fair fight on any great occasion; it
remains to be seen whether you could defy me
quite so lightly if we were both thoroughly in
earnest." He spoke jestingly, yet an undercurrent
of feeling in his voice conveyed an idea
that his words might be susceptible of a deeper
meaning' than the surface one.

Muriel uttered her sweet rinoinsf lauofh. " You
could not have paid me a greater compliment, or
one more to my taste," she said. " If my seat
were not so very comfortable, and if it would
not upset all the silks I have been sorting for

the last half-hour, I would get up and make you
a curtsy for that speech, Mr. Wentworth. If there
is one good quality I am more ambitious of acquiring
than another, it is decision of character."
You are quite strong-minded enough ; you
need not wish to be other than you are," he
answered.

"I am not astonished that you thought me
uncommonly meek at first' Muriel went on
deliberately, determined to betray no undignified
sign of confusion at his commendation ; " for I
really was in an excessively humble frame of
mind for the time being. I felt so dreadfully
afraid of you ! "

Afraid  of me ? " said Wentworth, almost
tenderly. " Was I so very harsh with you, my
child ? "

You were not at all harsh, you were exceedingly
kind ; but I think the kinder you were,
the more you frightened me. You see, I had
never met a celebrity before, so your reputation
awed me at once ; and then myiuncle was always
telling me of the wonderful things you had done
and written, and descanting on the still greater

things he believed you capable of Vhy, atone

time I was really afraid to speak to you,
except in monosyllables ! "

You foolish child ! " (But he was hugely
gratified notwithstanding.) " And now ? "

Oh, now it is quite different ! "

Meaning to say that as knowledge has increased,
reverence has not likewise ' grown from
more to more ' ? "

That is a question I don't think it becomes
you to inquire into, Mr. Wentworth." Muriel
was inclined to be impertinent that day. Excessive
happiness made her daring for the nonce.

Well, I am not conscious of a special desire
to lay claim to reverence on any one's part. I
shall be satisfied if I can win a share of liking 
and perhaps a little love  in my passage through
this very unloving world."

Silence  during which Muriel compared three
slightly differing shades of olive-green embroidery
silk with extraordinary care.

I am going to revert to our former subject
and ask you a question," said Wentworth at
length, when the pause had lasted just long-enough
to become a little embarrassing  at least
to Muriel. (Wentworth himself never felt a
pause awkward. It may be doubted first of all
whether he knew what awkwardness meant,
and then the silence which some one else found
so confusing was generally full of piquant enjoyment

to him.) "Let us put abstract enthusiasm
and hero-worship on one side for a
moment, please. Would you require perfection,
mental and moral, in those whom you loved ? "
He brought the last word out softly, as if he
were half afraid of the sound of it.

"Yes  no, I suppose not," Muriel answered,
rather startled by this sudden cross-examination.
On second thoughts, certainly not. Of course
I am quite aware that the people I care for
most have faults and shortcomings, although my
affection for them probably helps to hide some
of their failings from me. Not that this happens
always; sometimes I think it only makes one
more keenly alive to anything foolish or weak in
them."

Ah ! you are speaking of the affection you
feel for people whom you have known all your
life, and whose imperfections only show themselves
to you through the softening veil of old
association. I did not allude to that kind of
love at all. See, I will put my question a little
more plainly. Could you  I will borrow your
own phrase, if you like, and say care for  could
you care for any one who seemed to you very
far indeed from perfect? Any new friend, for
instance ? "

VOL. I. 14

"I cannot say, I am sure," replied Muriel,
pulling a fresh skein of silk out of a bundle
which lay beside her on the grass; "all my
friendships are of such very ancient date. But
I don't think I am apt to take fancies to fresh
people unless I find something striking or
winnings about them, so I conclude that I should
never like where I did not admire. And you
know I always want to be able to admire
thoroughly and without reserve."

But all men are faulty, more or less. You
are far too sensible to expect to meet even with
one absolutely flawless character. Supposing
you encountered your ideal paragon, what would
happen when you discovered  as you inevitably
would do  the first flaw in him ? "

"I cannot tell." There was a little catch in
her breath, and she wrestled diligently but very
unskilfully with a refractory knot in the new
skein. " It would depend a good deal on what
you mean by a flaw."

I do not mean if you discovered your friend
to be a living falsehood; I do not mean if the
whole character you had supposed a splendid
reality turned out a ghastly sham," Wentworth
answered, frowning. " Such a discovery cannot
be forgiven ; there is no palliating or pardoning

it. No ; what I mean is any signal falling short
of your ideal standard of goodness and greatness.
Could you forgive failure like this ? It would
be a question between love and pride, you see 
that is what it comes to. I cannot believe that
you are so unbending proud as never to forgive
yourself  and some one else  because you
had made a mistake and set your hopes too

high."

One cannot very well admire and condemn at
once."

But we are not talking of admiration. Weare
talking of love, which is a wholly different
thing. And I assure you that one may love and
condemn at once, very well indeed."

Muriel shook her head. "I cannot believe
that," she answered.

"Because you are merely spinning theories,
and have no experience to speak from. You
may admire a man's talents or respect a man's
virtues, but you don't love them, believe me 
you love him. Him, the essence of him  the
intangible, incommunicable something which
makes him himself and no other. Let his gifts
forsake him, and his virtues too, and what
difference does that make to love ? The man is
there still."

'not the best part of him," answered Muriel
bravely.

Yes, pardon me, the very best part of him 
the individuality which is unchangeable while
everything else varies. So long as that remains,
you have no right to cease to love him, except
under one possible condition."

What is that ? " asked Muriel, with as much
coolness as she could command.

"That he should himself change towards
you."

There," said Muriel, looking up for a moment,
"I must disagree in my turn, Mr. Wentworth.
It seems to me you would make affection a very
poor and selfish thing, a thing that would only
exist while it had hope of an equivalent in
return. But I am sure it does not die so in
practice. If the people I care for ceased to care
for me, I might feel indignant  but I should not
love them the less. Not even, I think, if they
hated me."

Then I am very sorry for you," Wentworth
rejoined rather bitterly. "If such be the case,
you are gifted with a most unfortunate disposition.
But if you are so tenacious in your
attachments, I cannot see how you are to shake
yourself free of a fallen ideal so easily. You

seem to fancy that would be a matter of no
difficulty at all."

"I think you are confusing things," Muriel
said in a low voice.

Confusing things ? You are confusing them,
I think ! Look at that skein, and see to what
admired disorder those unsteady little hands of
yours have reduced it. Let me have it."

He bent down as he spoke and took the
unlucky skein from her fingers. The movement
was partly a manoeuvre by which to gain
sight of her downcast eyes, and partly an assertion
of his power to command her, even in so
trifling a matter. And Muriel yielded without
resistance. In spite of all he had said of her
obstinacy, it was not often that she ventured to
resist Wentworth's imperious will.

"And now tell me," he said, when he had
succeeded in bringing something like order out
of the chaotic entanglement he had wrested
from her passive grasp, 'where I have shown
mental confusion ? "

Muriel had fondly hoped that Wentworth
had done with that subject, but it did not so
appear. He stood calmly awaiting her reply.

You spoke of pride just now  of its being alla
question of pride," she said rather incoherently;

"and I meant to say that there might be other
questions involved which you left out of consideration."


What questions ? "  very brusquely.

"Questions of right and wrong. One could
not overlook them as one might mere want of
faith towards one's self"

Her candid grey eyes looked straight up into
the dark inscrutable depths of his. He knew
that her words were wholly guiltless of any personal
intention, but nevertheless there was that
in them which stung him to the quick.

*' Right and wrong are wide terms," he said.
Every man gives a different definition of their
meaning; and then we must not leave out of
sight the circumstances which define them for
us, whether we will or no. Till we have the
individual case before us, it is so difficult to say
what may be right or wrong in any particular
circumstances."

Muriel looked a little puzzled and distressed.
She bent her flushed cheeks over her work without
answering.

There ! " said Wentworth, changing the
subject with his usual ready tact. " Enough of
subtleties for to-day. We are getting quite metaphysical
 a most inappropriate frame of mind in

weather like this. Let us do something to clear
the mental atmosphere a little. You have not
yet looked at the book I brought up to show
you  a new book, which was sent me from England
yesterday." He held out a dainty little
volume, one of those veritable gems of the
printer's and bookbinder's art with which the
modern press has filled our library shelves and
covered our drawing-room tables.

If the contents are at all worthy of the exterior
" Muriel began. " Poems, I see ! And

by John Addington Symonds," she added doubtfully.


Do you know him at all as a writer ? "

Only by name. I don't think I ever saw a
book or a verse of his in my life. But my brother
raves of him from time to time."

I can well believe that. He has a numerous
following among the Young Oxford of our day,
I know. I will not say that I go along with
them altogether in their unqualified admiration
of their leader, for I do not by any means invariably
agree with his critical judgments, and
I dislike the style of his prose writings. It is
intensely brilliant  and even too brilliant, to my
mind  but I think myself that it would be all
the better for a little toning down : a few more

shadows and half-lights would give it just the
grandeur it lacks. But as a verse - writer
Symonds is often charming. There are some
things in that book little short of perfect in
their way."

Please show me what you think best," said
Muriel, tendering the little volume to its owner.
When one reads a strange author for the first
time, one ought to begin with a taste of his best,
I think."

I will read you one or two of the poems, if
you like; then you need not put your work
aside, and  do you know ?  it strikes me that
you have done next to nothing this morning.
I am afraid you have a bad habit of sitting with
your pencil or your needle in your hand, looking
very industrious, but accomplishing very little."

Thank you, I shall be very glad if you will
read," was Muriel's reply, given with a praiseworthy
show of composure and dignity. " There
is nothing I enjoy more than being read to."
She applied herself resolutely to the creation of
a vine-leaf, and Wentworth opened his book.

He was an admirable reader. Gifted by nature
with a remarkably beautiful voice, he had learnt
to manage it with such exquisite art that it had
become like a perfectly tuned instrument under

the hand of a dexterous musician; while his
strongly emotional temperament informed it
with all the power and pathos of unforced sentiment.
He read several of Symonds' sonnets
with such sweetness of intonation, such felicity
of emphasis, and such nicety of sympathetic
feeling, that any poet might well have thanked
Heaven for such an interpreter. Yet, after the
first line or two, Muriel's hand did not flag
in its task, and by the end of the third sonnet
the vine-leaf was triumphantly approaching
completion.

How do you like them ? " Wentworth demanded,
stopping and turning towards her.

I like them  I am not sure ; yes, I like them
pretty well. But I think I might not have liked
them at all had I read them to myself"

If Wentworth noticed the implied compliment
to his powers as a reader, he showed
no sign of gratification thereat. " What do
you find wanting ? " he inquired. " Is it the
matter or the manner that you complain of ?
Not the manner, surely ; for those three sonnets,
as regards construction and language, might each
and all rank as models."

I suppose so ; they are very pretty, undoubtedly.
But that is just what I don't care

for, Mr. Wentworth; I like something more
than prettiness in a poem. It is such a poor
kind of beauty. Don't you think so ? "

I cannot say I do ; prettiness has its charms.
The Wye is not to be despised because it cannot
rank with the Danube. However, since your
craving to-day is for a little more fire and force,
what do you say to this ? "

He turned some pages, and read "A Farewell"


It is over and done with,
The love that we knew 
The cobwebs we spun with
Are beaded with dew.

*' I loved thee ; I leave thee 
To love thee was pain 
I dare not believe thee
To love thee again."

Muriel's hand still travelled over her work, but
it moved fitfully, and executed some very imperfect
stitches. When Wentworth reached the
last stanza 

Farewell ! and forget me,
For I too am free
From the shame that beset me 
The sorrow of thee ! "

it stopped altogether.

Don't you hear the ghost of Byron in those
lines ? " said Wentworth, still pale with feeling.

You ought to admire the poet here, I am sure,
for he takes precisely your view of the course
to be taken by a person suffering from disappointed
faith in an ideal.

I dare not believe thee
To love thee again.'

Do you still cling unreservedly to your former
opinion, since you have seen it put before you
in a concrete form ? "

Mr. Symonds' poem is beautiful, but a trifle
vague, I think. He does not give us all the
circumstances of the story, and without them,
you know, it is impossible to form a judgment
as to what might have been right or wrong in
that individual case."

She gave him a mischievous glance, gleefully
conscious of having turned the tables upon him
successfully for once.

You are in a wicked mood to-day : there is
no inducing you to give a serious answer to a
simple question. I don't think you in a fit
frame of mind for poetry, but still I should like
you to hear one more little lyric. There is no
question of vagueness here  this goes down to
the root and into the heart of things."

I did not say I disliked the vagueness,"
murmured Muriel rebelliously ; but Wentworth

had begun, without appearing to heed the
interruption.

To have written one song that shall live
On the lips of the fair and the free ;
To have given what heroes can give
In the service of Saiiit Liberty ;

To have spoken for once with the power
Of a prophet beloved by the Lord ;
To have felt for one terrible hour

The might of the conquering sword "

The lines came rolling out almost as if chanted,

the reader's voice gradually rising in power and

deepening in intensity until the end of the

second verse was reached. Then it changed to

a tone of the most thrilling tenderness.

All these things were well : but I vow
I'd rather have stirred with my soul
Your soul for one minute, and now
Have been dying such love is Life's whole ! "

AVith the last words Went worth leaned forward
and looked at Muriel. Her work had fallen on
her knee, her hands were strained tightly together
; she was almost as pale as he was. Fora
moment he continued to gaze at her ; then he
almost threw the book from him and rose to
his feet.

They are magnificent lines," he said, in an
odd, constrained voice which had suddenly lost
all its sweetness, " but you cannot fully enter

into them, child. At your age, how should
you?"

No, perhaps not," Muriel answered. She
spoke rather faintly.

Don't regret it ! " Wentworth exclaimed
passionately. " You will learn that lesson quite
soon enough  too soon for your own peace, most
likely. It is a knowledge which brings far more
of pain than pleasure with it. / understand it
all well enough, and I wish to Heaven I did not ! "

He turned abruptly as he uttered his last
vehement words, and went rapidly up the
mountain path without a syllable of apology for
his sudden desertion. Quite ten minutes elapsed
before he came back to find Muriel still sitting
in her former place. If she had had any promptings
to rise and make good her escape during his
absence, she had disregarded them, and though
a little pale and serious, she had grown quite
calm again, and was going on simply and composedly
with her work. She did not even affect
to be unconscious of Wentworth's returning
footsteps, but looked up as he drew near, and
gave him a smile of welcome. He did not
respond to the mute greeting ; and then she saw
that his face had grown set and rigid as a mask
of stone.

I think you said you were anxious to find
a gentian root fit for transplanting, Miss Ferrars,"
he said formally and stiffly, as he came up to
her. " I have been fortunate enough to chance
upon one. They are rarer than they used to be,
thanks to the tourists."

Muriel managed to falter some acknowledgment,
but Wentworth's changed aspect filled
her with dismay. The transformation was so
sudden, so unaccountable, and withal so complete
even his voice was altered, and was pitched
a whole tone higher than usual, with a sharp
ring in it quite foreign to its ordinary accents.
Every trace of his late agitation had passed away,
but its passage had left him strangely cold and
distant.

He sat down a little way off" from Muriel, took
out a pocket-book, and began rapidly making
notes in pencil, while the girl watched his movements
nervously. She felt she could not endure
a long tete-tete with him in silence. Already
it seemed as if the mental atmosphere were
electric with comines storm, and a word mioht
let loose the elemental forces it held in suspension
; but Muriel said to herself that figurative
lightning-flashes and thunder-peals would be
infinitely preferable to this oppressive and insufferable

stillness. So she cast about for a safe
subject of conversation, and seized at random on
the first that occurred to her.

Have you had any further news lately of
your little girls, Mr. Wentworth ? You have
not told me anything about them for several
days."

At no moment in his life could Paul Wentworth
speak coldly or without interest of his
children. His expression softened a little, and
a faint look of pleasure stole into his face as he
answered, still rather formally, "Thank you for
asking -for being so kind as to take an interest
in them. I am glad to say they are quite well.
I heard from Estelle this morning."

Are they good correspondents ? "

Estelle writes capital letters. Her sister
regards letter-writing as a heavy duty merely,
at present; but Stella certainly has the pen of
a ready writer."

Estelle is the favourite, I can see," thought
Muriel to herself " What a paragon of perfection
he thinks her ! "

Would you care to read one of the child's
letters ? " inquired Wentworth after a pause.
The armour of stiffness and formality which he
had assumed was gradually slipping from him.

Indeed I should, very much."

Care ? Was not this simple offer a mark of
the deepest confidence  an admission of her
into the sanctuary of his holiest feelings and
dearest affections ? Such an evidence of his
trust in her far outweighed the recollection of
his passing coldness.

I think you will say it is a creditable effusion,
coming from twelve years old," remarked Wentworth.
" Where is the letter ? I can't find it,
of course, now that I want it ; but I am a woefully
untidy and unmethodical individual at the best
of times. It is not in this pocket-book  nor yet
in my coat-pockets "  after another fruitless
search  "I must have put it into that case I
left with your sketching tools under the rock."
He sprang down to the spot where, a few
steps below the grass-covered bank on which
they had established themselves, portfolios, pencil-cases,
and sketching-block lay in a confused
heap.

He found the mislaid envelope where he had
expected to find it, and, strange to say  for his
papers, as a rule, were apt to be in hopeless
disorder  the coveted letter was inside it. It
was written on a single large-sized sheet of thin
foreign " paper, though the envelope which

contained it was of the ordinary thick glazed
kind used in home correspondence ; and as Wentworth
drew it out of its cover, a small scrap
of writing, which he had not noticed before, and
which Estelle had evidently inserted as an afterthought,
fluttered out and fell at his feet. He
picked it up and glanced at it.

We had quite a nice long letter from unotlter
yesterday. She is not at Aunt Eiinily's noir.
She is staying with Mrs. Fraser, near Perth, in
Scotland."

Wentworth grew white as ashes. There was
the truth, the fatal truth, of which he knew
perfectly well that Muriel was still ignorant,
lying before him in black and white, written
in his own daughter's round, childish handwriting.
He had but to make three steps, to
lay that scrap of paper in her hand, and without
one spoken word on his side she would know
all she needed to know  all that it was now
high time she should learn. The decisive
moment had come. His silence hitherto had
been due to no more reprehensible cause than
repugnance to enter on a distasteful subject ;
but now, if persisted in, it would become a
crime. Surely some good angel had inspired
little Stella's brain and pen when she added

VOL. I. 15

that postscript to her letter ; surely the same
angel had prompted its discovery now !

For it was not yet too late, as Wentworth
knew. He had done and said nothing incapable
of a reassuring explanation so far; even his
emotion that very day need not necessarily be
attributed to any feeling connected with Muriel
herself. There was still time to save her. The
thought passed through his mind swift as an
electric flash ; and that good angel knocked
hard meanwhile at the door of his roused and
troubled conscience. For a minute the battle
raged fiercely in the man's soul; for a second
it was almost won ; and then he raised his eyes
and looked  not at Heaven, but at Muriel.

The look was fatal, for it told him that,
however unconsciously she loved him already.
Unseen, as she supposed, the girl was watching
him, gazing at him with such a radiancy of
silent worship and shy tenderness shining in
her soft eyes as love alone could have lighted
there. Wentworth needed no further evidence
to convince him of a fact which Muriel herself
had not yet fully realized ; but he was experienced
in such matters, and knew the signs
and tokens of old. Before the fresh storm of
passionate feeling which such a revelation called



up, every dyke of resolution, every landmark
of scruple, went down for the moment. The
pleading, warning voice that had sounded in his
ear so distinctly an instant earlier was overpowered
and silenced in the tempest.

Pale to the lips, Wentworth thrust the tiny
fragment of paper which might have averted
the ruin of a life's happiness deep into its cover
again. Then he went back to Muriel's side with
the single thin sheet in his hand.

This is my little girl's letter," he said.

A BRIGHT PARTICULAR STAR.

I changed for you the very laws of life :
Made you the standard of all right, all fair . . .
Age and decline were man's maturity ;
Face, form were nature's type: more grace, more strength,
What had they been but just superfluous gauds,
Lawless divergence? I have danced through day
On tiptoe at the music of a word,
Have wondered where was darkness gone as night
Burst into stars at brilliance of a smile ! "

R. Browning.

Rain, rain, nothing but rain ! For two or three
days past the weather had been overcast and
threatening, with squalls of wind and flying
showers, and now it had broken up altogether
in one of those pitiless contours for which the
land of the freeborn Helvetian is unfortunately
famous. The wind had dropped at noon, and
the black jagged masses of angry cloud had
resolved themselves into one uniform pall of

leaden grey tinged at the horizon with faint
deceptive gleams of a sickly whiteness  deceptive,
for at three o'clock in the afternoon the
rain was still falling persistently in a soft, warm,
steady sheet, which looked as if it might go on
falling for ever. It was all-pervading; it shut
out every other sight and muffled every other
sound. Even if the mountains had not hours
ago wrapped themselves in their robes of mist,
they would have been hidden by the thick veil
of descending drops ; and through the open
windows nothing could be heard but the monotonous
drip, drip from the roof of the verandah,
the patter of the rain on the gravel walks,
and the soft swirl of the little rivulets which
ran like miniature torrents down the steep path
leading from the Hotel Mythen to the Amen
road. It was a depressing day, and a shadow
of the atmospheric influence seemed to have
touched Muriel Ferrars' young face and converted
the ordinary sweet content of its expression
into something very like sadness. Muriel
was paler than usual ; her eyes were heavy and
troubled with overmuch thought and self-communing,
and every now and then the sensitive
mouth would droop and quiver as if with some
passing pain. She looked a forlorn youthful

figure, sitting quite alone in the long, low-ceiled
salon which served as drawing-room and library
in one, and staring out at the thickly falling rain
with those pathetically puzzled eyes. There
was more of perplexity than of actual suffering
visible in them as yet, but already enough of
both to show that the halcyon days were over.
Since the morning when she listened to Addington
Symonds' poems in the shade of the pines,
and read Estelle Wentworth's letter to her
father, Muriel had discovered that there were
thorns as well as roses in the path on which she
had entered.

One of the thorns was rankling in her heart
and memory now. She had had a little quarrel
with Wentworth the day before; and though
he had been graciously pleased, on her evident
distress at his anger, to show himself appeased
and mollified before they parted, she had not
seen him since, and naturally interpreted his
avoidance of her to mean that he was not yet
disposed to be wholly reconciled to her, but still
cherished some lingering remnant of offence.
Perhaps quarrel is too serious a word to use in
reference to so trifling a coolness, which arose
solely from the fact that Muriel had seen fit to
defer a drawing-lesson proposed by Wentworth

from one morning to another. There had been
something in his look or in the tone of his voice
as he made the proposal which intimated a little
too plainly that he was aware how great was
the power he wielded over her, and her woman's
pride was roused to take arms against him. She
had felt it behoved her dignity to show him that
she was not always at his command. And
Wentworth had acquiesced in her decision at
the time, without attempting to shake it either
by argument or entreaty ; but he met her at the
hour appointed with such icy coldness of demeanour,
and with such marked displeasure
written on every feature, that the girl was
wounded to the quick, and made to regret
bitterly indeed what she now called her absurd
display of childish self-conceit and ingratitude.
Before Ryq minutes were over his victory was
complete. In two he had made his poor little
victim feel herself no dignified princess, but a
foolish, humbled, penitent child; in three more
he had wrung her feelings unmercifully by a
coolly hinted allusion to his speedy departure
and the consequent cessation of their intercourse,
and when he concluded his remarks by a severe
recommendation to "attend to the shading oi"
that foreground," and by an inquiry, put with

airy indifference, as to whether "she were not
well that morning, since her hand was so unsteady,"
a suppressed light of triumph was
already gleaming through the mask of frigid disapproval
he still thought it expedient to retain a
little longer. Of course she had thrown down
her arms at once, and Wentworth saw her submission
was so entire that he consented to relax
in his severity towards her, and even slowly
resumed his former kind and encouraging manner.
For the moment she had felt quite reassured, but
now that twenty-four hours had gone by without
his again seeking her, she became desperately
uneasy. Strange that he should avoid her so
sedulously ! Had his anger against her regained
the upper hand ? Did he think that he had too
easily pardoned a slight to his kindness ? His
kindness ! That was how Muriel always spoke
to herself of his predilection for her society.

For, indeed, even now she had not analyzed her
own feelings for him, much less had she attempted
to fathom the nature of his regard for her. The
consciousness that he stood so immeasurably
above her in intellect and attainments, the
knowledge that his life had been passed in so
different a sphere from hers and that such a
profound gulf divided them in age as in everything

else, all combined with the line of conduct
he had seen fit to adopt to keep her in ignorance
of the direction in which they were drifting.
His manner, for all its semi-chivalrous tenderness,
was often more fatherly than lover-like, and
though she might dimly guess that his feeling
for her went far deeper than mere friendly
interest, it was as yet no more than a guess, and
one which she would not have dared to formulate
even to herself. In addition to all the rest, there
was a memory between them  the memory of
Wentworth's lost wife. (For Muriel was still ignorant
of his real circumstances, he having decided
to await " the natural development of events "  a
preservation of the status quo which impartial
witnesses of the drama might have pronounced a
piece of very masterly inactivity on his part.)
She began indeed to have her suspicions that
the union had not been one of unalloyed happiness
; still she judged that the dead woman
must have been loved, and that love was a great
barrier set against the uprising of any other, in

the girl's eyes. And yet  at times She

would not allow herself to complete the sentence.

And now perhaps he was offended with her ;

he would never be her friend, her real friend again.

Courteous he would still doubtless be  was he not

courteous to every one ?  but courtesy was one
thing, friendship another. She could at least
tell herself boldly, without fear or shame, that
hitherto Wentworth had not reckoned her among
the crowd to whom he was merely polite and
nothing more. Had she, by a ridiculous outbreak
of thankfulness and vanity, put an end
to the beautiful companionship which had glorified
her life for a fortnight ? She hated herself
for her folly, as she sat hour after hour listening
to the falling raindrops, and vainly wishing that
yesterday were hers to live over again in the
light of to-day's experience.

In the futile endeavour to distract her thoughts
from the one centre round which they revolved
persistently and painfully, she drew Lucy's last
letter from her work-basket, and glanced over it.
She was almost shocked to find how languid had
become her interest in the little details of home
gaieties and home gossip set down for her amusement
in the graphically written sheets of her
lively correspondent. Three sentences only,
which occurred towards the middle of the
third page, stirred her flagging attention for a
moment.

"/ am indeed glad your adventure ended so
well," wrote Lucy, "for it might have been an

uncommonly awkward one for you. Your rescue
sounds quite a romantic affair ; I am only sorry
that the hero of it was nothing more interesting
than a middle-aged lawyer with tito daughters !
It is almost a pity that you should cherish such
an inveterate dislike to ividoivers, as in time you
might have got over the gallant Q.G.'s weight of
years  always supposing him to he otherwise presentable
 hut I conclude those two young ladies
ivotdd prove an insuperable objection in your
eyes."

Muriel flushed crimson as she read. Lucy's
light girlish banter, so unconsciously written,
jarred on her restless half-awakened feelings like
a rude touch on an acutely sensitive nerve. She
decided loftily that "the child was growing
terribly flippant ; " but in truth Lucy had simply
taken a humorous view of the plain facts which
had been put before her by Muriel in a letter
written soon after her first meeting with Wentworth.
Muriel had, it is true, spoken of him
with great respect, but this had in no wise impressed
Lucy, who knew it was Muriel's habit to
speak respectfully of people, and who possessed
only a very rudimentary organ of veneration
herself A week earlier, Muriel might still have
been able to laugh at Lucy's absurd way of

putting things; now she only frowned and
blushed, and put the letter impatiently from
her again, thrusting it deep down under a heap
of coloured wools, and feeling profoundly thankful,
meanwhile, that some instinct had restrained
her from giving Wentworth's name more than a
cursory mention in her later letters. It was
utterly impossible for her to make Lucy, who
had never seen him, or any one in the remotest
degree resembling him, understand what manner
of man he was. How long the afternoon seemed !
Would the rain never cease ? If Mr. Wentworth


The thread of her reflections was summarily
cut .short by the opening of the door. Wentworth
himself stood on the threshold, evidently
fresh from an encounter with the inclemency
of the weather. Raindrops sparkled on his long
rough overcoat, his felt hat was limp from the
soaking it had received, and little rivulets of
water were running down from his dripping
hair and making havoc of his collar.

Neither his condition nor his costume were
particularly favourable to elegance of appearance;
yet it struck Muriel that she had never
yet seen him look so well. The worn look, the
look of anxiety and fatigue which was habitual

to him, was for once quite absent from his face
he looked bright, excited, almost young. Lucy's
disparaging remark about "the middle-aged
lawyer " recurred to Muriel's mind, and she felt
that she could afford to laugh at it now. Did
any one ever inquire the exact age of Agamemnon,
king of men ? There is no comparison too extravagant
for a girl who is fairly bewitched.

The degenerate modern representative of
ancient heroic manhood paused a second or two
in the doorway  paused just long enough to take
in the girl's dejected attitude, to note the drooping
figure, the bent head, the heavy eyes ; then
he made a step forward, put his hat and a white
deal box he carried on a neighbouring chair,
and took her proffered hand in both his own.

I have been out in the wet for this last hour,
so I am hardly fit to touch you," he said, holding
her hand all the while immovable in his strong
unyielding clasp. " How are you, my child ? "

Not much need to wait for an answer to
that question, to which  while Muriel's tongue
faltered a conventional rejoinder  her face gave
the true reply. She had been ailing, but she
was better, she was well now ! The eyes that
had been so downcast were looking up into
Wentworth's all bright with a tender gladness

which could not be concealed; the pale cheeks
were flushed with shy delight; the sweet lips
quivered with emotion and finally smiled outright
for joy. Watching that beautiful transformation
scene, Wentworth counted himself
amply repaid for the self-denial of the last four
and twenty hours  a self-denial in which certain
scruples may have played their part as minor
factors, but to which he had been chiefly impelled
by a burning curiosity to see what effect
apparent neglect would produce on his infatuated
worshipper.

And you are quite alone ? " was all this clever
man of the world could find to say; while
Muriel, who was the first to regain her senses,
made a determined movement to withdraw her
hand.

"Yes," she answered, turning back to her
work-basket, and creating great havoc and disorder
among its contents, "and I don't expect
them back till quite late. They have gone to
Bale again."

"The Professor and Mrs. Erskine, both of
them?" As she grew embarrassed and incoherent,
he grew cooler and more collected.

Both of them. Isn't it unfortunate that they
should have such a miserable dav ? It began to

pour just half an hour after they started by the
early steamer, and it has never once stopped
since."

"And you have spent all that time quite by
yourself ! " pursued Wentworth, speaking in the
tone he might have used to a solitary child he
had found by the wayside in tears, and unkindly
ignoring the woes of the travellers. "Then I
think you ought to be glad to see me, little one."

"I am  very glad." She spoke so low that
her words scarcely seemed to stir the air as she
uttered them, and there was a moment's silence
after they were spoken. Then she looked up
again. " How wet you are ! " she exclaimed.
Your coat looks as if it was thoroughly soaked ;
ought not you to take it off ? "

Perhaps I had better," said Wentworth, with
a nervous laugh. "I am not improving the
atmosphere of this room by keeping it on, to
beo-in with." He divested himself of the cumbersome
damp garment, and, passing through the
open French window, hung it over a chair in
the verandah. "The only fit place for it," he
said in explanation, as he came in again. " It
would go against my conscience to hang it up
in the hall amongst other people's coats and
ulsters. I should feel myself the guilty cause

of every case of catarrh or sore throat which
occurred in the hotel for the next few days, if
I committed so rash an act."

"I think the rash act consisted in taking a
walk at all on such an afternoon."

Oh, I am too seasoned a traveller to be afraid
of a little mountain rain. Besides, gratitude
should seal up your lips from uttering reproaches
on that score, since I was employed on your
service."

On mine ? "  with a quick sudden flush.

In so far that I went to meet a box that was
coming to you from Italy. I was afraid the
steamer might not stop to deliver it, unless I
took the precaution pf having her signalled."

A box from Italy  for me ? "

"Don't you remember," Wentworth asked,
transferring the wooden case he had brought in
with him from the chair where he had placed
it at first to the table, " that you once said you
thought Switzerland contained every delight
except flowers ? It occurred to me that it would
be easy to import the one thing wanting from
the other side of the Alps, and so complete your
Paradise for you at very little trouble." He
spoke half whimsically, half sadly, while rapidly
removing the silver paper and cotton wool which

concealed a bewildering heap of perishable loveliness.


And you sent for these  for me ! " Muriel
repeated slowly, as if she were in a dream.

The flowers themselves looked almost dreamlike
in their exquisite fragile beauty. Late
roses of the most delicate and unearthly tints,
sprays of pure white stephanotis, gorgeous 
and graceful bell-like natural such
as we can only rear in hot-houses, sweet-scented
myrtle and heliotrope, lay in symmetrical profusion
on a bed of moss and maidenhair, filling
the room with their delicious fragrance. Muriel
hung over them breathless, to all appearance
entranced with their beauty, but in reality she
only gathered a general impression of many-heed
loveliness  her eyes were too dim with
happy tears to see more. She had supposed him
to be offended, angry ; she had dared to suspect
him of cherishing a petty grudge against her ;
she had been repining, discontented, miserable,

while all the time ! What was she, that such

happiness should be meted out to her ?

It is moments such as these which make our
poor mortal life, even in its lower and more
earthly sense, so worth the living. Into that
flash of time there was compressed for Muriel

VOL. J. 16

joy enough to counterbalance whole subsequent
years of grief and regret.

Then you like them, child ? " Wentworth
said, laying his hand softly on the girl's shoulder.
Light as was the touch, it made her quiver
through all her slight frame.

Like them ? " She turned her radiant face
and dewy eyes towards him in a rapture of grateful
happiness. " I never saw anything half so
lovely before. Oh, how good you are to me !
How can I thank you ? "

"You have thanked me. I am more than
recompensed," he answered quietly. Then he
moved a little away from her, and began folding
up the tissue wrappings which lay on the table
with great deliberation.

I must put them in water," went on Muriel,
who was still hanging over her treasures. " I
feel almost afraid to touch them, but I can't let
them die, lovely things ! "

I will ring the bell for some flower-glasses,"
Wentworth said in a carefully matter-of-fact
tone. As usual, he had let his impulses runaway
with him, and was only beginning to
tighten the curb now that the mischief was done.
Arranging them will help to while away what
remains of this dreary afternoon."

The Swiss waiter evinced great astonishment
at the call thus unexpectedly made on the resources
of his glass-cupboard, and evidently
thought that there was no end to the vagaries
of ces Anglais. However, Muriel's earnest entreaties
and Wentworth's imperious orders combined
produced at length a trayful of " the very
oddest collection of vases to be seen between
Corsica and the Hebrides, she should think," the
girl declared. It seemed an insult to the perfect
blossoms to imprison them in such marvels of
grotesque ugliness, as crude in colour as they
were clumsy in shape, but there was no help for
it : she could only try to hide the vases themselves
as far as possible under masses of fern and trailing
foliage. When she was approaching the conclusion
of her task, Wentworth, who had been
reading the Times at the other end of the room,
laid down his paper and came back to the table.
You have done your work very cleverly," he
remarked. " The queer vases look quite glorified
now."

Our sitting-room will be glorified presently,"
returned Muriel, lifting her bright face, " when I
have carried all these upstairs. I mean to leave
them there without a word, so when my uncle
and aunt come back they will think we have

had a visit from the fairies in their absence.
But what will you have for yourself, Mr. Wentworth
? You must not give them all away, you
know."

I have given them away already. They are
yours now, not mine. I will accept one or two
with pleasure  as a gift from you."

You never condescend to lear a flower, do
you ? "

"I don't think I have ever worn one in my
life," he answered gravely, " but I will wear
yours, if you will be so kind as to give it me."

What shall it be ? Will you have this white
rosebud and a tiny bit of stephanotis ? "

Thank you." He stood watching her as she
composed her diminutive bouquet, touching a leaf
here and a frond there with light dexterous
fingers. She proffered it to him at last with a
hand which would, despite all her efforts to the
contrary, persist in trembling a little.

Wentworth made no movement to take it.
Your gift is incomplete still," he said. " You
must put it in for me, please."

She dared not refuse his request, which
amounted almost to a command ; she dared not
even hesitate  but she felt it to be the most
difficult task she had ever been set in her life to

perform. She did not look at Wentworth ; she
never raised her eyes above the second button of
his dark tweed coat ; she concentrated her whole
attention on the flowers and the buttonhole into
which she was inserting them ; but even thus
her fingers almost refused their office, and she
was painfully conscious that his keen gaze would
read and interpret correctly the meaning of her
burning cheeks. Under these circumstances the
operation took longer to carry out than it would
otherwise have done, especially as, being determined
to keep up what semblance of composure
she could, Muriel was resolved not to leave her
work half done. Pursuant on this resolution,
she paused to give a parting touch to the spray
of stephanotis, which was drooping a little to one
side.

"It looks quite right now, I think," lie
observed. " Just this one touch, and then "

Wentworth had stood perfectly mute and
silent all the while (only Muriel had not seen
his face !), but now he suddenly broke silence.
My thanks to you," he said in a low, breathless
voice. Then he hurriedly bent his head, and
kissed the little hand which was still busy with
the stephanotis blossoms.

"IM THORICHTEN Tram."

Dreams are true while they last, and do we not live iu
dreams ? " Texxysox.

Muriel found Went worth in the hall when she
came down from her flower-scented room to table
d'hote that evening, and his unexpected presence
there almost startled her. What did it mean ?
Could he be going to dine downstairs, a thing he
had never yet done since he came to the Hotel
Mythen ? She asked no question ; she even
checked the exclamation that rose to her lips on
first catching sight of him. But he answered
the look in her face as if it had taken form in
words.

Yes," he said in an undertone, as he followed
her into the salle-d-inanger, and quietly took
possession of the chair usually occupied by the
absent Professor, " I have come out of my shell
for this evening. It seemed hardly fair to leave

you to face this medley of German pedagogues
and Dutch merchants "  eying the remainder of
the company with supercilious distaste  "quite
alone. So I came down to take care of you."

Now, Muriel would have been more than
woman if she had not been gratified by this
mark of tender solicitude, but at the same time
she did feel slightly hurt at Wentworth's implied
censure of her uncle and aunt for leaving
her so wholly unprotected. (Truth to tell,
Wentworth did think the Professor and his
guileless wife highly reprehensible in their lax
guardianship of their beautiful niece, although
his justifiable indignation did not prevent his
taking a cruel advantage of their carelessness.)
She summoned courage to say 

"You are very good. Of course I am glad
you came ; but really these are all very nice
people. My uncle likes them." She spoke
sufficiently low for her words to be inaudible
to every one but Wentworth himself

Very possibly," he returned in his imperturbable
way. " I doubt not that they are one
and all estimable and delightful. Still, being: a
foreigner and a stranger, you might feel a little

lonely among them, and if I had my way "

He checked himself suddenly. " You don't want

to get rid of me that you may practise Dutch at
your ease, do you ? " he asked.

Muriel shook her head. " Dutch is an uninteresting
language," she said. "It was very
kind of you to sacrifice yourself for me, for I
know you hate table cVhote dinners."

"I am not sacrificing myself; don't credit me
with any self-denial," was his rejoinder. "I am
glad to be here. Only it is as well that you should
give up all idea of self-improvement in modern
tongues for the space of this one dinner, because
I mean you to talk to me."

He kept his word. If the spectacled German
professor who sat on Muriel's right hand, and
who dropped in occasionally to smoke and
talk Kant and Hegel with Mr. Erskine, or
the phlegmatic young Dutch officer opposite
cherished, either of them, any consuming desire
to enter into conversation with the sweet-faced
English girl, their ardent wishes were doomed
to disappointment. Muriel had eyes, ears,
thoughts only for her left-hand neighbour, and
he certainly took care that she should be well
entertained. Never had she heard him talk
with greater spirit and originality, never had
his wit seemed more brilliant or his sarcasm
more pointed, never had the little flashes of

sentiment and poetry which often alternated
curiously with an outburst of bitter irony or a
phrase of the keenest worldly wisdom in the
shifting mosaic of his picturesque speech rung
so winningly true as they did that night. What
wonder that the blonde Mynheer on the other
side of the table, watching the play of light and
shade, pathos and amusement over the girl's
animated, expressive face, marvelled as to what
on earth that arrogant-looking dark Englishman
could be saying to her ?

When the long dinner was over  and one at
least of Herr Miller's guests was surprised to
hind it over so soon  and the little company often
had filed into the hall, Muriel hesitated for
an instant what to do next. There was no
question of going out, for the steady splash of the
interminable rain could still be heard falling
distinctly. The men had gone off in a body
to the smoking-room, and the only two ladies still
remaining in the hotel, a stout German matron
and her fragile-looking invalid daughter, betook
themselves at once to their rooms. Muriel casta
long pitying look at the poor pale girl leaning
heavily on her mother's strong arm, and when
she turned back aoain, Wentworth saw that
her eyes were wet.

That girl's health is improving, I am sure,"
he said kindly, answering Muriel's throb of feeling
with his usual ready sympathy. " I have noticed
that she seemed to be gaining ground steadily
ever since I came here."

"It was not that," Muriel replied inconsequently.
" Only  is it not beautiful to see how
her mother tends her and takes care of her ; and
how Clachan  she calls her Clachan  seems to
cling to her and look to her for everything ? I
cannot remember my own mother, you know,"
she added a little sadly.

Ah, Muriel ! you needed your mother, if ever,
at this moment. Perhaps some thought of the
kind crossed Wentworth's mind, bringing compunction
in its train, for he was strangely silent.
He seemed to be debating something with
himself

After this curious pause had lasted a minute
or two, Muriel put out her hand. "I must say
good-night," she began.

Wentworth awoke all at once from his fit
of abstraction. " No, indeed you must not," he
rejoined. " Why, it is not more than eight o'clock
now ! Come into the salon for a little while, and
sing to me. There is not a soul there."

He pushed open the door and stood back for

her to enter. As on the occasion of the Sunday
evening walk, again some inexplicable instinct
warned her not to go, and again the strange
magnetism of Wentworth's will, as his eyes
rested upon her, seemed to overpower her determination
to refuse. She moved slowly forward
into the room, almost like a person who walks
in his sleep and advances in obedience to an
imaginary force which attracts or compels him.
Just inside the door she halted again.

I wonder how you knew that I sang at all,
Mr. Wentworth ? " she said. " And indeed I
do sing very little. I have had so few lessons,
unfortunately. What made you think I sang ? "

Many little things. Partly some remarks of
your uncle's, partly one or two things you have
said yourself at times, and partly your face, I
believe. There is such a thing as a music-speaking
face, and yours is pre-eminently of that order.
I am rather observant by nature, and then it is
my business to be always on the watch for
evidence, so professional exigencies have helped
to quicken natural powers in my case, you see."

Muriel walked on to the piano. " I haven't
got any music with me, and I am so apt to forget
my accompaniments," she sighed. "I never
thought of being able to sing in Switzerland."

"Let me play for you. I have a tolerable
ear and a pretty good memory ; I dare say we
can think of something that we both know by
heart."

This proposal relieved Muriel a little from her
nervous terror. If she must needs minor  and

o

she dared not refuse altogether  she preferred
that Wentworth should be occupied with the
piano-keys rather than that he should be at
liberty to watch her with that penetrating
scrutiny which nothing, she was convinced,
could escape; it gave her a better chance of
concealing her childish tremors. It gave her
indeed a chance of evading the ordeal altogether,
since now that the proposal was made, she could
should Wentworth prove to be unacquainted
with all the songs comprised in her limited
repertory  plead her inability to accompany
herself as a reason for declining to sing at all.
Her hopes rose high as he mentioned half a dozen
ballads  for she left him to take the initiative in
the matter  not one of which she knew. Wentworth,
however, was not in the least disconcerted.
He knew he should have his way in the end.

There is one song I feel sure you sing," he
said, just touching a few notes softly with one
hand, "and that is, 'When the heart is young.' "

Muriel had reluctantly to admit that she knew
it. " You will sing me that ? " He glided into
the accompaniment as he spoke, without waiting
for a reply.

Muriel had a sweet, fresh mezzo-soprano voice,
remarkable, especially in the upper notes, for
greater fulness and richness than voices of that
compass usually possess. Its great charm was its
exceeding freshness, tempered by a mellowness
rarely to be found in the tones of a very young
girl. She had had but little teaching, and the
ear of a trained musician like Wentworth would
easily detect crudity and want of method in her
style ; but her intonation was happily perfect,
and the poetic feeling, which was an inseparable
part of her nature, could not but manifest itself
in her singing. She sang the first few bars
timidly, but as the music began to assert its
subtle charm over her, she forgot her fears, and
the sense of pleasure grew with every line.
Higher and higher carolled the sweet voice, and
Wentworth, looking up at her as she stood beside
him, thought she seemed an embodiment of the
spirit of joyous, unclouded youth.

The golden break of day
Brings gladness in its ray,
And every month is May,
When the heart is young ! "

Muriel's heart felt so young, so light, so glad with
a sense of almost overwhelming happiness, that
she unconsciously threw a thrilling personal
meaning into those lines. With the pathetic
verses which give the other side of the picture
it was different. She sang them sweetly enough,
but they did not touch her nearly ; just at the
moment she was incapable of feeling them in
any deep sense. She ended with a smile on her
lips.

Acknowledge that I chose well for you tonight,"
was Wentworth's first remark, as he
leaned back in his chair. "You enjoyed singing
that song."

I am very fond of it." Now that the moment
of exaltation was over, she felt a little shy again.
"How beautifully you accompany, Mr. Wentworth
! I scarcely knew you were playing  the
accompaniment seemed part of the song. Very
often it is something quite distinct from it  I
don't mean when it is badly played only, for
sometimes, when all is literally correct, there is
still the jarred effect, the want of harmony, remaining.
I cannot tell you how pleasant it was
to feel that I could do what I liked, and 3'et you
would always be with me."

"Yes, I was with you. There is sympathy

between us, you see, so it is not difficult for me
to follow your thought." His voice quivered
slightly, but he steadied it with an effort, and
went on. " I think I understand you pretty
well," he said slowly. " That is the great thing
in life  to understand one another. If I had
understood . . . one or two people earlier, my
life might have been a very different one from
what it actually is, though most people do think
I have got so much more out of it than other
men, as the case stands. They don't understand,
either. Well, I was unpardonably dull in those
early days, and we can't shirk the consequences
of our blunders. * Our deeds are fetters that we
forge ourselves,' and though I do think also that
it is the world that brings the iron,' that reflection,
consoling as it is in some sort, doesn't help
us to get free of our chains. We can only try to
avoid forging fresh ones, and bitter experience
may help us here. So my past mistakes have
made me watchful. I have grown quick of comprehension
and intuition, and, as you say, I ama
good accompanied now. I don't take everything
for granted, or insist on seeing a reflection
of my own feelings in other people's minds." He
turned back to the piano. " You will give me
another song ? " he pleaded, dropping his strange

semi-serious, semi-ironical manner as suddenly
as lie had assumed it. " How is it that I never
got you to sing to me before ? Do you know
Avhat a voice you have, child ? You took me
into fairyland for five minutes just now."

He played a chord or two, and then continued,
with that touch of the practical in which the
many-sidedness of his mind often showed itself
rather oddly in moments of highly strung
emotion, "You must have more teaching, you
know. Of course you have a great deal to learn
a music-master would probably tell you everything.
But you have two gifts to begin with,
which all the Garcia and Wanderers in the
world couldn't give you  your voice and your
nature. The rest you can learn if you will and
as you will. What is it to be now ? "

Do you know Lawson's setting of Christina
Rossetti's ' Hereafter ' ? "

* When I am dead ? ' Surely." He began
the dirgelike wailing melody, and Muriel sang
aofain. Not so well this time. A soncj that was
all of the grave, and parting, and forgetfulness
did not greatly appeal to her in her present
mood. Only when she came to the concluding
words, she threw into them a passionate scorn,
which startled Wentworth himself.

How bitter you are at the bare idea of being
forgotten ! " he exclaimed.

"Don't you consider those lines ironical?"
inquired the girl, rather ashamed of her vehemence.


I am not sure' he answered musingly. " I

have had various theories about them." He

hummed them softly to himself 

' And if thou wilt, remember ;
And if thou wilt  forget ! '

Yes, I suppose you are right. Still, almost
every one forgets in time, you know, so it is
best to accustom one's self to the thought of being-forgotten,
and learn to take it calmly. After
all, forgetfulness is wisest ; undying remembrance
is a cruel mistake for the most part.
Heresy, you say ? Ah  yes, ' while the heart
is young.' "

The profound sadness in Wentworth's voice
affected Muriel deeply. It was a strange idea,
but she could not help feeling that his words
were partly prompted by compassion for her 
that he foresaw some misfortune near at hand
ready to overtake her. But she would not encourage
the gloomy notion, so, shaking off her
momentary depression, she said, " And now,
Mr. Wentworth, I have done your bidding, and

VOL. I. 17

I want you to do something to please me in
return. I want you, if you will, to sing to me
yourself."

Muriel had been longing to proffer this
request ever since she first made Wentworth's
acquaintance. She had never forgotten the
German ballad which floated down to her by
snatches as she sat on the opposite shore of the
lake more than a fortnight ago, but she could
not muster courage to make her petition known
when there seemed nothing to lead to the subject.
Having an opportunity at last, she seized
upon it.

Wentworth made no demur, but quietly resumed
the seat he had just quitted. " I am
rather out of practice," he observed, running his
fingers lightly over the keys. " Like young
ladies when they marry, I have given up my
music  at least, to a great extent. I cannot
give it up altogether, however ; I care too much
for it."

He passed from the prelude he had been
extemporizing into a more rhythmic measure,
which sounded like a transcription of some
majestic chorus by one of the grand old 
masters. Softer and softer grew
the strain, until it sank into a mere echo of the

resounding chords with which it commenced,
and then, breaking out as it were from among;
the last faint notes of the dying harmony, there
arose Shelley's " Music when soft voices die,"
set to an air of exquisite sweetness. A glance
at his listener's face as he concluded told Wentworth
that his selection, too, had been a
felicitous one. Her parted lips, her moistened
eyes, her cheeks flushed with pleasure, all betokened
sufficiently how deeply he had succeeded
in moving her.

Oh, how beautiful I " she said, " how beautiful !
I have always imagined what those words
might be set to music really worthy of them ;
and this is worthy indeed. I never heard it
before ; who is the composer, Mr. Wentworth ? "
"You could not well have heard it, for it
exists only in manuscript. No "  as he saw the
eager question in her face  " I did not write it.
I have no talent for composition of any kind ;
I am nothing, if not critical,' as you once told
me, if you remember, and the higher gift is
rarely found in company with the lower  taste,
shall we call it ? The composer is a relative
of mine, however ; my half-sister. [And now
tell me  it being my turn to put questions 
what made you suppose / sang ? "

"I heard you in the wood the day we first
the day you found me on the other side of
the lake with a broken oar. You were singing
a German song, with a refrain that sounded like
0, went es dock simmer so hebe ! ' It was
so lovely. Do sing it now ! " She made a
pretty unstudied gesture of childlike appeal
with her clasped hands.

He turned to the keys again. " No," he said
abruptly, checking himself as he was about to
comply with her request ; " on second thoughts,
no 1 Not that song, to-night at least ; some
other time if you will, perhaps. Choose something
else, please."

' Adelaide,' " she. suggested timidly.

No, he had sung that too frequently, with all
his soul in his voice, in the shabby drawing-room
of the old west country parsonage : Alice
Carew sitting by and " making plans for taking
a house in Park Lane, no doubt," he said to
himself with a fierce bitterness. Aloud he
answered, "Anything but that. I have sung
Adelaide ' often enough in past years, but I
shall never sing it again, I think. I hate the
very sound of it ! " Then recovering himself, he
added, " It is far too high for me now ; I don't
practise enough to keep my high notes in good

order. Shall I choose for you ? " as Muriel
seemed reluctant to make any further suggestion.
She assented gladly.

Wentworth tried to think of something which
should be in striking contrast with what he had
sung already, and his choice fell upon a little
Spanish love-song, a wild graceful air which
he had often heard trolled out to a mandolin
accompaniment in South America, where, as he
told Muriel, there existed a vast unexplored
wealth of traditional unwritten music. It suited
his voice remarkably well, and he threw all the
force and fervour he was capable of into it.

When he had ended the song he got up and
walked away to the window, and remained
standing there for two or three minutes, looking
out into the dark verandah. Muriel, on her
side, had indulged in no lengthy comments on
his last performance ; one low-breathed " Thank
you," as he concluded, was all she felt capable
of. Presently he turned and faced her, saying 

You don't know Spanish ? "

No, not at all." She, too, had risen from her
seat, and now leant against the mantel-piece, a
slender willowy figure in light draperies outlined
on the dark background of the heavy old-fashioned
fireplace. The flickering uncertain

light of the two candles at the piano just
touched her head and threw it into wavering
relief, while her downcast face was veiled in
shadow. Wentworth looked at her fixedly fora
moment, and then rejoined, with a mixture of
appeal and assertion in his tone 

Yet you could understand that song ? You
could grasp its meaning ? "

I imagined the meaning  from the music.
But I was wrong in my imaginations, perhaps."

No, you were quite right. The music alone
tells all there is need to say. It is the old,
sweet, terrible truth  ' I love ; I love you.'
Only that ; and one can say it without the help
of words, you see." He came suddenly back to
the piano, and sat down. "I would not sing
you that song of Rubinstein's you asked for just
now, but I should like you to hear this one.
German you do know  not with a grammar
and dictionary knowledge, but thoroughly, don't
sou ? " he asked abruptly.

Oh yes ! You know I told you I was five
sears at school in Germany," she answered,
slightly hurt at his doubting her attainments.

Next minute she had forgotten everything
but the song and the singer. Wentworth had
chosen " Es blink der Thau," and it seemed to

Muriel that until that moment she had not
known what singing meant.

Es blink der Thau in den Fraser der Yacht,
Der Mont zieht voriiber in stiller Praclit,

Die Nachtigall sing in den Biischen "

Low and liquid, yet exquisitely distinct in every
syllable, the lines stole out. Muriel no longer
saw the dusky twilight of the dimly lighted
room or heard the patter of the rain and the
sighing of the wind, which was gradually rising
and beginning to sweep round the house in
fitful gusts  in its place she seemed to see the
long stretch of velvet greensward heavy with
dew lying white in the moonbeams before her,
and hard by was the dark copse musical with
the nightingale's serenade. But the singer's
voice quivered with a deeper feeling 

Wir beside wander dazwischen."

Those words were scarcely more than a melodious
whisper, and two great tears gathered
heavily on Muriel's long lashes as Wentworth
paused, and then dropped silently down at the
impetuous cry of mingled joy and pathos 

O Lenz, wie bist Du so wunderschon ! "

Did not her heart echo the cry ? Was not her
springtime indeed beautiful, fairer than anything

she had ever dreamt of or conceived ? As
the music rose to its passionate climax 

Mit dem ersten Russ in dem Himmelsraum,"

she felt that she was lifted far above the common
everyday world into an enchanted region of
delight and blessedness. But the dream was
nearly at an end. With a ring of despairing
sorrow in them came the two last lines :

Und fest zu gluten im thorichten Traum
Days es ewing, ewing so bleibe ! "

The song was over, and Muriel did not speak
or stir. She still stood in her old place by the
chimney-piece, holding her hands tightly clasped
the better to conceal . their uncontrollable trembling;
but to save her life she could not have
uttered a word. Speech, movement, volition
even, seemed gone from her.

He rose, he came towards her, he caught the
little trembling hands in his; his eyes looked
down into hers with a passion of love and pity
and remorse all struggling for utterance in the
dark troubled depths which were no longer silent
and inscrutable. So, thrilled through and through
by his touch and his gaze, he held her passive
for an instant ; then, in a low broken voice, he
said 

' hn thorichten Traum ! ' You hear ? A
foolish dream ? Oh, it is foolish enough, and mad
enough, Heaven knows  only it is so beautiful !
It has been a dream of Paradise to me this
evening, and I will not remember the waking
that must come. For you " His face darkened
suddenly, and he loosed his grasp of her
hands a little. " No," he said half to himself,
for to-night we will imagine it can last  last forever,
and so  we will not say one word more.
Good night, my child, good night ! "

Then he dropped the hands he held, and,
without another glance or touch, turned and
went out into the darkness.

LOVE IS FAIR FOR A DAY.

Ah, my lord . . .
How did I live the life that loved you not ?
What were those days wherein I walked apart
And went my way and did my will alone
And thought and wrought without you in the world ? "

Swinburne.

Next morning, when Went worth made his
appearance in the garden, it seemed to Muriel
that a great change had passed over him. It
was not merely that he looked unusually pale
and worn, or that there were dark semicircles
under his eyes which spoke eloquently of a
sleepless night  the change was not only or even
chiefly a physical change. It extended itself to
manner, bearing, voice, words  to everything he
did and said, in fact. He was unusually reserved
and formal in speech, strangely nervous and
restless in manner, while his face wore an expression

curiously compounded of trouble and
determination. Muriel looked, and wondered,
and grew secretly uneasy.

It was a clear sunshiny morning, and she had
been pacing up and down in front of the verandah
with her uncle while he smoked his after-breakfast
cigar. Overhead was a dazzlingly blue
sky, but yesterday's clouds were still present on
the horizon, piled up in fleecy banks which
might easily become dark and threatening ina
few hours' time  Professor Erskine had therefore
thought it only prudent to snatch a little
of the morning air before settling down to his
day's work. He was in an unusually genial and
sociable mood, and fell readily into talk with
Wentworth.

The girl stood listening silently to the conversation
of the two men, the vague alarm that
the first sight of Wentworth had stirred in her
(quickening with every moment into more painful
life. It was plain to her that Mr. Wentworth
was anxious to avoid addressing her directly,
and that he had deliberately refrained from
allowing his eyes to rest on her face even when
shaking hands with her on their first meeting 
a ceremony which he had performed, by the way,
in a peculiarly lifeless and perfunctory fashion.

There was no use in her attempting to deceive
herself. He was not overlooking her by accident,
he was ignoring her presence intentionally.
That was a bitter moment for the girl, who only
a few hours before had realized that she loved
Paul Went worth as she had never dreamt of
loving any human being.

And not only had she confessed to herself that
she loved him, but she had ventured to add in
her heart, awestruck and trembling at the very
greatness of the gift that was hers, "And he
loves me." She had felt sure, very sure, of her
great blessedness then  in the quiet watches of
the night, recalling the memory of his look and
touch, repeating to herself his passionate, broken
words  yes, presumptuous as the thought was in
itself, she had felt very sure indeed. Now it
seemed to her as if the whole scene of the
previous evening must have been a mad, daring
dream. It was in itself so unlikely a thing that
he should love her; twenty-four hours earlier
she would have said, an almost impossible thing.
Had she mistaken him altogether ; magnified an
outburst of excited feeling  due perhaps to the
rousing of some hidden chord of painful emotion
connected with the past  into a passionate
declaration of love for herself? She grew hot

with shame at the idea, and was turning to make

good her escape, when a remark of Wentworth's

arrested her.

"Yes, it is a delightful day," he said. "A

perfect day for travelling ; no rain, no dust, no

wind, and plenty of sunshine. I am profoundly

grateful to the clerk of the weather, for I am oft'

to Grindelwald in an hour's time."

"To Grindelwald !" The words escaped Muriel's

lips unawares. She could only hope devoutly

that they had not been overheard.

I have been working rather too continuously

at my holiday task lately," Wentworth went on,
still resolutely addressing himself to the Professor,
"and I want two or three days of stiff
walking to help me shake off the ill effects. So
I shall indulge myself in a few mountaineering
expeditions of the milder sort, making Grindelwald
my head-quarters. You had better come
with me; I dare say Mrs. Erskine would be
induced to consent if she knew you had friendly
aid at hand in case of any mishap."

The Professor laughed boyishly, shaking his
head meanwhile. " No, thank you 1 " he said.
1 have become far too stiff and heavy for anything
more formidable than the Rigi, and I ache
at the recollection of that. Besides, I don't believe

in the need of so much bodily exertion to
relieve the brain, at least for us of the older
generation, who are pretty tough subjects as a
rule  you younger men are of a more delicate
and sensitive fibre, apparently. However, I daresay
you are quite right, and I hope we shall see
you looking better for the change on your return.
Is not that the postman, Thekla ? "

It was the postman, and as soon as Mr.
Erskine had received a voluminous bundle of correspondence,
he betook himself and his packets
upstairs. After an instant's hesitation, Wentworth
followed his example ; Muriel alone went
out again, with a letter from Lucy, the solitary
missive that had fallen to her share, unopened in
her hand.

Wentworth, from his window, saw her go
slowly down the green slope in front of the
hotel, and realized that if he wished to avoid a
leave-taking, he had full opportunity of doing so.
But it appeared to him that this would be rather
too marked a step on his part  too markedly
unfriendly, almost gentlemanlike. He could
not in common courtesy go away even for a few
days without some kind of farewell to Muriel.

It was some little time before he discovered
her whereabouts, after starting in search of her.

At length he found her by the lake, looking
down fixedly into the water, which was less clear
than usual after the recent rains. She still held
her letter in her hand, and a rapid glance told
him that it had remained unopened.

At the sound of his footstep the deep lovely
colour rose in her cheeks  which had been very
pale  and mounted to her brow for a moment ;
then it died away, leaving her whiter than
before.

'*I was looking for you to say good-bye,"
Went worth began in what he intended for a
light and unconcerned tone. " I am now on my
way to the boat."

"You have a lovely day for your journey. 1
hope you will enjoy it." Muriel spoke very
slowly and deliberately.

"Thanks; I have no doubt I shall, if this
weather continues to favour me. I start in lio-ht
marching order, you see "  holding up a knapsack
he carried. " I was determined not to encumber
myself with any heavy baggage. Travelling
with luggage is enough to ruffle the most phlegmatic
temper, and spoils a man's enjoyment of
the grandest scenery on earth."

This last speech was a master stroke. It
neither promised return, nor threatened final

departure. Yet there was something in Wentworth's
utterance of it which did not ring quite
true to Muriel's sensitively acute ear, and roused
her dormant suspicions. What if he were not
coming back, after all? The Professor had indeed
taken it for granted ; but then the Professor took
so many things for granted ! It would be best
to know the truth.

Is this  really good-bye ? " she asked, lifting
her eyes to Wentworth's face. " Are you going
away altogether ? "

There was a pause, just long enough to be
unmistakable, before his reply came. Then he
answered with decision. "No. I shall be here
again in three days' time, or in four at the
latest."

For the first time that morning he let his eyes
meet hers fully, and she knew that he had
spoken absolute truth. Whatever his previous
intentions mieht have been, he no longer intended
to carry them out. Muriel drew a long-breath
and remained mute ; there seemed {o be
nothing more to say. Went worth broke the
silence hastily.

I will see if I can get you those two colours
you wanted for your sketch of Tellsplatte while
I am away' he said. " Perhaps they are to be

had at Lucerne. If so, I will send them by this
afternoon's steamer."

Thank you. You are very kind ; but please
don't go out of your way for them, or take any
trouble "

It will not be a trouble," Wentworth interrupted
brusquely. " I am not very sanguine
about getting them, but I will do my best.
Good-bye."

"Good-bye," Muriel echoed him, putting her
hand in his. He held it for a moment, regarding
her meanwhile with a fixed gaze in which tenderness
struggled for the mastery with compassion.
Muriel saw only the tenderness, and her
heart gave a great bound of delight.

I wish," Wentworth said suddenly, laying his
other hand gently on her arm, " that you would
promise me one thing before I go. No, don't
speak yet. It is a promise which you may dislike
carrying into effect, so I must not let you
pledge yourself until you have heard what

it IS.

Muriel changed colour as he spoke ; her lips
parted, but no sound came from them. Wentworth
paused a second, and then went on with
a hesitation and diffidence quite foreign to his
usual manner : " Will you promise me not to go

VOL. 1. 18

out alone on the lake while I am away ? I cannot
think it safe for you, and I should feel
happier about you if you had given me your
promise. Will you give it me ; or have I asked
too much of you ? "

I promise, willingly."

"How good you are! And . I have not
offended you in asking ? "

Offended me ? " There was a strange brightness
in Muriel's eyes. " I think it is very kind

of you  to care "

You know I always thought it dangerous
for you to go alone," he rejoined gravely, releasing
her hand. " Now I shall be content that allis
well. Good-bye."

Muriel stood quite still where he left her,
following the tall erect figure with her eyes till
it was lost in the windings of the path among
the trees. Then she clasped her hands together
with a gesture of irrepressible joy, and laughed
out softly for sheer happiness.

"He asked me  asked me so earnestly to
promise him /ia# . " she said to herself "Such
a little thing  such a poor petty sacrifice of my
own wilful fancy was all he wanted me to make
for him; yet how he thanked me for my promise
! As if there were anything in the whole

world that I would not gladly promise him,
anything that I would not joyfully endure or
give up for his sake, if he were to ask it of
me!"

Strange as it may seem, it is certain that
Muriel was not at all unhappy during the four
days of Wentworth's absence. It may be doubted
whether she was not really happier than she
had ever yet been in his actual presence. Her
darling secret was so new to her still that she
wanted a little time to herself in which she might
rejoice in it quietly, and accustom herself to an
idea which at first sight seemed almost overpowering.
She could not well do this when
every hour of the day was bringing with it fresh
agitation and excitement, endless new revelations
of "Wentworth's feelings and her own. So she
was positively grateful for a short breathing-space
in which to look round about her and
measure the length and breadth and height of
that new kingdom upon which she had entered
so suddenly as queen, and she moved through
those four solitary days in a quiet dream of
blissful satisfaction. She had ceased to puzzle
over the enigma of Wentworth's strange conduct
on the morning of his departure, ascribing it to
the resuscitated shadows of some old grief or

disappointment which she proudly fancied  in
her newly assumed royalty, poor child !  she
should soon be able to make him forget. For
the rest, she suspected nothing, feared nothing,
and doubted him not a whit. He loved her and
was coming back to her, and with this knowledge
she rested content.

The steamer from Lucerne did not bring Muriel
the half-promised packet from Wentworth, but
two days after he left, a little parcel bearing the
Grindelwald postmark reached her by the morning's
delivery of letters. It contained the two
colours for lack of which a sketch of hers had
been left unfinished a week earlier, and this
note : 

Hotel angleterre, Grindelwald,

Saturday.

Dear Miss Ferrars,

"I hunted for the enclosed all over
Lucerne, but the right thing was not to be found
anywhere in the town. Here I fortunately unearthed
it on the first evening of my arrival,
and hasten to send it to you.

I cannot say that I have greatly enjoyed my
expedition so far : in fact, I am inclined to repent
having been induced to make it. The weather,
however, is delicious ; so delicious that I fear you



may regret your self-denying promise. But I
know you will keep it.

Always faithfully yours,

Paul Wentworth."

There was not much in the note, and in form
and language alike it was perfectly unexceptionable.
Nevertheless, it might perhaps have been
as well had it remained aloof ether unwritten.

N>3i

THE BREAKING OF A TEMPEST.

A nature quiveringly poised
In reach of storms."

George Eliot.

It was about four o'clock on Wednesday afternoon
when Wentworth reached the Hotel Mythen
on his return. The  morning had been fresh
and bright, but towards midday the wind had
dropped and the sky had clouded over tiU it
became dark and lowering. The air felt heavy
and sultry, and there was an unnatural stillness
brooding in the atmosphere, highly ominous of
coming storm.

But Wentworth took small heed of the
weather. He had a definite purpose to fulfil,
and the whole force of his mind and will were
bent on fulfilling it, leaving him scant leisure
to take note of merely external things. He only
stayed a few moments to deposit his light impedimenta

in his rooms before sallying out inquest
of her to whom his errand lay. It was
best to get the thing over as quickly as might be.

On his way downstairs he encountered an
elderly woman-servant who stood respectfully
aside to make room for him. He acknowledged
her civility with a careless nod and was passing
on, when, to his surprise, she addressed him in
English, speaking with an accent which showed
that she must have been born pretty far north of
the Tweed.

You'll be Mr. Wentworth, I'm thinking, sir ? "
she inquired. Wentworth assented graciously.
As she spoke, he had recognized her for Mrs.
Erskine's maid, a grey-haired Scotchman who
had been nurse to the young Erskiness in days
gone by.

Maybe you'll be after seeing our young teddy
  that's Miss Ferrars  presently, sir ? " she went
on. Man of the world as Wentworth was, he
could not forbear a start at the question.

"Yes, I shall probably see her," he replied,
with what indifference he could muster. "Do
you want to send her a message, Mrs. ? "

"McDougall, sir  Janet McDougall, if you
please. Oh, and I'm feared but there's a storm
coming up, and the master and mistress away,

and she out alone, I know not where. I've
sought her in the garden, but can't find her. If
you would find her and bid her withindoors
before the storm breaks, sir ! I pray the Lord
she be not out on the loch in her boat ! " The
woman's rugged features quivered with unwonted
emotion.

She is not in the least likely to be out on
the lake," Wentworth answered with a peculiar
smile. " Don't distress yourself, Mrs. McDougall ;
I will find your young lady and bring her back
safely." And he started on his quest with
renewed vigour.

Muriel was not in the garden, as her aunt's
maid had said. Neither was she amono- hero



favourite pines. But that she had been there
lately, however, Wentworth was well assured,
for at the foot of one of the trees lay a glove she
had dropped, and a small leather case which she
was accustomed to carry inside her larger portfolio,
and which had evidently fallen out of it
when she rose to leave the spot where she had
been sitting. Wentworth picked up the little
glove first, and put it away with a kind of
reverential tenderness in his breast-pocket ; then
he set to work to tie the strings of the case,
which were hanging unfastened. As he did soone

of the fitful gusts of wind which every now
and then stirred the oppressive stillness caught
the flapping sides and blew them apart. A single
drawing fell out and fluttered to a little distance ;
and as Wentworth proceeded to restore it to its
place again, he glanced at it mechanically, and
saw . . . his own face ! It was a lifelike sketch
of himself, standing by the roadside with Milly
in his arms ; and though as a work of art this
portrait drawn from memory was necessarily full
of technical faults, yet the expression on the face
of the principal subject had been reproduced
with marvellous fidelity. Underneath the picture
there was pencilled in a girlish hand 

' Manners maketh man.'
'For manners nru not idle, but the fruit
Of noble nature and of loyal mind.'

*' On the Axenstrasse,

August, 18."

Men in this latter half of the nineteenth
century do not in actual life  whatever they
may be represented as doing on the contemporary
stage  cry aloud in a sudden agony of remorse or
smite their foreheads in uncontrollable mental
anguish, and Wentworth was no exception to
the modern rule of self-restraint. He stood
quite silent and motionless with Muriel's surreptitious

likeness of himself in his hand for a couple
of minutes, and then quietly put it back in its
cover. A careless observer might have supposed
him perfectly unmoved by his discovery, and it
would have taken an acute physiognomist to
decipher clearly the meaning of the grey pallor
which had all at once invaded his dark cheek
and the tightening of his lips in lines and curves
expressive of keenest suffering. But he could
give himself no time in which to indulge such
suffering, for a low growl of distant thunder
warned him to proceed on his mission without
delay. Decidedly a severe storm was close at
hand, and it was becoming important to find
Muriel and bring hex down without a moment's
delay.

At present the question was, where to find
her ? That she had been among the pines not
honos ago was clear ; that she had not descended
the hill again was equally so, for in that case he
must have met her. She must then have gone
further up, and he fancied he knew the direction
she had taken. There was a half-ruined, deserted
shepherd's hut  a " shieling " it would have been
called in Scotland  about ten minutes' climb
from the clump of pines, and he remembered
having suggested to her that it would make a

picturesque sketch. No doubt, thinking to please
him, she was drawing it in his absence. The
thought made his eyes grow dim for a moment.
Then he set his teeth firmly and started off up
the steep hillside.

He had need for haste now. Every minute
the thunder-muttering were becoming more
frequent and more distinct. Two or three big
drops of rain, earnest of an impending deluge, fell
on his face as he hurried upwards, and the rising
wind swept by him with a strange weird moan
which sounded like the voice of the ruling spirit
of the storm calling his attendant daemons to the
coming revel. They were answering his call,
too, from every peak and valley round, and
Wentworth pressed desperately on, with a
sickening dread at his heart lest his surmise
should prove incorrect, and Muriel be wandering
in some lonely region of which he knew nothing.
He could hardly forbear calling upon her as he
went, though the next moment he was mocking
at himself for his childish absurdity. At length
the little deserted ruin was in sight ; and he drew
a long breath of relief, for there she was !

She was standing in the doorway, whither
she had retreated for protection from the heavy
raindrops which were gradually beginning to fall

more thickly, but when she saw Wentworth  a
turn of the path hid him from view until he was
within a few steps of the hut  she uttered a
little exclamation of glad surprise and came out
into the rain to meet him. " It is you ! " she
said, looking up at him with shy pleasure, while
the swift colour mantled in her cheeks.

Yes. I came to look for you when I heard
from your maid that you were out. Didn't you
see the storm coming up ? I was not sure whereto

find you, and I was afraid that possibly

You have given me a bad quarter of an hour,
child."

In her breathless delight at seeing Wentworth
again, Muriel had not remarked anything unusual
about his appearance. Now she perceived that
he was pale and looked thoroughly disturbed.

I am so sorry ! " she said with genuine simple
regret, though this new proof of his regard for
her made her heart throb wildly for an instant.
It was very careless of me. I came up here to
draw this  I thought I would do it to surprise
you and prove to you that I had not been idle
while you were away  and I got so interested
that I never looked up till it began to rain.
Then I thought it was too late to go back, so I
took refuge Ah ! "

She broke off as a sudden vivid flash of lightning
lit up the whole bleak mountain side and
was followed, with scarcely a second's interval,
by a thunderclap repeated and re-echoed in the
distance by a hundred peaks. The storm-fiends
were fully awake and at work now.

Wentworth caught Muriel's arm and drew her
into the rough shelter close at hand. " We are
in for a pretty severe storm' he said ; " it is
lucky this place should be so near. The rain
won't reach us here, and it is rather an opportunity
for sou to see a thunderstorm in the Alps.
Unless you are too timid to enjoy it, that is to
say ; but I don't think you suffer from weak
nerves."

"No, indeed. It is a grand opportunity forme,
and I don't feel in the least bit afraid."

Certainly she did not seem afraid. She stood
as close to the doorway as she could without
getting actually soaked by the driving rain, and
gazed out with a mixture of awe and delighted
exhilaration at the impressive scene  but she
showed not a symptom of fear. Perhaps she was
too entirely happy for any other sensation to
touch her just then.

As for Wentworth, he leant silently against
the wall behind her, speaking only when she

turned her bright excited face towards him to
bespeak his attention for some new wonder, or to
ask a question concerning his adventures, and
then his replies were brief and almost monosyllabic.
His task was growing in difficulty
with every minute that passed, and he asked
himself vainly how he was to accomplish it ; so
he leant against the wall, rather impassive and
uninterested to all appearance  but he could
have counted his own heart-beats.

Mr. Wentworth ! " Muriel cried, breaking a
silence that had lasted fully three minutes or
more, "isn't this storm like a splendid sky
symphony ? Now and then the deep-toned
instruments that send out the thunder stop fora
moment, and one hears the celestial oboes and
chariots in the wind and rain, till the whole
orchestra joins in again with a crash. How red
and angry that last flash was ! "

The storm is just overhead. Don't stand so
close to the doorway," returned Wentworth
abruptly.

Indeed I am not afraid, and it is such a
glorious sight ! Just one minute longer, please,
if I Oh ! "

Muriel ! my darling ! "

A second flash, more red and angry even than

its immediate predecessor, had rent the clouds
as the girl spoke. It struck a solitary fir growing
close by, severing one of the leading branches ;
then, glancing off the bole of the tree, it seemed
to dart in at the doorway and envelop Muriel's
whole face and figure in a sheet of lurid flame.
For an instant Wentworth beheld her, as he
thought, actually on fire ; the next, as he sprang
towards her, she put her hands over her eyes,
and, with the cry which had interrupted her last
words, stao'orered backwards and would have
fallen had not Wentworth caught her in his
arms.

Thank Heaven, you are safe ! " he cried,
holding her close to him, and hardly knowing
what he said in his madness. "Don't tremble
so, my darling, m} beloved ! It was near, very
near, but it has not touched you  you are safe,
safe with me ! "  tightening his embrace as if that
could protect her from Heaven's thunderbolts.
You are not so frightened now ? "

No, not now," Muriel sighed faintly. Half
stunned by the recent shock, still partially
paralysed by the terror with which she had seen
herself for a moment brought face to face with
Death in one of his most appalling forms, she
did not attempt to resist the clasp of Wentworth's

arms, and allowed her head to lie passive on his
shoulder. She scarcely realized fully as yet
what had happened; she only felt a delicious
consciousness of having escaped from infinite
horror to infinite peace and security.

It was so close  Heaven, so close ! " Wentworth
whispered, pressing his blanched lips
passionately on the girl's soft clustering hair,
while above them the thunder clashed and
reverberated till the frail tenement in which
they stood seemed to shake, and the ground
under their feet to tremble. " But I have you
safe, you are quite unhurt, and all is well."
Then, as a new fear seized him, he exclaimed,
Your eyes give you no pain ; you can see quite
well, cannot you ? Look up, darling, and look
at me ! "

Thus adjured, Muriel raised her head, which
felt curiously heavy and confused. She looked
up into Wentworth's face, saw its tense expression
of mute, strained anxiety, and watched
this expression slowly give way to one of unutterable
relief and indescribable tenderness.
That last look brought her wholly to herself, and
now she remembered all that had come to pass :
the sudden awful fall of the lightning-stroke at her
very feet, and that quick cry of alarm and dismay

behind her ; next, one second of fearful darkness
and bewilderment ; and the end of it all, Wentworth's
arms about her, Wentworth's eyes looking
down into hers with love too deep for words.
I can see  quite well," was all she could find
strength to utter ; then she was fain to let her
head sink back into its former resting-place
again. For the moment the full revelation was
almost more than she could bear.

You are sure ? " Wentworth asked. There
was a perceptible alteration in his voice, though
he did not loose his hold. Recollection had
returned to him likewise.

*' Quite sure," Muriel answered him. " But 
it is strange !  I don't think I can stand ; I feel
as if the ground were slipping from under my
feet."

He half guided, half carried her to a corner of
the hut where she had thrown her own rug
when she first took refuge from the impending
storm, and arranged it so as to form a kind of
seat for her. " You will be all right if you are
perfectly quiet for a few minutes," he said, with
a grave, self-restrained gentleness which the girl
found infinitely touching. "You need not be
alarmed, I think ; probably it is only that you
have had a kind of shock. Though the lightning

VOL. I. 19

did not touch you, thank Heaven ! yet it passed
very close to you, and I am sure it is natural
that you should feel shaken."

There eras another though much more distant
clap of thunder as Wentworth spoke, and Muriel
started nervously.

Wentworth went on in the soothing tone he
would have used to a frightened child : " There is
really nothing to fear now ; the thunder is rolling
away. But it is still raining heavily, and we
shall probably have to wait some little time
before we can start. That will be all the better
for you. Now put this on, and then lean back
and don't try to talk."

He took off his , outer coat as he spoke, and
would have wrapped it round her. She made
some kind of protest.

"You must do as I tell you, please," was his
rejoinder, and Muriel submitted at once.

About half an hour passed in almost complete
silence. Muriel, white and weak and weary,
but with her heart full of unspeakable happiness,
leant back obediently in her corner, and Wentworth
stood in the doorway staring out. He
kept his eyes away from the slight muffled-up
figure close at hand, but Muriel did not distress
herself in consequence. Her king and hero was

there to guard her, and what did she want more ?
Was not this reticence, this very holding aloof
on Wentworth's part, a beautiful proof of his
tender respect and of his unwillingness to take
any unmanly advantage of her weakness ? She
lay back contentedly with closed eyes for the
most part, feeling that she had never really loved
him till that hour ; and he continued his dreary
gaze at the slowly lessening rain, and fought out
his dark conflict as best he might. Once only
did he turn to look at Muriel, and then he found
her stealing a shy glance at him which smote
him to the very soul. For the girl's eyes were
wet with tears of joy ; and there was a tender
pride and trustful worship in them which it
well-nigh broke his heart to read there. Verily,
if Paul Wentworth had sinned, he suffered for
bis sins at that moment.

At length he was able to report that " the
weather had cleared, and they had better start
at once, if she felt equal to it." " She felt quite
equal to anything," she responded with a sunny
smile, and rose to her feet on the instant.

You will keep that thing on till you get to
the foot of the hill," Wentworth said decidedly,
as Muriel was about to take off her borrowed
wrappings. "I cannot have you run any risk

of a chill. Don't trouble to look for anything ;
I have all your sketching paraphernalia safe
here  and, by the way, I found your small
portfolio under the pines. You must have
dropped it, I suppose."

Muriel blushed vividly, knowing what that
portfolio contained.

How stupid of me ! " she exclaimed. " I am
so much obliged to you for taking care of it;
I had not missed it myself. One thing I did
miss, and that was one of my gloves  I am in
the way of losing all my property to-day, it
seems  I wish you had found that too ! "

Wentworth's hand moved mechanically to his
breast-pocket, and was deliberately withdrawn
again. Muriel's last remark he left unanswered.

They did not talk much on their homeward
walk, for Muriel was still suffering from the
shock she had experienced, and had enough todo
to keep her feet in descending the rough
mountain path ; but Wentworth learnt from her
that Professor and Mrs. Erskine were staying
at Zurich on the invitation of the university
authorities, and were not expected to return till
the following evening. So when they reached
the hotel he could only give his charge into the
care of the anxious Janet, who was awaiting the
o-irl's return in a fever of alarm.

Try and sleep," Wentworth said, taking
Muriel's hand for a moment in his own ice-cold
fingers. "I shall come in tomorrow morning
to hear how you are  don't go out till I have
been. And now try and sleep  and forget it
all."

It is proverbially easy to give good advice.
Wentworth's advice was no doubt excellent;
but it is possible that Muriel may have found
some difficulty in following it.

THE FIRST DAY AND THE LAST.

To-day is like the first day spent in heaven ;
All peace and trust  and yet all wonderment ! "

Wills' Faust,

So one day more am I deified.
Who knows but the world may end to-night ? '

K. Browning.

One part at least of Wentworth's admirable
counsel Muriel was able to carry into effect.
Secure in her new-found happiness, and physically
wearied out by all she had gone through,
the girl slept as peacefully as a child, and awoke
next morning full of health and gladness.
When, soon after eleven o'clock, Wentworth
knocked at the Erskiness' sitting-room door and
was introduced by Janet, the face turned to
greet him rivalled in freshness and sweetness
the bunch of late roses he carried in his hand.
I need not ask how you are," he said. " A

glimpse of you is enough to confirm the highly
satisfactory report Mrs. McDougall was so good
as to give me two hours ago. I came in thus
early to leave you free to go out, for I felt pretty
certain you would remain obedient to my behests
last night. Only I would not recommend
a ten-mile walk for to-day."

Muriel laughed rather shyly. Taking into
consideration all that had happened the day
before, perhaps it is not altogether wonderful
that she should have felt a little embarrassed.
Wentworth's careless ease, as he stood smiling
with his roses in his hand, was fairly incomprehensible
to her. How could he take so
lightly events which, from her point of view,
seemed to have turned the world upside down ?

This astonishing levity on Wentworth's part
was neither assumed, nor yet the result of any
radical change in his fixed intentions. He knew
perfectly well that a terrible ordeal lay before
him in the near future, but that did not prevent
his recklessly enjoying the actual present. As
to the regrettable past, that was already beyond
redemption. There was no longer any possibility
of evading the truth of the position into
which he and Muriel had drifted  perhaps he
no longer cared to do so. At any rate, why not

snatch a passing taste of sweetness out of this
last day they were to spend together ?

In short, Wentworth was in a most dangerous
mood  the mood of a man who knows that his
fate is sealed already, and who, having nothing
further to gain or lose by anything he may
choose to do, surrenders himself for the time
being to his unfettered inclinations. Muriel, of
course, knew nothing of all this. Hers was
simply the very natural embarrassment due to
the curious relations in which she and Wentworth
stood to one another.

It is very kind of you to come so early to
take off the interdict," she said, speaking fast
to conceal her confusion. " I am really very
much obliged to you, for I am longing to get
out into that splendid golden sunshine. I think
September sunshine is always best of all. Janet,
where's my hat ? "

In the next room it is, and I'll get it for you,
Miss Ferrars," said the worthy woman, moving
briskly off on her errand. Wentworth and
Muriel were left alone.

Why don't you take your roses ? " he asked
in his imperious way, coming a step nearer to
her.
" Are they for me ? " Muriel put out both

hands to receive them. " Oh, thank you, thank
you ! It is nice to have roses in September, and
these must be almost the last roses of summer."
She gave a little involuntary sigh, which had
more of satisfaction than regret in it, as she
thought of all the summer had held for her, and
buried her face in her flowers.

Where shall I put them ? " she asked doubtfully,
looking up again and glancing round to
find a receptacle for Wentworth's gift.

Wear them," he answered briefly. *' They
will look well with your white gown, and that
bunch is not too large to wear. I could only
get you a tiny nosegay, do what I would. We
have come to the end of our summer, you and I."

Wentworth's last words were so sadly spoken
that they must needs have impressed Muriel
with a sense of their sadness had she not been
fully occupied in fastening the flowers to her
dress. He watched the operation approvingly.

Thank you," he said as she finished.

She looked up in surprise. "I could wish I
were a painter just now," Wentworth went on,
falling back to a little distance, the better to
observe her as she stood in the full morning light.
I would ask you to sit to me for a study of
Tennyson's Maud coming out into the garden

at daybreak to meet her lover  a rose among the
roses."

The comparison his last words suggested was
not inapt. Never yet had Muriel looked as fair
as she did then, standing before Went worth
with her head a little bent, a soft flush on her
cheeks, and her downcast lids barely veiling the
light in her happy eyes. Her face had all the
sunny sweetness of a child's, ennobled and
glorified by a womanly depth and tenderness
of expression wholly new to its pure outlines.
The one thing wanting hitherto to her beauty
had been added  the sleeping soul in her face
had awakened at the mysterious touch of the
strongest feeling of .which our human nature
is capable. Seeing her thus, Wentworth was
smitten with sudden compunction, perhaps.

"I should like this to be a day of roses in
every sense," he said in a different tone. " I
have," he continued with a palpable effort, speaking
rapidly and breathlessly, " something very
serious about which to talk to you, something
of which I ought perhaps to have spoken to you
before. I must speak of it before I go, and I am
going back to England the day after tomorrow.
Only  if you are willing, that is to say  I would
rather not speak of it to-day. There is tomorrow

for . . . these serious things : may we
not enjoy to-day in our old fashion ? Shall I
speak now, or wait till tomorrow ? "

Of course she misinterpreted him : how should
she have done otherwise? What serious topic
could he have to speak about save one ? What
subject save one was likely to throw him into
such a state of uncontrollable agitation ? He,
pursuing the current of his own harassing
thoughts, did not realize the impression which
his words were likely to convey to the mind
of his listener. But she fancied she understood
him perfectly, and it was hardly likely that
she would press him to make immediately an
avowal which he himself seemed anxious to
postpone a little longer. She thought it rather
odd on his part to have put such a decision
upon her.

Oh no, no ! please not ! " she replied eagerly.
I mean I would rather you did not speak now.
I would rather wait until tomorrow; much,
much rather. Please don't tell me anything
to-day ! "

Wentworth's face grew a shade less deathlike
as Muriel spoke, and just then Janet returned
with the hat.

** Where have you been all this time, Janet ? "

Muriel inquired volubly, darting up to the old
Scotchman. '' I was wondering what had
become of you ; one would think you had been
making the hat' she complained with well-feigned
displeasure. Inwardly she was thinking
: " Supposing I had let him speak, and this
foolish Janet had arrived in the midst of it all ! "

"Indeed but I've been trimming it. Miss
Ferrars, and that's the simple truth," returned
Janet, her wrath barely tempered in its outward
expression by the recollection that she stood
in the presence of Mr. Wentworth, whom she
held in considerable awe. "Have you clean
forgot that you were out in the rain yestreen?
and though the trimming's so to speak but a wee
scrap of ribbon, it needna be soiled for a' that."
She pointed indignantly to the fresh white
ribbon she had knotted round the girl's straw
boating-hat.

I am sure I beg your pardon, Janet," said
Muriel penitently. " I am really very much
obliged to you for taking so much trouble about
my hat ; and now give it me, please, for I think
it is a shame to stay in any longer."

Janet complied, and withdrew in some
offence.

Wentworth turned to go. '*I have a few

hours' work to do," he said, *rand then my
holiday task will be completed. By four o'clock
it will be cool and pleasant on the water, if you
would like to go out in the boat. We might row
across to that little glen where I saw you first,
and get back before dark. Will you go ? "

He was pledged to keep silence ; he had himself
suggested that for this one day longer matters
should remain on their old friendly footing.
There could therefore be no harm in doing what
she had often done before. " Yes," Muriel replied
softly. " I should like to go."

"Very well; I will come and look for you
in the garden at four o'clock. Good-bye till
then." He walked to the door, then suddenly
turned upon her abruptly, almost defiantly.
"Recollect," he said sharply, "that the decision
rested with you. You made your own choice.
If you had desired it, I would have spoken
to-day."

This parting speech puzzled Muriel, it is true,
but any misgivings it might have aroused were
quickly silenced by the reflection that it had
probably been inspired by a fear lest she should
suppose him reluctant to utter those decisive
words he had surely made up his mind to speak.
She was in no hurry to hear them. The knowledge

she possessed already was quite enough
for her, and would be quite enough for a longtime
to come. She was confident that Wentworth
loved her, and in this confidence she was
satisfied. She had never yet carried her dreams
of the future far enough to imagine herself his
wife.

Wentworth was punctual to his tryst. It was
barely four o'clock when he and Muriel pushed
off from the little landing-place into the green
gleaming water on which the sunbeams were
dancing merrily. It was a brilliant September
afternoon, bright, but not hot. A fresh inspiriting
breeze just ruffled the glittering surface
of the lake into tiny crisp wavelets, and blew
Muriel's soft hair about her face in little
mutinous curls and tendrils. The lights and
shadows on the bright expanse of water were
not more shifting than those which played over
her fair mobile countenance. Wentworth sat
opposite her, rowing steadily, and mentally engraving
the sweet picture on his memory meanwhile.
For was it not the last time ?

I feel like a boy out of school," he said
presently. " I have nothing for this one evening
to do but to enjoy. My last proofs went off*
to the publisher's to-day."

The very last ? " queried the girl, bending
forward with eager interest. " Then the book is
nearly through the press, and soon, very soon,
it will be out now, will it not ? "

"In two or three weeks," Went worth answered,
smiling at her eagerness. " Remember, you are
pledged to read it through."

Muriel laughed. " I don't expect to find it
such very dull reading," she rejoined confidently.
"And I shall be so interested to see what the
papers and reviews say of it."

I can tell you beforehand what some of them
will say. The organs of the progressive party 
the Radical journals and the magazines whose
editors pride themselves on the breadth and
catholicity of their sympathies  will applaud
this praiseworthy attempt on the part of a
professional man to look outside the bounds of
his calling and identify himself with the general
current of modern thought.' The Conservative
newspapers and periodicals, on the other hand,
will amuse themselves and their readers by
filling their columns with smart new versions
of the uncivil old proverb, ' Cobbler, stick to thy
last.' And finally the society papers will exclaim
with epigrammatic neatness, * Is Saul also
among the prophets ? and do we behold Paul

Wentworth turned philanthropist and social
reformer ? ' "

"You don't seem greatly dismayed at the
prospect of these criticisms," Muriel said.

"Not a whit. Happily for myself, I am a
tolerably thick-skinned individual. I wrote the
book partly for my own amusement, partly to
ventilate some ideas on the condition of the
labouring population which I thought might
possibly be useful. There is an immense amount
of rubbish talked by well-meaning enthusiasts
nowadays on these matters  men who have no
real knowledge whatever of the subject they
discuss. Now, I got my facts on such indisputably
reliable authority, and tested them so
carefully myself, that I may almost say I learnt
them at first hand; and as for my ideas, they
have the merit of common sense, if no other."

I think the book ouoht to do a oreat deal
of good," said Muriel warmly, " and you may
find the critics more honest and appreciative,
and less stereotyped in their judgment than you
expect."

Wentworth shook his head. " Your indignation
is easily roused on behalf of your friends.
What do you say to this little story ? A brother
of mine, a capital fellow who spends all his time

toiling and slaving among those wretched East
Enters whenever he can get away from his work
at Oxford, got me to go down one evening and
deliver a lecture on some scientific subject to
three or four hundred rough lads and young men
from the docks. I believe he persuaded me todo
this quite as much for my own moral benefit
as for the intellectual improvement of these promising
youths  I fancy he thought the sight
might be good for me. Well, I went ; and the
unwashed gentlemen and I happened to hit it
off admirably. Perhaps they were foolishly
demonstrative in expressing their approbation
of my poor efforts, not being quite civilized
enough to have attained to the nil adrtiiravi
of good society  nothing more likely. On the
following Monday the Piccadilly Gazette had a
burlesque version of the whole very simple affair
I won't trouble you with the details, but some
of them would have fully justified an action for
libel  and Town Talk published an article darkly
insinuating that I was secretly canvassing the
constituency with a view to ousting the sitting
member  a political ally and personal friend of
my own  at the next general election ! "

"After that," said Muriel, her eyes on fire
with indignation, "I see nothing for it but to

VOL. I. 20

suspect the truth of everything one reads. I see
you are right, Mr. Wentworth; the only right
Away must be to steel yourself against such things,
and pass them by as too contemptible for notice.
But speaking of the general election, I suppose
there will be another soon. How I wish you
were in Parliament ! "

Wentworth looked at her in considerable
amusement. " Why ? " he asked.

My uncle tells me every one says you are so
well fitted to sit there," Muriel answered, colouring
at her own audacity. " He thinks you ought
to be there himself."

And you t What do you think ? "
I ? I have had , a fancy about it, certainly.
The first time I saw you I imagined you were a
Cabinet Minister."

Wentworth's eyes flashed, but he went on
talking quite composedly.

"I am afraid you must have been terribly
disappointed when you discovered your mistake !
Well, if ever I do find myself within the walls
of St. Stephen's, I mean to do something more
than record silent votes. But I don't know if
that day will ever come, though perhaps it may
please you to know that it was an old boyish
ambition of mine to sit on the green benches
and give laws to the empire."

I am so glad ! " she responded quickly. " Thank
you for telling me that."

"Then your ideal life is the life of a public
man ? And my present profession : do you contemn
it utterly ? "

No, indeed. Only "

Only you consider it a loftier occupation to
make the national laws, than to assist in enforcing
them when made, eh ? I think that may
fairly be considered a moot point in these days.
Pull the right-hand string ! hard ! harder yet,
please ! or you will get splashed by the paddles
of this steamer."

*****

In September the great stream of tourists
which pours into Switzerland during the two
preceding months begins to slacken and dwindle,
and consequently there was plenty of room on
the decks of the lake steamer which was bearing
down in the direction of the Mythen landing-stage.
The wide open space near and around the
wheel was occupied only by two persons, a gentleman
and a lady  English both, as might be seen
at a glance, and as evidently husband and wife.

The former  Sir John Clavering of Newgate,
in the county of Holmshire, Bart., to give him
his full style and title  was a man of middle

height whose age might be fixed anywhere on
the wrong side of sixty. He had plain harsh
features, thin grizzled hair very carefully disposed
about his partially bald head, a slightly crabbed
expression of countenance, and a short gruff
manner of speaking which made him. very formidable
to shy or nervous acquaintances. His
whole individuality as reflected in his outward
appearance was  to borrow a graphic epithet of
Carlyle's  'saw-distich;' which may be accounted
for by the fact that he had been for thirty years
an Oxford tutor when, by the premature death
of a nephew, he suddenly found himself a country
gentleman of considerable property and a baronet
to boot. The traditions and habits of his old
life clung to him persistently in his new circumstances,
and among his bullocks and mangoes
or his coverts and trout-streams  sitting with
his fellow-magistrates on a poaching case or
proposing the Queen's health at a Conservative
dinner  he was still, and always would be the
university don.

His wife, a vivacious little woman whom he
had married late in life, and who was at least
fifteen years his junior, was no more of a franche
dame than he of a grand seigneur. She liked
her position very much, and enjoyed it frankly

and openly. Possessed of a large amount of
natural shrewdness supplemented by any but
the most superficial education, she was always
making astonishing mistakes, and then laughing
at them herself. Many women with only half
her innate cleverness and without an additional
shred of information yet made a better figure
in the world than she, simply because they
thought before they spoke. Now, this was what
Susan Clavering never did, and as she added to
her other qualities a great fondness for good-natured
intermeddling in other people's affairs,
it may easily be imagined that the atmosphere
in which she lived was usually kept at a brisk
heat. Otherwise she was merely a kind-hearted
woman with an immense capacity for taking
trouble, and a knack of deriving pleasure from
everything that came in her way. She was
enjoying herself now, standing on the deck of
the steamer and chattering uninterruptedly to
her husband, in no wise discouraged by the gruff
monosyllables which were all he vouchsafed in
answer to her airy remarks.

"This part of the lake is quite the loveliest,
I think," she said. " I am so glad we are going
to stay a night here instead of at Lucerne 
Lucerne's so townified."

A ofruntino sound from Sir John, which miofht
be understood to refer to the superior comfort of
the Lucerne hotels.

But the Mythical Hotel  yes, John, I know
that's not the right word, but I can't pronounce
that, so I call it Mythical ; it does as well, and
it's a legendary place altogether, you know, and
legends and myths are much the same thing ; 
let me see, what where we talking about? Oh,
the hotel ! Well, it's very nice and comfortable ;
Lucy Ferrars read me one of Muriel's letters,
and she gave quite a charming account of it.
Dear little Muriel ! I wonder if she's as pretty
as ever ? I haven't seen her now for nearly five
months."

Grunt again ; this time signifying a hope that
Muriel's recommendation might prove a trustworthy
one.

Oh yes, she was always so truthful ! " Lady
Clavering rattled on. "Sincere, transparent 
just like her poor mother. She'll be so pleased
at our looking in upon her, I know. I am so
grateful to you for stopping, dear John."

"Dear John" did not appear much mollified
by this expression of thankfulness.

"And you'll enjoy a chat with your old friend
Erskine' added his wife encouragingly, "as much

as I shall enjoy one with Isabel. Dear good
creature, Isabel, only with so little head. How
pretty that boat looks dancing over the waves !
There's a girl in white sitting in the stern  I

wonder if it could be Why, it is Muriel

herself! I shall Avave my handkerchief and try
to make her see us. I wish it was proper to
make that cry people give when they're lost in
the bush  a coo-ee, you know  but I suppose it
would hardly do."

The lively lady ran to the side of the steamer
and made frantic signals, but as Muriel was looking
in the opposite direction, it is perhaps not
surprising that her greetings should have met
with no response. She turned back discomfited.

Muriel doesn't see us. What a pity ! I wish
I knew who was with her. It's a man ; and it's
not Professor Erskine, for he hasn't got red hair
or a beard. It would be just like Isabel to send
her out with some pet pupil of the Professor's,
and no chaperone at all. Lend me your glass,
John ! Quick ! "

Sir John complied with rather more alacrity
than was usual with him, and his energetic helpmate
had the glass out of its case and adjusted
to the right focus in the twinkling of an eye.
She looked through it once, twice, thrice, positively

without uttering a word ; then she let her
hand fall, and showed a genuinely discomposed
countenance.

Isabel Erskine must have taken leave of her
senses ! " she exclaimed.

What's the matter ? " inquired Sir John.

I think it's Providence that brought us here,"
Lady Clavering answered solemnly. " There's
Muriel Ferrars out in a boat, and not a soul with
her but that one man ; and who do you think
the man is ? I'm not mistaken, John ; he's a
man there's no mistaking, and I saw him as
plainly as I see you now. It's Paul Wentworth
! "

*****

Wentworth and Muriel landed on the opposite
shore, and strolled along it rather silently. From
widely different causes both were too preoccupied
to talk freely ; both were reluctant to speak only
of indifferent subjects, yet on the subjects that
filled their minds the lips of both were sealed.
When they reached the little glen, the entrance
of which had been the scene of their earliest
meeting, they instinctively stopped, as if by
mutual consent.

This is where I first saw you . . . Muriel,"
Wentworth said. It was only after a perceptible

pause that he added the last word to his sentence,
for it was the first time he had ever deliberately
thus addressed the girl.

Yes, I remember," she answered softly.

Just here it was ; and tomorrow it will be
three weeks since that day," Wentworth went on.

Muriel made no reply this time. " Three
weeks ! " she thought to herself " No more
than that ? " He answered her as if she had
spoken.

It seems more like three years, doesn't it ?
or three ages ? One may live through half a lifetime
in a few hours, child, or exist for twenty
years without really living for an hour. We
have lived these three weeks of ours and been
happy in them ; whatever is to come in the
future, nothing can deprive us of that."

Again Muriel made no response. It was indeed
sweet that in his reminiscences of the past
he should speak of her as indissolubly linked
with himself; nevertheless, his troubled manner
frightened her a little.

It is strange how things come about," Wentworth
said musingly. " I dropped a letter that
day, and went back to look for it, else I might
never have known you. Perhaps it would have
been better so, for you at least. I regret nothing,

as far as I am concerned  I have had my three
weeks of life."

"What would have become of me that nio-ht

o

if you had not found me ? " Muriel questioned,
trying, after her old fashion, to lead the conversation
into a safer and less emotional channel.
But it was no Jack Arlingham, simple and easily
discomfited, with whom she now had to deal.
I might have had to spend eight or nine hours
here in the dark by myself, if you had not providentially
appeared."

"Do you think Providence had much to do
with the matter ? " Wentworth returned, knitting
his brows. He did not speak sneeringly, but
rather with a bitter earnestness in his tone.
However, that is a question we need not inquire
into. Wouldn't you like to explore your
glen once more to-day ? I call it yours, you see.
You have set your impress upon it ; I think it is
here, where I first met you, that I shall always
picture you to myself in years to come. Shall
we walk a little way up ? There is time, if you
would like to go."

No, I think not," Muriel replied with an
involuntary shiver. "It looks so dark and
gloomy to-day. I would rather remember it as
I saw it last."

The aspect of the place was indeed greatly
changed. The little stream which ran through
the ravine, no longer clear and silvery, but dark
and muddy, had been swollen by the late rains
to the dimensions of a torrent. The low autumn
sun could not penetrate the darkness created by
the overhanmnof trees, the leaves of which were
already beginning to show signs of decay ; there
was a lack of light, warmth, beauty  of everything,
in short, which had made the spot so
attractive three short weeks before.

You are thinking how quickly it has been
transformed," Wentworth said, as he watched
his companion's face; " but three weeks can make
a vast difference, as you see. I told you our
summer was over."

'' Don't say that," Muriel answered cheerfully.
Sqc how beautiful everything looks, except this
glen I There is sunshine everywhere else."

"Yes, from a sun that is just going down,"
Wentworth rejoined meaningly. " Well, we will
o back into the sunshine while it lasts."

And while the sunshine lasted he was content
to enjoy it. He uttered no further saying prophetic
of coming trouble, and seemed to have
abandoned himself completely to the enchantment
of the moment. He protracted the brief

voyage by every means in his power far beyond
its necessary limit in time, for he was intent on
wrinoino out of the few minutes remaining to
him all the sweetness they contained. The sunset
in tranquil September glory in the west ;
overhead the sky faded from blue to pearly gray,
and then deepened again into the darker hue of
twilight; the stars began to twinkle out, first as
mere points of pale white radiance, then silver-shining,
at length golden-bright  finally the
week-old moon rose fully above the horizon and
cast her mantle of witching light and shade over
the scene. She was high in heaven when Wentworth
made fast the boat in the boat-house, and
Muriel put her hand in his for a parting goodnight.


He held it fast, looking at her. " You know,"
he said, "that I am going away the day after
tomorrow ? "

I know. You told me." She did not say,
I am sorry." Nothing could come between
them now, she was Avell persuaded ; and having
this confidence, it was impossible for her to feel
sorry about anything.

I have something to tell you before I go,
something which it is needful for you to know.
I meant to have told it you long ago, but from

time to time I put it off. There can be no further
putting off now. Let me see you tomorrow as
early as possible, and try to be as lenient in your
thoughts towards me as you can. I have been
mad, I believe, but it was partly for your sake
that I kept silence of late. You seemed so
happy  try to forgive me."

Wentworth's voice shook with emotion, and
there was a depth of pathetic entreaty in his
last words which bewildered Muriel even more
than the words themselves. She looked up and
saw his face pale and quivering in the moonlight,
and an intense longing to reassure and comfort
him took possession of her. She answered
quickly 

"I am sure you have done what is right.
I shall be ready to hear whatever you wish to
say to me ; but I am not anxious to know anything.
I am quite content now."

Every word Muriel spoke was like a sharp
stab to Wentworth. " Because you don't understand
! " he cried. " Things are so different from
what you suppose. You live in a world of your
own; you know nothing of life  or of love
either. You think they are beautiful mysteries,
but you will discover more sorrow than beauty
in them when you stint out what they really

mean. Until to-day you have been only playing
with your own ideas and fancies. To-morrow
you will have to face reality."

She was not a whit daunted by his words,
sorely as they perplexed her. Did he hint that
life would be less sunny than she had pictured it
that there was trouble in store for the future ?
What matter, since she belonged to him ? These
things would have to be faced, he said ? Yes,
with her hand in his ! No matter for this either.

She looked up at him again. " I am not
afraid ! " she answered with a radiant smile, such
a smile as Wentworth had never seen before on
the face of any human being, and which after
that night he never saw again on Muriel's. So
full was it of pure gladness, so eloquent of unswerving
trust in him, that he positively quailed
before the girl in shame for a moment. Instinctively
he let go her hand.

Good nioht," she said, and was turnings from
him. Her action roused him from his awestruck
silence and stupefaction.

Before you go," he said, arresting her, " tell
me one thing. Have you been happy to-night ? "
He laid a hand on each of her shoulders, holding
her before him like a child, while his look seemed
trying to read her very soul.

It has been a lovely evening," she answered
evasively, "and I have enjoyed it  more than
I can tell."

Are you, too, determined to put me off with
mere empty phrases when it comes to the
point ? " Wentworth asked with passionate scorn.
Enjoyed it ! What do such words mean between
you and me, Muriel ? Let us have done with
shams and pretences ; don't cheat me of the truth
for this once. I have been exquisitely, supremely
happy to-night  tell me that you have been
happy too, my darling ! "

He Alas breaking the mornings compact, in
the spirit if not in the letter, but she could not
resist his pleading voice and look. She freed
herself suddenly from his detaining grasp. " I
think," she answered hurriedly, " that if I Averse
to say I was happy, I should not be telling you
the half" Her eyes filled all at once with tears.
It is so much more, so much more  you don't
know "

She Alas gone before the broken Affords had
Avell left her lips. He made an instinctive movement
to follow her, but checked it by a desperate
effort of will, and remained standing, as lie had
stood three Aveeks earlier, Awhile her light fio-ure
gradually disappeared into the duskj shadow of

the path leading upward through the garden.
Did he think of the resolution so carelessly made
so quickly forgotten ? If not on the hushed
evening air, yet surely in the recesses of the
man's soul, a still small voice was speaking,
asking in accents too clear to be silenced by all
the hidden tumult of passion and pain, "What iw
this that thou hast done ? "

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Lady Clavering to the Rescue . . 1

II. "Total Eclipse" . . . 26

III. A Passage Perilous . . . 38

IV. A Modern Sir Galahad . . 65

V. Stella . . . 94

VI. "The Silence that came next" . 120

VII. Philip Irvine becomes Uneasy . . 137

VIII. What the World said . . J 53

IX. Sealing the Indictment . . . 17-i

X. Counsels of Perfection . . 190

XI. " Amici, Comedian finite est " . . 220

XII. The Scene changes . . . 244

XIII. A Chance Acquaintance . . . 266

XIV. At a Little Dinner-Party . . 287

XV. "Rosemary, for Remembrance" . . 314

XVI. Lady Ellesthorpe speaks . . 324

XVII. Then and Now . . . . 535

OP

PAUL WENT WORTH.

CHAPTER I.

LADY CLAVERING TO THE Rescue.

Daughter, I know not what you call the highest. . . .
If this be high, what is it to be low ? "

Tennyson.

I can't think what made me fancy he was
a widower," poor Mrs. Erskine said, shivering
as she spoke. She was standing with Lady
Clavering in a secluded part of the garden on
the morning following the latter's arrival at the
Hotel My then ; the air was chilly and autumnal,
and, not expecting that the private conference to
which her friend had invited her would last so
long, the Professor's wife had come out in her

VOL. II. 21

thin house-dress, unprotected by shawl or wrap
of any kind, so her shivering condition was
easily accounted for. " I certainly never thought
he was a married man. What made me imagine
he was a widower, I wonder ? Surely Alec must
have said something to that effect ! "

"If you thought he was unmarried, Isabel,"
answered Lady Clavering briskly, "I should
have said that was an additional reason for not
letting a pretty young girl run about the country
with him in this free-and-easy way. His being
married  if he behaved himself as he ought todo,
which he doesn't  would have been a kind
of safeguard. But that's not really the question.
Married or Widowed, it makes no difference.
With a reputation like his, half a dozen wives
couldn't lessen the impropriety of Muriel's roaming
about with him."

Lady Clavering did not shiver at all. She
was well and warmly equipped for the journey
on which she was about to start, and in any
case the heat of her righteous zeal and indignation
would have prevented her experiencing any
sensation of cold.

I am dreadfully sorry, Susan," Mrs. Erskine
replied penitently. " I suppose I ought to have
looked after her more closely, but Alec monopolizes

so much of my time that I have little left
for any one else, and then he spoke so highly of
Mr. Wentworth ! I never had much to do with
him myself, but I could see that he was a very
clever, well-bred man, and I thought it very
kind of him to take so much notice of a childlike
Muriel. So did Alec."

Lady Clavering gave a sort of despairing
groan. " Isabel, I believe you are more than
half a child still yourself," she said. "I speak
plainly, but we have been almost like sisters all
our lives, and I know you won't take my plain
speaking ill. It's very nice to be as guileless
and childlike and all that kind of thing as
you and the dear Professor are, but it's very
dangerous sometimes. Why, Muriel's nineteen ;
she's not a child at all. She's a very beautiful
girl, just at the age to take the fancy of a jaded
man of the world like Paul Wentworth. As to
his good nature and kindness, it's a myth ! You
won't get me to believe in it. Of course he
admires Muriel  who wouldn't ? I don't blame
him so much for that, and his own wife is a
tiresome, cold-hearted, artificial woman : I detest
her !  and I've no doubt he has gone as far ashe
dares in trying to flirt with the dear child.
He dares a good deal, let me tell you. My great

hope is that she's too young and simple to
understand what he's been driving at."

I am sorry you think so very badly of him,"
Mrs. Erskine said wistfully. "I have heard
some very nice things about him from Alec
and Muriel. One little story of his marvellous
kindness to some poor child who got lost between
this place and Fliielen, and whom he saved from
slipping over the precipice  was really quite
touching."

Worse and worse ! " rejoined Lady Clavering,
with another sound of dismay. "Muriel told
you these pretty tales, did she ? I am very
sorry to hear it. However, they say we ought
to give even Satan his due, and I don't wish to
assert that Mr. Wentworth is destitute of common
humanity. Indeed, I never heard that he was
an unkind man."

Then as regards Muriel," Mrs. Erskine struck
in, eager to exculpate herself from the charges
levelled at her, "don't you see that his age
alone would prevent her looking upon him in 
in the way you speak of? Oh, it's quite impossible
that she should ever think of him in that
way, Susan ! Why, he must be old enough to be
her father, pretty nearly ! She would consider
him an elderly man."

My dear Isabel how little you know about
it all ! A clever, fascinating man of Paul Wentwortli's
age would be much more likely to dazzle
the mind of a romantic girl like Muriel than a
curly-headed boy twenty years younger. His
attentions would be something to be really proud
of, you see. As to his being elderly, he's only
forty and looks less ; and, elderly or not, I never
yet knew the woman whose head he couldn't
manage to turn if he gave his mind to the undertaking."


I have been very remiss, I fear," poor Mrs.
Erskine murmured. Her mild blue eyes filled
with tears; she looked the picture of helpless
regret and utter bewilderment. " I believe I am
unfit to take care of anybody, but to think that
I should have acted such a careless part by poor
Amy's child breaks my heart. Susan, you were
always quick and full of resource. Tell me what
to do in this terrible trouble ! "

Come, we needn't call it a terrible trouble at
present," Lady Clavering said. She had gained
the desired end now  Mrs. Erskine had been
thoroughly frightened, and there was little fear
but what she would prove a more circumspect
guardian in future. " Perhaps there's no harm
done. In fact, my impression is that there is

not. I got Muriel into my room this morning
and talked to her  of course without saying anything
of all this  and all she said reassured me.
She seemed as gay as a lark and not a bit self-conscious,
both good signs. Then I just casually
mentioned young Arlingham  you know that
nice 3oung fellow at Eversleigh-who paid her
so much attention last summer  and she blushed
like a rose at once. That was another good sign,
and so, I thought, was her evident willingness to
go back to England directly. No, I don't think
there's any serious harm done yet."

But what ought I to do now ? "

Do ? Why, stop these tete-tete boating
expeditions to begin with  they are the worst
part of the business. I don't want to wound
your feelings again, my dear, but how could you
ever have permitted them ? Well, there's no
use crying over spilt milk. But it is lucky
John and I were the people to see and recognize
them last night, instead of some ill-natured
strangers. She would have been terribly talked
about in that case, I can assure you."

I will not believe the world in general to be
so gratuitously cruel," answered Mrs. Erskine,
plucking up a little spirit. " I think you are
rather harsh in your own judgments, Susan. I

may have been wrong in allowing the child so
much liberty, but I gave the permission innocently,
and she took it innocently; and for aught
I know," added Mrs. Erskine, with a spurt of
defiance, " Mr. Went worth may have acted innocently
in the matter too."

A fig for Mr. Wentworth's innocence ! You
cannot know many men of his stamp, or you
would not give much credence to that notion,"
Lady Clavering replied scornfully.

No, I am glad to say I don't know many, or
indeed any men of the stamp you would have
me believe Mr. Wentworth belongs to," Mrs.
Erskine retorted with growing heat.

Have you believe ! " Lady Clavering cried
with a gesture of exasperation. "Why, the
man's character is as well known as  as Caesar
Borgia's, I was going to say. Not that I mean
to imply he's like Caesar Borgia, of course.
People say sometimes that his wife must be
either a fool or an angel to bear as she does
with him. I don't believe she's either myself, by
the way : she's certainly not a fool, and I see no
tokens of angelhood about her. I only know
that if it was my husband who made himself so
talked about, I should break my heart for shame
and misery." Lady Clavering paused impressively,

but a faint smile on her friend's lips
warning her that the idea of the respectable,
elderly Sir John enacting the part of a reckless
and fascinating Don Juan was not without its
humorous elements and suggestions, she hurried
on again, " Well, Mrs. Went worth's conduct has
really nothing to do with the matter. If you
want me to prove the truth of what I have been
saying, I can tell you half a dozen stories "

"No, no; pray don't!" interrupted Mrs. Erskine,
flushing like a girl. " Of course I ought to have
known that you would not speak without good
and sufficient cause, Susan. But I would rather
not hear these  stories."

I do not want to repeat them, I am sure,"
Lady Clavering said. " They're not exactly
edifying." This was undeniably true; nevertheless.
Lady Clavering would have liked to repeat
them very much. " We must think now what
yon ought to do about Muriel."

Yes, certainly Pray tell me what you would
advise."

First of all, I should inquire into this
widower idea  I mean, I should try and find out
how it reached you to begin with. If he's been
wilfully deceiving the Professor and Muriel, I
should expose him without mercy  to the girl

herself, that is to say. Of course you wouldn't
talk about such a matter to strangers, or there
would be a scandal at once. For my part, I
believe Mr. Wentworth capable of anything, but
I don't want to condemn him unheard. If you
tint that it was all your own mistake from
beginning to end, of course you needn't say so
much. In that case, your plan of action would
be very simple indeed."

Lady Clavering, in her part of confidential
counsellor and experienced woman of the world,
was enjoying herself immensely. She stopped
for a minute, partly to take breath and partly to
indulge in a complacent review of the important
position she conceived herself to be occupying
at the moment, and then went on again as fast
and as eagerly as before.

"In that case I should simply say that you
have heard things about him from me and from
John that you don't like  of course you won't
enter into particulars, but you might just hint
that he's not an estimable individual morally,
and that he behaves ill to his wife ; that will
be quite enough for a girl like Muriel  and that,
as you've heard these things, you think she had
better not make such a friend of him, and rather
keep out of his way in future. You will see by

the way she takes this whether he has really
made any impression or not, because if he has,
she'll try to stick up for him, and refuse to believe
what you say. In any case, don't blame yourself
to her for what is over and gone. Keep up your
authority  perhaps you may need it before all's
done with, though I repeat that I don't believe
there's any real harm accomplished yet. But
how lucky John and I came, for yoa are so
innocent that there is no saying how long this
kind of thing might have gone on before you
woke up to its enormity ! I wish I could stay
and help you, but "

Susan, where are you ? Where is Lady
Clavering ? " said Sir John's gruff voice close at
hand. " The steamer is ready to 'start ; we shall
be late, as usual I "

Coming, dear, coming," cried his wife cheerfully.
" Well, good-bye, Isabel "  embracing her
friend; "write to me how it all falls out. I
wish I could have stayed and helped you. ,
and don't worry yourself" And with this
parting recommendation Lady Clavering sailed
off, having previously done her very best, in all
kindness, to harass Mrs. Erskine's gentle soul
into a madness of perplexity.

That lady was indeed sorely distressed, but

with the removal of Lady Clavering's presence
and the cessation of her energetic onslaughts in
behalf of propriety and conventionality, the
distress she had created began to subside a little.
Susan, good soul ! was always rather given to
exaggerated alarm on slender provocation, and
she had probably yielded to her habitual tendency
in the present instance  indeed, had she
not herself been obliged to confess that no harm
had as yet been done? Mr. Wentworth might
not be in all respects a model of virtue, but this
regrettable fact would not render him incapable
of showing disinterested kindness to a mere girl,
young enough to be his daughter. Altogether,
by the time she got back to the house and her
husband, Mrs. Erskine had succeeded in brino-ino:
herself to a much more composed and hopeful
frame of mind, and it was in such a frame that
she sought counsel of the Professor.

He was not in an auspicious mood for giving
counsel to any one on any subject whatsoever.
Sir John's society had bored him insufferably,
and he had had besides two or three dull but
intricate business matters to dispose of that
morning by letter, and had consequently been
prevented attacking his dearly loved philosophers
at the usual hour. When his wife detailed her

narrative he was at first inattentive, next a little
taken aback, and finally exceedingly cross. "He
wished Lady Clavering would keep her advice
to herself : that chattering tongue of hers did no
end of mischief She never could appear on any
scene without instantly causing an imbroglio.
He hoped to goodness she had not been telling all
this fine tale to Muriel  putting things into the
child's head which she need never hear of, and
was much better for not knowing ? "

No," Mrs. Erskine answered for her friend.
She has not done that, for she particularly
assured me that she had not said a word to
Muriel about the matter. She even warned me
to be careful what I said myself"

Much obliged for her warnings," muttered the
Professor. " I should think we ought to know
how to look after our niece without her help."
The worthy man was all the more savage
because in the inmost recesses of his heart he
knew that the obnoxious Lady Clavering was
right, and that he, Alexander Erskine, was wrong.
An to Wentworth, I always told you that
I knew nothing of his private history. Lad"
Clavering's scandalous gossip may or may not
be true; I have no means of testing its truth,
and for that thank Heaven, say I ! I don't

concern myself with such matters; I leave them
to the society papers and the company in the
servants' hall. Very possible Wentworth is
not a Sir Galahad  or more properly a King
Arthur ; both are rare figures in modern society.
But he is a perfect gentleman, and I decline to
believe that he has taken advantage in any way
of our confidence in him. If I thought he
had," Mr. Erskine added, a sudden gleam of
anger lighting up his rough-hewn features, " I
would make him repent it bitterly ! But I don't
think it for a moment."

"That is just what I feel, just what I told
Susan," rejoined his wife. " But you haven't
given me any answer about the other point,
Alec  about his having a wife living, I moan.
Did you know it ? "

Know it ? Of course I knew it ! " the Professor
retorted angrily. " You or Muriel, or both
of you, ran away with some ridiculous idea about
his being a widower when you first saw him, I
believe, and I did not argue the matter with
you, not feeling interested in the question. For
aught I knew at that time your notion might
have been correct. However, any doubts I entertained
on the subject were soon set at rest by
Wentworth's speaking voluntarily of his wife.

He has mentioned her to me several times ; he
did so only last week, if I remember aright.
Said something about her being in Scotland or
Ireland, I forget which."

Mrs. Erskine breathed more freely. " I am
very glad to hear this," she said. " It shows
that there can have been no deception on his
part, and that it does not do to trust implicitly to
Susan's fancies. Yet I wonder how it happened
that you never mentioned this to me, Alec ? "

Why on earth should I mention it to you ? "
inquired the Professor irritably. '' Could I
suppose that you were likely to feel profoundly
interested in the fact of Mrs. Wentworth's beinor
in Scotland  or in the fact of her existing at all ?
Have we been in the habit of discussing Wentworth's
domestic affairs between ourselves, 3'ou
and I?"

Mrs. Erskine was obliged to admit that such
had certainly not been their habit. " Then you
would have me do nothing  not move in the
matter at all ? " she asked timidly, laying a
gentle hand on her husband's shoulder.

I don't quite understand what you mean by
moving in the matter," he answered more
amiably. The mute caress had not been without
its effect.

Well  speaking to Muriel, and telling her
she had better not go out with Mr. Wentworth
any more."

As to that," the Professor replied, getting up
and looking about for his hat, " tell her what
you please, Belle, my dear. I have perfect confidence
in your judgment, whatever Lady
Clavering may feel. I would only caution you
against putting ideas into Thekla's head that
would never come there without help. For the
rest, if even here we are to be subjected to
periodical domiciliary visits from Mrs. Grundy
and her satellites, perhaps you had better give
the child a hint to avoid solitary expeditions
with Wentworth in future. I believe he is
going away in a day or two, which will simplify
matters. Meanwhile, Muriel can easily excuse
herself, if he asks her to walk or row with him ;
but she is not to be rude or give herself airs,
remember."

Mrs. Erskine laughed a little at the notion of
Muriel's behoof rude or 2:ivino herself airs to Mr.
Wentworth. "I don't think that is likely to
happen," she said. "Well, I will follow your
advice exactly, Alec. I shall see b} the way
she receives my hint, whether " She hesitated
in confusion.

"Whether Wentworth's fascinations have had
any effect, you mean ? " her husband rejoined.
Stuff and nonsense ! How should there be
anything to see ? The man's old enough to be
her father." With which comforting reflection
the Professor swung out of the room, calling ashe
went : " I am going for half an hour s stroll
and smoke before we begin work."

His wife sat down to her writing-desk much
relieved in mind. True, the task of conveying
to Muriel a warning amounting to a prohibition
still lay before her, and this task was very
unpleasant to a woman of her shy, nervous
temperament, but the conversation she had just
held with her husband had shorn it of half its
difficulties and disagreeable. Then, meek as
she was, she nevertheless felt a glow of triumph
steal over her as she reflected that after all she
had been able to prove Susan's judgment over-harsh,
and erroneous as well. She was not
usually impulsive, but this unwonted feeling of
exultation, this new pride of victory, carried her
partially off her feet. She decided on sending
a note to Lady Clavering by that very day's
post.

She had written no further than *' My dear
Susan," when the door opened and her niece

came in. Muriel had not been out that morning,
and her new happiness, coupled with her
secret anticipation of the words that she was to
hear from Wentworth's lips before many hours
were over, made her restless. She found it hard
to settle down to any kind of occupation, yet
she was unwilling to go into the garden and so
provoke the decisive interview just yet. Now
that the fateful moment was close at hand she
shrank a little from encountering it. Not that
she had any lurking distrust of Wentworth's
truth. She was very young and simple and inexperienced,
and in her small world had never yet
found special cause to doubt any one's sincerity ;
therefore it was not likely that she would doubt
the man to whom she had given her whole
heart. All her doubts related to her own unworthiness
to be loved by him. But she felt a
certain awe in contemplating the new phase of
her life's history just ready to open before her,
and a faint touch of innocent coquetry mingled
with this maidenly timidity. " He asked me to
come early," she said to herself, with a saucy
smile born of pride and happiness unspeakable,
and it is a quarter past ten now. Well, that is
early  very early, I think. I shall not go till
eleven. You must wait a little while to-day,
VOL. II. 22

Mr. Wentworth." And then she blushed deeply
at her own unspoken audacity.

She had brought her drawing materials into the
room with her, and, seating herself at the table
in the window, she tried to steady her quivering
fingers sufficiently to touch up a partially finished
sketch. Mrs. Erskine, sitting at the Professor's
writing-table on the opposite side of the room,
had her back turned to her niece  a fact for
which the poor lady felt devoutly thankful.
Now that Muriel was actually present and the
moment had clearly arrived for discharging what
Mrs. Erskine felt to be an exceedingly painful
duty, all her old nervousness returned upon her
with redoubled force. She cast about for some
easy introduction to the necessary subject of
discourse.

"Do you know, Muriel," she said at length
without turning round, " that I think I must bean
extraordinarily dull person ? I have just
been talking to your uncle, and he was quite
vexed with me for a stupid mistake I have been
labouring under with regard to Mr. Wentworth.
I always supposed he was a widower ; but it
seems that was pure fancy on my part, and that
he has a wife living, who is travelling in Scotland
or Ireland just now. Your uncle says Mr. Wentworth

has often spoken of her to him, but I am
sure he never did to me."

Muriel sat stiffened into stone, staring straight
before her in her dumb agony. The one instinct
that animated her was to keep silence ; she
clenched her hands painfully in the effort to
prevent herself crying out. It was as well that
Mrs. Erskine did not turn round at that moment.

One does leap to conclusions too hastily sometimes,"
Mrs. Erskine went on; while Muriel's
heart suddenly awoke from the trance in which
it had seemed to stand still, and beat so wildly
that she felt as if great hammers were clanging
in her ears and brain, while everything before
her whirled round in a giddy dance, and, though
she still heard her aunt's voice speaking, it seemed
to come to her from an ever-increasing distance,
until at last she had to strain every nerve to
catch what was said, " I believe you leapt to
this conclusion too, my dear, didn't you ? "

Yes, I did," Muriel answered. Her own
voice sounded far away to her, too, and she was
so cold that she trembled from head to foot.

So did your uncle, though he scarcely likes
to admit as much now."

Muriel rose from her chair and seemed as if
she were going to speak. For a moment her

heart cried out in wild revolt, " It is not true !
It cannot be true ! I will not believe it : " But
before the words could reach her lips, she sank
down again. She knew it was true. In a
moment of time her preternatural excited
memory had retraced the history of the last
three weeks, recalling all that had perplexed her,
and she knew that her aunt's words gave the key
to the whole mystery. All was fully explained
now ; the answer to the riddle was found. Like
a flash of lightning in a dark and unexplored
region, Mrs. Erskine's announcement revealed to
Muriel over what manner of ground she had
been treading so unsuspectingly. There was no
hope : it was all true. One thing only was left
for her to do now  to try and conceal the
crushing shame that had overtaken her. "Iso
one shall know, no one shall know  if I die for
it !" she said to herself. She got up and moved
her drawing-board a little, so as to bring her
face into deeper shadow.

Mrs. Erskine's pen continued to fly busily over

the paper. " Did Mr. Wentworth ever talk to

you about his wife ? " she inquired with innocent

craftiness, nerving herself for the coming plunge.

No, never,"

Ah, well ! there may have been a reason for

his silence. Lady Clavering knows a great deal
about him, and I am sorry to say she tells me he
is not at all a good man. He seems to be sadly
destitute of moral principle, and he is said to
behave very ill towards his wife ; in fact, I fear
he is a very bad husband," said poor Mrs.
Erskine, dutifully repeating her lesson. " So
you see, dear, he is hardly the person you should
make a friend of I know he has been very
kind to you, and of course you would not like to
appear ungrateful. Still your uncle and I think
you had better not go out alone boating with
him again, and you can easily make some polite
excuse if he asks you, cannot you ? "

Quite easily," Muriel answered with a little
laugh. " I wonder if I am going mad ? " she
said to herself She seemed to have a double
identity; she heard herself speaking, and listened
as if to a third person. "As you say, Aunt
Isabel, he has been very good-natured, and I
should not wish to seem rude."

"Very right, dear," returned Mrs. Erskine
approvingly. The dreaded ordeal was passing
off infinitely better than she could have ventured
to hope. " I know your uncle would be pleased
to hear you say that."

In any case," Muriel went on, playing her

part with growing assurance and watching herself
play it with a kind of insane admiration, " I
shan't need to make many excuses, because he
Mr. Wentworth  he told me himself he was
going back to England tomorrow."

Perhaps that is as well," returned her aunt.
Drawing off in any way from a person who has
been kind to you is always disagreeable work.
I was sorry to hear so unfavourable a report of
Mr. Wentworth's character, for I rather liked
him myself, and your uncle thought very highly
of his abilities. However, unfortunately, talent
and principle very frequently don't go together."

Muriel assented vaguely to this rather trite
sentiment. Then, remembering that she was
hardly acting fully up to the role she had
assumed, she added firmly, " He is certainly a
very clever man, and talks exceedingly well.
It is a pity he should be on such bad terms
with his wife. Perhaps she may be partly in
fault."

No, I am afraid his wife has excellent reason
for being on bad terms with him," Mrs. Erskine
answered gravely. " Hush \ there's your uncle
coming. Don't say a word more about Mr.
Wentworth before him, dear; he's  he's not
quite himself this morning " (thus did the faithful

wife describe her learned lord's uncompromising
fit of ill temper), " and he got rather
annoyed talking about this affair. So not a
syllable on that subject, please."

Not much need for Mrs. Erskine's final
entreaty. To save her life, Muriel could not
have uttered another coherent word, and, but for
the Professor's timely appearance, she must have
betrayed herself in a minute more. His entry
gave her respite from the necessity of speech,
and she had still strength left to command herself
in silence. What she would have given at
that moment to be able to leave the room, to get
away somewhere into darkness and loneliness
with her torturing secret, Heaven only knows.
The instinct common to all wounded creatures,
the instinct to creep away and hide in solitude,
was strong upon her. But she dared not move.
She must play her part, she repeated to herself
she must play her part ; it was all that was
left her now. She must not even think, lest she
should betray herself; she must go on with what
she was doing.

So the Professor sat down to his manuscripts,
with his wife beside him holding a book of reference
in her hand; and Muriel remained in the
window and went on touching up her sketch.

After a while she found that the white paper
dazzled her eyes, and the dark lines upon it
formed themselves into bewildering knots and
circles which moved about the page, and her
pencil went everywhere except in the right
direction ; so she no longer attempted to draw,
but set herself to grind colours  those very
colours which Wentworth sent her from Grindelwald.
In the midst of her occupation she
noticed that the wind had risen higher till it
threatened to become a gale ; a shower had come
up before it, and the big raindrops as they fell
were splashing in at the open window. She
got up and closed it with a steady hand, and
went back to her colour-o-rindino; ag-ain.

Time passed. Half an hour by the clock on
the chimney-piece, half a century to the girl
stretched on the rack of suppressed anguish.
Finally Mrs. Erskine, who had been watching
the Professor's face for some minutes, rose and
glided across the room in her noiseless way to
Muriel's side.

Dear," she said in an almost inaudible whisper,
" I think the noise of that grinding annoys
your uncle. Would you mind taking it into the
salon  or into your own room, if you prefer that?
I am afraid it is too wet for you to go out."

The moment of release, so long looked for, had
come at last. Strangling the sob of relief that
rose in her throat, Muriel gathered up her belonging's
with deliberate calm, and left the room
in her customary quiet fashion  she walked even
a little slower than usual. On the stairs, indeed,
her self-command did threaten to desert her, for
the dizziness and blindness which had returned
upon her as soon as she began to move made her
stumble once or twice, and obliged her to cling
to the balusters to save herself from falling. But
she gained her own door safely, went in, and
turned the key behind her ; then she sank down
in a corner of the window-seat, and let her head
fall upon her hands. Just at that moment the
little cuckoo clock on the wall above struck
eleven, and she uttered a Ioav stifled sound,
something between a moan and a laugh, as she
heard it. It was the hour at which she was to
have gone to meet Wentworth.

"TOTAL ECLIPSE."

'' But a day,
And the world is changed I "

R. Browning.

You will probably fall lower than others
who never aspired to climb so high."

All through the long terrible hours of that
miserable day did Lucy's light mocking words
continue to haunt Muriel, sounding like a disregarded
prophecy of the bitter humiliation that
was to come upon her. She walked up and
down the careless floor of her narrow little
bedroom, repeating the sentence to herself; she
buried her face in her hands as she knelt by the
window, and it rang persistently through her
brain. Ah, well ! she had fallen low enough
now. She writhed under the sense of her own
intolerable, matchless disgrace, every recollection
of the past month and its history adding to the

burning sense of slime. Shame possessed her,
scorched her, withered her to the soul. It left as
yet scarce room in her for any other feeling,
none at all for pain, and little even for indignation,
except it were indignation against herself
and her folly, and her maidenly readiness to
respond to Wentworth's doubtful wooing by
making confession of love to a man who had
never asked her to be his wife. She could not
stay to think now of the ruined fabric of her
happiness, or of the shattering of her faith in Ux
man whom she had trusted so utterly ; still less
would she stoop to mourn over the hopeless
destitution to which a few words had reduced
her who on that very morning had felt herself
passing rich in the assured possession of Wentworth's
love. Such love was a cheat, an insult,
a deadly humiliation  it was not likely that she
would cry out for the loss of that. But to undo
the past; to take back those words and looks
which it maddened her with shame to recollect ;
or, since that was impossible, to force Wentworth
to put a new interpretation upon them  she
would have flinched from no ordeal whereby she
might have accomplished something of all this.
A wild idea even crossed her brain of going forthwith
the newly discovered truth on her lips, to

meet the man who had deceived her, of greeting
him unconcernedly, and then proceeding to rally
him lightly on having kept her so long ignorant
of his domestic circumstances. " Why did you
never tell me anything of your wife before, Mr.
Wentworth ? " she seemed to hear herself saying.
It was very unfriendly of you ; it would have
interested me so much to hear all about her."
But she recognized that the plan was an insane
one  and even worse, utterly futile. Things
had gone too far between her and Wentworth for
any such poor flimsy pretence of indifference to
be of the smallest retrospective avail. Iso, there
was nothing she could do to regain her place,
even partially, in her own respect or in his. She
could hold aloof from him, and sO be preserved
from further humiliation, but that was all that
lay in her power now.

It was easy enough to hold aloof all through
the morning and afternoon. The Erskiness took
their dejeuner upstairs, as they almost invariably
did now, and no inquiries were made for Muriel,
so that she was not obliged to leave the shelter
of her own room ; but when the shadows began
to lengthen, she felt that she could remain there
no longer without arousing some kind of suspicion
that all was not well with her. This she

dreaded above all things, for she was determined
at any cost to keep her wretched secret to herself.
No one should pity her, no one should
cross-question her, no one should wax indignant
on her behalf She would continue to play her
part, and to play it bravely.

She made very careful preparations for playing
it, even to putting on one of her prettiest
gowns. She wished to present as bright an
appearance as possible, and if her lips and cheeks
would remain abnormally white in spite of all
her courageous endeavours to look "just as
usual," why, she must make up for the absence
of colour in her face by diverting attention to
her attire. A pitiful, girlish little device, this,
but one which showed a brave spirit, nevertheless.


When at length she actually went down, she
found that she had not quitted her refuge a
moment too soon, for the Professor had despatched
his letters, and had just found leisure
to marvel where his niece could be. He seemed
inclined to be unusually talkative over his afternoon
coffee, fortunately, so Muriel had only to
play the part of an attentive listener. This was
fairly easy at first, but after a while, as Mr.
Erskine went on to discourse unweariedly of

all things in heaven and earth, the strain of
keeping her mind fixed on the subjects of his
discourse became cruelly great. It was often a
difficult matter to get the Professor to talk at
all, but when once started, he was simply merciless
as a conversationalist; and now the interminable
stream of words flowed on and on, until
even the devoted Isabel was thankful when her
husband proposed employing the remaining hour
before dinner in looking over a parcel of new
books which had been sent him to review.

He had not glanced through ten pages in the
first volume he opened, before he looked up with
a muttered exclamation of impatience. "This
fellow to prate about the dialectic of the schoolmen
1 " he said indignantly. " Why, he does not
understand the rudiments of the science he
attempts to criticize ; he misrepresents Aquinas
at every turn. He misquotes him too  but
there I have him ! I have the treatise he affects
to quote from with me : where is it. Belle ? A
small quarto volume in a very worn brown
binding."

You left it in the salon last night when you
went out to smoke with Sir John Clavering,"
answered Mrs. Erskine. "I meant to have
brought it upstairs with me, but I forgot. Just

run down and fetch it, please, dear Muriel. It
was on the ledge of the bookcase when I saw
it last."

Muriel rose obediently and left the room without
the slightest demur, but outside the door she
halted, pale and trembling. Was there no mercy
for her ? she cried out inwardly ; when she was
trying so hard to avoid seeing the man she knew
it was her duty never to see again if she could
help it, was she to be forced into meeting him
through no fault of her own ? True, there was
one way in which she might have secured herself
against this contingency, and that was by telling
her uncle and aunt the whole story of the last
three weeks. But her pride would not suffer her
to do this, and perhaps it was hardly to be expected
that it should. Professor and Mrs. Erskine
were her near relatives indeed, but she knew
comparatively little of them, and they were not
either of them calculated to attract the confidence
of a shy, proud, sensitive girl suddenly
plunged into a heart-rending trouble which overwhelmed
her with as much shame as grief Ina
very real sense they were and would always
remain strangers to her. No, she had only herself
to take counsel with, and she decided that
she must go forward, since to show her anxiety

to avoid meeting Wentworth would be to betray
her secret at once.

Downstairs, therefore, Muriel went, pausing
nervously before she crossed the hall to see if
a tall figure in a dark shooting-coat might be
discerned leaning in the doorway, or pacing the
walk outside. But no one was to be seen,
though the door itself stood wide open, and a
sharp gust of wind whistled past Muriel, blowing
some yellow autumn leaves, the first that had
fallen from the neighbouring trees, into fantastic
circles on the grey stone floor. She breathed a
little more freely as she turned into the salon
itself and went straight across it to the bookcase,
looking neither to the right nor left, bent
only on fulfilling her errand as quickly as might
be. But she was not to escape so easily. As
she laid her hand upon the coveted volume, she
heard the rustle of a newspaper hastily thrown
down ; and from a low chair where he had been
sitting concealed by the piano, Wentworth rose
and came eagerly forward.

Muriel knew then that the decisive moment
had come. Flight was impossible : she could only
steel her heart desperately against him. She
snatched her eyes from his face and bent them
resolutely on the book she held, closing her

fingers upon it, too, with the tenacity of a vice 
and so stood motionless before him. Some men
would have been disconcerted by such a reception,
but it was rather difficult to arrest Paul Wentworth
in his present mood.

"Child," he said, laying his hand a little
heavily on Muriel's cold, unresponsive one, *' whj
have you kept me waiting so long ? Did you
forget that I asked you to come to me early,
and that I am going away tomorrow ? "

It had been easy to view Wentworth in his true
colours and to harden herself against him when
he was not by; but it was not so easy now.
Muriel nerved herself afresh for the ordeal: if
she could not help hearing, at least she Avould
not see him. So she kept her eyes still cast
down while she answered quietly, " No, I had not
forgotten."

Wentworth loosed his hold and fell back a step
or two, with a dull, indefinable fear clutching at
his heart-strings. A terrible foreboding of the
truth was upon him, but he would not give place
to it.

You have acted very unlike yourself, then,"
he rejoined with deep displeasure in his tone,
"and you have surprised and  and hurt me
more than I care to tell you. It is well, how-vol.

II-'3

ever, that you are come now. If the matter of
which I have to speak is a light one to you, it
is nevertheless profoundly interesting to me.
Come out with me for a little while, that we
may be able to talk quietly."

She became as white as ashes and the hands
which grasped the book shook like aspens ; but
her voice was firm. " I am sorry," she said, " but
that is quite impossible."

Never in her life before had Muriel Ferrars
spoken to Paul Wentworth in that tone. He
knew the worst now; he knew that his confession
came a day too late.

She moved as if to leave him, but he detained
her. " Since you cannot go out," he said, curbing
himself by a mighty effort arid speaking very
gently, " stay here for a few minutes. I will not
keep you longer than is absolutely necessary."

I am sorry," Muriel repeated, but less firmly
this time  Wentworth's extreme gentleness of
manner had touched her to the quick  "but I
cannot stay."

Have you been forbidden to speak to me ? "
Wentworth asked, with a flash in his eyes which
betrayed the fury of the storm raging beneath
the cain exterior he preserved.

For the first time Muriel lifted her head and

looked him full in the face with sad, indignant
eyes. " No' she answered ; " since no one knows
any reason why I ought not to speak to you."

There was scorn in her voice, for she thought
that he had put his question in order to find out
if she had betrayed him to the Professor. Nothing
was in truth farther from his thoughts ;
he had not given even a passing consideration
as to what any other beside Muriel herself might
think of him. The look of bewildered pain with
which he heard her contemptuous intonation
told her plainly that on this point at least she
had misjudged him, and the words had scarcely
crossed her lips before she regretted them.

"You have mistaken my question," Went worth
said, still gently, " but let that pass. Since you
expose yourself to no danger of reproof by staying,
you can surely stay this once. I ask only
to be heard, Muriel ; I have a right to be heard.
Give me five minutes in which to tell you my
story."

His voice, in its pathos and reproachful tenderness,
would have moved the stoniest heart 
how it wrung Muriel's there is little need to say.
It compelled her as it were to look at him again,
and his face, she found, pleaded for him with
like eloquence ; there was no ignoring the deep

suffering written in every line. Yet she had
still strength left to resist the double appeal.

I think I have heard already," she answered,
all that it is necessary for me to know. I will
go now, please."

If she expected a wild outburst of passionate
entreaty and protestation in reply to these words
of hers  and perhaps she did expect something
of the kind  her expectations were not fulfilled.
Wentworth made no attempt to press her further.

As you will," he acquiesced, moving a little
so as to leave her free to pass on ; " so be it.
Perhaps you are right and we had better say
nothing." He walked deliberately over to the
door and opened it for her. "I suppose you
will not refuse to say good-bye to me ? "

Muriel turned and faced him with the air of
an insulted princess, still holding her hands
clasped round the book lest he should touch
them. Her slight figure seemed to dilate, and
her pale young face wore a look of pride and
bitterness which aged it by ten years. In that
supreme instant of her life the last lingering
vestige of unconscious childhood faded from her
countenance, and she stood before Wentworth
full-grown in womanhood, a woman deeply
Grieved and wronged.

Mr. Went worth' she said slowly, and her clear
unwavering tones cut him like a knife, " I am
glad you see that there is nothing more to say.
I mean to forget everything, myself. Good-bye ;
I hope you will have a pleasant journey, and
Und Mrs. Wentworth and your children well."
Like a young queen she bent her head in formal
salutation as she passed him, and went out and
on upstairs without pause or falter.

That same evening Mrs. Erskine showed her
husband the note she had written to Lady
Clavering. " You were in the right throughout,
Alec," she said ; " I have told Susan so. Muriel
does not concern herself in the least about Mr.
Wentworth or his affairs, so evidently he has only
behaved to her as any fatherly friend might do."

Right?" echoed the Professor, now thoroughly
restored to good humour. "Of course I was
right. Lady Clavering's idea was preposterous ;
if she was not such an old and staunch friend oi'
yours, I should say it was insulting as well.
You see, my dear Belle, you did well to support
the opinion of your dull old bookworm of a
husband, even against that of an accomplished
woman of the world ! "

A PASSAGE PERILOUS.

Go from me. Yet I know that I shall stand
Henceforward in thy shadow."

E. B. Browning.

Two days later.

It was a fair sunshiny afternoon following
upon forty-eight hours of almost incessant wind
and rain, and Muriel sat by the window of the
Erskiness' sitting-room, looking listlessly out at
the beautiful panorama from which all beauty
seemed to her sad young eyes to have suddenly
faded. She was not alone. Her uncle and aunt
were both in the room, and the floor was strewn
with books and manuscripts which Mrs. Erskine
was packing under her husband's direction, for
on the morrow the whole party was to set oft'
for Italy.

This ought to have some silver paper round
it," Mrs. Erskine remarked, holding up a dainty

little copy of Plato's " Republic " bound in white
vellum.

"Don't trouble yourself about that," answered
the Professor, who stood by with a cigarette in
his mouth. "It will do very well, my dear; just
stick it into that corner of the case."

Yes, and lind it again at Como with all the
edges rubbed; just what you like to see, Herr
Professor ! " retorted his wife playfully. '' Will
you guarantee me against j'-our natural wrath
under such circumstances ? I trow not. No,
thank you ; I prefer going to look for some
paper now." She rose from her knees as she
spoke, and went out of the room on her errand.

The Professor sauntered over to the window,
and stood drumming his fingers on the pane and
humming an old Scotch air considerably out of
tune. Presently he turned his head and addressed
his niece. " Looks well for our journey
tomorrow, does it not, little one ? " he said
cheerfully.

No answer. Lost in her own bitter thoughts,
and for a moment off her guard, Muriel had not
heard her uncle speak, had not even noticed his
approach.

Are you dreaming, Thekla ? "

She gave a great start, and the colour rushed

into her pale cheeks for an instant. " I beg your
pardon, Uncle Alec, but I did not hear what you
said."

"That was very evident," the Professor responded,
not unkindly. "You were plainly a
thousand miles away. ' When pensive I thought
of my love,' eh, little girl ? " he added, with a
good-natured attempt at a fatherly joke. " Well,
don't think of him too much, whoever he maybe,
or we shall have you losing all your roses.
Now I think of it, you are looking rather pale
at this moment ; are you quite well ? "

Oh yes ; I am very well indeed, thank you."
Hem  you don't look it," Mr. Erskine returned
doubtfully. " I cannot quite make out what is
amiss, but you certainly do not look altogether
yourself Ah ! you have been shut up in the
house for the last day or two, I remember ; I
dare say you are pining for fresh air. Why don't
you go out for a stroll this lovely day ? To be
sure, walking alone is dull work; I am afraid
you must often find life here a dull business
altogether, my dear. I am sorry for your sake
that our friend Wentworth is gone. Though he
is hardly of an age to be your companion, a chat
with him was better than nothing  and he is a
good talker."

Muriel had early taught herself to receive the
mention of Wentworth's name, and even to utter
it, with composure. "I am not at all dull, I
assure you," she answered; "and Mr. Wentworth
was not always an amusing companion by any
means. He is a man of moods, never twice alike."

The Professor faced suddenly round and laid
his hand on the girl's shoulder. " I don't think
you seem to like Wentworth as well as you used
to do," he said a little sharply. " Is there any
special reason for your change of opinion ? "

Muriel was prepared, she thought, for any
cross-examination to which she might be subjected,
but she was not prepared to face her
uncle's unexpected scrutiny. Do what she would,
she could not hinder the swift blanching of her
face under the Professor's inquiring gaze, but
her voice was steady as she replied, " Perhaps I
don't like him quite so well as I did when I first
knew him. I think some things Aunt Isabel
said may have prejudiced me against him a
little." She spoke slowly, as if considering the
subject.

Humph ! " was the sole reply vouchsafed by
the Professor as he released her. He felt sure
that her sudden pallor betokened some feeling-deeper
than mere disapprobation, but he would

not question her further. In such a case, silence
was the best and safest remedy. If, as he suspected,
Wentworth's brilliancy had so far captivated
the girl's fancy as to cause her to miss him
unduly now that he was gone, and to reproach
herself for so doing, the less said in future about
him and his characteristic qualities the better.

The Professor was a loyal soul, hiding a rare
refinement of feeling under his outer husk of
roughness and unsociability, and never even to
his wife did he reveal his knowledge of the
secret of which he had accidentally obtained
a glimpse. Muriel herself was not sure whether
he had guessed anything or not, since he never
again recurred to the subject; and her thoughts
for a long time subsequently were so engrossed
by one idea, that she scarcely noticed the marked
increase of kindness in her uncle's manner towards
herself, or the delicate tact with which he
systematically avoided all reference to Wentworth's
name and to his stay in their midst.

On the whole, Muriel felt that she had come
out of this first ordeal pretty fairly. Anxious
to impress the Professor still further with a
sense of her undisturbed calm, and at the same
time to show her readiness to comply with his
suggestions, she rose as her aunt returned to the

room, and announced her intention of going out.
'rit was so very fine that it seemed a pity to
stay in the house."

This was quite true ; still, she would really
have preferred staying there. Her old pleasant
haunts out of doors were so full of ineffaceable
memories, all associated With one figure, one
presence, one voice, that the pain of visiting
them now was almost more than she could
endure. Yet she had come deliberately out to
face this pain. It Alas part of the burden she
had set herself to carry, and she was determined
to carry it unflinchingly, let the effort to do so
cost her what it might. Nevertheless, the reflection
that this burden would be hers to carry
in perpetuity weighed upon her with a sense
of intolerable oppression. When the time came
for her to ffo home  and she honored for this
time to arrive, hoping that change of scene and
return to those surroundings amidst which she
had spent nineteen years of unclouded happiness
mio'ht avail to soothe the terrible aching at her
heart  she would still have to play a part : to
Lucy, to her brother, to Jack Arlingham, to
every one who loved her, in short, lest they
should discover her shameful grief. If she had
had a right to grieve, half the poignancy of her

trouble would have been removed ; or if ifc had
been possible for her to look back upon the
chief actor in the miserable little drama with
feelings of contempt and indignation merely, it
would have been comparatively easy to hide
what had passed. But this was sadly out of the
question. Muriel's love for Wentworth, as she
found to her cost, had been a love for him
personally, over and above her worship of him
as an ideally perfect character; not only washer
faith shattered and her pride wounded to
the death, but her heart was broken as well.
And then came a whisper, " Guilty as he was, did
not he too suffer ? " and a vast pity filled her in
thinking of his face as she had seen it last 
white with silent suffering, eloquent in mute
appeal to which she had refused to return
any answer. Perhaps  who knows ?  she half
repented her refusal already. Certainly the
memory of that look pursued her continually,
keeping her sleepless through the long watches
of the nio'ht, and haunting her even on her
knees.

She did not walk far that beautiful autumn
afternoon. She was tired  she generally felt
more or less tired now  and after a very few
minutes she went and sat down under a spreading

chestnut tree, the very same tree in the shade
of which Wentworth had given her her first
drawing-lesson on the morning after the adventure
that led to their acquaintance. The deep)
golden sunshine flickered between the leaves
and touched her bare head (for she had taken other
hat and thrown it down beside her) with a
kind of healing warmth. From a child Muriel
had always loved the sun, and delighted to baskin
its rays ; and to-day they fell upon her with
caressing softness, like the warm touch of a
friendly hand. She had not wept since the day
when she had parted with Wentworth in scorn
and enmity, but now, as she leant her weary
head against the gnarled trunk of the tree, a few
heavy tears gathered and dropped down silently.
Only a few, but they relieved the dull numbing
pain in brain and heart ; and if life did not look
less sad after they were shed, it looked at least
less pitilessly cruel. If her old belief in human
nature did not return to her, her trust in something
higher did, and, after all the storm and
stress of the three bygone days, a sort of hush
was upon her tempest-tossed spirit. Physically,
too, she was wearied out, for she had scarcely
closed her eyes during the previous night, night
behoof the time when natural feeling revered

itself unmercifully for the constraint put upon it
by day ; and gradually a kind of lassitude crept
over her, till body and mind alike yielded to its
soothing influence, and she sank into sleep. She
slept tranquilly, much like a tired child, while
the breeze from the lake ruffled her uncovered
hair about her forehead, and the dancing leaves
above cast a moving tracery of light and shadow
on her face. She looked very young, so sleeping
; pathetically young in the eyes of one who
came rapidly over the grass towards her as he
caught sight of her figure under the tree, and
then stopped suddenly short, checking the exclamation
that rose to his lips, as he perceived
her to be unconscious of his approach.

Paul Wentworth stood looking down at Muriel
Ferrars. He marked the attitude of intense
weariness, the colourless cheeks with the heavy
dark lashes resting upon them wet with recent
tears, even the forlorn droop of the little hands
fallen listlessly apart  and he knew all he saw
for his own work. His conscience might indeed
be blunted, but his heart was not yet hardened
to such a sight; and as he looked, remorseful
tenderness filled his eyes. Now that it was too
late, he would have endured anything to unmake
the history of the last month !

Wentworth's step had been almost noiseless,
and lie stood at Muriel's side so rigidly motionless
that he scarcely appeared to breathe ; yet the
consciousness of his presence seemed to penetrate
her sleep-beclouded brain in some mysterious
manner. She stirred and opened her
eyes, but before she had opened them she knew
quite well on whom their first glance would
be certain to fall. There was scarcely even an
inflection of surprise in her tone as she said,
rising meanwhile hastily to her feet, " It is you,
Mr. Went worth !"

Yes, it is I," Wentworth answered in a low,
firm voice which had somehow a suggestion of
suppressed determination in its subdued tone.
He did not attempt to greet Muriel in any conventional
fashion, to come a step nearer, or to
take her hand ; he simply stood and looked at
her with a fixed, unwavering gaze.

His look shattered the composure she was

trying to assume. " How is it ? I thought

you were gone," she said brokenly.

I did go," Wentworth replied, still with the
same manner, which can only be described as
overpoweringly quiet. " I have been two days
at Engelberg. Now I have come back only for
an hour  to see you."

Muriel put up her hand as if to ward off* a
blow. "I told you the other day I had heard
everything' she said appealingly; "you knew
there was nothing further to be said. You said
so yourself, then."

True' Wentworth assented with a touch of
sarcasm. "I did say so . . . then."

The veiled mockery of his tone roused all
Muriel's pride. She looked him full in the face,
and her grey eyes flashed indignantly. " Perhaps
you always meant to come back ? " Her
voice was as indignant as her eyes.

Yes' he returned defiantly, " I always did
mean it. I told you from the first that I demanded
to be heard, and that I had a right to
be heard. You saw fit to deny me that right.
Very well. I chose to yield to you at the time,
but with the intention of claiming my right
again at the earliest opportunity. I have come
to claim it now."

What right can there be ? " asked Muriel,
bewildered by this sudden masterful vehemence.
I ought not to listen ; and it is no use, no use i
Why did you come back ? "

Why ? " Wentworth questioned with rising
passion. " Because you are the one human creature
for whose good opinion I care a jot, or whose

scorn and hatred would give me a moment's
pain. Because I could not endure to live and
have you believe, as you will be taught to
believe, that I planned deliberately to deceive
you. Because I will not suffer you to be persuaded
that my love for you  love such as you,
half child as you are, can neither fathom nor
understand  was a shameful cheat ! "

He was deathly pale, and his deep-set eyes
were full of a strange fire, but his voice, in spite
of the passion in it, was still subdued ; there
were no loud tones, no violent gestures. He
remained quite immovable, leaning one shoulder
against the bole of a tall fir that grew close by ;
and with a sudden incongruous flash of admiration
it struck Muriel how commanding he
looked. " Will you hear me now ? " he asked
more gently after a moment.

Muriel looked around her almost wildly in
her perplexity. " I cannot tell if I ought to
listen," she said distractedly. "I must not, I
dare not "

You dare not ? " he interrupted, his deathlike
pallor suddenly giving way to a dark
angry flush. " Have you learnt already to look
upon me with such dread and abhorrence that
you are afraid to hear me speak ? Oh, I am no

VOL II. 2-i

saint, that is very certain ! Perhaps your kind
friend informed you of the righteous horror in
which my name is held by certain people of
superfine morals ? No ? Well, I have furnished
you with another fact to set down in your
indictment against me. Only in your case
others may think what they please  I should
prefer your knowing the cause as well as the
effect."

This intense bitterness smote Muriel's tender
heart more than all that had gone before. She
hesitated, and Wentworth saw it.

"Child," he said, with a troubled tenderness
which was curiously and touchingly in contrast
with the cynical hardness of his former words,
trust me thus far. I promise that you shall
not regret it. Remember, I love yoa."

She could not keep her heart from thrilling,' at
that magical sentence, heard for the first time
from his lips, and he perceived the quiver of irrepressible
responsive feeling in her sensitive face.

'' I love you," he repeated, " with a love which
I know will last me my life. It will be my lifelong
sorrow that this love of mine should have
cast any shadow over your happiness at all ; and
do you think I would do anything to darken it
more ? Since you know this "

Muriel checked him with a gesture ; her
senses were coming back to her again. " Do not
say it ! " she entreated. " It is not right."

'' Not right ? " Wentworth echoed scornfully.
I dare say it may not be right if you take
it in that way. No, it is not right, I suppose ;
neither is it fitting, nor wise, nor sane even
that a man of my years should give his heart
into the keeping of a child like you. Yet
that is what I have done. I know the whole
thing is simple madness, but I cannot help
myself, neither can you ! I am quite powerless
against this fate which has come upon us  do
you think I would not escape it if I could ? I
cannot do otherwise than love you now, and I
know that I shall continue to love you  to my
cost  always."

Muriel drew one quick breath ; then she
spoke more resolutely than she had spoken yet.
Mr. Wentworth, I think you must be indeed
mad to talk to me like this. You forget that

you have a wife "

He interrupted her again, almost fiercely this
time. " Oh no ! I don't forget it. On the
contrary, I am painfully alive to the fact. T
have a wife, most certainly : would you like to
know what kind of person she is ? I will toll



you. She is a pretty woman  I think I should
almost be justified in calling her a l)eatitiful
woman  who would walk smilingly over her
husband's heart to get herself an invitation to
any particularly smart party, and to whom her
children's lives and health are of infinitely less
importance than the cut of her gown or the
shape of her bonnet ! "

He paused, and then continued rather more
collectedly: "Perhaps you understand better now
why the fact of my wife's existence does not
weigh with me quite so heavily as it ought to do.
Nevertheless, strange to say, there was a time
when she filled a very large space in my thoughts
indeed ; it would be hardly too much to say that
she absorbed them altogether ! I told you once
that my life might have been a different one if
I had understood human nature letter some
twenty years ago. That is absolutely true.
When I found I had been deceived  or let us call
it mistaken : that sounds more polite  when I
found I had been mistaken in her,  well, that
was the beginning of the edifying history which
has so greatly shocked your high-principled
friend." He laughed bitterly.

Did she  care for some one else ? " Muriel
faltered in an awestruck voice.

"She cared  as she cares now  for herself:
the only human being she ever has cared or will
care for. I made this gratifying discovery before
we had been married three months, and I must
own that I was totally unprepared for it I was
foolish enough to love her very madly, and
simple enough to imagine that she loved me. I
suppose I made too open a parade of my folly
and simplicity, and so speedily precipitated a
catastrophe which in any case could not have
been very long in coming. My wife felt constrained
to inform me that she disliked sentiment,
and that she found my requirements absurd
and exacting, and of a nature she was wholly
disinclined to exert herself to satisfy. All this
under pretty, courteous forms of speech, of course,
for she has a high sense of decorum and refinement.
Finally, thinking my excessive affection
tiresome and inconvenient, she gave me a delicate
hint to keep it to myself. Of course I obeyed
her ; it would have been very ill-bred to do otherwise.
But, as I have mentioned to you before,
I am not a stone nor an iceberg by nature, and
that agreeable interview with Mrs. Wentwortli
served neither to improve my moral character
nor to inspire me with profound reverence for
her sex in general."

He went on more hurriedly : " I did not allow
myself to become broken-hearted in consequence
of my wife's defection; I was not so absurdly
weak. I indemnified myself for my disappointment
as well as I could, and some of the methods
I adopted were not particularly commendable,
no doubt. Perhaps the less said about that part
of the story the better  I am certainly not going
to fill your innocent ears with an account of my
transgressions. But the fact remains that it is
only since I knew you that I have begun to
measure the difference between what I am nov
and what I was fifteen years ago."

Muriel had drawn instinctively a little away''
iron Wentworth as he spoke the words which
by his own confession proclaimed him to be all
that his enemies alleged. Hitherto she had not
dwelt much on Mrs. Erskine's shadowy accusations,
his single sin against herself having sufficed
to dethrone him from his pedestal of honour in
her heart ; but now she had it from his own lips
that this was only one of many offences against
light and duty, and probably of a less heinous
dye than the rest. For the moment she shrank
from him, and Wentworth saw it.

Believe me," he said, a spasm of pain contracting
his features, "that whatever I have been

in other respects, with regard to you it was mere
weakness and carelessness which led to the first
great mistake. My marriage has not been such
a happy one as to induce me to refer to it
unnecessarily. When I first became aware of
the error into which your quick imagination had
led you, I was simply amused; and if I kept
silence, it was from no special motive beyond my
usual disinclination to speak of this particular
matter. I did, however, mention it casually to
Professor Erskine, because something  I forget
what  seemed to lead to the subject. It is a
mere chance that you did not learn the truth
from him weeks ago."

Wentworth still leant in his former position
against the tree. He had at all times a peculiar
gift for remaining perfectly still when he chose
to do so, and, beyond an occasional sharp catching
of his breath, he had hitherto betrayed little
outward emotion. Now, however, he clasped
his hands over the back of a garden chair that
stood near, and Muriel could see that they
trembled with the intensity of the feeling which
he was keeping down.

Latterly," he continued, with a palpable
efibrt at self-command, "it has been rather
different, I confess. My silence for this last

week has been more or less deliberate and
intentional. I am not going to excuse myself
falsely ; the reason I did not speak was simply
because the temptation was too strong for me,
and because I could not bear, seeing you so
happily unconscious of the truth, to utter the
words which I knew must give you such
grievous pain. For on the same day that I
found out how I loved you, Muriel, I learnt
also that you loved me."

Muriel made a movement of dissent, which
Wentworth saw and understood. " You did not
realize it yourself then, I know," he answered
in reply to her mute gesture. '' But it was so,
nevertheless; I knew it before you did. Well,
I repeat that I attempt no defence ; I only say
the temptation was too strong for me. To beloved
by you, even for a few days  I don't
suppose any one ever loved me in that single-hearted,
unselfish, trustful way before, except
perhaps my children. If it were not for the
sorrow I have brought upon you, I should
consider the past gain outweighed the future
suffering.

You don't say a word ! " he added, after a
minute's silence. " Not a word of reproach even.
It is true that nothing you could say could add

to my self-reproach for what is past and cannot
be undone. When I saw your altered face just
now, I think my sin was well avenged ! "

Again there was a moment of silence, and then
again Wentworth spoke, this time more brokenly :
That is all I have to say. I have no further
plea to offer, and nothing whatever to urge in
extenuation of what I have done. My great
love and my great sorrow  can you forgive me
for the sake of these, Muriel ? "

She raised her eyes and he saw that they
were wet with tears. "I do forgive you," she
answered.

And . . . you care for me a little still ? Weare
parting, recollect : it will not harm you to
give me the poor comfort of knowing that your
love for me is not quite dead. You will let mo
hear you say it ? "

No," she replied bravely, " I will never say
that."

Why, you have said it ! " Wentworth broke
out; "you have said it already, in your own
sweet, childlike way. That night when we came
back from our last row "

A burning flush dyed Muriel's pale cheeks as
she interrupted him. " Then ! When I thought
you the noblest man I had ever known, and felt

that your caring for me was an unspeakable
honour! And now "

Now," Wentworth said, completing the girl's
unfinished sentence with a bitter smile  "now
that you know I am no transcendental, immaculate
hero, but a mere ordinary man, with all a
man's frailties, I have ceased to interest you, you
mean to say. But it is not really so, Muriel !
You do love me still, whether you will confess
it or not. I challenge sou to look me in the face
and say, ' I do not love you ! '"

Muriel looked up in answer to his challenge,
and her eyes met his. Her lips parted to speak,
but no sound came from them ; her glance
wavered, faltered, and fell again to the grass
at his feet. As she turned abruptly away, a
flash of triumph lit up Wentworth's pale set face
for a moment.

Did you think yourself so fickle ? " he asked
softly. " You see, I knew you best."

Muriel turned vehemently upon him. "And
if I cannot quite get over that mad, wicked
feeling at once," she said, "I know I shall soon-conquer
it. I thought I had conquered it already,
and if I have failed, it is not because I have not

tried  and prayed " Her voice failed her

utterly.

Poor child ! " Wentwortli replied pityingly,
"did you think that you could crush such a feeling
as love out of your heart in two days' time ?
If you go to your Bible itself, it will tell you
.that 'love is strong as death,' and that 'many
waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods
drown it.' Oh, my darling, dien one has really
loved, one does not forget like that."

Overwhelmed for the moment, Muriel bent
her face upon her hands, and Wentworth stood
looking at her With such an expression of
hopeless anguish in his eyes as might have
moved his sternest censors to mingle a touch
of compassion with their just sentence of condemnation.


"There is no use staying longer," he said at
last; "I had better go. The best wish I can
make for you, Muriel, is that you may forget
me soon: Heaven knows what it costs me to
utter it ! Think as gently and as forgivingly
and as kindly of me as you can. But I know
you will do that ; I think you are a little sorry
for me now."

She looked up quickly. " Sorry for you ? "
she said. " If you only knew ! "

It was her first unguarded utterance, and it
was not without its results. It inspired

Wentworth with a fresh idea, as dangerous as
it was new.

Since you are indeed sorry for me," he said,
"will you do something for me? It is nothing
wrong, nothing that need trouble your conscience
for a moment."

"If I could make you less unhappy," she
answered doubtfully. It was the instinctive
womanly longing to help and comfort that
prompted her now.

"You could help me unspeakably," Wentworth
rejoined earnestly. "See, things are so
that we cannot be more than friends. Let us
put away the recollection of last week's madness,
and be again as we were before that time.
Then we need not be wholly lost to each other.
Perhaps we had better not meet again for a
while, but I could write to you and you could
write to me  as friends both of us  and your
influence would not pass entirely out of my life.
You might make it a better life as well as a
happier one in that way."

Truly that was a perilous moment for Muriel
Ferrars. With intuitive comprehension of her
nature, Paul Wentworth had laid his hand on
the one vulnerable point in her armour of defence.
If he had pleaded with her to take pity

on her own heart, or even on his, she would
have found no difficulty in resisting his pleading
; but to influence him for good, to be as it
were his guardian anoel, to draw the wandering:
star back into its own celestial orbit again  this
temptation was as insidious as it was strong.
Satan looked very much like an angel of light
just then.

Wentworth saw by Muriel's hesitation that he
had partly prevailed. "Let us be friends," he
urged again; 'that much is still permitted us.
And as for the past, let us forget it altogether ! "

His own words defeated his object, for they
let in a ray of light on the girl's bewildered soul.
Unwittingly he himself had shown her the snare
set for her.

You said yourself that it was impossible to
forget it," she answered with childlike directness,
" and therefore it must be impossible for us
to be friends as we Avere before. It would only
be a hollow pretence."

You shall see for yourself," he cried eagerly.
Trust me, and see if my letters shall go beyond
the bounds I have set them ! "

"Would they be letters which I could show
my father and sister," Muriel asked simply, " or
which you would care for your wife to read ?

Even if they were, do you think I should be
permitted to receive or answer them openly ?
If I wrote to you, it must be in secret; you
know that. Indeed, Mr. Wentworth, you must
not write to me."

'' Very well," he answered angrily, " I will not
trouble you. You are like the rest, after all. I
have asked you to help me, and you refuse for a
mere conventional scruple. It is very natural ;
why should you care what happens to me, or
whether, instead of being a better man for
having known and loved you, I become an infinitely
worse one ? I have given you a glimpse
of what my life has been for fifteen years inconsequence
of one woman's pitiless hardness;
whatever it sinks to in the future, remember,
will be not her work, but yours ! "

Muriel clasped her hands together in an agony
of distress. " Have a little pity ! " she entreated
despairingly. " Don't make it so hard for me todo
right ! "

She had touched the right chord at last. Her
appeal to him, her voluntary throwing of herself
upon his mercy, awoke every better and
nobler impulse which lay dormant in Paul Wentworth's
soul, and at the very moment when she
seemed on the point of failure, she achieved

victory. His expression suddenly changed and
softened.

"I have made everything hard to you, it
seems, God forgive me ! " he said remorsefully.
Yes, I believe you are right ; we cannot be
mere friends any longer, for  you must let me
say it this once  we love each other too much
for that. It must be all or nothing now  so we
must needs be strangers  I suppose. Forgive me
for thinking it could be otherwise."

A look of relief stole over Muriel's face as he
spoke. She stood quietly in her place with her
hands still locked together, but as she bent her
head a single heavy tear dropped and fell on her
clasped fingers. Wentworth drew a step nearer
and laid his hand on hers.

Dear," he said, " the pain will not always be
so hard to bear. You are very young, child ;
you will live to forget and be happy by-and-by.
I am different," he added less calmly. " My
life has been pretty well lived out already ; it is
too late for me to look for compensation now.
But I dare say I shall pretend to forget in the
old fashion."

He paused, looking at her as she stood before
him with the sunlight falling on her drooping
head and pale face, knowing well that that look

must be his last. She endured his silent gaze
for a minute or two, and then quietly withdrew
her hand. "Let us say  good-bye now," she said
tremulously, lifting her wet eyes.

You are in terrible haste for me to be gone'
he said with a renewal of bitterness in his tone.
And you talk easily : ' Let us say good-bye ' !
I think we have partly said it already  we
have begun the long good-be that is to last
us our lives. You can take it calmly enough
now, because you do not know what it means 

yet Well, railing will not help us ; I had

better go as you have suggested. Let it be
good-bye, then ! "

Good-bye," she answered  more steadily this
time. Then, with a sudden unforeseen movement,
he caught her hands again, drew her towards
him, and kissed her swiftly on the forehead.

Good-bye," he repeated, releasing her. " And
one thing more. When I told you just now
that I hoped you would soon cease to remember
me, I was speaking falsely. I do not wish you
to forget me and I do not believe you will."

Those were his farewell words to her. And
he waited for no reply to them, but went rapidly
away over the soft turf as he had come  nor did
he once look back.

A MODERN SIR GALAHAD.

"Uusubduable granite, piercing far and wide into the heavens,
like an Alpine mountain; yet with clefts in it, and fountain;,
and green, beautiful valleys with flowers."  Carlyle.

No, I cannot say,. Paul, that your holiday seems
to have done you much good. On the contrary,
you look far more fagged than you did before
you started. I remarked that when you first
came back."

Mrs. Wentworth was the speaker. She sat at
the head of her handsomely appointed dinner*
table, ver\ becomingly attired in an exquisite
evening toilette of pale sea-green brocade cunningly
combined with clouds of soft, creamy lace,
and looking quite as young, graceful, and pretty
as she had looked three montis before. For it
was now early October, and a bright wood tire
was burning in the recesses of the fine old

VOL. II. -5

Venetian fireplace which Wentworth had persuaded
an impecunious Italian prince to let him
carry off in exchange for a pile of English banknotes
some ten years back.

Seen by the ruddy glow of this fire  which
alone illumined his features at the moment, since
the lamp which hung over the table was so
screened as to cast its pearly light only on the
fruit and flowers immediately beneath it  the
face of Mrs. Wentworth's husband certainly
justified her unflattering estimate of the effects
of foreign travel upon his health. Unlike his
Avise, Wentworth looked as if he had grown
decidedly older during the past quarter of a
year. The bright alert air which sometimes
made him appear younger than ' he really was
had deserted him, and was replaced by an ill-concealed
weariness and ennui which to an
anxious eye might well betoken some hidden
cause of suffering, physical or mental. Now,
Alice's was not a specially anxious eye, perhaps,
but it was an exceedingly acute and penetrating
one, and the change in her husband's
demeanour had not escaped it.

Her wifely remarks did not meet with a
particularly gracious reception. " I enjoyed the
holiday excessively, nevertheless," was all the

response she received, and this delivered in a
tone savouring of defiance.

Alice elevated her delicate eyebrows ever so
slightly. "I am very glad to hear it' she replied.
But things may be pleasant which are hardly
beneficial, and it strikes me that, whatever the
other agreements of your trip may have been, you
went wrong in your choice of a climate. You
look thoroughly out of sorts. Doesn't he,
Philip ? " she asked, addressing her solitary
guest  the only other person present, for the
dessert staoe of dining had been reached, and the
servants had already withdrawn to a more congenial
sphere.

The young man thus appealed to  a tall,
slender personage, fair-haired and fair-corn -
plexioned, with features so classically regular
as to give a cameo-like effect to his fine profile
raised a pair of remarkably clear and piercing
blue eyes and fixed them on his host.

Your wife is right ; you are not looking well,
Paul," he said gravely  and there was just a
shade of reproof mingling with the tone of real
concern in his voice. "I imagine you did too
much literary work in Switzerland to be able
to benefit by the change and rest as much as
you ought to have done."

I quite agree with you there, Philip' Mrs.
Wentworth said warmly. " I believe Paul would
do far better if he could be content to give up
dabbling in ephemeral literature. After all,
what honour can possibly accrue from these
things ? They are read one moment, forgotten
the next." She shrugged her white shoulders
contemptuously.

And they bring in no money, or none worth
reckoning, eh ? " said her husband, with a
supercilious curl of the lip. " No doubt it is a
weakness on my part, but I rather like writing
on non-professional subjects. Deeply interesting
and  what is more to the purpose  highly lucrative
as my profession is, I actually like occasionally
to forget that I am a lawyer ! It is a
curious fancy, but so it is. And what would
you have ? Every man must have his hobby,
and I can assure you that in the pursuit of mine
I don't neglect my work, my paying work, Alice I"

I have said before that Alice Wentworth was
not a sensitive person. As a rule, Paul's satirical
shafts glanced innocuously off' her triple
armour of indifference, self-satisfaction, and
insensibility to ridicule ; but to-night his barbed
words did pierce a little way between the joints
of the usually impenetrable harness, and a faint

Hush of annoyance and mortification rose in bur
cheek as he uttered them. Perhaps the presence
of her brother-in-law, of whom she stood inconsiderable
awe, and for whom, in spite of the
serious disapprobation with which she knew him
to regard her plan of life and code of morals, sit;
had an odd, unwilling liking and respect, rendered
her more susceptible to Wentworth's scornful
thrusts on this particular evening.

Most people stood a little in awe of Philip[)
Irvine. Though he was but six and twenty, Iiis
individuality was already more marked than
that of most men of middle age : there was nu
hesitation, no diffidence, no uncertainty about
him. His character stood out rounded and uncompromising,
absolutely lacking in bare outlines
and crude tones waiting to be filled up or
coloured over. Life and further experience of
life might soften him  some people thought that
he needed softening sadly  but that was the
sum total of the change they would.be likely t()
effect. Irvine was a man who had elected his owii
path and was determinedly walking in it, who
had selected his own burden and seemed resolved
to carry it to the end. No one really doubted
the sincerity of his choice ; and if some were
found to pity him as a well-intentioned fanatic,

and others to chafe at him as a Puritan and
a prig, very few ventured to sneer at him asa
hypocrite. Of himself he would simply have
said that he was a Christian. Christianity to
his mind, as to the minds of certain others not
unlike him in ages now long passed away,
involved the necessity of renouncing the world :
whatever therefore appeared to Philip Irvine
to be included under that generic term he did
renounce, and renounced it absolutely. He was
thoroughly convinced that religion was the one
thing needful for every human soul ; hence
followed the corollary that, having acquired this
pearl of great price himself, it was his duty to
spend his life in endeavouring to impart it to
others. And in fact he did spend his life in this
manner. People came to know it, and respected
him accordingly; it was impossible to help
respecting such a man, they said, however little
one might sympathize with his transcendental
standard and his wild ideas about Christian
Socialism. For Irvine was a Radical as well asa
Puritan ; Bethnal Green had made him one, he
said. All the more reason for avoiding the
atmosphere of Bethnal Green, his well-bred High
Church Tory friends thought in the unacknowledged
depths of their hearts.

One accusation most frequently levelled at
Philip Irvine was that of narrowness and hardness,
and of consequent want of mercy for his
weaker brethren. Narrow he perhaps was in
his utter inability to look at or consider the
mere side issues  the advisability or expediency
of a question when once he had decided upon
its intrinsic right and wrong ; hard he certainly
was upon the fashionable follies and frivolities
which seemed to him of such infinitely little
moment compared with the eternal realities of
which he himself never lost sight, and so
atrociously incongruous when practised in close
proximity to the seething commonwealth of
misery and crime with which he was daily
brought in contact ; merciless he undoubtedly
was in condemning sin wherever he found it, and
in his own stern purity perhaps inclined rather
to threaten the offender with the penalties of the
law than to seek to soften him by the milder
pleadings of the gospel  at least,, where the
offender had plainly sinned against light and
knowledge, since for the ignorant and uninstructed
he had compassion enough and to spare.
Then he had a natural gift of satirical speech, and
it must be acknowledged  since, high-minded ashe
was, Irvine had his share of human weaknesses

 that he occasionally put it to what he
would himself have called an " unsanctified use."
This gift, combined with a cold and impassive
manner, and the more regrettable narrowness
of sympathy which his Puritan training had
engrafted upon a naturally ascetic temperament,
leading him to look somewhat askance on things
beautiful and joyous, as if they contained in
themselves some taint of evil, did not tend to
make him popular with his social equals. They
respected him, as has been said but very few of
them loved him.

On the other hand, he had his school of
disciples, an enthusiastic band of warm-hearted,
earnest-minded lads fresh from Oxford, who
regarded " Irvine of Bride's " as a Heaven-sent

o

leader in the crusade they were eager to wage
against vice and misery and unbelief, and who
were ready for any amount of " plain living and
hicrh thinking'" at his command. And he had
his friends in Bethnal Green. These last were,
after all, his truest friends : they did not find
him narrow, or cold, or severe. Ask the gutter
children who swarmed into the ragged school
over which Philip Irvine presided if he were
hard and unkind ; ask the rough, shy, turbulent
hobbledehoys whom he persuaded to attend his

penny readings and evening lectures if lie were
supercilious or unsympathizing ; ask the miserable
outcasts who sometimes crept into the
shadow of the Mission Hall planted in the very
midst of the foulest haunts of vice, where Irvine
might be found week after week pleading with
his hearers to have mercy upon themselves before
it should be too late, if he were pitiless and
unloving ! Verily, Park Lane and Grosvenor
Square knew but one side of the man ; the other
remained a sealed book to the denizens of those
regions.

They knew him a little better at Oxford,
where he still resided in term, giving himself,
with the quiet thoroughness which characterized
all the actions of his life, to his work as a tutor
and lecturer of his college. He had taken distinguished
honours in mathematics, and had
been elected Fellow of St. Bride's at an unusually
early age ; and, as he conceived that the
acceptance of a Fellowship implied .a covenant
on his part to perform faithfully certain duties
originally considered to appertain to the position
acquired, he had made up his mind to reside in
the university so long as he could be actively
employed there. Besides, he held that the
opportunity thus afforded him of influencing

the rising generation of Oxford men was one
that he had no right to fling away.

So seven months in every year were devoted
to work in college and university; and then,
when his brother Fellows retired to pleasant
country houses, or scattered themselves far and
wide over the face of the two hemispheres,
seeking rest and recreation, Philip Irvine packed
his portmanteau and betook himself to a dingy
little red-brick Mission House in the worst
part of Bethnal Green, to toil contentedly in
pestilential slums and noisome alleys in the endless
task of trying to relieve the desperately
poor and reclaim the desperately wicked until
term time came round again. . Many of his
Oxford contemporaries wondered "why Irvine
didn't take orders. He was cut out for a
parson, if ever man was." Irvine himself replied
to this that he felt no call to the ministerial
office. Perhaps he thought he could effect
more as a simple layman than he would have
been likely to do had his work partaken in any
degree of a professional character; and the
peculiar mixture of Puritanism and Socialism
which coloured all his religious views prevented
his regarding the ordained clergy as invested
with any special sanctity or authority which

was not equally the heritage and privilege of
the ordinary Christian.

It was a strange fate which had made him
Paul Wentworth's half-brother. The great world
of London did not contain two men more utterly
dissimilar in natural character or more diametrically
opposed to one another in principles
and in mode of life. It was not only that
one was essentially self-indulgent and the other
before all things self-restrained, that one consulted
his pleasure as a guide of conduct while
the other lived in the sternest sense according
to the dictates of duty, that one was a man of
the world and the other a man of the Bible 
if Philip had been irreligious and Paul strictly
virtuous, there would still have subsisted
between the brothers the great fundamental
difference which must always subsist between a
simple and a complex nature. Philip's strength
would in any case have been concentrated on
some single absorbing subject of interest. He
had not a spark of Paul's wealth of imagination,
not a trace of his picturesque, fascinating many-mindedness
; none of the quick sensibility, nothing
of the susceptible, impressionable aesthetic temperament
which had always been his brother's
most dangerous enemy. Excepting for the

satirical bent of their minds  disciplined in
Philip's case and undisciplined in Paul's  there
was not a single point of moral likeness between
the two. Their mental gifts varied as widely
from each other as their moral constitutions and
their external appearance, and the intellect that
was brilliant and daring in the elder man became
simply painstaking and tenacious in the younger.
To all these points of discrepancy may be
added nearly fifteen years' difference in age.
Paul Wentworth's mother had been left a
widow very early in life, when he himself, her
only child, was still little more than an infant.
She was a pretty, agreeable young woman, not
troubled with sentimental fancies or transcendental
ideas on the subject of fidelity to the
memory of past attachments ; and she was,
moreover, very badly off. Hence it came to
pass that when the Reverend Purely Irvine,
the wealthy middle-aged bachelor rector of a
pleasant parish in Devonshire, offered his hand
and heart to the charming widow, she accepted
the offer with alacrity, and without giving more
than a passing pang of regret to the recollection
of the young husband whose idol she had been,
and who had lain barely a year in his already
half-forgotten o-rave. Mrs. Irvine had several

children by her second marriage, but of these
only two Margaret, the eldest daughter, and
Philip, who was ten years younger than his
sister  lived to reach manhood and womanhood ;
and before Philip had taken his degree at
Oxford, he lead lost both his parents. He had
therefore only two near relations left in the
world ; and as he had early registered an inflexible
resolution  his Puritanism would not
allow him to call it a vow  to form no fresh
ties that might impede and hamper him in the
life of self-abnegation he had voluntarily embraced,
he was fain to draw the existing links
all the closer, although, even in the case of his
sister, deep spiritual union was out of the
question. Margaret Irvine, a clever and charming
woman, was warmly attached to her brother,
but their views and opinions by no means
invariably' coincided ; Philip more than suspected
her of rationalism in theory, and openly
reproached her with latitudinarianism in
practice. Having inherited a considerable fortune
from a distant relative who happened to
be childless, Margaret was much richer than
Philip ; and he held it to be a dereliction of
duty on her part that, after providing for the
necessaries of life, she did not devote the whole

of her income to the cause he had at heart, and
to which he himself devoted the simple competency
left him by his father. Now, Miss
Irvine was high-principled and even philanthropic
; but she was a woman of the nineteenth
century, not a knight-errant of the legendary
ages like her brother. Therefore she had her
bright little house in Mayfair, and her pretty
cottage in Devonshire, and cultivated her mind
and indulged her artistic tastes while not
neglecting good works  and on the whole she
spent her time and her money well and wisely.
But she did not satisfy Philip's standard. And
if Philip felt dissatisfied with his sister, what
attitude, save one, could his mind assume
towards his half-brother, a man whose words
and deeds were in daily flat contravention of
every principle he held most sacred ? What
sympathy could possibly exist between them ?

Of sympathy, indeed, there could have existed
little ; but on both sides there did exist
much undoubted affection. Wentworth's undisciplined
nature was full of warm and tender
impulses, and he clung with remarkable tenacity
to family ties as such. Also, though he did not
fully understand his brother, he respected him
profoundly; while Irvine, who (except in a

wide and spiritual sense) was not particularly
affectionate, lead a deeper personal feeling
for Went worth than for any one else in the
world. Not that he was blind to Wentworth's
errors. Far from it. He had not hesitated to
rebuke him for them more than once, with a
desperate sincerity and an impassioned earnestness
which had served to disarm Wentworth's
natural indignation at finding himself taken
morally to task by a brother fifteen years his
junior. I cannot say that the young reformer's
remonstrances and exhortations had so far produced
any perceptible good effect ; and the
reformer himself knew of his failure, and
recognized mournfully that " the time was not
yet." His faith was strong, and, like most
strong things, patient : that the time would
eventually come he firmly believed. Meanwhile
he waited  and doubtless prayed.

On this particular evening he was in a
specially softened mood as regarded his brother,
for he saw that Paul was ill at ease, if not
positively unhappy. Perhaps he did not pass
quite such severe mental judgment as he should
by rights have passed upon the bitter speeches
addressed to Alice, for the very natural, human,
and saintlike reason that he disliked his

sister-in-law. He thought her frivolous and
artificial two sins on which he was apt to be
peculiarly unmerciful wherever he encountered
them ; and he more than suspected her of having
played a leading part in the circumstances
which led to her husband's moral downfall. Of
course he had been a mere child at the time of
Paul's marriage, and no confidence on the subject
of his relations with his wife had at any time
crossed Paul's lips in conversation with his
brother ; still Philip Alas too acute a student
of human nature not to have read a good way
into the enigma of the home life over which
Alice presided. It was therefore with small
sympathy for Alice's annoyance, and rather from
a desire to divert the current of his brother's
thoughts than from any loftier motive, that he
took up the dropped thread of the conversation,
severed suddenly by Wentworth's unexpected
retort, and endeavoured to guide the conversation
itself into a more agreeable channel.

It is possible to have too much of work,
whether it be strictly serious work or not,"
he said, in so unmoved a manner that Alice
wondered whether he could be dull enough to
have failed to perceive the drift of her husband's
remarks. " The time comes when, if you dont

oil the machine a little, the wheels begin to
creak very palpably. I have discovered that
truth myself, and I mean in consequence to take
a holiday next week, and go down for a few days
into the country."

Indeed ! " returned his sister-in-law. " I am
extremely glad to hear you have resolved on so
eminently sensible a plan. Where are you
going, Philip ? "

Not very far off." (Irvine had created the
diversion he desired to create, and was prepared
to answer any number of questions with resignation.)
"To a place called Alderton, in Holm-shire,
about thirty miles from town. I believe,
however, that it is perfectly rural and sequestered
; and very pretty too, I am told."

Went worth had been leaning back silently,
balancing a silver fruit-knife between two of his
fingers for several minutes : but as his brother
spoke he started upright in his chair, and his'
weary, absent expression gave way to one of
tense inquiry.

I don't think I ever heard of it," Alice commented
reflectively. She was still looking at
her brother-in-law, and did not observe her
husband's significant change of attitude.

You would not be likely to hear of it : it is

VOL. u. 20

a mere village, though a picturesque place in its
way  at least, from what they tell me  and
boasts itself as possessing the most beautiful
common in England. The people I am going to
stay with live on the edge of this common."

Wentworth was now as white as ashes. He
laid his right hand down on the table to steady
it, but the fruit-knife shook in his fingers.

What are their names, Philip ? Have I ever
met them ? " inquired Mrs. Wentworth with sisterly
interest.

I don't think you have ever met them.

Their name is Ferrars Hallo ! what's

that ? "

"It is only that Paul has knocked over a
flower-glass," answered Mrs. Wentworth with a
touch of asperity, and frowning slightly at the
damage done to the symmetry of her elaborate
table decoration. "Pray don't try to remedy
the mischief ; you will only make matters worse.
Ferrars, you say, Philip ? I never heard you
mention any Ferrars before; I did not know
you had any intimate friends of that name."

Well, these people cannot be called friends of
mine, for I have never yet seen them  that is
to say, those members of the family who live at
Alderton. I am oroino' down on the invitation

of George Ferrars, the son of the house, who is
one of our scholars at St. Bride's."

And what is this Mr. Ferrars of Alderton ?
Vicar of the parish ? "

"No, I fancy he is a small country squire.
He lives in an old manor house, which joung
Ferrars tells me is a choice morsel for the archaeologist.
The kind of place that would suit you,
Paul' Irvine added, turning to his brother : " all
oak wainscoting and Tudor windows."

In spite of his wife's injunctions to the contrary,
Wentworth was elaborately replacing and
rearranging the fallen chrysanthemums, and took
no notice of the remark addressed to him.

Alice continued her questions. " Shall you
meet any one there  any one you know ? "

Irvine shook his head. " Scarcely, I think.
Ferrars apologized for asking me in the dead
season, and intimated there would be no one in
the house but the family."

What does the family consist of ? '

Mr. Ferrars is a widower, and my pupil is
his only son. Then there are two daughters,
younger than their brother."

Are they grown up ? "

"I fancy so; but they must be still quite
young girls. Stay, I think I made a mistake

just now when I said I had never met any of
the family before. I believe I must have seen
one of the two sisters about a year ago at
Professor Erskine's. Erskine is Ferrars' uncle,
and I know this girl was related to him in someway."


Did you like her ? Was she a nice girl ? "
Alice would have liked to ask if she were pretty,
but refrained for fear Irvine should think the
question frivolous.

1 don't remember her very distinctly," the
young man answered frankly ; " but as far as I
recollect she was much like other girls of her
age. Now I think of it, I am certain she was a
Miss Ferrars. She was very like her brother;
and the Erskiness called her Muriel, and I know
Ferrars has a sister of that name."

Wentworth sprang up with a suppressed,
inarticulate exclamation, pushed back his chair,
and walked over to the fireplace, where he knelt
down on one knee and made a feint of warming
his hands at the blaze. '' It is atrociously cold
to-night," he observed, as if offering an excuse
for his unceremonious aud precipitate movement.
Irvine looked at him a little curiously. Alice
rose with a slight air of offence.

Since you have set me the example of leaving

the table, Paul," she said with a kind of suave
acerbity, " I think I will go upstairs. I shall
see you again, Philip, I suppose ? "  pausing at
the door, which her brother-in-law opened for
her. " I hope you have no engagement at the
East End for once in a way ? "

'only a very late one," Irvine replied with
one of his grave smiles. " I shall come up for
some tea before I go, if you will allow me."

Alice nodded a gracious acquiescence as she
passed him by. He closed the door after her
and went back to his place, where he sat for a
minute or two thoughtfully contemplating his
brother, who maintained his former position on
the hearth rug, and seemed unconscious of the
scrutiny to which he was being subjected. There
was a shade of uneasiness mingling with the
penetrating intensity of Irvine's gaze.

Presently Wentworth roused himself from
his pre-occupation. Giving himself a kind of
impatient shake, and stifling something which
sounded like an incipient sigh, he rose and
resumed his seat at the bottom of the table.
Well, how far are you satisfied with the book ? "
he asked, mechanically pushing the claret
towards his brother. '' No ? Oh, I forgot ! I beg
your pardon." (Irvine, among other things

was a rigid teetotaler.) " I suppose you got
your copy on Tuesday ? "

Yes, by the first post. You have enlarged
the scope of the work beyond what I expected
or even hoped. It is making a great deal of
noise already."

You share in any honour accruing from such
commotion,' Wentworth said with a faint smile,
for the book is in great measure due to your
inspiration."

"Hardly that. I supplied a certain number
of facts and statistics which may have been
useful, but it is you who have breathed spirit
into the dry bones."

The facts and statistics are the foundation
of the whole argument," Wentworth answered
drily, " and they certainly were such as I should
never have collected for myself. The rest was
merely the amusement of a leisure hour."

Well, I hope the book may do good in opening
people's eyes to the unutterable iniquity
which is rampant in their very midst. There is
only one thing I could wish altered about it."

What is that ? "

I should have been glad if you had seen fit
to cast some of your remarks in a more serious
form. These great social questions are too

momentous to be properly treated from an
ironical point of view. To make them a peg for
satire induces many people to think you less in
earnest than you perhaps really are."

Perhaps ! " echoed Went worth, getting up and
going to the fire again. "I assure you I amin
deadly earnest. Your definition of 'seriousness
' may not altogether tally with mine, but I
can tell you that I look upon life as a desperately
serious business altogether. I don't know why
it pleases you to regard me as a kind of human
butterfly. You know something of the world,
Philip : has your experience taught you that
the man who mocks most persistently at his
neighbours' oddities and absurdities invariably
carries the lightest heart under his motley
coat ? "

I find him very liable to be supposed to do
so," Irvine answered coldly. " But if you find
these questions really interest you, why not
inquire into them further ? "

I have so much time for inquiry ! "

You told me some months ago that you
thought of giving up work as a practising barrister
before long. If you were free from professional
trammels, jou might well turn your
attention to those problems we have been speaking

of. You might even help forward their
solution in Parliament."

Ask my wife what she thinks of your suggestion,"
Went worth retorted bitterly. " She has
given me her opinion in unmistakable terms
already. No, my profession is not likely to be
quit of me so long as I can make anything
by it."

He spoke in so decisive a manner, and the
subject was so evidently a painful one, that
Irvine accepted his reply as closing the discussion,
and did not attempt to continue it.
After a few minutes' indifferent conversation on
other topics, he made a movement to leave the
dining-room. '' Had we not better join Alice ? "
he asked suggestively.

Wait a moment," said Wentworth, jerking
out his words with manifest effort. "There is
something I wish to say to you first."

Irvine turned and faced his brother, resting
his right hand on the back of the chair which
Alice had lately occupied. Wentworth, with one
arm on the mantelpiece and his cheek leaning
on his hand, had his face completely shielded
from the glow of the fire  and the attitude
possessed the additional advantage of partially
shading his features from the steadfast gaze of

his companion. "You said just now that you
were going next week to stay with some people
called Ferrars ? " he began.

Irvine assented. " Do you know them ? " he
asked. The faint shade of uneasiness observable
previously in his look had now extended itself
to his manner.

I am not acquainted with Mr. Ferrars,"
Wentworth answered in his chest tone, without
altering his position. " And I cannot be said to
know the family, strictly speaking. What I
know of them is through . a relative." He
paused, as if to take breath. Irvine remained
stiffly attentive, but did not assist him by
putting any question.

However," Wentworth went on determinedly,
as if he were bent on speaking at all costs,
"you are going to stays with these people, it
appears. I should esteem it a favour if during
your visit you would be silent on the subject of
your relationship to me."

Irvine drew up his long throat, looking profoundly
startled and not a little displeased.
"This is a very singular request, Paul," he said.
May I inquire your motive in making it ? "

A good and sufficient motive, or I should not
have troubled you on such a matter; but one

which I do not feel inclined to discuss with anyone.
I must beg you to excuse my mentioning
it, therefore,"

This further secrecy only adds to the strangeness
of the demand," replied Irvine, rather nettled
by his brother's haughty manner. "Of course I
can advance no adequate reason for refusing to
accede to your wish, as I cannot possibly guess
what prompted it. At the same time, I must
say I should have felt better satisfied if you had
seen fit to give me some kind of explanation on
the subject."

Wentworth suddenly raised his head, and
turned his dark eyes blazing with wrath upon
his brother. " Oblige me by going without an
explanation for once, will you not ? " he said ina
voice low with suppressed passion. " Between
brothers, the favour is small, I think ! "

The favour is already granted," Irvine
answered, with an emphasis on the leading word
which showed that he at least considered it no
slight one, "and I have of course no wish to
intrude myself on your confidence. Mere silence
respecting a fact unimportant in itself to the
family of complete strangers whose acquaintance I
am about to make, and of which it was improbable
I should have apprised them in any case,

cannot involve me in any course of action of
which as a Christian man I should, be bound to
disapprove. I am therefore glad that it is in my
power to do what you ask. Let us consider that
settled. And now, shall we go upstairs ? "

Upstairs Alice awaited them, all smiles. She
had since dinner added some finishing touches
to her costume, and the compliments of her maid
and her looking-glass  from both of which she
learnt that she was in specially charming looks
that evening  had quite restored her to good
humour. She addressed her husband with
marked graciousness as he entered.

I suppose you will want to be off at once,"
she said, " so I had better ring for tea directly."
She put her pretty hand on the bell close by,
and then turned to her brother-in-law. "By
the way, Philip, I have not yet apologized for
asking you to dinner at such a barbarously early
hour. But I was obliged to do so out of respect
for Paul's eno-aoement."

Have you an appointment this evening,
then ? " inquired Irvine of his brother.

"An appointment at the Athenaeum, that's
all," returned Wentworth lightly. "Don't you
know that to-night is the premiere of ' Rome)
and Juliet ' ? Oh, I beg your pardon ! I forgot

you disapproved on principle of the theatre.
The drama is not among the recreations you
recommend for the mental and moral elevation
of the masses, is it ? "

"No," Irvine answered, a little sternly. "I
doubt the beneficial effects of play-going on any
mind ; and in the majority of cases it proves a
great snare."

Oh, a snare ! " Wentworth rejoined mockingly.
"Everything pleasant and beautiful in
the world is a snare, according to the enthusiasts
of your school ; you have robbed us of most of
the things which make life worth living already.
One cannot always be looking out for pitfalls.
Well, I must not linger, even for tea, or I shall
lose the best part of what I am afraid you
consider my unhallowed amusement. Goodnight,
Philip. If you can stay a little longer,
I have no doubt Alice will be duly grateful.
I am sorry to say that I believe she too intends
to trust herself amono snares to-nioht, but her
particular form of gin will not be in working
order for the next couple of hours. Good night."

As the door closed behind Wentworth, Alice
sank back in her seat with a little affected lauofh.
Among the things which Paul has not succeeded
in improving by his trip on the Continent, I fear

we must reckon his manners," she said. " He
had quite forgotten to put the button on his foil
to-night ; at dinner he was positively dangerous.
Am I to apologize for him, Philip ? "

To me ? for my brother ? " Irvine asked, with
such an innocent gravity of demeanour that Alice
was hardly conscious of the lurking satire his
words contained. "Certainly not; it would be
quite an unnecessary waste of time."

Alice accepted the hint. She was quite grateful
to Irvine for giving it her in time  she knew
she had barely escaped yielding to the temptation
of entering on a critical discussion of her
husband's character with her husband's brother.
That would have been inexcusable folly indeed.
* What an escape ! " she ejaculated mentally,
daintily helping herself to cream and sugar meanwhile
(the footman having at length arrived
with the tardy tea-tray) ; " I might as well have
put myself into the hands of the Grand Inquisitor,
as have given our good Philip such a
chance of trying his moral probe upon me !
There is no saying what I might not have
brought down on my devoted head by such
rashness."

STELLA.

Give me Michael with his sword
Rather than such angels, Lord ! "

E. B. Browning.

Philip Irvine had not the smallest intention
of spending the whole evening with his sister-in-law.
Her society was thoroughly uncongenial
to him; and as he was hopeless of
bringing any spiritual influence to bear upon
her, he did not feel constrained to endure
this uncongeniality longer than actual courtesy
demanded. After half an hour, therefore  half
an hour which to Irvine appeared to have been
wasted in elaborate talk about nothing  he rose
to take his leave.

Come and see us as soon as you get back to
town, won't you ? " Alice said cordially. She
would gladly have kept the young man a little
longer, for it still wanted an hour of the time

when she could set out for the first of the two
parties at which she meant to be present that
evening.

'ras soon as I can, I certainly will. I shall
hope to find Paul looking more himself, for I feel
a little concerned about him. I agree with you
that he works too hard."

He burns the candle at both ends," replied
Mrs. Went worth. " How should he look otherwise
than tired, with the life he leads ? Of
course a great practice like his is fagging in
itself  still, a man with such an iron constitution
as Paul's might well do even his allowance
of work with impunity. But when he persists
in adding to this literary work in all his odd
moments, and perpetual dining out, with a series
of evening parties to follow, and habitually
sleeps only about two hours out of the twenty-four,
what can you expect ? How he holds on
through it as he does is a mystery to me ! "

I should think he must be tired of it all in
every sense of the word," Philip Irvine observed
severely.

Alice gave her little answering shrug and
laughed her silvery artificial laugh. " Oh ! in
your sense, he is not the least tired, I can assure
you ! No one, I should say, ever suffered less

from world weariness ; on the contrary, I fancy
that as a rule he enjoys himself madly. He has
all the excitability of a Greek or an Italian
joined to the energy of an English boy of fifteen,
and if his energy did not expend itself in one
direction, it would in another  it must have
some outlet. To give you an example. Tonight
very probably he will come home about
the witching hour of three ; and ten to one but
he will get up an hour earlier than usual tomorrow
morning because he has promised to
give Stella a drawing-lesson or play hide-and-seek
with Mabel ! "

The judicial frown on Irvine's young brow
relaxed a little at Alice's last words. He had
always regarded Paul's devotion to his children
as the most hopeful point about him. "It is
curious," he said only half aloud, as if reflecting
audibly.

"Don't you remember," Mrs. Wentworth continued,
playing with the tassels of her fan 
she was drifting into danger again and knew it,
but this time the temptation had proved irresistible
 " that French savant who dined herewith
you last June ? I forget his name, but you
know whom I mean : he was a celebrated biologist.
Well, later on in the same evening I met him

again at the American Minister's. I was sitting
where I could have touched him, but, like many
of these scientific men, he is very short-sighted
and didn't recognize me, or he would probably"
have spoken in a lower key, for he was discussing
Paul freely with the French ambassador.
On the whole his strain was highly complimentary;
but what struck me was his reply after
hearing from the ambassador some of the facts
of Paul's career. ' del, quel hoiiiine ! ' he said.
Mais c'est une enigma ! c'est une enigma ! '
And I partly agreed with him."

"It is very frank of you to say as much,"
Irvine answered with tranquil irony. *' Sometimes
it is possible by diligent investigation to
find out le mot de Venice in a riddle of this
kind. It might even be well to try. Well,
I shall hope to look in upon you in about three
weeks' time. Good night."

They shook hands, and Irvine opened the
door to depart. As he did so, there was a
sound of rustling and whispering on an upper
landing, followed by a scuffle of children's feet,
which halted suddenly halfway down the stairs ;
and then a clear treble voice demanded over the
balusters : " Mother, where's father ? "

Mrs. Wentworth advanced into the doorway.

VOL. II. 27

"Estelle," she said rather sharply, "have you
forgotten what I told you about calling over the
stairs ? Come down both of you, as you are
there, and speak to your uncle Philip."

The young ladies performed the rest of their
downward journey in more sober fashion; but
with a good grace, for they were fond of Irvine,
who had the gift of attracting children. Nevertheless,
as soon as the actual greetings were over,
Estelle returned to her original charge of
Mother, where's father ? "

He has gone out," Alice returned laconically.

And not coming back ? " in a voice of profound
dismay.

"Not before your bedtime, if that is what
you mean. It is very late for you to be up
now."

How long has he been gone ? " Estelle
demanded eagerly.

My dear child, how can I possibly tell you ?
Three quarters of an hour, perhaps."

I told you I heard the hall door shut,
Mab ! " exclaimed Estelle, who was on the
verge of angry tears. " Oh, how unkind of
him ! He prohibited to come upstairs before he
went, and now he hasn't even said good night ! "

Irvine was sorry for the child's evident disappointment.

" I kept your father talking, and
he had to rush off in a great hurry at the last,
Estelle, " he said soothingly. " I dare say that
was the reason he forgot his promise."

Estelle's dark eyes  perfect replicas of her
father's, which contrasted strangely enough with
her bright hair and fair skin  gave an ominous
flash that had all Paul's fiery spirit in it. " He
had no business to forget," she murmured
vengefully.

Oh, Stella ! " cried Mabel in a deprecating
tone. Mabel's eyes were blue, and she was
altogether a more timid and conventional creature
than her sister, who had inherited a good deal
from Went worth besides his eyes.

He never did such a thing in all his life
before," continued the unabashed Estelle hotly.
'' Never, never ! "

There lies the wonder, I should say," her
mother responded with a sarcastic laugh. " Well,
my dear, you need not excite yourself so much
about the matter. Bid your uncle good night,
for it is high time you were in bed. I wonder
what Miss Lawson has been thinking about tolet
you stay up so long ? "

Miss Lawson's gone to bed herself with a
headache. Good night, Uncle Philip ; good night,

mother," as Alice bent to bestow a somewhat
cold and perfunctory kiss. " You won't see
father again to-night, will you, uncle ? " Estelle
had swung round on one foot as she reached the
first landing, and was clearly revolving mentally
a message of reproach.

"No, not to-night."

Oh ! "  with a deep sigh of regret. " Well,
it can't be helped, I suppose." She nodded and
vanished.

You see Iioav he spoils them ! " Alice said with
a touch of indignation. " Estelle is a perfect
little fury if anything displeases her, and Mabel
is her echo and shadow ; yet, according to Paul,
they can neither of them do wrong. I have ceased
attempting to manage Estelle long ago; and now
Paul and the governess may fight matters out
between themselves as well as they can. They
are sworn adversaries, as it is. Are you going,
Philip ? Well, good-bye, once more."

It must be reluctantly admitted that the
rebellious damsels under discussion were already
justifying the maternal censure by disobeying the
maternal injunctions. Instead of going at once
to bed, they had betaken themselves to the
empty schoolroom, where the absence of the
lamp and the governess and the presence of a

comfortable hearth rug and a blazing fire promised
facilities for warmth and chatter, and they were
sitting in a curiously tangled heap on the aforesaid
rug, both giving vent to their regrets in loud
lamentations  to which Estelle added some
forcible strictures on her father's unprecedented,
reprehensible, and heartless conduct. At length
having pretty well exhausted this subject, and
the friendly darkness inviting to confidence 
she looked round her cautiously, and then
observed in a mysterious manner, " Do you
know, Mabel "

Well ? " said Mabel impatiently, judging that
some important communication was at hand.

'' It's only something I think. I don't believe
mother cares about father one little bit ! There '."

Oh, Stella, what a dreadful thing to say 1 "

"It's true," Stella responded emphatically.
I am quite sure of it."

What makes you think so ? "

I don't know exactly. I used to think so a
great while ago, and now I'm certain of it. I
can see it somehow."

Well, you know," said Mabel in a hesitating
fashion, " sometimes I've been afraid that mother
wasn't very fond of tts. Do you think she doesn't
care for us at all either ? "

"No-0," replied Estelle slowly, "I think she
does care for us just a little. Not very much,
though' she added in a melancholy tone. " But
I don't believe she likes father, even. It's so
queer ! "

Why is it queer ? "

Why, because he's her husband, and then he's
so awfully nice  did you ever see any one half
so nice ? I always thought that when I grew
up, I should like to marry somebody exactly like
him ! "

You'd want him to be younger, though."
"A little, perhaps ; but I don't call father old.
And I never saw any one to come near him for
sweetness and kindness and cleverness. He's
tremendously clever, you know  and then he's
ever so handsome ! I think he's simply perfect,"
Stella concluded with a burst of enthusiastic
admiration.

Father's a darling." Mabel gave her assent
with equal warmth of tone, but greater sobriety
of epithet.

''He wasn't at all a darlings to-nigh t, though,"
cried Stella, flying off" again to her old grievance.
It was horrid of him to go out and forget
all about us like that. I wish I could punish
him ! " she said, shaking her right hand menacingly

above her head; "but anyhow, I've
thought of something we might do. It would
be splendid fun ! "

What's that ? "

Why, we might keep awake till he comes in
I'll get up and open our door as soon as Dickinson
goes away, so that we shall hear him  and
then just put on our things and run down. If
he says anything, I shall say, ' Sir, you did not
take any leave of us; so this midnight raid is
in consequence of your own unfeeling conduct.'
Oh, what fun it will be to see his face ! "

"But, Stella"  Mabel generally met Stella's
daring schemes with a feeble and ineffectual
but "  " I don't see how we can. Elise will be
sitting up for mother, and you know she always
leaves the door wide open so as to hear the
carriage come. She'd go and knock Miss Lawson
up directly."

"Elise will be sound asleep hours before
father comes in," said Estelle confidently. " She
always falls asleep before she has waited an hour.
The great thing is  can you keep awake ? "

I don't know," replied Mabel doubtfully. " I
am afraid I couldn't," she confessed with desperate
honesty; "but you might shake me, you
know ! "

However, when the shaking process was called
into operation, it proved a total failure. The
first time she experienced it, Mabel did indeed
jump up in a fright, exclaiming, " Has he come ? "

"No, no; not yet," Estelle answered. "But
you mustn't go to sleep again, or I shan't be
able to wake you when he does come, perhaps."

"I'll try not," said Mabel heroically. "But
oh, Stella, don't you think we'd better wait till
tomorrow morning ? "

Wait till tomorrow morning ! " echoed Stella
with profound scorn. " And give it all up ? I
should just think not ! "

Well, I'll try," Mabel repeated. But drowsiness
proved too much for her determination, and
in three minutes she was again slumbering
heavily. Estelle made one more attempt to
rouse her, but this time without the faintest
success.

Then I shall go down by myself, that's all,"
she said aloud, turning on her pillow with an
angry flounce, and contemptuously apostrophizing
her sleeping sister : " you are no better
than a baby ! "

*****
Mrs. Wentworth had for once gone astray in
her calculation of probabilities. The " witching

hour of three" was still a long way off when
her husband opened the outer door softly with
his latchkey, and entered the wide and empty
but still brilliantly lighted hall from which she
herself had gone out barely an hour before. He
had, in fact, come straight home from the theatre.
Perhaps it was the result of the excitement
attendant on his " unhallowed amusement," but
it is certain that both in bearing and expression
Wentworth was a perfectly different man to
what he had been four hours earlier. He came
in erect and alerfc as ever, with his head held
high, and with a subdued sparkle in his eyes
which boded no special good to something or
some one. There was suppressed excitement even
in his manner of throwing off his light overcoat
and giving two or three brief orders to the sleepy
servant who came forward to receive it ; and his
very step on the marble flags of the hall sounded
lighter and more ringing than usual. He walked
rapidly into his study, thrust to the door, and
having vehemently poked the low fire together,
heaped on more fuel, and turned up his reading-lamp
 all with a kind of strange nervous haste
he threw himself into the heavy oak chair
which stood before his library table, and began
diving into an envelope-case in search of writing

materials. There was a dark flush on his cheek
as he stooped to examine the lock of the case,
which in his desperate hurry he had been very
near hampering.

"past hope, past cure, past help'" he muttered
to himself, quoting half aloud the passionate
words which, uttered by a voice of liquid
sweetness, had brought swift tears to many eyes
that very night. " Just so it is, with both of
us ! What is the use of this pretence of endurance
? I have no mind to endure any longer.
Why should I persist in keeping up this
ghastly silence which is suffocating me, weighing
upon every energy like lead  and probably
killing her by inches ? My darling ! she thought
beautiful little heroic spirit that she is !  that
she could live without word or sign, content in
the knowledge that she was doing her duty, as
she conceives of duty. I was almost glamoured
into thinking it possible too. But it is not
possible ; and by this time she will have found
that out for herself"

Certainly play-going had not produced a happy
or healthy effect on Wentworth's mind that
night, though perhaps it would hardly be fair
to charge his reckless mood entirely upon the
performance of " Romeo and Juliet " that he had

witnessed. There was another disturbing element
at work : the knowledge that his brother was
about to become a guest in Muriel Ferrars' home,
and that while he himself remained debarred
from all intercourse with her, Philip was to
spend every hour of the next few days in her
intimate society. The more he dwelt upon and
realized it, the more intolerable did such an idea
appear to him. Though he would hardly have
confessed as much to himself, it was this consideration
which above all else had determined
him to cast honour and scruple to the winds,
and to write the letter he had solemnly engaged
never to write. He was firmly assured that
Muriel's love for himself was not of the order
that dies easily, and he was perfectly well
persuaded that his own powers of fascination
were to his half-brother's as sunlight unto
moonlight ; therefore he had only to put out his
hand to make sure of keeping fast the heart he
had already won. And Went worth was not the
man to deny himself this decisive touch, and
withdraw his influence  in order to leave the
field open for Philip, should he care to contest
it. Compassion, resolution, consideration of
possible consequences, respect even for his own
plighted word were alike swept away by the

incoming tide of a passion which, even when it
is prospective only, is veritably cruel as the
grave.

He began to write ; and, half beside himself ashe
was for the moment, he yet retained enough
of his characteristic shrewdness and practical
sense to remember that it was necessary not to
startle Muriel, or shock her moral sense too
rudely. There were many things which he
might have ventured to say to her, could he
have added the witchery of voice and glance
to his words, which he dared not set down in
black and white on a sheet of paper.

It is needless to transcribe what Wentworth
wrote. Since no eye but his own ever beheld
that letter, its contents are best left to moulder
in obscurity. It was a long letter, apparently
diffuse, yet in reality full of point and meaning ;
and throughout it there prevailed a tone of
friendly affection veiling an undertone of profounder
and less-disciplined feeling. Only towards
the close, when entreating the girl to
answer what he had written, did he put aside
for a moment the mask of friendship, and that
to resume it again as he signed his name. " Ever
your friend, Paul Wentivoiih''  so the letter
ended.

He had written rapidly, rarely pausing to weigh
his sentences, and driving himself no time for reflection
till the last word was reached. Then he
took the closely written sheets and read them
deliberately through, and as he read, many and
varied Avere the changeful expressions that flitted
across his face ; until at last all concentrated in a
smile of triumph  apparent rather in the eyes
than upon the lips  which Philip Irvine would
have been perfectly justified in describing as
"unhallowed." With this gleam of triumph
still liohtinoj his features, Wentworth folded
his letter and placed it in an envelope : then he
bent to direct it. "Miss Fevravs' he wrote 
and stopped suddenly.

What had arrested him ? A mere memory, a
shadowy recollection, the echo of a past appeal.
Something recalled to him vividly the remembrance
of Muriel as he had seen her last,
with her face raised and her hands wrung together
in pathetic, childlike entreaty : " Have a
little pity ! Don't make it so hard for me to do
right ! " He pushed the letter from him, and got
up. For the first time that night he realized
fully what he was doing, and what manner of
man he was for doing it.

He realized this at last, but his determination

was not necessarily altered in consequence. He
had so often outraged and defied his better
instincts, and so often yielded to his baser ones,
that the nobler part of him had grown weak and
nerveless, unfit to contend with the headstrong
impulses which should have been its slaves.
Still he hesitated; there was something gained
already. He unfolded his letter, and read it
aofain; and when he reached the end, he frowned.
Her friend' he said between his teeth. " My
God, what a friend 1 "

But he did not tear up the letter. He put it
carefully into a drawer of his writing-table, to
be reconsidered on the morrow; then he dropped
into an armchair by the fireplace and lay back
staring into the glowing embers. So absorbed
was he in his unquiet meditations that a sound
of light hurrying footsteps in the hall, followed
by the cautious turning of the study door-handle,
passed by him altogether unheeded.

The door opened swiftly and noiselessly. Who
was this ? An angel descended to warn or
threaten ? No, no angel ; only his little daughter
Estelle in her long white dressing-gown, with
her chestnut hair flying loose over her shoulders,
and her dark eyes bright with love and
merriment.

Stella, my darling ! " exclaimed Wentworth,
springing to his feet. " What's the matter ?
Are you ill, dear ? "

"Never was better in my life' protested Stella
mischievously. " I came down to bid you goodnight."


To bid me good night ? " Wentworth replied
in amazement. " And it is past one in the morning
now"  glancing at the clock. "What on
earth made you do this, child ? "

What on earth made you walk off without
coming upstairs as you promised ? " demanded
Miss Estelle. " What do you think you deserve
for that ? "

My darling," said Wentworth penitently,
taking her in his arms, "I know it was shameful
of me to forget. But I was hurried and  and
annoyed. Now, Stella, did I ever forget before ? "

No, you never did," Stella admitted, leaning
her head lovingly on his shoulder. "Still, it
was very unkind of you to forget to-day. Mab
and I sat in the dark waiting and waiting, and
I told her I heard the hall door shut and she
wouldn't believe me  and then when mother
and Uncle Philip came out of the drawing-room,
we found you had been gone ever so long ! "

Wentworth stooped and kissed her. " I cannot

tell you how sorry I am ! " he said. " If
there were anything I could do to make up to
both of you "

"You can't make up for what is over," said
Stella with unconscious philosophy. " Did you
recollect about it after you were gone ? "

Wentworth flushed a little. He had remembered
nothing of the children that evening until
the moment of Stella's sudden appearance. " No,
I'm afraid I did not," he answered guiltily. " You
see, I was attending to other things."

"Then it is just as I thought," said Stella. She
spoke mournfully, and made at the same time a
movement to withdraw herself from her father's
arms.

What do you think, dear ? " he inquired,
(piety holding her fast. " And what are these,
Stella ? Tears ? Wh}, darling, you are not surely
going to make a trouble out of my stupid piece
of forgetfulness ? "

"It isn't  altogether that," Stella answered,
choking down a lump in her throat.

What is it, then ? " asked Wentworth, drawing
her close to his breast and smoothing down
the tangled chestnut locks.

It is only," said Stella, clinging to him again,
and bravely repressing the tears which were in

some measure the outcome of over-fatigue and
long watching, " only that I was afraid  since
you went away  that you weren't quite so fond
of us as you used to be."

My little star, what an absurd notion ! Put
it out of your head, dear, once and for all. Has
any one said anything to give you such an idea ?
Because if so "

"No  oh no!" Stella interrupted. "It was all
my own fancy. I haven't even told Mab."

It was indeed only your own fancy, you
silly child. I shall not tell you that I love you
better than before, because that is not possible 
but you may rest assured that it is equally impossible
for me to love you less. Are you
satisfied ? Then that's all right. But how cold
you are, little one ! Come to the fire and get
warmed."

What a splendid fire you've got ! " sighed
Stella in ineffable content, crouching over the
blaze. " And really I am awfully cold."

Wentworth took a fur-lined travelling: rue: that
was lying on a neighbouring sofa and wrapped his
little daughter up in it. "There! that's better!"
he said. " No wonder you are cold, if you have
been sitting up all these hours waiting for me."

"I haven't been up all the while. Dlckinsju

vor,. II. 28

would have found me out, and there would have
been no end of a row ! I stayed in bed listening;
till I heard you come in."

And Mabel  was she awake too ? "

"She tried to keep awake at first, but she
couldn't," answered Stella scornfully. "Mab is
a dreadful baby about going to sleep."

"Well, perhaps she was the more sensible of
the two on this occasion," said Wentworth, but
the smile and caress he bestowed on Stella
nullified any implied reproof in his words.
Didn't you find it hard to keep awake yourself?"


No, indeed ! When I had once thought of it,
I couldn't have gone to sleep . without seeing
you."

Wentworth smiled again. " Why didn't you
come down sooner, by the way ? " he asked. " I
have been in more than an hour  at least, I
believe so." Something smote him inwardly ashe
recollected how the hour had been employed.

It was that horrid Elise. She was sitting up
for mother, you know, with a novel to read, and I
suppose it was a very exciting one, for she didn't
fall asleep directly, as she generally does, and I
dared not pass the door till she dropped oft'
because she has a sort of spite against us children,

and she would have rushed in to Miss Lawson ina
moment. That's what made me so cold."

Poor little star 1 " said Wentworth tenderly.
What would Miss Lawson say if she could see
you now, I wonder ? " He had relapsed into his
fireside chair again, and Stella had perched herself
on an arm of it, where she sat luxuriously
warming her feet, with one arm about her father's
neck to steady herself

'' What indeed ? " she cried, with a ripple of
laughter. '' Or mother  or Dickinson ? You're
a stern father, and know how to keep your family
in excellent order, don't you ? "

No, I'm afraid I don't know much about it,
or my family would not venture to take such
liberties."

Ah, well ! you may talk," said Stella, " but
you know you were very glad to see me all the

same

"That may be," returned Wentworth rather
sadly. " I dare say I was foolish ; I often am."
And Stella's quick ear caught the sound of a
stifled sigh.

She turned swiftly round upon him. " Fathoms
you tired ? "

"A little, dear."

You often look tired now ; you have always

been tired ever since you went abroad. That
holiday didn't do you one scrap of good."
 '' Perhaps not," Wentworth admitted.

I'm sure it didn't. You haven't been a bit
like yourself ever since, and I can see two lines
here "  drawing her finger across his forehead 
which I never saw before."

That's advancing age," replied Wentworth,
with an effort at gaiety of manner. " We must
all grow old some time or other, Stella mia.
You will be a woman in no time yourself"

Stella shook her head. " That's a long way
off. I'm only twelve, and it's an immense while
to wait."

Don't be too anxious to grow up," said Wentworth
earnestly. " I prefer you as you are."

Well, that's a consolation, at any rate," said
the child. " But I should love to grow up, all the
same. Now, if I had been grown up, you would
have let me go to Switzerland with you, and I
should have liked that so ! Oh, father "  laying
her soft cheek caressingly against his  "I do wish
you would have taken me ! "

I wish to Heaven I had ! " Wentworth
answered with sudden vehemence.

Stella looked at him in momentary astonishment,
and then  as if vaguely conscious that his

words were the outcome of some feeling which
it was beyond her power to fathom  she replied
simply, " Well, it's over now, so there's no use
my wishing; only you must really take me next
time," and refrained from any further remark.
But in instinctive sympathy she slipped one
hand into her father's, and gently stroked his
hair with the other.

"Well, Miss Impertinence," Went worth said at
length, rousing himself from the abstraction into
which he had sunk after his unguarded exclamation,
" what are you about now ? Searching for
grey hairs to match those newly discovered
wrinkles ? "

"I never used such an odious word," exclaimed
Stella, with an indignant embrace. " Wrinkles,
indeed ! As if you were an old bent man like Sir
George Carmichael ! I said lines."

"Lines, then, if you like that better. How
about the grizzled locks, eh ? "

"There isn't one," Stella returned triumphantly.
'' Not a single white thread ! And your hair's
just as curly as possible, and ever so thick
besides."

That is a comfort, at any rate," rejoined
Wentworth lightly, " because you are so candid
that I feel sure you would tell me if the white

threads were there. See what it is to have a
really frank daughter to point out one's growing
infirmities ! And now, darling, if you are tolerably
warm, I must send you away, or we shall
both get into a terrible scrape with the authorities."


Stella pouted a little, and rose unwillingly
from her perch. "You might have let me stay
a little longer," she murmured. " I don't think
I'd go now, if I wasn't so dreadfully sleepy. But
you're tired too, so I won't tease you any more.
Good night, father darling."

-' Good night, my Stella. Remember," he added,
following her to the door, and shaking his head
warningly at her as she paused to wave to him
from the stairs, "your midnight excursion is
pardoned this once, but 'it must not occur
againe'"

Mustn't it ? " retorted Stella saucily. " Then
look to your own ways and manners, sir ! Every
time you behave as you have behaved to-day, I
shall appear to take vengeance upon you; and
next time I won't let you off so easily ! Goodnight."


Wentworth watched the small flying figure
until it disappeared from view ; then he turned
back into the stud', and double-locked the door

behind him. How he spent the next two hours
it is impossible to say; but among the ashes
which lay cold the next morning in the study
fireplace was a heap of charred paper  the fragments
of his letter to Muriel Ferrars.

'' THE SILENCE THAT CAME NEXT."

"What do we give to onr beloved ?
A little faith, all unimproved . . .
And bitter memories, to make
The whole earth blasted for our sake"'

E. B. Browning.

Alderton Common was in all the glory of its
July dress again. The blue-green of its innumerable
juniper bushes and the golden-brown
of its waving bracken contrasted as harmoniously
as they had done a year before ; its tall firs
stood up solemnly and majestically as ever
against a sky blue as indigo, flecked here and
there with little transparent clouds which only
threw into more striking relief the hue of the
great crystalline vault in which they floated ;
the sunbeams danced just as merrily among the
leaves of the great elms before the Manor House ;
and, as in former days, Muriel Ferrars sat in the
shade of the pines, reading.

Or rather, seeming to read ; mechanically,
almost unconsciously, retracing with her eyes the
words of a single paragraph in the newspaper
that lay upon her knee : 

'rit is announced that the newly constituted
office of Counsel for the Groin in International
Causes is to he filled immediately hy
the appointment of Mr. Wentworth, Q.C., hose
eminent services to this country, as legal representative
of Great Britain at the recent Conference
on International Laid, have lately been
so universally and cordially acknowledged''
Simple words, easily mastered ; easy of comprehension,
too, the fact which they conveyed.
Yet Muriel read and re-read them repeatedly,
dwelling with reluctant fascination on every
syllable.

For Wentworth had been perfectly correct
in his confident assumption at their parting
interview. Muriel had not forgotten ; and she
was beginning' to doubt whether she should ever
be able to forget.

Nevertheless, she had not yielded tamely and
unresisting to the memories which held her
an unwilling captive, and which, strangle and
crush them as she would, obstinately refused to
die the death. None save herself knew how

many hours of lonely and desperate wrestling
with her own heart, how many secret tears and
prayers and vehement self-reproaches, the past
nine months had witnessed. But so far her
labour seemed to have been in vain. Although
she reminded herself with shuddering fear a
dozen times a day that the very thought of the
man who had stolen her love was a sin ; although
she endeavoured honestly to stifle every lingering
recollection of the words he had said, and to
silence utterly the intense longing for one
moment's sight of his face, one single sound of
his voice, which came upon her at times like a
paroxysm of actual pain ;  although she had done
all this for nearly a year past, she was scarcely
nearer peace or freedom than on the day when
Paul Wentworth bade her farewell among the
Swiss mountains.

She had not forgotten ; but she knew that
possibly  probably indeed, considering the kind
of man he was knoAvn to be, and even confessed
himself to be  she had by this time passed from
Wentworth's recollection as completely as if
she had never existed. She had often tried to
rouse her pride by means of this recollection,
and sometimes succeeded in the attempt for a
while ; but in the end a more potent feeling

always proved too strong for pride. No ; Muriel
had not forgotten, could not forget.

The lapse of time had, of course, dulled to
a certain extent the poignancy of her mental
suffering. The sharp agony of a wound new
made had given place to the ceaseless aching
of that which is perpetual and refuses to heal ;
and the latter pain, if easier to bear without outcry
or complaint, is also the more hopeless. At
first Muriel's young nature, utterly unused to
suffering, writhed rebelliously under the torturing
misery of her mortal hurt ; she could have cried
out against the world and all in it, almost
against Providence itself, for the fate that had
been meted out to her, for the unbearable
wretchedness of her lot. Why had this " so
bitter cup been brimmed for her " ? During the
first few weeks that followed her parting with
Wentworth, any one  certainly any woman  less
purblind in such matters than Mrs. Erskine, must
have seen, despite all Muriel's determined efforts
to conceal what she felt, that the springs of the
girl's nature were out of gear, and that she who
had formerly enjoyed life so freely and frankly
now looked upon it and all its manifestations
with an intolerant impatience bordering hard
upon disgust. But Mrs. Erskine could see

nothing, and whatever the Professor saw he
kept to himself. For some unexplained reason,
however, he prolonged his stay abroad long-beyond
the term he had originally fixed for it,
and he insisted on Muriel's remaining with him
and his wife. Therefore by the time that she
returned amid rain and fogs and fallen leaves
to the home she had left in the full glow of
summer, the primary shock of the catastrophe
that had overtaken her was over. Her grief
was fast becoming a settled and regular part of
her life, instead of a horrible surprise, as strange
as it was cruel ; her very conflict with herself
was growing into a daily and necessary part of
her existence  and this made it ail the easier to
take up the part she had set herself to play, and
to induce those about her to believe that the
former Muriel had come . back to them, when in
reality it was a sad and sorely wounded creature
having little in common with that bright fanciful
girl except her name.

Her friends were on the whole rather unobservant
people, and she succeeded passably well
in her pitiful enterprise. There were two persons,
however, whom she did not altogether manage
to deceive. One of these was her sister Lucy,
whose naturally sharp wits were quickened b}

strong affection, and who saw tlirouh Muriel's
affectation of high spirits and detected the false
ring in her animated narratives of travel and
adventure before the first evening was over.
Something was wrong, she perceived ; but what,
puzzled her. Girl-like, she immediately attributed
the mysterious change of which she was conscious
to a love affair ; but she was utterly baffled when
she tried to discover the lover's identity. After
questioning Muriel closely  and receiving ready
answers to her questions, Muriel seeming to
have nothing to conceal  it appeared to Lucy
that her sister had met no one who could
possibly have enacted the part of a lover at all,
since Muriel took good care to put Wentworth
outside the range of her calculations from the
very beginning.

The first time Lucy mentioned his name, she
said carelessly, " Oh yes ! and, by-the-by, I
believe I never wrote to you that he was not a
widower, as I incorrectly stated at first."

Worse and worse ! " said Lucy. " A widower
would have been better than nothing, though
you have an objection to widowers. Did you
see his wife ? "

No ; he said she was in Scotland," answered
Muriel calmly. " But we met some people in

Venice who knew her, and told us she was a
HOod deal admired in London. She cannot be
quite young, of course, for they have children
growing up  she was a Miss Care w, I believe."

You liked him, didn't you ? "

"Yes. He was very good-natured to me in
many ways, and he is exceedingly clever  a
man of really brilliant intellect. Uncle Alec
thinks him quite a paragon." And there the
subject had dropped.

So Lucy was sorely perplexed, and could not
tell what to think. Although she watched
Muriel with the acuteness of a lynx and the
wistfulness of a faithful dog for weeks, still no
solution of the mystery presented itself At
length, having one day surprised her sister
sitting in the dark with flushed cheeks and
suspiciously wet eyes, she demanded boldly to
know what was the matter. But she obtained
no satisfaction. For the first time in her life
Muriel gave way to a fit of unreasoning anger,
and requested sharply to be left in peace.
There was nothing the matter, she asseverated ;
she was perfectly well, and if she had an idea
which troubled her, surely she possessed a right
to her ideas like other people ? If Lucy wanted
her to be like herself, she must leave her to

forget in her own way  poor Muriel ! who had
just asserted that there was nothing really
amiss  and not insist on her talking about
things she wished never to think of again.
Lucy retired discomfited, but certainly not reassured,
with no option but to resume her task
of silent vigilance in much heaviness of spirit.

The other person who noticed the great
change that had passed over Muriel was Jack
Arlingham. He was not so keenly alive to it
as Lucy, but he was vaguely conscious of it,
and it made him desperately uncomfortable. It
was borne in upon him daily by the utter
indifference which Muriel displayed to his
comings and goings, to his attentions or to the
absence of such acts of homage on his part.
Before she went to Switzerland he had often
been aware that she was checking him and
keeping him at a distance ; but now she seemed
absolutely careless as to what he said or did,
and remained so cool and abstracted after his
most significant speeches that he frequently
doubted whether she could have heard him or
rightly understood his drift. This strange indifference
stung the young man's pride, and
fanned his lukewarm passion into a white heat
of flame. He tried to soften his princess by

tenderness, and when this attempt failed
signally, to pique her into jealousy by suddenly
withdrawing his homage and ostentatiously
offerings it at other shrines ; but all his stratagems
were alike unsuccessful -nothing appeared
to move Muriel. Wrapped in her own sorrowful
dream, Jack Arlingham had scarcely more thana
phantom existence for her. She still lived in
the moral shadow of remembrance; and it made
her surroundings so dark that all personalities,
save one, seemed like the airy figures of a passing
phantasmagoria, destitute of reality and
human interest. If she observed them at all, it
was to reflect contemptuously 

Look upon this picture and oil that,"

as she compared them with that wandering star,
the perilous brilliancy of whose baleful rays
had made poor farthing rush lights of all other
men to her dazzled eyes. So Jack, too, knew not
what to think ; but, being after his own peculiar
fashion very much in love, and of a naturally
phlegmatic and unexcitable temperament, he was
fain to bide his time and hope for better days.

Thus the winter had passed away. It was
always a quiet and dull season at Alderton, and
there had been little, while it lasted, to distract

Muriel from her brooding over the story of the
past summer ; but with longer days and brighter
sunshine Holmshire awoke into renewed social
as well as natural life, and it became incumbent
on her to go forth and take her part in the
picnics, lawn-tennis parties, afternoon dances,
and other mild merrymaking of the season.
To Lucy's surprise and satisfaction, she threw
herself as heartily into these innocent pastimes
as even that affectionate little maiden could
desire ; indeed, she seemed almost unduly engrossed
by them, and quite feverishly anxious
not to miss appearing at any gathering that
took place within twenty miles round. In
reality she was making a desperate attempt to
throw off the incubus that had weighed on her
so honos, and she knew that if she were to
succeed, it could only be at the cost of long and
sustained effort. Oftentimes, just when she was
ready to congratulate herself on having achieved
her undertaking, some passing trie would
ruffle the hidden depths of bitter recollection,
and the work was all to do over again.

It was thus with her on this July day. The
sight of Wentworth's name in the columns of
the Tones had carried her back to the past she
had been trying to forget, and the old pain

VOL. II. 29

seemed as fresh and keen as ever. Like every
sorely tried and tempted soul, Muriel had her
dark moments  moments when to walk uprightly
no longer seems the chief good, and the
limiting ordinances of life are felt to be cruelly
narrow and galling past endurance. This was
one of those moments. She was tempted to
regret her determined refusal to receive those
letters with which, something whispered, she
might have solaced her sick heart even now.
After all, what had she gained by such refusal ?
Had she forgotten Wentworth the sooner; and
could she answer for it that she had not driven
him into deeper and more reckless evil-doing ?
Better possibly had it been for both, had she
been strong enough and brave enough to rise
above what he had  perhaps rightly  called
mere conventional scruples.

But she was too clear-sighted to let herself belong
blinded by such sophistries. If she had
not conquered her love for Wentworth, she
had at least refrained from indulging it : this
much she had gained personally. And was
there much likelihood that she would have
roused Wentworth's nobler self by joining him
in a fresh course of wrong-doing ? She thrust
the insidious regret from her.

Still her burden remained enlightened. Never
had it felt more intolerably heavy. It seemed
to her that it would have been well could
she have died that day among the hills
when she had so narrowly missed dying  died
after she knew Wentworth loved her, and
before she knew anything more. Poor, passionate,
clinging heart ! it could not endure
even in imagination the thought of foregoing
that knowledge which was the source of all its
suffering. If by a wish Muriel could have
annihilated the actual past, and created a new
past without a Wentworth and a present unconscious
of his very existence, it is doubtful
whether she would have done it. Human
nature is prone to the self-contradictory and
the paradoxical, and it may be that she loved
her sorrow even while she wrestled with it.

On this particular day she was not wrestling
with it very earnestly. Even the bravest spirit
and the most inured to pain will falter and fail
sometimes, and Muriel was yet but a novice
in the school of endurance and self-discipline.
When  as now  she gave the rein to memory,
and remained deliberately passive while her
thoughts

Went slipping back upon the golden days
In which s\:e saw him first " 

.she knew well that she was by such self-indulgence
only preparing fresh suffering for
herself  so true is it that on the smallest deviation
from the path of absolute right the unfailing
avenger waits  yet she yielded for this
once to the temptation. She felt so forlorn
and hopeless that she snatched frantically at
the mere recollection of a time when the world
and everything in it wore such a different aspect
 different because in those days

He seemed so dear, so kind, so true "

he who had proved himself none of these
things in reality !

She was not left long to indulge in her
dangerous reverie, for in the midst of it Lucy
came flying over the turf, looking like a woodland
nymph among the dark pine stems. Her
eyes were brighter than usual, and there was a
flush of pleasurable excitement on her cheeks.

I have been searching for you everywhere,"
she cried, waving aloft a piece of thin pink paper
which looked like a telegram, 'rand you have
been mooning out here the whole afternoon, I
dare say."

I came out just after luncheon," answered
Muriel, instinctively foldings the Times with the

paragraph she had been dreaming over inwards,
although, there was really no reason for hiding it,
I suppose it is getting late."

Late ? It is past five o'clock 1 However, I
wanted to find you to tell you the news. This
telegram is from George : he will be here this
evening, and, what is more, Mr. Irvine is coming
vith him. He says, 'Expect me by the C.35
train. Irvine comes with me.' I am delighted,
aren't you, Muriel ? "

Muriel lifted her beautiful grey eyes. They
had no lack of expression now, but their chief
characteristic was a pathetic wistfulness, as of a
soul looking out on a world full of sorrow and
perplexity. " I shall be very glad to have George
back," she said in her soft weary voice, which
had marvellously little gladness in it ; " but who
is Mr. Irvine, that you should be so delighted at
the prospect of his advent ? "

Do you mean to say that you have forgotten
all about him ? Why, George talked of no one
else all last Christmas vacation ; and, besides,
don't you remember my telling you when you
came back from Italy that he was to have
stayed with us last autumn, and then at the last
moment an epidemic of smallpox broke out in
Bethnal Green, and he would not leave the poor

people at such a time ? You are dreadful about
forgetting things ; you used not to have such a
bad memory."

I remember now ; but I did not recollect the
name at first. He is the Fellow of St. Bride's
who gives up all his vacations to work in the
East End, is he not ? "

*' Of course he is. I should have thought you
would have been wild with excitement at the
prospect of seeing such a man  he is just the
kind of person to suit your high-flown ideas of
perfection. I don't profess to be a hero-worshipper
myself ; I think so-called heroes are much
like other men as a rule when you come to look
at them closely. But I can't help respecting
Mr. Irvine. He lives his heroism, while most
people take theirs out in talk."

It must be a very self-denying life," responded
Muriel. She had accorded a kind of superficial
attention to Lucy while pursuing inwardly the
train of thought that her sister had interrupted,
and as Lucy seemed to expect her to say something,
she spoke. But her manner betrayed her
want of interest in the subject.

I should think it was self-denying ! Giving up
every pleasure and comfort in life for such distasteful
thankless work  at his age, too; for

George told me he is only about seven and
twenty. I always thought you would fall in
love with him at first sight, Muriel ; but as you
are so very cool about him, I'm not sure I will
not think of him for myself Only he would
probably want me to go about the slums with
baskets and tracts, and I'm afraid I am hardly
suitable for the place."

Muriel did not answer. She was still absorbed
in the visions she had conjured up.

Don't you remember," pursued Lucy, warming
to her subject, which evidently inspired her with
secret enthusiasm, " what George told us of his
marvellous power over the rough gutter children :
how, when nobody else could do anything with
a child, Mr. Irvine could keep it orderly and
happy ; and how he quelled that riot among
the lads at the gin distillery, and then  when
the uproar was over, and he had persuaded the
ringleaders to give themselves up to the authorities
 how he went in and prayed with the boy
who was so badly injured, and tended hit just
like a woman ? Muriel ! you're not listening ! "

No, she was not listening; at least, not to
Lucy's innocent chatter. Her ears were full of
the echoes of a voice it were better for her never
to have heard  but Lucy's tart exclamation of

impatience put the whole fantasy of her imagination
finally to flight. She flushed to the roots
of her hair.

Indeed, I am very sorry' she said penitently
I was thinking of something else for the
minute. You were talking about Mr. Irvine,
weren't you ? Just tell me again what you said,
if you don't mind."

Lucy, who was sweet-tempered and easily
mollified, was not slow to comply with the
request; and Muriel was a carefully attentive
listener to her second-hand narratives of Philip
Irvine's achievements until such time as that
gentleman himself actually appeared on the
scene.

CHAPTER VII.

PHILIP IRVINE BECOMES UNEASY.

There is no love
Like that wherewith we love who works us ill
Aud wounds us to the quick."

Christina M. Rossetti.

Muriel's earliest impression of lier brother's
friend and tutor was not a particularly favourable
one, and when the first evening of his stay
came to an end, she found little to say in his
praise. He struck her as hard, cold, and self-sufficient
; narrow and dogmatic in his views and
opinions, and far too dictatorial in his manner
of giving them to the world. The sharp fashion
in which he had set Lucy right once or twice
during' dinner had not commended itself to her
sister's ideas of courtesy. Then he apjDcared to
touch life at so few points that it was difficult to
come into mental contact with him ; and there
was something repellent in his lack of sympathy

for all that forms the staple interest of ordinary-lives.
No, Muriel professed small enthusiasm
for George's hero and chief

Lucy, on the other hand  possibly out of sheer
opposition  protested that she liked him excessively.
He evidently knew his own mind, and
had the courage of his opinions  two excellent
qualities, to begin with. She did not object to
his brusque manner ; and as to the monotony of
expression which Muriel considered to detract so
greatly from his otherwise undoubted good looks,
she rather admired it. After this promising
beginning, Muriel began to hope that the task of
entertaining Mr. Irvine would be mainly taken
off her hands.

She allowed herself, therefore, to linger as long
as she felt inclined over her housekeeping duties
next morning, and it was nearly midday when
she betook herself to the tent pitched on the
stretch of grass behind the house, which served
as a kind of summer drawing-room. Philip
Irvine, craving fresh air and sunlight after the
stifling courts and alleys of Bethnal-green, had
established himself there with his correspondence
directly after breakfast.

The pile of letters was not completed when
Muriel entered the tent; but the writer had

laid aside his pen and was giving his attention
partly to a portfolio full of sketches, which lay
open before him on the table, and partly to
Lucy, who stood beside him offering marginal
comments. Muriel felt sure that they were busy
with the mementoes of her ill-starred travels,
and coloured with annoyance which she dared
not express. The Italian sketches, with which
at least no personal recollections were associated,
lay uppermost  she could only hope that Mr.
Irvine would not proceed beyond these. When
he reached the last of the series, she ventured to
interpose. ''I am sure you must have seen
enough of my poor little daubs by now ; and if
sou want your letters to go by the first post,
Mr. Irvine, you have very little time to spare.
The bag will leave in half an hour."

Thank you," replied Irvine quietly, retaining
the drawings, " but my letters are none of them
pressing ones. So long as they go to-day, I need
not be particular about a post. I hope you will
let me look at the rest of these, Miss Ferrars ;
I see we are in Switzerland now, where I feel
more at home. I have never been in Italy."

Muriel had no choice but to submit. Irvine
continued to examine the sketches with exasperating
deliberation, making a remark now and

then, which was sometimes critical and sometimes
laudatory.

This is really very pretty ! " he exclaimed,
looking at a drawings of the Bristenstock  " the
prettiest bit of your work I have seen yet. The
light and shade is most skilfully managed, and
those trees in the foreground are drawn in quite
a masterly way. It is a very clever bit of
draughtsmanship indeed."

So it was : but it was not Muriel's work. A
stronger and more practised hand than hers had
sketched it in, just as a more experienced eye
than hers had directed that skilful management
of lio'ht and shade which kindled Mr. Irvine's
admiration. Much as she dreaded the inferences
Lucy might not unnaturally draw, Muriel could
not take to herself the praise which was rightly
Wentworth's. " 1 was helped with that sketch,"
she answered as carelessly as she could. " That
is the reason it is so much better done than the
rest."

Lucy gave her a rapid glance. A few months
earlier, the child would have asked boldly, " Who
helped you ? " trusting to the stranger's presence
to ensure her obtaining a reply. But she had
had a lesson, and wisely refrained from an 3
observation.

"I think your Swiss sketches are decidedly the
best, take them all in all," Irvine remarked, with
the calm j judicial air of which Muriel had already
expressed disapproval. " I see they are confined
to the neighbourhood of the Lake of Lucerne."

Yes. My uncle and aunt, with whom I went
abroad, did not care to move about. We spent
a whole month at the Hotel Mythen, a little
mountain hotel on the Axenstrasse. The scenery
is just at its grandest there, I think."

A very curious expression came into Philip
Irvine's face. He looked startled and troubled 
almost frightened ; and some question seemed to
be upon his lips, which he resolutely checked.

It is indeed  it is very beautiful," he replied.
What time of the year did jou say you were
there ? " he asked presently, still studying the
little sketch before him.

Muriel was too much perturbed herself to
notice her interlocutor's strange manner. " We
went in August," she answered, *' and we stayed
till the end of the first week in September, and
we had lovely weather nearly all the time. We
were very fortunate."

Philip Irvine's expression was more remarkable
than ever, but he still said nothing; having
opportunely recollected that he was bound to

say nothing  bound by his promise made nine
months before. Neither could he ask anything
for his own satisfaction, except by practising
deception either actively or passively. So he
remained silent, and went on looking at the
drawings ; but he made no further comments on
any of them.

When he reached the last of the portfolio's contents,
Muriel interposed again. "Don't trouble
to put those things back, Mr. Irvine  I want to
rearrange them. Will you kindly hand me the
case ? Thank you."

Thank you for allowing me to see them," he
answered courteously, and then resumed his discarded
pen.

Lucy threw herself into a low cushioned basket-chair,
and picked up a newspaper; Muriel remained
at the end of the table furthest from
Irvine, and slowly began her task of sorting
and arranging. It was growing very hot, and
there was an intense stillness and silence in the
tent, broken only by the scratching of Irvine's
pen, the buzzing of the flies, and the occasional
tinkle of a distant sheep bell in the park or on
the common. For fully five minutes no one
spoke, and then Lucy's voice was suddenly heard
from behind the broad sheets of the Times.

Muriel, I wonder if this is your friend who
has been appointed British member of the International
Commission ? "

Philip Irvine looked up from his writing justin
time to see the girl opposite him quiver as if
she had received an electric shock. But in a
second she had regained her self-command, and
though her lips were still white, her voice was
quite steady as she rejoined, with a slight intonation
of astonishment and rebuke, " What did
you say, Lucy ? "

Lucy interpreted Muriel's tone to mean that
she had used too great freedom of speech before
a comparative stranger. She therefore asked
again in more carefully chosen terms, " Is this
Mr. Wentworth who has been appointed International
Counsel the man you met in Switzerland
? "

Very likely," returned Muriel. (Afterwards
she asked herself why on earth she had not said
'' Yes " simply ? ) " He was an eminent lawyer.
TJncle Alec said he was quite a leading man at
the Bar."

Philip Irvine looked relieved, and the tension
of his features relaxed a little.

I dare say it is the same, then," Lucy remarked
serenely. " What was his christian name ? "

His christian name ? Paul."

'* Then it is the same : there can't be more than
one distinguished Paid Wentworth, I am sure.
Quite a celebrity he seems to be ; you ought to
feel proud of knowing him. Here's his parentage,
and history, and all the rest of it, if you want to
read it." She tossed the paper to her sister, who
was glad to accept it without comment, and added
in an explanatory tone to Irvine : " This Mr.
Wentworth was staying in the same hotel on the
Lake of Lucerne, so my sister saw a good deal
of him."

Philip Irvine returned no reply to this remark.
He was a very high-minded 3oung man, no
doubt, but at that moment he was in a silent
tempest of passion with his brother for having
placed him in so false and anomalous a position,
and, remembering the look in Miss Ferrars' face
a few minutes earlier, he felt that he probably
did well to be angry. But although he was
filled With no ordinary measure of dismay and
shame and burning indignation, his personal
resentment was temporarily his overmastering
sensation. That he, Philip Irvine, should be so
fettered by a rash and unguarded promise wrung
from him by another, as to be forced into
playing a part ! He rose, in order to put an

end to a conversation which was becoming-intolerable
to him.

My letters will be in time after all, I think,"
he said, "and if you are inclined to undertake
that expedition to the farm you planned forme
"  addressing Lucy  " I am quite at your
service."

(" Whatever may have happened in Switzerland
to account for Miss Ferrars' extraordinary
agitation just now," he reflected, " the little one
knows nothing of it." Somehow this idea was
peculiarly pleasant to him.)

Lucy sprang to her feet with alacrity. " There
will be time enough to show you our agricultural
lions before luncheon," she said, "such as they
are. My father rather prides himself on his
home farm : I dare say we shall find him down
there now. Will you come too, Muriel ? "

No, Muriel would not go. She had a headache,
and the sun was too hot for walking.
Irvine gave her a sharp look, but did not press
her to alter her decision.

By the time he reached his destination he had
in some measure reasoned himself out of his
anxiety. Since Miss Ferrars had been under her
uncle and aunt's care in Switzerland, it was
highly improbable that Paul should have had

VOL. II. oO

any chance of trifling with her affections  " even
were he so basely cruel as to wish to do so,
which I can scarcely bring myself to believe,"
Irvine added in his own mind. Most likely his
brother had simply made himself agreeable, as
the worldly phrase went; and Miss Ferrars,
being a silly, fanciful girl, ignorant of the world
or knowing it only through the medium of
foolish novels, had chosen to weave for herself a
romance which was something worse than silly
out of slender materials  that is to say, if her
passing agitation had been real, and not (as he
was almost inclined to hope) the effect of his
own suspicious imagination. Yet in that case
how explain Paul's mysterious request ? It was
a curious and unpleasant riddle, not to be
solved by any amount of cogitation  so Irvine
resolutely put aside his uncomfortable speculations
and gave his whole attention to the bright
talk of his companion, " the little one."

If he could have seen and heard what was
passing in the tent half an hour later, he might
have thought that he had allowed his apprehensions
to be too easily pacified.

Muriel stood, white but resolute, by the table,
leaning one hand upon it as if for support ; and
opposite her stood Jack Arlingham, [swearing an

expression curiously compounded in about equal
proportions of admiration, annoyance, and a
kind of dogged obstinacy. Perhaps the obstinacy
preponderated slightly over the other ingredients.

It is that miserable journey abroad which
has done this," Arlingham was saying wrathfully.
"But for that journey, jou would have
given me a different answer."

I think not," Muriel answered faintly. " I
cannot tell now."

After all, why let it stand between us ? " he
asked more gently. "A mere fancy of a i'ew
weeks, which you yourself say is at an end 
and I have loved you for years ! Can't you put
away the remembrance of this man, whoever he
may be, who it seems had not even the grace to
care for you "

She interrupted him. " He did ! " she cried,
the words breaking from her involuntarily.
She was speaking more to herself than to
Arlingham.

Then I don't understand you," said the
young man with a touch of sullenness.

No," she answered, with such a passion of
pain in her voice that if he had had a little more
sensibility  which being interpreted means a
little less selfishness  in him, he must for pity's

sake have ceased to question and importune her ;
of course you cannot understand me. No one
can, no one ever will. I have never told any one
of  of this before ; I only told you, when you
asked if it was so, because I wanted you to see
how impossible it must always be  the thing
you wish. It is impossible; quite, quite
impossible ! "

Certainly, after three years of hesitation and
procrastination, Jack Arlingham had been ill
advised in his choice of a day and hour for
making his declaration of love. But he would
not acknowledge himself defeated. The more
Muriel resisted him, the more bent he grew on
winning her.

Then you do care for him still," he said
slowly, with a hard, almost a cruel look on his
young face. " You expect him to come back to
you some day."

Muriel's eyes flashed. " You were my old
friend," she exclaimed indignantly ; " I have
humbled myself to you that I might not seem
harsh or ungrateful, and this is my reward !
You may well say that you do not understand.
It was all a mistake, a terrible mistake ; I expect
nothing, now or at any time. I never wish to
see him again, and 1 never shall. It is all over 

gone and past and done with." Her voice shook
a little on the last words.

Arlingham looked abashed. " But in that
case, why should everything else be impossible ?
You have told me about it, which was very good
of you. Now forget it  and oh, Muriel, say
you'll be my wife all the same."

"I cannot," she replied, with a weary sigh
at his persistence. " I have told you that I can
never care now for any one  in that way. If
you remember that, you will not wish it."

But I do wish it ! " he answered doggedly.
You love me a little now, I think ; and after a
while you would love me more. I want jou 
I can't give you up."

Muriel looked at him in silent astonishment.
That he should want her without her love 
without her soul, as it seemed to her  was a
marvel quite beyond her comprehension. He
misinterpreted her silence, and pressed his point.

You do like me a little, Muriel ? " he urged
anxiously.

*' Not a little. Jack  very much," she answered ;
and there were tears in her eyes, for she was
very sorry for him. " You are my dear friend ;
a sort of brother, only less dear to me than
George is. But oh, dear Jack, that kind of

liking is not  love." She uttered the last word
under her breath, as if it were too sacred to bespoken
aloud.

She was softened ; she had called him " dear
Jack." Poor youth ! had he been a little wiser,
that kindly form of address might have sufficed
to convince him that his hopes of awaking any
feeling more tender than friendship in Muriel's
heart were utterly futile. But he was far from
wise, and consequently he took courage.

'' I'll be satisfied with it for the present," he
returned huskily. " It's something tangible,
though it may not be exactly like your past
fancy."

Her lips curved into a sad and scornful smile.
Like her past fancy ! The indulgent, semi-pitying
affection she felt for an old playmate
whose coming she expected with calmness and
whose departure she viewed without poignant
regret, whose words were often as so many idle
tales to her inattentive ears  like the intoxicating
mixture of joy and pain with which she
had adored the lover, the very sound of whose
step had been sufficient to throw her into a tremor
of delight, whose glance thrilled the depths
of her heart, and whose most careless utterance
had been treasured in the deepest recesses of her

memory and there brooded over with passionate
tenderness ! She could have laughed at the profound
absurdity of the comparison, had not the
recollection of those days of delusive happiness
filled her with an aching regret too painful for
mockery.

"I cannot make you understand," she said
wearily. " I am so sorry, so very sorry that this
has ever happened, Jack. I tried to make you
see how it was, for I wanted to spare you this
pain. I am very grateful to you, but it can never
be." She was turning from him.

He caught her hand in his, but she drew it
from his clasp with a shiver. Had that other
man held her hand so ? Arlingham wondered
with a vengeful frown. Was that the reason
why he was not considered worthy to touch it ?
He had never been so determined to win her as
at that moment.

I will not take your answer now," he said 
and in all her life Muriel had never heard him
speak in so bold and masterful a tone. "After a
love of years I have a right to ask for some indulgence.
Take a little time to think about it."

It will make no difference," she replied, with
the air of one who is tired out.

Still, think of it, Muriel, and let me come for

my answer in a fortnight's time, I am not going to
worry and plague you ; I shall simply go straightaway
to Norfolk  you know I told you last week
the Lyalls had asked me  and I shall stay there
till the time is up. Promise me to think over
what I have said, won't you? Remember you are
everything to me, and try to put the past out of
sight altogether ! "

She yielded from sheer weariness of spirit. " I
will do it, to please you," she answered sadly,
but I warn you that you are only prolonging
this trouble quite uselessly. Nothing can make
any difference now."

"Oh yes, something may," Jack replied.
Something will, I think." In his eyes the
cause was half gained already.

WHAT THE WORLD SAID.

This sounds as bad as truth."

Shelley.

Muriel," said Mr. Ferrars, putting his handsome
grey head in at the drawing-room door one
afternoon a few days later, " I want to speak to
you for a moment."

Rather surprised at the summons, the girl rose
and went out. Her father greeted her with the
complacent smile of one who has an agreeable
proposal to make.

Would you like to go with me to town on
Tuesday ? " he inquired benevolently.

Muriel answered his question by putting one
herself. " Are you going up ? I did not know
you thought of going."

Yes, I have business in the City which it
will take me the best part of two days to get
through, and I think I shall find it more convenient

to stay in town till it is done with than
to journey up and down several times. It is
always best to be on the spot. So I have made
up my mind to be away from home three nights,
and I will take you with me if you care to go.
I shall not be able to do much for you in the
daytime ; but we might manage some concerts
and theatres together. Isn't there a new opera
at the Savoy that you haven't seen ? And I'll
try once again to admire your favourite actor,"
Mr. Ferrars added heroically, " if your heart is
set on the Athenaeum, as usual."

A year earlier, such a proposal would have
overwhelmed Muriel with delight; now her
thanks, if sincere, were very soberly worded.
The idea was nevertheless very welcome to her.
She was glad of anything to vary the monotony
of her life, and she hoped a visit to London might
prove more efficacious in distracting her thoughts
than the mild excitement of country garden-parties.
In addition, she would thus gain a fresh
excuse for deferring her promised consideration
of Jack Arlingham's cogent arguments. Mr.
Ferrars did not find her wanting in gratitude.

She was turning to go back to the room she
had left, when an exclamation from her father
arrested her. " There is Lucy, you see," he said,

a shade of perplexity gathering on his forehead,

'' and with Irvine staying here What a

nuisance this is ! I quite forgot the child ought
to have some kind of chaperone."

You forget that Cousin Helen is coming on
Monday, father ; so she can enact the chaperone,
if you think one is needed. But it seems absurd
to require a chaperone on account of Mr. Irvine,
who is as grave as an archbishop and as severe
as a Dominican monk ! "

I don't know about - that'' returned Mr.
Ferrars. " Look there ! "

And indeed through the open garden door
might be descried the figures of Lucy and Philip
Irvine wandering along the shady walks in a
desultory fashion, which at a little distance looked
suspiciously aimless and dovelike. Muriel
laughed softly, and it occurred to Mr. Ferrars
that it was long since he had heard her laugh.

"He is only improving her mind, father," she
said. " Trying, probably, to induce her to play
tennis less, and visit the schools oftener ; or
taking her to task for her last flippant remark."
She laughed again, but the laugh was rather
tremulous. There are moments when we all
find " how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness
through another man's eyes," and the sight

of those two strolling contentedly side by side
affected Muriel strangely.

If Irvine were really bent only on Lucy's
mental and moral improvement, his assiduity in
performing his self-imposed task was really
beyond all praise It may be that he was encouraged
in his toil by the docility of his pupil,
for  contrary to all that might have been expected
from so volatile and self-willed a creature
Lucy seemed to enjoy the process of moral
education since she had this grave young Oxonian
and City missionary for her tutor ; and he
gradually became so interested in her progress
as to be quite ready to give lessons at any and
every hour of the day. The oddly contrasted
pair had drifted together partly from the force
of circumstances. George was frequently absent,
Muriel was absorbed in her own troubles and
difficulties, and Mr. Ferrars fought shy of his
son's friend, whom he styled a transcendental
Socialist, so that Lucy was really the only
member of the Alderton household available asa
constant companion  but, circumstances altogether
apart, there was some indefinable attraction
in each of these two for the other. Each
had strongly marked idiosyncrasies, which nevertheless
did not appear to clash ; their divergent

characters harmonized in a wholly astonishing
manner to those who knew them both even
superficially. As Lucy phrased it, " they suited "
yet at first sight nothing more unlikely than
their " suiting " could well be imagined. Lucy
was careless, pleasure-loving, and impulsive ;
obstinate and conceited in her fashion of holding
fast her crude and often erroneous opinions on
all manner of subjects; saucily, sometimes flippantly
defiant of rigid standards and conventional
laws. Could one conceive of a creature
less likely to win the admiration of a stern
Puritan like Irvine, who abhorred manifestations
of feeling, profoundly distrusting all action not
founded directly upon principle ; who frowned
upon self-indulgence in every form, and considered
himself as absolutely pledged to a life of
voluntary poverty as if he had formally wedded
the bride of St. Francis ? Yet regard Lucy had
undoubtedly won from him, if not absolute and
unqualified admiration. I do not osier to explain
how this came about. I suspect Philip Irvine
could have given no better reason for his preference
than the old French philosopher's : ' Si Von
me demandoit pourquoi je Valois, je ne peulx
que responded : Parceque cestui luy ; parceqiie
eestoit amoy.'

But except by evincing a decided liking for
her society, Irvine did little to make Lucy
aware' of his preference. He still preserved the
lofty manner which his little champion called
grand and her sister dictatorial : he still interspersed
his graver warnings and monitions with
merciless strokes of satire aimed at his young
disciple's levity, or inconsistency, or downright
ignorance of the subjects she affected to discuss,
all of which the said disciple took in excellent
part, to her family's great astonishment. She
was quite convinced of Mr. Irvine's intellectual
as well as his moral pre-eminence, and submitted
with a good grace to sarcasms which exposed
the inherent fallacy of her pet 'arguments and
epigrammatic retorts which set the bystanders
laughing at her expense. But, the laugh over,
she picked up her fallen arms and renewed the
battle, undaunted by defeat, for which evidence
of high spirit Irvine liked her none the less
well. What pleased him chiefly, however, Avere
the flashes of serious feeling which showed themselves
now and again amidst the sparkle and
scintillation of the girl's bright wit, the sudden
transformation from gay to grave if he introduced
any topic demanding real reverence  showing
that under all the froth and unrest on the

surface lay hidden the foundation of a true,
sweet, and loyal nature. And Lucy, feeling
instinctively that she was understood as no one
had ever taken the trouble to understand her
before, liked her tutor better than ever in consequence.


At any other time Muriel would have been
fully alive to all that was passing. But trouble,
when we are young, is apt to make us self-absorbed,
if not positively selfish, and she was
no exception to the general rule in this respect.
She scarcely noticed the little drama that was
playing itself out under her eyes  or if she saw,
she failed to grasp its significance, her prevailing
sentiment being one of satisfaction that Lucy
and George between them relieved her of all
necessity of playing entertainer to Mr. Irvine.
She did not dislike him, but he wearied her, like
his fellows.

And on his side Irvine felt embarrassed in her
presence, his embarrassment being due to his
enforced silence on the one subject concerning
which he would have liked to question her. His
own personal interests had served in great
measure to banish the shadow of his half-brother's
possible delinquencies from his mind. Still,
when Muriel's look at the mention of Paul's

name recurred to him, as it did with annoying
persistence from time to time, he was not without
misgivings which he would gladly have had
set at rest ; and these misgivings were intensified
by the remembrance of Paul's passionate earnestness
in extorting an apparently unimportant
promise from himself He had, however, no
choice but to leave them unresolved, since his
sense of honour was far too nice to permit of
his mentioning Wentworth's name in Muriel's
presence without revealing the fact that he was
his brother. Were he asked pointhlank if he
knew him, his answer must be full and explicit 
in such a case his promise would necessarily give
way to the higher law of common, honesty  but
otherwise he could find no moral justification for
breaking his plighted word, however sorely
tempted he might feel to break it. Only he
firmly resolved that his first act on seeing Paul
again should be to withdraw formally from his
rash engagement ; and meanwhile he tacitly
avoided conversation with Muriel, whenever he
could conveniently do so.

Miss Bretherton arrived on the Monday and
was duly installed in her office of duenna, for
which office never was any lady of mature years
less fitted. On the following day Mr. Ferrars

and his elder daughter went to town ; and then,
to her dismay, Muriel discovered that change of
scene does not necessarily imply corresponding
change of feeling. As she sat alone in the great
West End hotel where she and her father had
taken up their temporary abode, while the latter
was for long hours absent " in the City," she found
memory fresh as ever, and experienced a new
restlessness besides. Was this novel sensation
due to the simple fact that she had just left home
for the first time since she started on her disastrous
journey with the Erskiness; or did it
spring from a consciousness of Wentworth's
closer proximity, and from the knowledge that
only the length of a few streets separated her
from him in point of space ? Perhaps this last
consideration had more to do with her strange
unrest than she knew.

Mr. Ferrars, whose favourite she was of all
his children, spared no pains so to arrange his
engagements that she should be left as little as
possible in solitude. He even snatched time to
escort her to a luncheon-party at a friend's
house one day, and to a morning concert
another  to say nothing of the evening entertainments
he had fixed upon for her amusement.
Muriel was gentle and grateful, and

VOL. II. 31

tried hard to imagine she was enjoying herself,
but her father missed the spontaneous gaiety
of old times, and felt a certain uneasiness inconsequence.
He wondered if she were really
falling in love with Arlinonham. "It strikes
me he has been dangling after her this long
while ; it is high time something definite was
said and settled, though she is far too good for
him. He had better dare begin playing fast
and loose in the matter ! " the father said angrily
within himself

The visit to the Athenaeum had been deferred
till the last evening of the Ferrars' brief
sojourn in London, at Muriel's particular request.
Nothing will be worth seeing after that," she
had pleaded ; and Mr. Ferrars had yielded to
her representations, though he made a wry face
as he did so. " My dear, after a dose of high-sounding
tragedy, I should have fancied something
light and trifling would have been grateful
to the mental taste, like a little jelly or whipped
cream after the ' too, too solid ' viands at a heavy
meal. But you shall have it your own way."

The father and daughter dined earlier than
usual that day, in order that Muriel might lose
nothing of her dramatic treat  so early, in fact,
that for the first part of their meal they had the

great brilliantly lighted dining-room to themselves.
After a while, however, two other diners,
evidently also intending playgoers, came in and
took possession of a table at a little distance
from their own. They were young men, one
apparently about eight and twenty and the
other some six or seven years older, and both
had the air of fashionable men about town.
They talked briskly and well, in a clever, desultory
way, and Muriel caught occasional
scraps of their careless sayings athwart her own
intermittent conversation with her father which
amused her considerably; they seemed on such
excellent terms with themselves, and so serenely
confident of their own standing and importance
in the world. The dessert had just been placed
on the table, and she was listening half unconsciously
to an animated account of a scene at
Henley which one of the two was giving for his
friend's benefit, when a waiter brought a folded
slip of paper to Mr. Ferrars, who immediately
got up.

Some one called to see me on business," he
explained to Muriel; "I must go and speak to
him. But I know what he wants, and I shall
not let him keep me five minutes. Stay here
till I come back, dear."

Muriel nodded assent, and her father went outby
a side door, his strong step falling heavily on
the polished floor. A massive column shielded
Muriel from view where she sat, and it was
evident that her two neighbours, hearing Mr.
Ferrars' departing footsteps, fancied themselves
entirely alone, for they no longer took any pains
to subdue their voices, and their talk gradually
assumed a more personal complexion. Two or
three remarks which fell from them would surely
not have been made had they supposed any one
to be within earshot. Muriel felt uncomfortable,
and longed to apprise them of her proximity,
but she could not well leave her place in defiance
of her father's injunction, and in any case would
probably have felt too shy to do so. She took
refuge for a time in Mr. Ferrars' copy of the
Evening Standard. But it did not long retain
her attention. The conversation at the table
close by took a new turn, and became replete
with such intense and painful interest that she
forgot it was by no means intended for her ears.

By the way, where were you on Sunday ? "
asked the younger of the two men of his companion.
" Did you go out of town ? "

Yes. The Dalrympless asked me to Entitle
from Saturday till Monday."

Ah, the Dalrympless ! " rejoined the first
speaker in an appreciative tone which somehow
conveyed the impression that he was not in the
habit of staying at Entitle himself, and rather
envied his friend the privilege  or the distinction
 of possessing the entree there. "Pleasant
party ? "

On the whole, yes. Well assorted, as it
generally is. Lady Madge Marchmont was there,
and the Mildmays, and a handsome niece of
Dalrymple's who sang uncommonly well. Then
we had St. George : you know, the big Australian
sheep-shearer with the superb-looking
wife"

Call her superb, do you ? I was never more
disappointed in a woman in my life ! Couldn't
see any pretensions to beauty about her."

Think so ? " returned the elder man. " I
was rather gone on her myself Every one to
his taste : I dare say Molly Dalrymple would
have suited you better. Well, to go on with
the list, there were three or four men  Fits
Alan, and Charlie Romney, and a clever American
I never met before, called Holiday; and
Paul Wentworth, who was in a particularly
brilliant mood."

Oh, Wentworth was there, was he ? I don't

think he's been quite so much en evidence this
season as he usually is. I began to think he
was going into retirement, to meditate on his
sins, perhaps ; but not a bit of it, it seems. He
was not accompanied by Mrs. Wentworth, I
presume ? "

When I say that he was there, don't I intimate
without further waste of words that she
was not ? No, he was en jargon, as usual.
Apparently enjoying his entire freedom from
domestic restraints  also as usual."

Wicked as ever, eh ? "

I did not observe any special signs of
growing sanctity. His taste for tete-astute walks
in the twilight hour and his passion for watching
moonlight effects on a pretty face subsist
unimpaired, as far as I could judge. Lady
Madge is also fond of walking and devoted to
moonlight, of course," the young man added,
with a laugh which would hardly have gratified
that lady, could she have heard it. "No, it
doesn't strike me that Wentworth has begun to
reflect upon the error of his ways as yet."

I can't vouch for the truth of the story,"
the younger man began rather hesitatingly,
but I was told last night at the Palladium "

I think I know all about that," interrupted

his companion, glancing warningly in the direction
of a waiter who was hovering near. " Was
it " His voice sank till it became inaudible.

Yes, it was," replied his less cautious friend
with distinctness.

The other nodded. " Just as I thought. And
it is substantially true, which is more than can
always be said for such stories. Lady Madge
seems just as foolish as the rest, in spite of her
essay writing, and her play at being a politician
and a blue-stocking."

"Heartless little creature ! " exclaimed the
younger man indignantly. "Flirt as she is, I
would hardly have believed this of her. Only
a few weeks back every one supposed her to be
hopelessly in love with poor Mainspring  some
people even went so far as to assert that they
were engaged, positively engaged ! Well, he
has had a lucky escape, if only he could be
brought to see it. She seemed devoted to him
at that time, too  I should have said she would
be only too delighted to marry him."

Wentworth chose to have it otherwise," returned
the other cynically, helping himself to
claret, "and he is an adept at getting his own
way. Lady Madge is a wily little flirt enough,
but she is not a match for her present admirer.

However, I don't think we need waste much
pity on her. As you observed, she is not overburdened
with heart, and as long as she has an
adorer of some kind, I don't think she cares
much who he is, as a rule. She went in for
captivating Wentworth out of sheer vanity, I
fancy  or perhaps in the hope of piquing Main-waring
into a bond fide proposal. He has never
committed himself so far yet, whatever people
may say."

"Well, anyhow, she seems to have flung Main-waring
overboard altogether now."

"The old story  begun in jest and continued
in earnest, at least on one side. For, in spite
of your story, I doubt if Wentworth means anything
serious this time  even serious mischief.
She is serious enough about it, in all conscience.
I dare say she would go off with him tomorrow
if he asked her. But he won't ask her. He has
his eye on the Solicitor-Generalship, and he has
always drawn the line at anything that might
injure him professionally. Even that supreme
goddess of his affections, Mrs. St. Clair, could
never work him up to the point of thinking the
world well lost for love."

Mrs. St. Clair ! Who was she ? "

Oh, a divinity of Wentworth's, who flourished

in the remoter ages, long before your time. That
affair was serious enough, if you like. All the
women cut her at last, and she had to go and
look up her aged husband in India. She was
rather of Lady Madge's type of beauty."

What do women see in Wentworth, I
wonder? Is he simply the fashion, or what
is it ? "

The cynic shrugged his shoulders. " Hard to
say. He is neither young, nor handsome, nor a
lord."

I think there is a kind of fascination about
him," the younger man said reflectively.

Perhaps there may be. I was once discussing
him with a lady who was not in love with
him and never had been  she said so, at least,
and of course I felt bound to believe her  and
this unprejudiced creature gave it as her opinion
that a great part of his attractiveness for the
weaker sex consisted in a kind of arrogant
sweetness he had, ' which gratified the fancy
while it dominated the will'  she was fond of
reducing particular truths to abstract forms.
Pretty idea, and sounds like a thoroughly dispassionate
judgment on her part, doesn't it?" 
with a laugh which sounded almost fiendish to
the ears of one unwilling and agonized auditor.

The other man got up and began putting on
his overcoat. " I fancy it consists rather in his
seeming to be always terribly in earnest," he
answered. "He is a man of immense ability,
and an awfully pleasant companion  but morally
I believe him to be a very bad lot indeed. Yet
I can't help liking the man when I'm with him.
Time to be off, Everard, if sou are ready." And
they went out, perfectly unconscious that by
their scandalous gossip they had been the means
of inflicting the cruellest torture which one
human being can inflict upon another.

Muriel sat still in her chair, while every nerve
quivered as if with acute physical pain. Each
light and careless word uttered had struck her
with the force of a deadly blow ; she had shivered
and turned sick as the pitiless sentences fell
upon her ears, stinging and burning like a lash
of scorpions. Yet she could not rise and make
her escape  while those terrible voices talked on,
her limbs seemed petrified and her w411 paralysed.
And when at last they ceased, she still sat on
pale and cold as a breathing statue, till Mr.
Ferrars' cheerful voice roused her from her
stupefaction, from the trancelike, shame-stricken
misery in which she was silently cowering.

Well, my dear, I have got rid of Wilson at

last. I am very sorry to have kept you so
long ; I suppose you have been on thorns all this
while, but I hope we shall be in tolerably good
time, after all. Come at once. But not without
your cloak, child ! You can't go without your
cloak ! "

I forgot," Muriel said apologetically, with a
tremulous smile. The earth may be heaving
and yawning under our feet, and our hearts
may be breaking in mortal agony  but we
must always remember to smile and put on
our wraps as if nothing was the matter. And in
point of fact we generally do remember.

As Muriel passed down the broad staircase to
the carriage that was in waiting, with a face
almost as white as the Swansdown about her
throat, a family party who were ascending-looked
at her with interest.

What a pretty girl ! " said the mother of the
family to her immediate companion.

Pretty ! " echoed the young man. " What can
you be thinking of, mother? She looks like a
ghost  or no, hardly a ghost, but something quite
as eerie : like Millais' Grey Lady, who may be
either somnambulist, familiar genius, or legendary
spirit according to whatever interpretation it
pleases you to put upon her. That girl's face is

just as unseeing and expressionless as the Grey
Lady's."

It was indeed little that Muriel saw of the
great crowded thoroughfares brimming with
swarms of eager, hurrying wayfarers, and already
beginning to twinkle with a thousand lights,
through which she passed in the soft dusk of
the summer evening. She was telling herself
that she had been mistaken when she said that
nothing could make any difference to her  for
now that she really knew Wentworth for the first
time, it seemed as if the whole face of the world
was altered at a single stroke. It was true he
had not attempted to deceive her as to what his
life had been in past years ; it was true that in
parting from her he had said, " As for me, I shall
probably pretend to forget  in the old fashion ; "
but Muriel would not have been a woman if she
had not flattered herself that his love for her
must have wrought in him some chancre, and
that as she could not forget, so likewise was she
unforgotten. Now every illusion was dissipated,
every softening veil was finally torn from the
image of clay which, even after it had fallen
from its pedestal, her imagination had continued
to transfigure. At last she saw Wentworth ashe
was, and recoiled from him. At whatever

cost to herself, the battle was over now; for
what question could there be of love for such a
one ? The necessity for conflict was at an end,
and she might well be thankful for the pain
which rendered all further struggle needless.
She had been mad, and a terrible shock had
given her back her reason : was not this something
for which to be truly grateful ? She might
have gone on through life believing in the reality
of his pretended love for her, but for those words
which seemed even in recollection to scorch her
very soul: "He always seems so terribly in
earnest!'

SEALING THE INDICTMENT.

"You yourself
Only could do that ! With a touch 'twas done."

R. Browning.

The carriage had stopped ; they were in the
theatre, and the play was proceeding.

It was "Romeo and Juliet" at the Athenaeum
that night, and the stage was bright with
moving masses of colour as the Veronese crowds
went to and fro, and the guests gathered in
Capulet's house, and the first lovely lines of the
sweetest love-story in the world held the spectators
spellbound to listen. But Muriel scarcely
heard, scarcely saw. She had just buried her
own slain love in a darker and deeper grave
than Juliet's, and her loss was so recent, so
sudden, that she had no sympathy to spare for
ideal sorrows. She looked at the stage, but saw
there only a bewildering kaleidoscope of brilliant

hues and shifting forms; she tried to listen to

the actors, and heard only an unmeaning din of

words. Not till the close of the first act did the

mist lift itself from her senses. Then from out

the distracting clash and clang  so it seemed to

her  of the dialogue, there rose and reached her

Juliet's cry of ruth, foreshadowing all the passion

and pain and death that are to follow  the cry

of Love battling with a Fate that is too strong

for it :

"My only love grown from my only hate !
Too early seen unknown, and known too late ! "

After that no word of the tragedy escaped her.

When the second act was over, Mr. Ferrars,
who to his own astonishment had found himself
growing profoundly interested as the play went
on, and whose glasses had become suspiciously
dim at one point in the garden scene, rose from
his seat. " I see there's a considerable interval
to come," he said, " so I think I will take a turn
in the lobby and smoke a cigar. You don't mind ?
If you look about you, perhaps your quick eyes
will discover some one we know in the house."

Muriel did not at all object to being left alone,
but she did not follow out her father's suoffestion
and institute a search for acquaintances. She
leant back in her chair, half hidden by the

curtains of the box  for they had taken a box
(stalls, according to Mr. Ferrars' old-fashioned
ideas, not being a proper part of the house for
ladies), a lower tier box on the left-hand side,
almost overhanging the orchestra  and so she
remained till she was roused by a sudden stir in
the theatre, due to the late advent of two or
three foreign royalties who had just dropped into
a box overhead. She could not see the cause of
the general flutter, so she looked about to discover
what it meant. She sat up, bent a little
forward, and glanced down into the stalls. And
there, leaning carelessly back in his place in the
third row, she saw  Paul Wentworth.

It was no fancy of the girl's, excited, overwrought
brain. The light from the great central
chandelier fell full upon his figure, and there
was no mistaking the man. He had a fine
individuality about him which would have
marked him out among a thousand other men
anywhere, and which precluded any possibility
of Muriel's being misled by a mere chance likeness
in a stranger. It was he, sure enough  her
broken idol, her dethroned king, the man whose
very memory even she had vowed to bury forever
fathoms deep in a nameless grave of abhorrence
and contempt.

He sat as if absorbed in thought, with a look
that was a little sad and a little tired in his eyes
and about his mouth. There was indeed in his
whole expression and attitude something conveying
the idea of lassitude and ennui ; a gracefully
subdued air of weariness clung about him,
lending a subtle pathetic interest to his face and
figure. Doubtless he knew that this air became
him well, yet for all that it was not an assumed
air, but the genuine and spontaneous outcome
of his mood at the moment. Wentworth never
troubled himself about his expressions or his
attitudes, being content with those which came
to him by nature; and his thoughts just then
were busy with matters very far removed indeed
from the onlookers in the boxes of the Athenaeum.
It was a matter of perfect indifference to him
whether they were observing him or no.

Certainly a number of stray glances did fall
in his direction that nifht  he was a man
whom people were rather fond of watching and
observing, with a view to subsequent discussion
glances conveying various kinds of sentiment,
and eloquent of many and opposite states of
feeling on the part of the various observers.
Glances of simple curiosity, of admiration,
impatience, suspicious dislike ; some few glances

VOL. II. 32

that were indulgent and friendly, and not a few
that were malicious or severe  but only one
gaze that was kind and tender and compassionate,
and that, noting the settled melancholy of his
brow and lips, grew dim with unavailing
sympathy. In all the crowd of those who knew
him, only one heart said low to itself, " He is sad
and it is, maybe, through his own fault. But
yet  ' oh, the pity of it ! the pity of it ! ' "

Where then was the anger and loathing of an
hour ago? Forgotten as though it had never
been. Pain indeed remained, and a sorrowful
shame which had quickly overshadowed the
first brilliant flash of joy at sight of the face
whose smiles and frowns had once been all the
world to her; but mingled with these was a
certain fearful delight in his presence, and a
lurking terror lest he should presently rise and go.
And now they had darkened the theatre again
and blotted him from her sight, and they were
back in Verona, listening to Mercuric's quips and
cranks, and hearing the clash of the contending
rapiers, and watching the mimic morning dawn
in Juliet's garden while Shakespeare's hapless
lovers came forth to take their last farewell.
Was it all a dream from first to last ?

It seemed almost like it, for when the auditorium

grew bright again, Wentworth had
vanished. Doubtless he was gone; he must
have seen the play before now, and had only-come
in to while away an idle hour. She should
not see him again. And the moment had been
so short, and he had looked so sad !

And all the while, in the box next but one to
hers, he was talking with even more than his
usual cynical brilliancy as he leant over the
back of Lady Margery Marchmont's chair, playing
with her fan, and letting his ardent eyes
return impassioned answers to her coquettish
upward glances.

But, after a time, either he grew tired of his
charming companion, or he found that enjoyment
of her society and of the play were incompatible,
for when the curtain fell on the fourth act
Muriel beheld him again in his former place
and almost in his original attitude. The occupants
of the neighbouring stalls were evidently
unknown to him, for he addressed no word to
them. He was plainly alone  and suddenly
there came to Muriel the thought of one who
might have been with him, one whose place was
of right ever at his side, the wife whom he had
wronged so deeply. Something added, the tvife
who had never loved him.

Who had never loved him ! That was indeed
strange, passing strange. What could she belike,
this woman Wentworth had married ? She
had had his first deep love, the love of his early
beautiful manhood, before evil had thrown its
dark shadow on his heart or sin and selfishness
and bitter disappointment graven their mournful
records on his marred countenance  and she
had cast away the priceless treasure as a worthless
thing ! She might have had the keeping
of his soul, the guardianship of his better self 
and she had deemed the charge too troublesome.
He had chosen her from among all women to be
his wife, and she had accepted this crowning
honour, caring nothing for it save as a means to
an end, as a necessary preliminary step towards
the acquisition of a handsome house, and well-made
gowns, and the entree into "good society."
Had she a heart at all ? Was she a compound of
ice and stone ; or a pretty sprite without a soul,
like the creatures of German legend ? Did she
know what she had done and what she had lost,
this woman who might have had all, had she
chosen, and to whom all had been given, until
in very wantonness of indifference she flung
back the gift into the giver's face ? Muriel
could almost have found it in her heart to pity

Paul Wentworth's wife for her insensibility to
the loss she had suffered.

And for him, who had been sinned against as
well as sinning, every feeling less worthy, less
holy, seemed to have become absorbed into one
of purest pity, of compassionate regret for the
wasted life which was outwardly so brilliant and
successful, yet inwardly so destitute of real
happiness, for the noble gifts that were being so
miserably perverted, for the heart that was
striving to dull the pain of its secret wound
with such deadly and soul-destroying opiates.
She had only pity for him  this girl who owed
him liothinof but an abiding heartbreak, and to

O CD '

whom he had given nothing but a few tender
words and glances that had sufficed to spoil her
life  pity without reproach. But then she had
loved him ; and where we have loved much, we
pardon easily.

The tragedy is at an end. Romeo and Juliet
are left lying in the Capulet's vault, and the
vision of old Verona vanishes, and we come back
to common life once more. She is going downstairs
on her father's arm, our poor little
nineteenth-century heroine whose young feet
have been set in such slippery places, and whose
long and sore ordeal, did she but know it, is yet

at its very commencement. As in a dream, she
hears voices before her talking, in words which
are destined to come back to her with startling
force one distant day.

"I think I dislike a play with a harrowing
denouement'' said a lady just in front of Muriel,
a pleasant specimen of the genus British matron.
"I always had a predilection for coming away
from the theatre or shutting up a novel in good
spirits."

I don't call the end of ' Romeo and Juliet '
harrowing," answered her daughter, a girl who
could not have been more than sixteen.

Nevertheless I saw you crying over it, my
dear Ethel. How was that ? "

"Not because it was harrowing, but because
it was beautiful, mother. It is the most beautiful
idea in the world. They were dead, but they
died together: what could they want more?"
The child's eyes sparkled and her cheeks flushed
as she spoke ; and then she and her companion,
were swept away with the rest of the crowd
which was passing from the staircase into the
vestibule.

Here there was a great crush, and the Ferrars
had to wait some time before their carriage
came up. Mr. Ferrars had edged himself and.

his daughter into a convenient position near the
door, where he could keep a sharp look-out for
his hired brougham, and he was so fully occupied
in his watch that his remarks were few and
intermittent, for which Muriel was thankful
She webs watching likewise  she could not help
herself  for a tall figure and a dark head which
must surely be somewhere among the rustling,
swaying, chattering throng.

But people were moving off, the crowd in the
vestibule was thinning rapidly, and still there
was no sign of Wentworth. Suddenly a clear
feminine voice a little way behind Muriel
exclaimed, " You here again, Paul ? How many
times did you tell us last week you had been to
see ' Romeo and Juliet ' already ? ' "

"More than I can count, I believe," replied
a well-known voice  and Muriel's heart seemed
to leap into her throat and choke her. The
mode of address used by Wentworth's fair interlocutor
had not prepared her for those unforgotten
accents at her very ear.

"And you are not tired of it yet?" pursued
the first speaker.

No ; Shakespeare does not easily weary me,"
Wentworth answered. He was speaking in the
briefly courteous tone Muriel had so often heard

him employ when he had been caught unawares
by some unwelcome and persistently talkative
fellow countryman or countrywoman in Switzerland.
" I do not often stay through the whole
play," he added ; " I drop in for a scene or two
at a time. But to-night I have rashly pledged
myself to go to a party which I feel certain will
be tiresome in the extreme, and as I wish to
postpone the evil hour of my penance as long
as I decently can, I lingered on here  and found
Romeo very good company."

As he uttered his last words, the group of
which he formed one moved, and came from
behind the door to take up their station in front
of it. Besides Wentworth, it consisted of three
people  father, mother and daughter, all of the
commonplace, well-bred, well-dressed type. They
passed so close to Muriel that the elder lady's
long train swept over her feet, and the light
overcoat which hung on Went worth's arm
brushed the folds of her cloak as he went by.
But he did not see her.

Was it her fancy that, now his face was close
at hand, it looked thinner and older, a little more
worn, a trille sadder than it had used to be ?
How strange to be so near him  she could have
touched him with her outstretched hand where

he stood  and yet to see him so utterly unconscious
of her nearness, and to know that she
must not make a movement to dissipate that
unconsciousness !

Will the carriage never come ? " pettishly
demanded the younger of the two ladies, who
had not spoken before. " I detest waiting.
Don't you, Cousin Paul ? "

' All things come round to him who will but
wait,' " Wentworth commented with sententious
mockery. "Not that I profess philosophical
patience myself, Lily, in the matter of waiting
for carriages or anything else. Excuse me"  with
a sudden change of tone  "I am afraid I must
say good night to you all. Good night, Connop."

A significant glance passed between the elder
lady and her husband as Wentworth moved
rapidly away towards the spot where, through
an opening in the lessening crowd, he had just
caught sight of Lady Madge Marchmont's graceful
head.

There was no want of animation in his manner
now, as he stood talking in an undertone to the
beautiful widow, his eyes riveted on her face,
and his tall head bending close to hers  Lady
Margery was decidedly diminutive  in order to
catch her low-voiced replies. Her companions

two girls, evidently her sisters, and a young
man who Yas presumably her brother and
regarded Went worth with no very friendly eye 
fidgeted and appeared ill at ease during the
colloquy. And Muriel stood and watched the
scene until it pleased Lady Margery to end it
by taking Wentworth's arm to go out to her
carriage, which had already been announced
more than once in stentorian tones. '' You are
coming to the Bennett' tomorrow ? " Muriel
heard her say softly to Wentworth, as they
passed by.

"Of course  since you are going," was the
response, uttered more softly still.

A moment later, Mr. Ferrars touched Muriel's
hand joyfully. "Here it is at last! Come,
dear," he said.

Lady Margery's high-stepping cobs trotted off,
and Wentworth turned to hail a hansom. In
his haste he jostled against a fine-looking, elderly
man, who had a tall slim girl, cloaked and hooded
in white, on his arm.

I beg your pardon ! " he said hastily, without
turning this head  and passed on just in time to
secure the coveted vehicle.

He gave the number of a house in Berkeley
Square to the driver, and then paused coolly on

the pavement to light a cigarette, to the information
of waiting cabman and restless link-boss.
Meanwhile the elderly gentleman had handed
his lady into a brougham immediately in front
of the hansom, and was about to follow himself,
when he halted with one foot on the step,
exclaiming audibly, in the tone common to
elderly gentlemen when a trifle rushed, "Muriel,
Muriel, where is the glass ? You have left it in.
the box, I suppose ? "

Paul Wentworth started slightly, and let his
match go out. A girl's face appeared at the
window of the brougham  a delicate, colourless
face set in a frame of soft dark hair, with deep
grey eyes which looked strangely dark and full
of pain by the flaring gaslight, and a mouth set
in resolute lines of pride and scorn.

It is quite safe, father ; I have it here," said a
clear low-toned voice, the voice of Muriel Ferrars.
And the elderly gentleman got in well pleased,
and the door was shut, and the carriage drove
away ; and Wentworth  forgetting his cigarette,
it is true  sprang into his hansom and was
driven away also, since in these days, whatever
may happen, we do not stop to soliloquize on
London pavements, nor permit ourselves to lose
even for a moment the calmly stoical aspect

which it is the chief aim and object of modern
society to acquire and preserve.

Yet as the hansom dashed away through the
lighted roar of the Strand, Paul Wentworth leant
back in it, breathless and white to the lips. This
pioneer of light and leading, this social celebrity
of mature years, this brilliant, ambitious man of
the world, found his heart clanging in his ears
and all his pulses throbbing madly  because of
what ? a momentary glimpse of a girl's face,
half a dozen words spoken by a girl's voice.
Decidedly all the training in the world would
never make a stoic of Paul Wentworth.

He lost count of time, and was surprised to
find himself, in what seemed .to him a few
moments, at his destination. He got down,
however, dismissed his cab, and went in; but
all with the automatic manner and abstracted
look of a man moving in a dream or action
under compulsion from magnetic influence. Ashe
passed in, two other guests came out  one a
quick, shrewd-looking man of middle age, who
might be a lawyer, and the other a languid
young dandy of the " master " type. The elder
man raised his hand in familiar salutation to
Wentworth as he went by, but the latter returned
no responsive sign, and walked straight on. His

friend turned and stared after him for the space
of a few seconds.

Know that man ? " inquired his companion,
with an affected drawl.

"Yes, very well. It is Paul Wentworth.
Wonder what's the matter with him : he looks
as if he had seen a host."

COUNSELS OF Perfection.

There is in man a Higher than the Love of Happiness : he
can do without happiness, and instead thereof find Blessedness."
 Carlyle.

I WONDER whether you consider it your mission
in life to go about the world .making people
desperately uncomfortable ? "

Lucy Ferrars addressed Philip Irvine in tones
half mischievous, half appealing, as she put this
question.

In some sense, yes," he answered with entire
gravity. " But suppose you define your meaning
a little more clearly."

"I can't define," she replied pettishly. "It is
the thing of all others that I am perfectly incapable
of doing. I am sure you must know that.
Cannot you set your mind to work without a
definition to help you ? Surely one may feel,

without being able to give a logical account of
the process ! "

If it were real inability to explain that
made your question so vague," said Irvine
slowly, turning to look at Lucy as she sat beside
him on the garden bench, "it would be another
matter. But I think the vagueness proceeded
from quite a different cause."

She made no rejoinder, but her eyes asked,
From what ? "

From indolence first of all : you hate the
trouble of thinking. And then from pride : you
cannot bear to own yourself in the wrong. So
you take refuge in convenient general statements."


I am ready to own that you have made me
very dissatisfied with myself," Lucy retorted.
*' Does that particular statement please you ? "

"It is something to begin upon," Irvine
answered. "Unless you became conscious of
the insufficiency of your present life, what hope
could there be of your longing to live a higher
and fuller one ? But if you will not exert
yourself to analyze the vague feeling of self-dissatisfaction
that troubles you, how can I 
how can any one help you in the matter ? "
His voice had grown very gentle.

Irvine's severity had provoked Lucy's high
spirit, his unconscious tenderness melted her at
once. "I know I have lived always only to
please myself' she said sadly. " One goes on
from day to day : pleasant things come, and
there does not seem any special call "

Because you did not listen for it," Irvine
interposed. " There are voices enough summoning
every thinking soul to fling aside its toys
and pastimes and get to work without delay ;
but people are so busy here and there that they
have no leisure to pause even for a moment to
listen." He spoke more severely again.

I was not wilfully deaf," said Lucy humbly.

A grave smile parted his firm lips. " I know.
Hitherto you have been a child, with a child's
ignorance of life's meaning and duties, and
therefore with all a child's excuses for having
occupied yourself only with its outward shows.
Do not think I wish to judge you harshly for
the past. I only want to show you that you
are entering now on a new era. You cannot
legitimately be a child any longer."

I don't wish to be," she answered. " You

have shown me so plainly the littleness and

hollowness of all the things I used to care for,

hat I can only feel dreadfully ashamed of ever

having cared for them so much. I don't think
I could go on now from day to day quite aimlessly,
and feel contented. And, after all, amusements
don't always make one happy. There are
better kinds of happiness." :;

'' You must not think too much about happiness,"
returned Irvine, with a sudden break in
his voice. *rit comes to few in reality; and
when it does come, goes again so quickly ! After
all, life must be sad. How can one be happy
dare one be happy, with the thought
pressing upon one day and night that at one's
very door are millions sunk in ignorance and
misery and want, and, what is infinitely worse,
sunk in sin and degradation, without a helping
hand to draw them up in this world, or a voice
to speak the word which might save them from
an eternity of more hopeless wretchedness in
the next ? "

Lucy sat silent. Irvine, who had risen to his
feet as he uttered his last impassioned words,
went on after a moment's pause: "And remember,
these are but a mere fragment, a sample
pattern, so to speak, of the humanity which is
withering and agonizing and sinning and perishing
all the world over, while we sit at home and
cultivate happiness, forsooth. And this age of

VOL. II. 33

ours is but one on the roll of centuries  of
centuries past, perhaps of centuries yet to come.
Who is sufficient for the bare thought of these
things ? "

The mingled grief and scorn, the profound
pity and immeasurable indignation of his voice
might have moved the least enthusiastic hearer,
while the light in his eyes and the quiver of
his lips gave unmistakable evidence that his
ordinarily calm and unemotional nature was
stirred to its very depths. Never before had
Lucy seen him so natural, so simply and broadly
human ; but mingled with this outburst of irrepressible
human sympathy was a touch of something
even higher  something angelic almost,
which awed the girl while it delighted her.
She felt that Irvine had momentarily lifted the
veil from his inner life, and given her a glimpse
of aims and motives which made her own most
serious thoughts, her loftiest and least worldly
aspirations, seem trivial and childish by comparison.
She looked at him almost reverentially
as she replied, " At least you have no cause to
reproach yourself. You have done what you
could personally."

Something perhaps ; but what I could  that
is, all I might have done  no, indeed. What

might not even one Christian do if such a man
were really single-hearted  if God's work and
God's cause were his only object in life ?
Double-mindedness  it is that which blights our
best efforts. If we do not allow ourselves to be
diverted altogether from our purposes, we go to
our work too often with only half a heart."

Your heart seems to be always with your
work' said Lucy impulsively. " I think you
care for nothing else."

So little is that the case," he returned, with
rather a melancholy smile, " that I have been
earnestly debating with myself all day whether
I should go back to it tomorrow, or extend my
holiday over another twenty-four hours. You see
I am not such a willing labourer as you fancied."

Every ray of colour left the girl's face, and she
looked up at her companion with dismayed,
startled eyes. " Go back already ? " she exclaimed.
" But that will be such a short visit 
very short indeed ! "

Irvine bent down his eyes as she spoke.
Something  he knew not what  in those
simple broken phrases of remonstrance moved
him strangely, and made it difficult for him to
meet them with any commonplace of conventional
politeness.

You forget," he said rather huskily, " I have
been here a fortnight to-day."

The words were blunt, and from a guest's lips
sounded almost discourteous, but Lucy did not
seem to notice this.

"That is short, for a holiday," she rejoined
eagerly. "Most university men who have nothing
to do beyond their college work allow
themselves far more ; and you work so hard
besides ! George said you wanted rest and
change, and Alderton air is always considered
good, though it is a dull place, of course. But I
thought you liked it." Her lips quivered as a
child's might have done.

"I like it too much, as I told you just now,"
Irvine replied hastily. " And I have stayed too
long already  I must leave tomorrow."

To-morrow ? Not the next day ? "

Irvine had spoken without any subtle intention,
with no idea of conveying by his words
anything beyond the business-like fact that he
had been too long absent from his classes and
meetings in Bethnal Green. But another and
deeper meaning had been given them now. The
ring of unspeakable anxiety, the depth of unconscious
entreaty, in Lucy's question could not be
mistaken. Five words only but they were

enough to reveal all the secret of the girl's soul
to the man ; enough to cause the man's heart,
that heart whose rebellious pulses he had so
resolutely silenced hitherto, to leap up in his
breast in response to the innocent appeal which
told so much. For an instant, as their eyes met,
both were ineffably, supremely happy  with
such happiness as it is well to have known once,
albeit but for a moment.

Then, with a sort of shiver, Irvine recovered
himself, repeating the last words he had uttered
before the blinding revelation overtook him, like
a man coming out of a state of trance. " Yes," he
said almost dreamily, " I have stayed too long
too long."

Lucy said nothing, and indeed hardly grasped
the meaning of his words. Had she done so, she
might have heard the knell of her fate in them.
But for the moment the future did not concern
her at all ; the present was all-sufficient.

He ojazed at her a moment looser, with a
wonderful tenderness softening his cold statuesque
features; then the tenderness faded, and
only an expression of settled and almost stern
resolution remained. " So I must make up my
mind to go tomorrow, I believe," he continued,
resuming his usual grave and composed manner.

"Do you think it avouch inconvenience your
father to send to the 11.40 train? I should like
to reach my quarters early in the afternoon, if I
can manage it without putting him out of his
way."

''I am sure he can easily manage it," Lucy
answered. " But he will be sorry." She made
no further remonstrance : what had been easy and
natural ten minutes earlier was impossible now.

'' I am sorry also," Irvine returned quietly.
'then, since you think that arrangement will
suit Mr. Ferrars, I will send a line to tell them
to expect me at Cum Street about two  it
would not be fair to take old Mary by surprise.
I had better go in and write at once."

As he spoke, there swept across his mind a
double vision : the vision of that to which he was
deliberately returning, the vision of all he was
voluntarily leaving behind. On the one hand, he
knew, was the small, bare, close room which was
all he had to call his own in the cramped,
temporary Mission House, with a surrounding
prospect of dingy streets and noisome alleys
peopled by poverty-stricken, degraded, vicious
human beings ; everywhere sounds of clamorous
misery and brutal strife, or of drunken revelry
and mirth more hideous still  and, bitterest

thought of all ! perpetual loneliness of heart and
life. The alternative was all before his eyes :
sunshine, flowers, peace, purity, tranquil wellbeing
 and by his side the living embodiment of
all that to him seemed fairest and dearest in
human nature, already his in heart, and to be
made his irrevocably by instant loyal pledge and
promise if he so willed it. But he willed it not.
He added not a word more ; he did not move
one step towards her. Even with those two
contrasting pictures before his mind's eye, Philip
Irvine did not flinch or falter. He turned
resolutely from the beautiful to the repulsive,
from proffered joy to lifelong renunciation.
Should he lay down his cross because it had
suddenly become heavy, heavier than he had
ever dreamt of its becoming when he first lifted
it to his strong young shoulders ? Nay, verily.
Must he not rather strive to rejoice that he was
counted worthy to be called to the loftier heights
of self-sacrifice ?

After he had left Lucy, some sense of the
undercurrent of signification in his words began
to dawn upon her, and her dim forebodings of
evil were confirmed by the persistence with
which he held aloof from her during the rest
of that long July day. He had determined to

exchange no words with her beyond those of
formal courtesy, until he should have had leisure
to think, to resolve, to pray. Philip Irvine did
a good deal of his thinking on his knees.

There he fought out his battle that night, the
hardest it had ever yet fallen to his lot to fight.
About his ultimate decision there was no doubt
from the first. He could not, if he would, have
gone back from the self-dedication which had
suddenly become self-immolation as well ; he had
disciplined himself too profoundly already for
any such backsliding as that to be possible. But
his whole nature rose up in rebellion against the
pitiless yoke he had set upon its cravings, crying
out, in a voice that would once for all be heard,
for the human gladness and sympathy and love
which he sternly denied it; and heaven seemed
to have grown dim and distant and unsubstantial
now that earth had burst into undreamt-of glory
and sweetness in the reflected liofht of a girl's
eyes. It was with this inward revolt that Irvine
struggled so long and so fiercely. It was the
lost spiritual vision that he wrestled so earnestly
to regain, knocking unweariedly at heaven's doors
in his passionate faith, if only he might achieve
the conquest of his unruly will, and silence those
murmurs of a spirit which, even in the midst of

its most cruel throes, pleaded only for strength to
renounce, to overcome, to submit. There could
be but one end to such a conflict so fought. The
citadel of his resolution was safe from the outset.
Once only did it seem to waver. He could not
force that he was not alone in his sufferings 
that in his thoughtlessness, his self-confidence,
and his forgetfulness of his vocation, he had
brought Grievous sorrow on another. In her
innocence, in her ignorance of his position, Lucy
had learnt to care for him, and in a moment of
unguarded weakness he had allowed his own
love  till then unsuspected even by himself  to
become unmistakably apparent. He was too
honest to salve his conscience by specious
sophistries as to no words of love having passed
between himself and Lucy, for he knew that
their mutual, although unspoken, confession
needed none to complete it. The question
therefore arose : Since he had gone so far, was
it not his duty to go farther still ? He had, of
course, a perfect right to resign his own happiness,
but had he any right to break Lucy Ferrars'
heart in the process ? Might he not, by an
acknowledged and painful descent to a lower
plane of living for the sake of another, be
crucifying self more thoroughly than by persistently

adhering to the loftier altitude held at
the cost of that other's suffering ? On this
thought Irvine paused, but for a moment merely.
He had been guilty of one sin  he never gave
soft names to his transgressions  was he therefore
to atone for it by another and a deadlier
one : to palliate the consequences of carelessness
and self-pleasing by the breach of an engagement
towards Heaven none the less bindings that it
had never taken the form of an open vow, and
by deliberate self-indulgence disguised under the
plausible cloak of unselfishness ? Could he forsake
the work that was crying out for him, even
had it been permissible to do so ? After all,
Irvine's religion was in his work. It was
accident which had made him a Puritan ; there
was none of the Puritan selfishness in him, none
of that egotism in things spiritual which is often
the repulsive characteristic of Puritanism proper.
To live for others, to work for others, to save
others, had always been his primary impulse.
He obeyed it now, at the cost of all that makes
life dear to the ordinary man.

But his self-reproach was very bitter, nevertheless.
And mingled with all his other pain
was the humiliation of his fall, and the discovery
that he was far weaker than he had imagined 

he who had supposed himself altogether out of
reach of such a temptation as had easily overcome
his boasted strength. Another struggle
was in store for him  a conflict with his natural
haughtiness of spirit. Should he confess his
wrong-doing to Lucy ? Did he not owe her that
reparation ? He felt that he shrank intensely
from making this confession, and weighty arguments
for maintaining silence were not by any
means wanting to him. Yet if he left Lucy
without a word, he knew that it would be from
no exasperated sense of honour and from no unselfish
consideration for her, but simply because
he was a proud man, and it was hard for him to
say, "I have done wrong; forgive me," even to
the child who loved him.

But before the sun rose, this last enemy, too,
was conquered. " I will ask her pardon and tell
her all plainly," he was saying to himself as the
first rays of cold grey light stole through the
half-opened window and showed him pale and
weary from the long conflict, yet with a dawning
light of victory in the eyes that had faite 1
for looking upward all that placid summer night.
It is best that she should know, and she has a
riofht to know. Unless I should see cause to
think I was over hasty in my conclusions yesterday

" He stopped there, with a new pang

at his heart, keener than all that had gone before.
He was still very human, after all.

Unfortunately he had made no mistake in
his conclusions. When he and Lucy met at
breakfast, the silence and shyness which overtook
the bright, frank girl, generally the very
centre of all joyous life and pleasant talk, the
timidity of her morning greeting, still more the
mute question in those pathetic eyes  hitherto
always so sunny !  when for an instant they
encountered his and seemed to ask, "Have I
offended ? Are you angry with me ? "  all these
signs told him plainly that on the previous day
he had read her face aright. If there was a
strange pleasure in the thought which he could
not quite conceal from himself, there was more
of poignant pain. She loved him  and that day
he was to leave her for ever. For ever: the
separation must be total, final, as far as this
world was concerned. He loved her too well
for any half-measures to be possible. It must
be his duty to see that, whatever else the future
might bring to pass, he and she should never
meet again.

He lingered behind the rest in the diningroom,
nerving himself for the parting interview.

Mr. Ferrars had taken leave of his guest as
they rose from the breakfast-table, pleading the
calls of his farm and of his waiting bailiff as an
excuse for his precipitate departure. "This is
your first visit to us, Irvine, but I hope it will
not be by any means your last," the old man
said heartily, bent on showing cordiality to his
son's friend. " Remember, there will always bea
welcome for you at Alderton."

Thank you," answered the young man. " You
are very kind." Then Mr. Ferrars had gone out,
and the others had dispersed in different directions,
leaving Irvine for a moment alone.

He had just made up his mind to go in search
of Lucy, when the door hastily opened and admitted,
not, as he had hoped, Lucy herself, but
her sister. Muriel was extremely pale, and had
a worn, harassed look strange to see on so young
a face, but at sight of Irvine she flushed suddenly.
She had been seeking him, so it was not his
mere presence which caused that sudden accession
of colour  it was his attitude, as he
leant with one arm on the mantelpiece, looking
into the fireless grate, just now full of graceful
ferns and delicate grasses. Figure, pose, and expression
alike suggested a faint but very real
resemblance to Wentworth.

The flush faded as suddenly as it had arisen
when Muriel said, laying her hands on the back
of a chair that stood near, " Mr. Irvine, I should
like to speak to you, if you can give me a few-moments.
I am anxious to ask your advice."

"I am quite at your service, Miss Ferrars."
A certain accent of surprise mingled with the
grave courtesy of Irvine's tone.

"Perhaps you will think it strange that I
should appeal to you," Muriel went on. " But
my  my difficulties are very great, and I need
counsel so terribly ! "

He was too truthful to assure her that he saw
nothing strange in her appeal. " I shall be very
glad if I can help you," he replied, " but surely
you must have better advisers at hand than
myself."

"There is no one who can help me in this.
They would not understand, and I could not
explain to them. But I think you might be able
to tell me what I ought to do."

He bent his head gravely. "I will do my
best." Secretly he wondered whether she were
a little mad. He hoped at least that she would
state her case briefly, in order that he might be
free to go and look for Lucy.

"I have come to you," Muriel continued.

"because I feel sure you will not advise me
to do what is easiest or most pleasant, but only
what is right. I want to do that  just that.
And I can trust your counsel, for I know it is
the one thing you care for."

I wish it were so ! " Irvine responded in a
low, troubled voice. " If you mean that I am a
Christian, Miss Ferrars  that is true, I hope."
Twenty-four hours earlier he would not have
added the qualifying sentence.

My question is this," said the girl, passing
over the interruption. " If there is a  a temptation
in my way which seems to come between
me and all that is holiest ; if I cannot keep my
thoughts from dwelling on it, though I hate it
ever so much"  she spoke with an emphasis
which sounded almost angry  "is it my duty,
my plain duty, to take advantage of any barrier
that I can put between myself and it ? "

Surely," replied Irvine, slightly bewildered
to all appearance. "In such a matter your
course admits of no question."

But you don't see," she rejoined eagerly ;
"there is a question. The barrier doesn't exist;
I should have to make it for myself What I
want to know is this : Supposing that by some
means within my reach I could help myself to

forget the temptation, leave myself no time to
think of it any more, put it away from me by
other interests and cares  what must I do ? "

It all depends on the nature of the means
said Irvine. " If you fancy that temptation is to
be driven out by amusements and pleasures "

It would not be pleasant to me' she interposed
; " it would not make me happy. Sometimes
I think it is too hard for me to do at all. I
wish only to know if I "mist do it ? Will it be a
sin to leave it undone ? "

She was painfully in earnest  Irvine saw that
well enough ; and she had entirely forgotten
that there was anything curious in the demand
she was making upon him. That he was a young
man and she a young girl was nothing to her ; a
fortnight spent under the same roof with him
had convinced her that he was a man who might
help her in her decision, and that was all she
cared for. He grasped this intuitively, while
marvelling secretly what this nameless trouble of
the girl's could be. His own interests and conflicts
had nearly effaced the records of his earlier
misgivings from his mind  but in any case he
would have shrunk from connecting them with
Muriel's present distress, almost as he would
have shrunk from an attempt to penetrate

the mystery in which she veiled the circumstances
that had led to her singular appeal.

"It is an old superstitious error," he said
slowly, after a minute's reflection, " to endeavour
to set up artificial barriers between ourselves
and our besetting sins."

"But if it seems the only hope of overcoming
? I have tried  otherwise, and I cannot
overcome."

Are you quite sure," demanded Irvine, " that
you are perfectly genuine in your wish to overcome
? Are you sure that there is no lurking
love of the temptation concealed behind all your
efforts to subdue it ? May not this be the secret
of your disinclination to erect the barrier you
speak of?"

Muriel had been pale before  at Irvine's
question she grew ashen. " I  don't know," she
answered faintly, grasping more tightly the rail
of the chair on which she leant,

Irvine saw that his probe had gone home. "If
there is any doubt in your mind on this point,
then the decision you have alluded to may bethe
means of resolving it. Then you are probably
right in making it a test question." He
paused, and then resumed less coldly, " I do not
know the exact details of your difficulty, and I

VOL. II. 34

can only point you to a general rule in consequence.
But this is all we usually need  it is
God's own way of dealing with us. So I may
safely say to you that, in a doubtful question of
right and wrong, the way that looks the hardest
is generally the safest. If there is a very pronounced
shrinking from anything which might
come between us and our besetting sins, depend
upon it, there lies the remedy for them ready to
our hand."

It would be very hard for me," Muriel murmured.
"But if it is the only way and it
would make other people happier, perhaps "

Irvine interrupted her brusquely. " Miss
Ferrars, you think far too much aJDOut happiness.
That is not the question, whether for ourselves
or others." His voice grew a little unsteady,
and he spoke as if arguing as much with himself
as with Muriel. " We have our allotted work todo
here, with which nothing  nothing, I say 
must be allowed to interfere ; and the finishing
work is necessary for every one. But
happiness is not necessary for any one, and we
can all afford to wait for it."

His fair face, aglow with earnestness, took a
high steadfast look which made it even in
Muriel's eyes, dim with her own sore trouble and

perplexity, as the face of an angel. He waited,
as if for her to speak, then added simply,
"Further than this I fear I cannot advise yon.
In the end it is always with ourselves that the
great decision rests."

Muriel lifted her head and answered clearly,
I thank you very much ; I have decided now, I
think. You have made my course quite plain
to me."

Irvine put out his hand, with a certain sense
of inward shame that his response to her appeal
should have been so cold and perfunctory, so
different from his eager guidance of her sister.
"I am glad to have been of any use," he responded.
" And now I must wish you good-bye.
I should like to see your sister before I go ; can
you tell me where to find her ? "

Lucy ? She is in the drawing-room, arranging
flowers ; " and with a few formal words they
parted, each equally ignorant of the other's
secret  she unconscious that he was engaged ina
conflict even harder than hers, he all unknowing
that the words just fallen from his lips had
gone to fix the destiny of three lives.

As soon as Muriel had left him, Irvine went
straight to Lucy. He found her, as he had been
told he should, in the dark, low-ceiled drawing-room

 a gracious, youthful figure in a blue
summer gown, her hands busy with a great
china bowl full of roses. The flowers she was
arranging dropped from her fingers as he came in,
all but one little half-opened crimson bud which
she continued to hold, twisting it mechanically
as she spoke. " You are going ? Is it time ? "

"It is not quite time. But I wanted to
speak to you for a few minutes before I left,
as well as to say good-bye. I have seen your
father and sister; and George, I believe, is
kindly going to drive me to the station "

He stopped for an instant, finding his task
even more difficult than he had anticipated, and
Lucy, with natural feminine distaste for trying
pauses, struck in with, " I am glad Alderton is
looking its best to-day, that you may carry away
a pleasant recollection of it. Perhaps we shall
see you again some day  some time when
George is at home "

"No," he returned, bracing himself for the
supreme effort. "I can never  I must never
come here again."

She could not refrain from a start as she
looked np at his pale, set face. Whatever she
had anticipated, it was nothing like this 
nothing so utterly hopeless and final.

I should like to make an explanation to you
in very few words," Irvine went on ; " that is, if
you will allow me. May I speak ? "

Certainly." Her heart beat faintly and her
throat felt dry and paralyzed, but she stood very
quietly and steadily before him. Only the rosebud
in her right hand quivered a little.

"Yesterday afternoon," said Irvine in his
level, passionless voice, "I found out that I loved
you, and I allowed you to see it. It is true, I
did not tell you so in words, but that is of small
consequence. You knew." He paused, awaiting
her answer.

''I  thought so," Lucy replied. She spoke
very low and unwillingly, as though the truth
were beings runs: from her.

I saw at once," continued the young man, less
calmly, "how unworthily I had acted towards
you. Not intentionally  there at least my conscience
acquits me. But I have been culpably
thoughtless and self-indulgent, and I do not seek
to excuse myself A man bound as I am has no
right to be careless."

He looked down and went on hurriedly, as if
repeating a lesson. " But in my overweening
pride I fancied myself secure. Years ago, whenas
I see now  it cost me nothing, I resolved to

form no ties which could come between me and
the work I had taken up. I called this a taking
up the cross  last night it was shown me to
have been neither more nor less than a piece of
self-pleasing. I did not fancy that a time would
ever come when I should be tempted to wish for
that which I renounced without pain ; I was
perfectly contented with the lot I had chosen.
It is different now."

It is different now ! Lucy, watching the
speaker's countenance, fathomed the greatness of
the difference in some measure.

"But I cannot go back from my resolve
because it costs me something now. Not even "
looking up  " for your sake, though I fear I
have brought sorrow on you as well. I dare
not."

There was a minute's silence. Overhead the
old clock on the staircase rang out its silver
chimes, followed by the deep resonant sound of
the striker announcing the hour; a blackbird
trilled merrily on the very window-sill ; a
sudden gust of soft wind blew aside the lowered
blinds and stirred the heap of roses on the table.

Was I mistaken ? " Irvine asked at length,
while the colour came and went in Lucy's downcast
face. " If so, pardon what I have said. In

that case I am glad to think No, I have sunk

so low that I am not sure I can honestly say
even that."

To tell a girl that you believe she is in love
vvith you, while announcing in the same breath
your unalterable determination never to make
her your wife, is a peculiar method of procedure ;
but then Philip Irvine was a very peculiar young-man.
I will not say that Lucy felt no promptings
of feminine pride urging her to deny his
assertions, but the poor little transparent fictions
withered unspoken before* the searching gaze of
her strange lover's truthful eyes. " There was no
mistake," she said softly.

Philip Irvine's face lit up for a moment, only
to grow more profoundly sad again. " Then
there is nothing I can do but ask your forgiveness,"
he replied.

My forgiveness ! " Lucy raised her face
suddenly, and spoke with a sob which had more
of triumph than of grief in it. " Forgiveness for
what will be the glory and the happiness of my
whole life ? There is trouble with it too, but I
can bear that for the sake of  the other. I am
not such a weak child as you think me. But I
know I am unworthy, and "

A passionate exclamation was on Irvine's lips,

but he forced it back. " Do you imagine," he
asked, " that I think you other than thrice worthy
any love I could offer you ? What separates us
is something quite different  a self-dedication
which I cannot set aside, and which, God helping
me, I hope I would not set aside even if I could.
I don't regret what has befallen me. I needed
the lesson, for I fancied it was easy to be a
Christian  I had to learn by experience that it
is the hardest thing in the world. But the
thought of having troubled you so deeply is very
bitter to me."

Perhaps I needed a lesson too," said the girl
humbly. "You said once that I led a butterfly's
life, but I think I shall never do that again now.
And you have taught me so much, and given me
new things to live for. You must not be too
sorry for me."

Perhaps, at that moment, he was the most to
be pitied of the two. Her thoughts hardly went
beyond the present, while he foresaw the future
only too plainly. Nevertheless there was a new
light in his eyes as he answered, '' You have
made me happier than I deserve to be by telling
me this. My prayer for you henceforward must
be that you may remember the teachings  and
forget the teacher."

No' she replied in her childlike fashion,
please not ! I don't want to forget. And so
long as I am patient, there can be no harm in
remembering."

I suppose not," Irvine acquiesced. " Not to
throw off the burden, but to bear it uncomplainingly,
is the highest achievement, after all.
And if we could see it," he added more firmly,
this trial may be an honour in itself. When
God counts us worthy, then He calls us to
greater sacrifices. In this world, at least, I
think it is His way of saying, ' Friend, come up
higher.' "

Lucy looked up into her lover's noble face.
"I can't reach up to you," she said timidly, "but
I will try to live as you would have me."

You will not let me ask your forgiveness ? "

No. I have nothing to forgive."

' And you are glad of my decision ? You don't
wish me to do otherwise ? You would only
despise me if, after putting my hand to the
plough, I were to turn back ? "

Lucy hesitated a moment. Then, " I can't say
it ! " she broke out. " I know you have done
right, I feel it  perhaps .if you had done otherwise,
I should have felt almost disappointed in
you. But I cannot tell you I am glad. I have

disappointed you in this, I know," she added,
with tears in her eyes ; " but I am not like you,
remember. I am only trying to begin, and " 
with a quick, hot flush  " you see, I  I love you
so much."

Philip Irvine was a determined man, but for a
moment all his battle was to fight again, and he
needed all his strength and determination to
win it.

'' Since you have forgiven me," he said at last,
taking the little hand that held the rose, and
clasping it closely for a minute, " I can only say,
may God forgive me also, and bless you, Lucy 1
Good-bye." He turned to go ; he had reached
the door before she could make answer 

"Good-bye. But  for all time to come  is
there never to be anything for us two to hope
for again ? "

Irvine turned with his hand upon the lock, all
his iron composure gone. " Surely yes," he said
falteringly. " He who made us what we are
knows how bitter a thing this parting is  and
when time is over, there is all eternity to come.
Surely in God's time we shall meet again  but
not here."

He passed out and closed the door behind him 
closed it on her, and youth, and love, and all his

brief fortnight's dream of happiness ; closed it
deliberately and irrevocably. It was all over.

All over ? Not so, I think. " iVo mernovie
liveth in the liearte soe long or soe sweetly aa that
of a love slayne hy honour'' one wrote centuries
ago  and it is precisely in a pure strong heart like
his that such fragrance lingers longest and most
gladly. Oftentimes in years to come, when
heart-sick with loneliness and disappointment,
worn with apparently fruitless battle against
ever-growing evil, or craving human sympathy
amidst the sneers and slanders of a world that
knows not such men as he, even as of old it
knew not One their Master, Philip Irvine will
recall the face of his little love as she looked upto
him through her tears that far-away summer
day, and hear again the girlish accents which
faltered, 'I love you so much.' And the recollection
of that trustful look, the memory of those
tender words, will fall upon his bruised heart and
lonely spirit " like drives and breathes from the
heaven inhere (surely) there is laide upper for him
the soothe of that slayne love."

"AMICI, COMOEDTA Finite EST."

Now at the last gasp of love's latest breath,
When his pulse failing, passion speechless lies,
"When faith is kneeling by his bed of death,
And innocence is closing up his eyes,
Now if thou would'st, when all have given him over.
From death to life thou might'st him yet recover ! "

Drayton.

Ah, Paul 1 how are you ? Excuse me while I
finish this. My brother, Mr. Wentworth  Mr.
Arlingham."

Time  a raw, foggy, cheerless afternoon in
November; place  a sparsely tenanted room ina
great London club; persons present  Philip
Irvine, busily engaged in writing, and Geoffrey
Arlingham, standing beside him awaiting the
completion of the official-looking document
which Irvine was filling up. To them, as the
old play books have it, Paul Wentworth  in a

desperate hurry, and evidently not best pleased
at finding his half-brother pre-engaged.

He responded, however, with tolerable graciousness
to the salutation of his new acquaintance,
and proceeded to enlarge on the shortcomings of
the weather with all an Englishman's customary
force and fervour. Arlingham, Arlingham ?  the
name had a familiar sound about it.

London is odious in November, I grant you,"
he said in reply to Jack's opprobrious remarks
concerning the climate of the metropolis. "In
all other months of the year, August perhaps
excepted, I love my London, but in November
there are moments when I go very near to
hating her. A fortnight of perpetual fog is
enough to make a man regret that he was ever
born a Briton."

The London fogs are beginning to spread
themselves over a great deal of the surrounding
country," Jack returned, " but I am glad to say
they haven't got down to Holmshire yet. In
our part of the world we get a clear atmosphere
all the year round, though as the crow flies weare
barely thirty miles from Charing Cross."

Ah  Holmshire," said Wentworth reflectively.
"What part?"

Jack concluded Irvine's brother must be a

great swell of some sort, since he considered
himself entitled to put questions in so brusque
a manner. "Well, West Holmshire you would
call it, I suppose," he answered. " I live about
five miles from Milford, if you happen to know
where that is." He spoke a little defiantly,
under the influence of an idea that this lofty-mannered
individual might perhaps profess a
lofty ignorance of the whereabouts of so insignificant
a market town as Milford.

Wentworth did nothing of the kind. " I know
it ; I have passed through it once or twice," he
said. " It's a pretty sylvan country thereabouts,
beautiful with the kind of beauty which is restful
to one's eyes. Not a neighbourhood that
people would ever flock to see, but one which
might be extremely pleasant to live in, I should
think, and that is more than can be said of
many places made eminently to be looked at.
Being so near town, too, the general mind must
be kept astir. It is in the remoter country
districts that men get so localized."

I don't know about the stir," said Jack, with
a laugh. " Holmshire people are rather a stupid
lot. They have no enterprise. Why, it's been
the hardest work for two winters past to keep
a pack of hounds going at all ! Men about us

seem to have lost all taste for sport, and this
autumn the election made matters worse  we
had nothing but politics from morning till night.
Even all the ladies for miles round could talk of
nothing else. One would have thought that if
Ireland succeeded in retains: a Parliament, the
world would instantly fall to pieces ! "

"the world' is a vague expression," observed
Wentworth, looking particularly grave. "It
generally means just so much  or so little  of
our environment as we can take in and grasp.
Therefore it would be quite possible for something
 say a moral earthquake  to occur, which
should make one man's bigger Avorld go very
decidedly to pieces while leaving another's little
circle quite unharmed. Hence the manifest
advantage of narrowing one's sphere of interest."

He spoke with so innocent an air and in such
apparent good faith that Jack was fairly puzzled,
though he had an uncomfortable semi-consciousness
that his new acquaintance was as it were
playing ball with him, and getting some private
fun out of the process. It was a way Wentworth
had now and then, especially when, for
some reason best known to himself, he wished
to punish any one publicly. " I can parry most
of Wentworth's weapons," exclaimed an angry

victim on one occasion to himself, when he
awoke tardily to the fact that he had been made
to look foolish, " but I hate his toy stiletto."
Why this incomprehensible person should have
been moved to produce that much-disliked
instrument on first encountering Mr. Arlingham
was a mystery hard to be understood.

Jack laughed again. Not feeling capable of
fighting Went worth with his own weapons, he
did not think it prudent to inquire too closely
into the inner signification of that gentleman's
remarks. So he merely said, by way of rejoinder,
" Your brother has got hold of me on a
semi-political pretext now. He is drawing up
a petition he wants me to introduce into our
neighbourhood, and push forward, and  and get
signatures for, you know."

I understand," said Wentworth. " What is
the object in view ? "

"It has something to do with a vast scheme
of emigration that he is interested in and wants
to make State-directed. I don't understand the
details, but it seems all right. And Irvine is
very anxious about it, as I dare say you know."

"His anxieties are legion, as is natural in a
man who has taken all humanity to be his
family," Wentworth replied. He and Arlington

had moved to a little distance from Irvine,
,so that the latter was out of reach of their conversation.
" In this particular case, I believe he
thinks the Government will not be moved to act
except by a general appeal from the country,
and that is why he is working specially hard in
the matter. I am glad to find he is meeting
with support in the country districts. You area
magistrate, I presume, Mr. Arlingham ? "
Jack assented. " Ah, I thought so."

The office of justice of the peace is an ancient
and honourable office. Therefore, why one
man should feel insulted because another man
supposed him to hold it, is impossible to determine.
Yet Jack Arlingham did feel himself
insulted by the observation.

Fortunately at this moment Irvine brought
his task to a conclusion. " I am sorry to have
kept you both waiting," he said, coming up with
a folded paper. " You will find the draft just as
we agreed upon it, Arlingham."

Oh, I didn't agree at all," said Jack good-humouredly.
"I had no opinions to bring
forward, and I was very glad to let you and
Ferrars fight it out between you."

Well, I am much obliged to you for taking
the trouble to come here about it," said Irvine.
VOL. II. 35

Remember me to Ferrars ; I suppose you will
go down together. By the way, I hope I have
not made you too late for your train."

I am not going back to Eversleigh to-night.
Muriel is in town for a week, staying at her
aunt's, and I have got to present myself at a big
dinner there this evening, worse luck ! and be
introduced to all the relations, and criticized all
round. Good-bye, Irvine. Think of me with
compassion ! "

I will endeavour to do so," said Irvine, with
a smile that had a tinge of bitterness in it, as
the men shook hands. Somewhat to Arlingham's
surprise, Paul Wentworth abruptly offered his
hand likewise.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Arlingham. Glad to
have made your acquaintance."

Jack murmured something incoherent about
reciprocating the gladness, and retired rather
gratified at Wentworth's sudden cordiality. He
had resented the unprovoked sarcasms addressed
to himself, but he felt unwilling admiration for
the man who had launched them.

There was nothing particularly cordial, however,
in the look which Wentworth directed at
his retreating figure, or in the tone of the
question he put to his brother as soon as the

young man was out of earshot, " Who and what
is your interesting friend ? "

Hardly to be called a friend. I knew him
at Oxford ; he was a private pupil of mine fora
few months before he took his degree, and he
is very intimate with young Ferrars, who has
been working with us at Cum Street a good
deal, on and off. They are near neighbours at
home."

He mentioned that he was a Holmshire man,"

Yes, he has a small place called Eversleigh,
between Milford and Alderton. I believe he is
a good sort of fellow, though not particularly
clever."

"The latter point admits of no question,"
Wentworth remarked. " Why did he invoke
your pity in such moving terms ? "

He is suffering from a fit of boyish shyness
at the prospect of being presented to his future
wife's relations. He is engaged to be married 
to one of the Miss Ferrars of Alderton," added
Irvine, looking keenly at his brother, as a flash
of recollection crossed his memory.

His scrutiny was not repaid. " Poor fellow ! "
observed Wentworth calmly, flecking a speck of
dust off his coat-sleeve. " I am sorry for him ;
that process of being trotted out for inspection

is a severe ordeal for ingenuous youth. Which
sister is he going to marry ? "

The elder one. You know her, don't you ?
At least, I heard her say she had met you in
Switzerland."

"I remember her perfectly. A pretty girl,
but a little wanting in animation. In those
days  it is more than a year since I met her 
she went in for intellect, and had yearnings
after the Higher Criticism, which I should think
is hardly Mr. Arlingham's line, if I gauge him at
all correctly. No doubt her tastes have changed
with the revolving moons. When does the
wedding come off?"

"Almost immediately, I believe. George
Ferrars has got an appointment in India, and
sails soon after Christmas, and they want to
have the wedding over before he goes. By the
way, perhaps you would not object to release me
from the engagement I entered into last summer,
about not mentioning our relationship to the
Ferrars ? I have found it an inconvenient
promise to keep, and I fear I broke the spirit of
it by introducing young Arlingham to sou to-day."

"That is of no consequence at all," returned
Wentworth lightly. " The reason which induced
me to make such a request ceased to exist long

ago. It  expired, in fact, and so the whole
thing slipped my memory. Consider yourself
free of that embargo for ever." He set his foot
on an unlucky, drowsy bluebottle fly which was
crawling near, and crushed it ruthlessly, as if he
took pleasure in the operation. "And now to
my errand. I came to ask if you will dine with
us to-night ? It is not a party  only three
other people besides yourself"

"I am not quite sure if I can manage it,"
Irvine responded doubtfully. "That is  unless
Alice would excuse my leaving directly after
dinner ? She has come back, I suppose ? "

"Yes, she arrived just before I came out.
She wished me to say she hoped you would
come. And she will not mind your leaving
early ; she knows your ways of old."

"Then I am happy to accept her invitation.
And how is she ? It seems a long time since
she went away."

"Three months. Quite a formidable separation
for man and wife," said Wentworth, with a
laugh that was not particularly mirthful. *' Alice
has been making excellent use of her time since
August. She has been to the Tyrol, Greece,
Norway  no end of places ; finishing up with
a fortnight's yachting on the west coast of

Scotland. Well, the calls of business are imperative
; good-bye for the present." And with
a nod he was gone, leaving his brother lost in
speculation as to whether Paul were really the
most variable and incomprehensible of men, or
only  a very consummate amateur actor ?

Actor or not, Wentworth's start of surprise
when, at the conclusion of a specially long and
hard day's work, he entered his study at home
and found his wife standing on the hearthruo-,
was far too natural to have been simulated.
Alice ! " he exclaimed in genuine astonishment.

Alice turned round at the exclamation. She
made a pleasant picture in the dancing firelight
which illuminated the spacious room, and casta
fitful glow on oak and ebony, bronze and hric-
d-hrac  now revealing in a flash the soft, warm
colouring of a Claude that hung above the bookcase,
now touching the heavy Oriental embroidery
of a Persian portiere into fantastic brilliancy 
and of all the pretty things gathered there, she
looked decidedly the prettiest. The heavy carved
mantelpiece of blackened oak formed a delightful
background to her graceful head with its
coronet of bright hair ; the leaping flames created
all manner of delicious lights and shadows, fit to
be the envy and the despair of any artist with

a true eye for colour, on the folds of her tea-gown
of deep red plush ; and her hands, on which, as
the firelight rose and fell, many diamonds might
be seen sparkling and scintillating, looked even
whiter and smaller than usual under her wide
hanging sleeves. The smile with which she
greeted her husband put the finishing touch to
this charming study in chiaroscuro.

You are particularly late to-night," she said.
''Of course, just because I wished you to be
early. I was afraid I should have to go to
dress before you came in, and I wanted so
much to see you. I haven't yet congratulated
you about the appointment, and I am really so
pleased."

Wentworth's heart beat suddenly faster. How
long was it since he had heard Alice's voice
address him in that tone ? Was it possible that

after all ? Yet he answered composed

enough, " I am very glad if you are pleased. I
fancied from your letter that you were gratified
at the news."

I am a great deal more than gratified," she
replied ; " I am simply delighted, and I am sure
you more than deserve all your honours. They
were chanting a perfect panegyric in your praise
at Killiecraig. In fact "  laying her arm caressingly

on his shoulder, and j must touching his dark
cheek with her lips  " I am quite proud of you,
sir!"

The unwonted tenderness, the unexpected
caress broke down in a moment the barrier
slowly and painfully erected by sixteen years
of persistent coldness, and Wentworth forgot in
the dawn of a wild and chimerical hope that this
was any other than Alice Carew, his early love,
as he had pictured her to himself in the days of
implicit faith and measureless devotion. Was
he on the point of realizing at last that old unforgotten
dream ? He clasped his wife in his
arms. " What did you mean by that, Alice ? "
he asked breathlessly.

If there was one thing that Mrs. Wentworth
disliked more than another, it was violent
emotion of any kind. She shrank from an outbreak
of feeling as some women shrink from the
sight of horrible physical suffering or deformity
with repugnance, with positive loathing. She
reproached herself for having foolishly provoked
the present disagreeable manifestation, which she
greatly resented, but as she was particularly
anxious not to quarrel with her husband just
then, she looked up smilingly into his face and
answered sweetly, " I meant what I said, fully.

I think you have done yourself great credit, and
I feel extremely proud of your new distinction."

Nothing more ? " urged Wentworth, feeling
his heart sink at her light words.

What more should I be likely to mean ? "
Alice inquired. She was a little afraid of her
husband in this mood, and still more afraid that
he was going to make what she called '' a scene."

What more ? " he repeated. " A great deal
more, Alice, if you meant to tell me  as I
imagined  that you will forgive and forget all
the miserable history of these last years, and let
us begin a new life together. I know I have
offended you most grievously, but oh, my darling,
if you had not been so cold and hard to me, all
would have been different. I have always loved
you, even when you made me so wretched that
I almost persuaded myself I hated you. Cannot
you forgive and "

At this point Alice disengaged herself gently
but quite decidedly from her husband's arms.
My dear Paul," she said, putting one hand on
his, " what nonsense this is ! You must be ill,
or overtired, or something ; if you were a woman
instead of a man, I should say you were hysterical.
It is too ridiculous for people who have
been married nearly seventeen years to begin

getting up scenes like a pair of quarrelsome
lovers. I am not angry about anything ; I have
no complaint to make. On the contrary, I am
feeling particularly pleased and amiable. Why
on earth choose such a moment for raking up
old grievances which had much better be allowed
to sleep ? You are really very unwise."

The light had faded from Went worth's eyes,
but his brief fit of madness was not quite over.
Are you so unforgiving, dear ? " he pleaded.
If you would only hear "

No ! " Alice interrupted, throwing up her
head and speaking more sharply, " there I protest.
I am a very tolerant person, I believe ; I
don't think my worst enemy would accuse me
of being a jealous or an exacting wife, but I do
object to receiving confessions. I must beg you
to spare me that infliction at least."

Pardon me," said Wentworth, with ashen
lips, "but I think, whatever my errors, you
might have trusted me to say nothing at
variance with the respect I owe you. Perhaps
you imagine that I was weaving a romance when
I told you just now that it was your own
indifference which brought about our first
estrangement, and that through it all "

You have been madly in love with me ! "

she interposed ironically. " Please don't let us
have any more false sentiment  I hate it unfeignedly,
and it does sit so badly upon you !
No, my dear Paul; allow me to judge you a
little more correctly than you judge yourself.
If you have been madly in love with any one
during the past fifteen years  which I take
leave to doubt  it certainly was not with me."

Wentworth realized at last with entire completeness
how hopeless was an} appeal to his
wife's heart; as well, he saw now, might he
have flung himself against a wall of rock.
No' he said, with a return to his old bitter
tone, "I believe you are right, Alice. It could
not have been with you. With some ideal of
mine that looked like you, perhaps, but with
you yourself  decidedly not. Perhaps it is as
well that I should have discovered the absurd
mistake of which I have been guilty. A comedy
of errors grows wearisome after a while."

His words galled her, cold as she was. In her
mortification at having lost him, or her power
over him  for it was somehow borne in upon her
as he spoke that she had lost both once for all 
she was nearer for a moment to loving him than
she had ever been in her life before. But just
then, unluckily, the reason which had impelled

her to seek an interview with her husband
recurred to her mind, and swamped every other
consideration. The feeble impulse that might
have carried her towards him died away, giving
place to a more pressing interest, and she only
touched his arm playfully, remarking pleasantly
by way of answer, " Come, don't let us quarrel
this first evening, when I have come down with
the express intention of saying only pretty
things to you. You have been excessively rude,
you know, but I will be magnanimous and say
nothing further about that."

'' I beg your pardon," said Wentworth stiffly.
He fell silently into his favourite position by
the mantelpiece, while Alice sank into an armchair
opposite, and leaned back placidly looking
at him, with her slender fingers lying crossed in
her lap and the firelight playing becomingly on
her rich dress and her bright hair. What a
picture she made ! thought the man whose life
she had helped to ruin morally, and whose heart
she had once gone very near to breaking. But
he added to himself, " A picture, and nothing
more ; as beautiful and as unfeeling as the
Guercino over the doorway."

Finding that her husband showed no intent



tion of breaking the awkward silence which prevailed,

Mrs. Wentworth boldly took the initiative.
You have not told me how you got on at the
banquet," she observed.

Wentworth might and did feel profound
astonishment at his wife's airy dismissal of a
subject involving the issues of life and death
to his mind, and at her utter insensibility to the
storm which had shaken his nature to its foundations,
but he was too proud to do anything
but follow her lead. "Oh, particularly well,"
he replied carelessly. "Every one was very
pleasant, and as Crichton took the chair, I was
very delicately incensed. By the way, I suppose
you met the Maitland Crichton in Argyllshire ? "

Here was the very opening Alice wanted.
She was not slow to seize it. " Yes, they joined
us off Mull, and spent a week on board the
Sunflower, and then Lady Fergus, Mrs. Maitland
Crichton mother, insisted on our all coming
to her for two days at Killiecraig Castle. I
never enjoyed two days more in my life : such
magnificent Highland hospitality ! All the
luxury and refinement of the south, with a
unique touch of romance and local colouring in
addition. And Lady Fergus is a perfect hostess."

"I met her at dinner once somewhere, and
she seemed to be a clever woman, with a c:ood
deal of artistic taste."

I thought she gave evidence of good taste, of
course, for she took a violent fancy to me," Alice
returned, laughing a little  a rather forced,
nervous laugh. " We struck up quite a friendship,
and she actually proposed my joining her
expedition to Paris next month. Quite seriously ;
it was a bond fide invitation. She heads a party
of about ten to spend four weeks at the Bristol,
staying over New Year's Day. When she first
asked me to go with her, I assure you I did not
know whether to feel most surprised or flattered."

Have you accepted the invitation ? "

Well, I did not refuse it. I am not positively
pledged to go, you understand."

"Oh, I understand ! " Went worth retorted
quickly. " I understand several things which I
hardly knew how to account for a minute ago,
but which are as clear as daylight now. There
is a difficulty in your way as regards money, I
suppose ? Otherwise you might easily have
entered into a more binding engagement with
Lady Fergus, if it pleased you to do so."

Alice winced in the darkness. The room was
now full of ghostly shadows through which
carven cabinets and broidered hangings loomed
faint or grim, for the fire had burnt hollow and
the sinking embers gave out but little light.

It will cost something, of course' she murmured
almost timidly.

It stands to reason that it must cost a good
deal. But I do not wish to prevent your going,
if you specially desire to go."

That is very nice of you," Alice responded.
I own I do very much desire to keep up my
friendship with Lady Fergus, and I will not
make any very exorbitant demand upon the
exchequer."

Anything in reason can be managed, I daresay,
only you must remember that there is a
point beyond which you cannot go." He stirred
the fire, and looked at his watch. " Do you know
how late it is ?  twenty minutes to eight. You
will scarcely have time to get ready for dinner."

"I must make haste," she answered, but she
did not seem disposed to carry her words into
effect. She made her way slowly across the
room, hesitating once or twice, and glancing
back at the motionless fio-ure on the hearth roof.
Was she reluctant to go away ? She had gained
all she came for ; was it possible that in the
very moment of success she was vaguely discontented
at having won her point so easily 
half disappointed that her husband had made no
objection to her leaving him again so soon ?

At the door she halted again for an instant.
Was it only feminine artifice, an instinct of
courtesy, or  as Wentworth was fain to hope
afterwards  some faint stirring of softer feeling,
which prompted her to say, "I think you are
ever so good about this trip to Paris, Paul. I
am really very much obliged to you."

He started slightly, for he had not known she
was still there. A bitter rejoinder was on his
lips, but something seemed to check him and
urge him not to give it voice. A very little
later, he was glad to remember that he had left
it unuttered. *'I hope you may enjoy it," he
answered, with half a sigh; and Alice passed out.

Six weeks later, a new year had broken upon
the world. It was an ideal New Year's Day.
The snow lay thick and soft and pure on the
Holmshire hills ; the roads were hard and crisp
to the tread ; the trees were clothed with a white
and dazzling vesture more beautiful even than
their summer dress ; and the last rays of the low
winter sun looked through the great west window
of the library at Eversleigh Grange on a pretty
domestic scene. Muriel Arlingham, a bride of
three weeks' standing, with that broad unfamiliar
gold circlet conspicuous on her left hand, was

hovering about a pretty little table laden with
flowers, and arranging the vases which stood
upon it in different fanciful ways, while her
young husband knelt before the fire, actively
superintending the education of a promising
fox-terrier puppy.

Now he'll do it, Muriel, see ! What will you
do for the queen, sir ? Good dog  no ! Little
brute ! that's the fiftieth time he has moved at
the last moment."

He'll never do it," said Muriel, with feminine
lack of patience.

He shall  if I keep him at it till midnight !
Two mortal hours I've been drilling him now,"
quoth Jack in wrath.

Do you really think it is worth while to take
so much trouble about it ? " inquired his wife
quietly.

I'm sure I don't know, darling, but anyhow
I don't choose to be beaten, after having once
begun. Of course you would have given up the
job in disgust long ago  women never can
manatee a do:. There ! the little wretch is
keeping one eye open to look at you now !
Just move a Utile, there's a good child."

I'll turn my chair round, and bury myself
in the Times," answered Muriel complaisantly,

VOL. II. 36

suiting the action to the word. " So  now
neither master nor pupil can say I am disturbing
the course of instruction'

You can tell me if there is any news,"
observed Jack presently. " I haven't looked at
a paper to-day myself*'

"There is nothing very particular here, I think.
Things seem much the same on the Continent ;
rather a better prospect of peace, perhaps. And
the report of Lord Lyster's resignation is confirmed.
That is a pity."

Anything about the boat-race ? Down,
Racket ! down, sir ! Lie still this moment ! "

No  yes. Where is it ? Oh, here. ' Mr.
Langland has injured his knee by a fall on the
ice, and it is feared he will be unable to row this
term.' "

Horrid sell ! " muttered Jack. " Why was the
fellow such an ass as to skate, with so much
depending upon him, if he couldn't do it well
enough to keep upright ? Now, Racket, what
will you do for the queen ? Ah, bravo ! well
done, good dog ! Look here, Muriel ! "

No response. " Muriel ! " said her husband
again.

She started round to where the little terrier
lay stretched out stiff and motionless, simulating

death after the most approved pattern of canine
loyalty. What was this curious change which
had passed over her face in the space of a few
seconds ?

Whatever its cause, Jack did not appear to
notice it. "He has learnt his Lesson perfectly at
last' he remarked in triumph, gazing admiringly
at the dog. " Now you shall do it again for

your mistress to see, Racket. What will you

Muriel, you're not attending ! "

Oh yes, I am attending, dear," she answered
hurriedly. " How nicely he does it. Jack ! Good
Racket ! capital dog ! you do your tutor great
credit. Come and be rewarded with biscuits
immediately."

She was down on her knees in another moment,
laughing and playing with the puppy. Why
should she not laugh and play ? Of what possible
concern or interest to her could be the three
lines in the Times obituary which had accidentally
attracted her eye as she glanced down
the columns in search of news ?

December 29th, at the Hotel Bristol, Paris, the
result of injuries received in a fall from her
horse on the previous day, Alice, the wife of
Paul Wentworth, Esq., Q.C., aged 35,"

THE SCENE CHANGES.

"Was she content, content with ocean's sound
Which clashed its mocking infinite around
One thirsty for a little love ? "

E. B. Browning.

Twice again New Year's Day had come and
gone, and now winter was fast passing into
spring. The London flower-girls were everywhere
crying violets and primroses " only one
penny the bunch," and holding out the first
golden Lent lilies to tempt the passers-by ; the
Park borders were gay with many-hued crocuses,
and overhead the horse-chestnuts and plantains
were pushing out great buds and showing here
and there a delicate shoot of vivid green. The
sunshine was brilliant; the wind, for a March
wind, not specially keen; and the multitudes
who had flocked early to town, either because
the duties of the session summoned them thither,

or simply because they desired to enjoy that
foretaste of the season which comes before
Easter, seemed to be finding Lent in the
metropolis a very tolerable time of year.

Among these harbingers of fashion was young
Mrs. Arlingham, who had suddenly, and almost
to her own bewilderment, become a figure of
some importance in that great small world of
society to which her very name had been unknown
a year before. When she looked round
her beautiful house at Rutland Gate, and reminded
herself that she was a wealthy woman, a
generally admired beauty, and  as she said with
a touch of self-scorning  "quite a person of
social consequence altogether," she found it hard
to realize her identity with the Muriel Ferrars of
three years ago. But she did not really care to
institute the comparison. It is only the very
happy who can afibrd to indulge in close self-scrutiny
and prolonged retrospect.

And Muriel Arlingham was not happy, although
most people considered that she possessed
everything necessary for happiness. She was
young and endowed with admirable health ;
she was rich enough to surround herself with
luxuries and delights such as at one time she
had never even dreamt of enjoying; she was

beautiful and clever, and knew that her beauty
and cleverness were every day more admired
and appreciated by people well qualified to
judge of both gifts. In short, Muriel was on the
high road to become a social success ; but she
found that her growing triumphs left her heart
still full of unsatisfied cravings. Through all the
texture of her daily existence ran the fatal flaw
of a mistaken marriage.

That her marriage had been a mistake she
discovered before she had been Arlingham's
wife six months. From the first, she had not
deceived him or herself as to the nature of her
own calm affection, but she had been terribly
deceived in the nature of his regard for her.
This was scarcely to be wondered at. How
could she guess that his natural obstinacy, and a
set determination not to yield to his mother's
threats and entreaties, had supplied one of the
principal motives for his persistent suit, or that
simple pique at her manifest indifference to his
desertion was the chief reason that had brought
him finally to her feet ? And then her estimate
of his character had been erroneous throughout.
She had never suspected the profound depths of
self-seeking which his frank manner concealed so
well, or the utter want of feeling which really

lay at the root of his lack of social tact and
courtesy, and of his frequent disregard of those
little amenities which do so much towards softening
and sweetening human intercourse. These
shortcomings she had always set down to the
score of his simplicity or of his inability to
express the sympathy he must surely feel  never
to the real cause, an absolute hardness of nature
that made him careless how he wounded his
neighbours' susceptibilities. And it was not till
after she became his wife that she learnt that the
outspokenness which was often so ruthless of
other people's feelings proceeded from sheer want
of heart, and that the lack of consideration in
small things, which she had deemed a venial failing,
was the result of a selfishness so unblushing-that
it never troubled itself about conventional
disguises.

Of course Muriel did not tell herself all this
in so many words. She refused resolutely and
loyally to see the truth for a long time, just as
she resolutely and loyally strove to blind herself
to another fact which was every day growing
more unmistakably clear  the fact that Jack's
first ardent love was waning and lessening, until
it had well-nigh sunk into mere tolerant indifference.
Gradually, however, she had to

admit silently that all the hopes she had
cherished of being her young husband's close
friend and helpmate were at an end, that her
influence with him was steadily declining, and
that the more desperately she strove to retain
his affection, the faster did it seem to slip from
her hold. The evil day came at last, when she
had to acknowledge to herself that her venture
had failed. The simple honest love in which
she had sought refuge after the heart-breaking
experience of her early girlhood had likewise
proved itself a miserable illusion and an ignoble
cheat ; she had staked her last card in the game
of life, and lost it. She had given away her
future as well as her present, and received less
than nothing in return.

And in her case there was not even a past to
which she could look back. Her past was buried
for ever, and she refused even to glance at its dishonoured
grave. If its ghost did for a moment
start up before her on reading the announcement
of Alice Wentworth's sudden death, the spectre
was quickly exorcised, and was never suffered to
appear again. Her heart Alas empty; the idol
she had once set up there had been cast out, and
she only asked for a little love and kindness to
fill the great void left after that terrible cleansing

of the temple. Wentworth had done his best
to spoil her life ; but it is possible that a tender
hand, even had it been a clumsy one, might yet
have been able to gather together the fragments
of faith and hope which he had recklessly
shattered, and rebuild the ruin after a fashion.
Cruelly as Jack had disappointed her, Muriel
would have forgiven him everything for the sake
of a little love. It was a bitter moment when
she discovered that he had finally ceased to love
her.

The truth was, she wearied him. The intellectual
and moral superiority that had fascinated
him in the queen of his almost hopeless fancy
annoyed and oppressed him in his wife. By
merely consenting to become his wife, Muriel had
lost half her charm for him  as soon as the idol
leant towards him from its pedestal, he ceased
to worship it. The prize he had won seemed
hardly worth so much trouble and so many
sacrifices after all, and the first spark of discontent
in his mind was fostered and fanned
into flame by his mother. Mrs. Arlingham had
affected to reconcile herself to her son's marriage,
but in her heart she had never forgiven it, and
under all her surface frankness and good nature
lay concealed a hearty and vindictive dislike

to her daughter-in-law. She still continued to
make one of the Eversleigh household, knowing-well
that if she removed her influence to a
distance, the power she still exercised over her
son would be greatly weakened, and if all else
had gone smoothly, her presence at Eversleigh
would have been fatal to Muriel's hopes of
happiness. Never did she suffer Jack to forget
what he had resigned, or might suppose himself
to have resigned, in order to marry Muriel
Ferrars ; and as the companionship of his young
wife grew burdensome to him, Jack was easily
brought to see how dire had been his error.
And Muriel's companionship did become very
burdensome to her husband before many months
were over. He became uneasily sensible of his
own intellectual failings in her presence, contemptuous
of the interests which engaged her
thoughts and were either meaningless or tiresome
to him, less and less inclined to seek her
sympathy on those subjects which were at first
their common meeting ground. It was in vain
that Muriel bravely threw aside the pursuits she
loved best, and gave herself up entirely to those
which interested her husband. Whether he
surmised and resented the effort that such an
attempt cost her, or whether his mother, perceiving

the little rift between the two, exerted
herself to widen the breach, it is difficult to say,
but certainly poor Muriel's endeavours to heal it
availed only to increase the original evil. There
was no quarrel between her and Jack, no open
estrangement, yet every day they drifted further
apart. Soon Muriel found herself necessary to
no one at Eversleigh. If Jack had a matter of
business on hand, he consulted his mother ; if he
wished to relax what he was pleased to call his
mind by indulging in conversation on the topics
dearest to his heart  vivid anticipations of
mighty bags in the autumn, or regretful recollections
of brilliant runs enjoyed in his more
opulent bachelor days  he did not address
himself to his wife, but to his cousin Dorothy
Cochrane, a far more appreciative listener, who
knew how to sit a horse in sportswoman-like
fashion, adored all his terriers, and thought a
2:ood afternoon's rattine the best fun in the
world.

Matters might have gone on thus for an indefinite
length of time, but for a great change
which came over this young hero's fortunes.
One fine morning, about a year after his marriage,
Jack awoke to find himself a rich man. By one
of those romantic freaks of Fortune which now

and then astonish this prosaically ordered world,
there had died in Australia a mighty sheep-farmer,
leaving behind him a great heap of gold
with no heir forthcoming to claim it, until it
was discovered that he had been a distant cousin
of the late Mr. Geoffrey Arlingham, and that the
younger Geoffrey, now reigning at Eversleigh,
was his heir-at-law.

Jack the small and struggling country gentleman
and Jack the absolute master of many
thousands a year in shares and bonds were two
very different men, it appeared. As soon as he
found himself pecuniarily independent, he showed
his mother plainly, not to say harshly, that the
days of her ascendency were over for ever, intimating
plainly that henceforward neither her wishes
nor her advice would have any weight with him.
As Mrs. Arlingham had sown, so she reaped.
There had never been much real affection existing
between her and her son, although the tie of
a common interest had bound them so closely
together all their lives ; and when that tie
snapped, her hold on Jack was gone.

Muriel, on the other hand, suddenly rose to
renewed importance in her husband's ejes. He
had conceived a secret ambition to emerge from
his modest sphere in Holmshire, and to make

himself a footing in London society, and he
looked to her to help him in his scheme. Of
course he did not expect to accomplish this
daring: flight without extraneous assistance. But
his mother had a distant relative who might
lend this assistance if she chose, and although
Lady EUesthorpe had never pretended to like
Jack, she had been pleased on one or two occasions
to look with extreme graciousness on his
lovely young wife.

To this lady, then, did Jack betake himself
for counsel and help in his enterprise, and received
both in a measure beyond his hopes.
Lady EUesthorpe had taken a fancy to Muriel,
and liked the idea of launching a new and totally
unknown beauty on society  especially as the
beauty was already provided with a husband,
and she need not therefore dread a future plague
of ineligible or fortune-hunting suitors. Her
lord was a Cabinet Minister who scarcely ever
saw his wife except in public, her own daughters
were all married, and Muriel promised to be at
once an interest and an amusement to her.

On the whole, Muriel could not have fallen
into better hands than those of the clever, kindly
woman of the world who became her chief friend
and protectress, for Lady Ellesthorpe's social

gifts rested on a firm basis of right principle,
and her heart was as sound and warm as her
intellect was shrewd and polished. She had a
deep sense of honour and a high ideal of womanly
perfection, which made her a particularly safe
guide for a young and inexperienced creature
like Muriel, and her first slight fancy for her
"protegee soon ripened into genuine affection.
Her penetrating eyes speedily discovered Muriel's
secret dissatisfaction and loneliness of heart, and
though she took the utmost care that this discovery
of hers should remain unguessed by
Muriel herself, yet she often comforted and
braced her by her unspoken sympathy, and that
too when seemingly engaged only in choosing
furniture, sketching out entertainments, or planning
designs for gowns and bonnets. In the
same unobtrusive manner did she watch over
her after she was fairly started on her social
career, pointing out the rocks ahead, and guiding
her over shoals and quicksands which a less
experienced pilot might have neglected to indicate.
To Lady Ellesthorpe's wise counsels, quite
as much as to her own natural gifts, was due the
undoubted triumph which attended Muriel's first
entry into the great world.

I am not going to deny that Muriel enjoyed

this triumph of hers. She was still very young,
and at two and twenty it is always pleasant to
find one's self generally admired. Perhaps if she
had been less saddened and sobered by the cruel
sorrows of her girlhood and the bitter disappointments
of her married life, she might even
have found her successes a little intoxicating;
as it was, though they served to distract and
amuse her, they failed  as Lady EUesthorpe was
glad to see  to turn her head in the smallest
degree. At first a faint hope crept into her
heart that this great change in their lives 
perhaps even the admiration she herself excited
might prove the means of reviving her
husband's regard for her; but this hope was
doomed to speedy extinction, like its predecessors.
Jack was indeed pleased at every fresh proof of
his wife's social success, but merely because it
reflected additional lustre on himself, and helped
him to advance a rung higher on the ladder he
was so desirous of climbing. To Muriel herself
he remained profoundly indifferent, and the new
excitements, occupations, and friendships which
wealth and position brought with them only
served to wean him from her more entirely.

Having quietly buried that last hope of hers,
Muriel deliberately set herself to take life as she

found it  a fact to be accepted, to be endured,
and even to be enjoyed where enjoyment of it
was possible, but never to be reflected upon,
analysed, or reasoned about. Why insist on
going below the surface of things when keeping
to the surface was so much less painful ? She
was conscientious in her performance of all such
wifely duties as her husband still deigned to
accept at her hands ; she did not forget the
lessons of charity and usefulness learnt in her
early home ; she resumed her discarded pursuits
and studies, and took great pains to play her
new part in the world aright. She was always
occupied from morning till night, and she never
paused to asked herself whether she were happy
or not.

Doubtless the world at large considered Mrs.
Arlingham a highly fortunate and enviable
young woman, and perhaps even among her
intimates it would have been difficult to find
any one ready to controvert the general opinion,
if we except the two persons whom alone of all
her acquaintance Muriel dignified by the title of
friends. One of these persons was Lady EUes-thorpe
; the other was Margaret Irvine.

Between Muriel Arlingham and Philip Irvine's
sister a mutual liking had at once sprung up.

Irvine himself never called upon Mrs. Arlingham
an omission she was at a loss to account for
satisfactorily  but towards the end of Muriel's
first season in town he had requested his sister
to do so, and Margaret readily complying, her
first formal visit laid the foundation of an acquaintance
which speedily developed into something
more. Miss Irvine was an observant
woman, and her natural acuteness had been
sharpened by eight and thirty years of constant
intercourse with the world under many aspects,
so it was not long before she weighed Jack
Arlingham in the balances of her judgment and
found him woefully wanting. She gauged his
wife's character with equal nicety, calling her
own experience to her aid in order to ensure a
correct performance of that more difficult operation.
Like most people who have reached her
years, Margaret " had had her story," and by the
light of that secret history she read unerringly
much that might otherwise have remained dark
to her in the pages of Muriel's life.

During the winter months, while Muriel had
been absent in the country, she lost sight of
Miss Irvine, but on her return to town in the
early spring the two met again with unfeigned
pleasure. So it came to pass that on this

VOL. II. 37

particular March day of which I have written,
Mrs. Arliuoham started off in her brougham
soon after one o'clock for Miss Irvine's little
house in Mayfair. "Come and have luncheon
with me quietly," Margaret had said. " It is
my only chance of seeing you without fear of
interruption."

Margaret's house was well situated, and most
artistically decorated, draped, and furnished, butin
size it was a mere bandbox. For a solitary
woman the diminutive rooms, crowded as they
were with all manner of things pretty and
pleasant to look upon, were more cheerful and
cosy than great unpeopled spaces, and Margaret
averred that she preferred her tiny drawing-rooms
to anything larger and loftier. But she
never ceased to mourn over the miseries of a
cramped entrance and a narrow staircase.

The latter inconvenience was forcibly demonstrated
to Muriel on her arrival, when, half-way
upstairs, she found herself confronted by two
young persons who were descending rather
boisterously. Of necessity she paused, uncertain
whether to advance or retreat, since to pass,
except on the landing, seemed impossible.

The girls on their way down  two slim, long-limbed
creatures of about fourteen and fifteen,

with masses of floating hair under sailor hats,
and skirts of indefinite length which had been
rather outgrown by the wearers  looked equally-irresolute
for a moment. Then the elder, who
was considerably taller and more womanly than
her sister  being dressed alike, they were presumably
sisters  whispered imperiously to the
smaller maiden, and drew her back into a comer
of the landing to make room for the visitor.

Muriel mutely acknowledged the girl's courtesy
as she went by, and received in return a scrutinizing
glance from a pair of great dark eyes 
eyes altogether startling when found in conjunction
with such bright chestnut hair and
such pink and white cheeks as distinguished the
young lady to whom they belonged. There was
something inexplicably familiar to Muriel about
those eyes, yet she felt pretty certain that she
had never seen either of the children before.
She was a little curious to learn who they were.

Just before the luncheon bell rang, she
mentioned her encounter to Miss Irvine. "I
met two very nice-looking children, or perhaps
I ought rather to call them young girls, on the
stairs just now. I don't believe I ever saw them
before, but the elder one reminded me strongly
of some one  I cannot now think of whom."

Hardly of me," said Margaret, smiling pleasantly
 her face was a soft feminine replica of
Irvine's  "nor yet of Philip, though they are
our nieces. You will see them again presently
they are my eldest brother's children, and he
has left them with me while he is abroad."

Your brother's children ! But I always
fancied that Mr. Irvine  Mr. Philip Irvine  was
your only brother ? "

"So he is, in the fullest sense. Paul  Mr.
Wentworth  is my half-brother. I dare say you
know his name," Margaret added with a touch
of pride.

Mrs. Arlingham paused for a few seconds
before she replied, " Yes, I know his name well.
Every one does, I think. Besides, I met him
abroad several years ago  some time before I
was married. But I had no idea that he was
related to you."

How strange that you should have met him !
Another illustration of the truism that the world
is a very small and round place. Where did
you two make acquaintance  for I hope you
know my brother further than by sight only ? "

"We became acquainted by accident. My
uncle, with whom I was travelling, had chanced
to meet Mr. Wentworth previously at Oxford,

and we happened to take up our quarters in the
same hotel on the Lake of Lucerne for a time."

"I am glad to think you do know him,"
Margaret said. "I wish I had known this

o

sooner ; it is a kind of additional link to draw
us together. But I wonder you did not hear of
the relationship through Philip."

Muriel shared in the wonder, but held her
peace.

"You have never met Paul since that time,
I suppose ? " the sister went on.

No, never. I think some one told me he was
in America all last season."

'' Quite true ; and he has not been in England,
except for a few weeks, since. About a year
after my sister-in-law's death  you may have
heard that he lost his wife in a very sad and
sudden way rather more than two years ago 
my brother's health broke down completely inconsequence
of overwork, and he decided to
throw up his practice at the Bar, and see what
travel would do for him. It was a sort of shock
to us all, his stopping midway in his career,
for he was within measurable distance of the
Solicitor-Generalship ; but he never cared much
for legal honours, and when he comes back, I
think there may be other work awaiting him.

He is too active-minded to endure an idle
life."

"We have not too many brains among us'
said Muriel. " I think all those who possess any
are bound to use them for their neighbours'
benefit."

"And my brother is perfectly well now  just
as strong as ever, he says in his letters  so I see
no reason why he should not put his shoulder to
the wheel again. He has written a good deal
lately, but only in a desultory sort of way, and
I should be glad to see him at work on something
more definite. Besides, his children want
him sorely at home. Poor darlings ! they have
been doubly orphaned during this past year.
When my brother is with them, I think he
hardly lets them feel that there can be a want
in their lives."

"I have often heard him speak of them,"
Muriel said, with a slight effort. " We used to
say, I recollect, that we had never known any
man so wrapped up in his children  it seemed
more like a mother's devotion."

*' So it is," replied Margaret. " There are few
men who can be father and mother both to their
children, but my brother is one of those few.
When my sister-in-law died, it seemed as if the

blank she left was not half as great as it ought
to have been  Paul filled the void so completely
himself. Poor Alice ! it was a sad ending to
such a bright, prosperous life."

It was  very sad. I never heard any details
of the accident, but I believe she died almost
immediately afterwards ? "

"Yes, she only lingered a few hours, and
never recovered consciousness. My brother
started the moment the telegram reached him 
she was staying in Paris with friends, and he
was in London  and he arrived there just two
hours before the end. But she could not speak,
and did not seem to recognize him."

Just then the gong gave the signal for
luncheon, and interrupted the conversation.

We shall find the girls in the dining-room,"
said Margaret, rising. " By the way, I suppose
the familiar look of Stella's face to your eye is
due to her likeness to her father. She often
reminds me of him as far as expression is concerned,
though she has her mother's colouring."

Two minutes later, Muriel found herself shaking
hands with Paul Wentworth's young daughters 
and when Stella again fixed her with a clear
unwavering gaze, calmly scrutinizing and silently
appraising her new acquaintance, it was no

longer difficult to decide what was the shadowy
remembrance the first sight of her had called up.

Mrs. Arlingham knows your father, Stella,"
Margaret said, as they took their places. " She
has met him abroad. "

Stella leant eagerly across the table.

How long ago was it, Mrs. Arlingham ?
Please tell us all about it ; it is so long since he
went away, and we want so to know how he is
looking ! "

I am afraid I cannot give you any news of
your father," answered Muriel, smiling a little.
I have not seen him for years now."

Stella sighed deeply. '* That is dreadfully
disappointing," she rejoined. " I thought perhaps
you had been in America lately, and had
met him there."

You miss him very much, no doubt ? "

Miss him ! " ejaculated the girl sorrowfully.
We have been perfectly miserable all these long
months without him  I hardly know how we
have managed to get on at all ! No offence.
Aunt Margaret "  with a saucy nod to her vis-davis.
But her eyes were full of tears as she spoke.

I understand, my dear," said Margaret softly,
and quietly turned the conversation. Nor was
Wentworth's name mentioned again till just as

Muriel was bidding: her friend adieu. Then
Margaret asked, "Do you consider my niece
Stella like her father on a nearer view ? "

Certainly, in some ways. Hardly in feature,
perhaps, but in expression very like indeed."

The likeness is chiefly in the eyes, I fancy.
Don't you think she has his eyes exactly ? "

Yes, Muriel quite agreed with Miss Irvine on
that point too, but she could not stay to discuss
it. She had a great many engagements that
afternoon, and the horses had been kept standing
some time already.

A CHANCE ACQUAINTANCE.

They seemed to those who saw them meet
Mere casual friends of every day."

Houghton.

It was the end of the second week in May.
The season was in full swing after the Easter
holidays, and entertainments multiplied nightly.
Three especially " smart " parties had been fixed
to take place on the tenth, but of these Lady
Beatrice Orme's reception, the second her
vivacious little ladyship had held that season,
was indubitably the most important event. Not
only would all the smart people be there, but
others who had something besides their smartness
to recommend them ; for Lady Beatrice was
a little of a political hostess, and her husband's
colleagues in the Government and his supporters
on the Liberal benches generally made a point of
showing themselves in her drawing-rooms as often

as she threw them open. Then she dabbled in
literature ; so the republic of letters was usually
well represented at her house  with now and
then a famous scientific light or a celebrated
traveller thrown in, to give added piquancy
to the heterogeneous mixture which she took
unfeigned delight in concocting and stirring
together, after the manner of an approved
mistress in the art of social cookery.

Lady Beatrice was in particularly good spirits
on the evening of this tenth of May. Everybody
she wanted to see in her rooms was coming,
and the few guests unwillingly or doubtfully
bidden had obligingly elected to stay away. It
is true that a famous soldier, who was to have
graced the dinner party preceding the reception
with his presence, had had to excuse himself at
the eleventh hour, having been unexpectedly
summoned to Devonshire on urgent family
business ; but, by unexampled good fortune, his
distracted hostess had been able to fill his place
to her entire satisfaction. Indeed, she was rather
glad than otherwise that Sir Grant Carey had
disappointed her. Though undoubtedly brilliant
in the field, his brilliancy did not extend to his
conversation, and Lady Beatrice knew that the
distinguished civilian who had consented to

cover his retreat would more than atone for the
General's absence in this respect at least.

It was just a quarter past eight when this
gentleman arrived, the last of the assembled
guests. Lady Beatrice met him with a certain
amount of effusion, and detained him beside her
during the interval which preceded the announcement
of dinner.

"You must let me bid you welcome, Mr.
Wentworth," she said in her pretty, gracious
way  at six and thirty Lady Beatrice was
still a very charming woman, and never forgot
to say exactly the right thing to every one.
We had all begun to think that your back
was for ever turned upon these shores, so it is a
double pleasure to find that your love of country
exists still."

"I am sorry you should have thought so ill
of me," Paul Wentworth replied. "I hardly
deserved this at your hands, Lady Beatrice, for
I have been busy promoting the country's welfare
 according to our joint ideas  down in
Westshire, ever since I returned to my native
land a fortnight ago."

I have heard all about that. It was ever so
good of you to come back and contest that unlucky
constituency on such a hasty summons  I

am sure the party ought to be sensible of all it
owes you. Mr. Orme is growing quite hopeful
about the Coin election since you consented to
stand. But I'm afraid it is rather uphill work,
isn't it ? "

Pretty well. If we win, it will only be after
a tough fight ; but I hazard no prophecies. In
these days it is impossible to predict with any
sort of certainty how matters will go in the end ;
and the Tory Democrat the Carlton people have
sent down is a very clever fellow, and knows
how to put himself in touch with a manufacturing
population."

Well, we shall be looking anxiously for the
telegrams on Tuesday week," said Lady Beatrice,
'but I venture to be more sanguine in my expectations
than you. Mr. Orme will tell you

No, you need not look round for him ; he is not
here yet. A messenger came from the Colonial
Office just now with a telegraphic despatch
requiring immediate answer, and he is engaged
upon that. The chief is laid up again with
bronchitis, and is too ill to attend to anything,
however important."

Poor Elsmere ! he is half his time Jiors de
combat It sounds cruel to say so, but we really
need a roster man for the post. I think there

must be a shuffling of cards before long ; there
seems a general consensus of opinion on that
subject."

Lady Beatrice wore a gratified air, as if she
detected some undercurrent of flattering meaning
in Wentworth's words. " Have you been at
the Reform since you came up ? " she asked, with
sparkling eyes.

I looked in for half an hour last night, that is
all. I only arrived atEuston by the 7.40 train."

Really ? Then it was extra kind of you to
come to us on such brief notice. And by way of
reward, I am going to give you the new beauty
to take down to dinner. You cannot have seen
her yet, so I shall have the satisfaction of
performing the introduction."

Which new beauty ? " inquired Wentworth,
with only a languid show of interest. "There
seem to be so many fresh stars this season."

Perhaps I ought not to have called this stara
new one, for she made her first appearance
above the horizon last year. This spring she is
approaching the zenith of her triumphs, to carry
on the astronomical metaphor. Turn this way,
please, and you will behold the fair luminary.
Mrs. Arlingham, let me introduce Mr. Wentworth
to you."

Then Wentworth saw before him a reality
like and yet unlike the vision that had never
quite ceased to haunt his memory. The sweet
promise of the girl's early years had ripened into
rare and delicate loveliness in the woman, and
there was an air of regal grace about Muriel's
tall figure now which was new to his eyes. Yet
the face was still the face of Muriel Ferrars 
only infinitely more beautiful.

Nobody makes scenes nowadays  in public,
at least. Muriel, who had been armed at all
points in preparation for this moment for
months, and who had had some minutes in
which to look to her defences, was as calm asa
summer morning. Wentworth, who was not
prepared at all, looked slightly startled, but not
startled enough for Lady Beatrice to observe his
change of countenance. Only as he recovered
from his formal bow, and his hostess turned
away, his eyes involuntarily asked a hesitating
question.

Mrs. Arlingham did not hesitate at all in her
reply. She gave a slow, faint smile, charming
enough in its way, but quite unfamiliar to
Wentworth  she had learnt it after she ceased
to know him  and put out her hand. " I think
we have met before," she said. " Very likely,

though, you hardly remember me. It is years
since."

Certainly she was changed, more changed
than his first glance had told him. But if she
felt perfectly callous concerning that brief
episode in their past lives, the remembrance of
which had made him diffident of claiming her
acquaintance, why should the recollection trouble
him any longer ? He was quite ready to meet
her half-way.

"I remember quite distinctly having the
pleasure of meeting you abroad with Professor
and Mrs. Erskine," he replied. "In Switzerland,
was it not ? You were only a child then,
of course, but you are so little altered that I
recognized you instantly."

Wentworth was over-doing his part a little, as
impulsive men, not usually given to acting, are
apt to do in such circumstances as his.

How differently the same sentiments strike
one's ear at different periods of one's existence ! "
said Muriel. " I dare say if you had told me 
let me see, four years ago, was it, or five ?  that
you considered me ' only a child,' I should have
been terribly offended. Now I take it as a
compliment that you should say so  quite the
prettiest compliment you could have paid me."

"It has the additional merit of being unconscious'
retorted Wentworth, apparently slightly-nettled.
"People who know me well, Mrs.
Arlingham, will tell you that I am incapable of
paying a compliment. I don't understand the
accomplishment."

Perhaps you have picked it up during your
prolonged wanderings in the other hemisphere'
Muriel returned lightly. "Americans are supposed
to cultivate it with peculiar success. Ah,
there is our host at last, for which let us be
joyful. Of all dreary moments, I think a protracted
moment of suspense before dinner is
quite the dreariest."

Some Gordian knot of policy has been
unravelled  perhaps some interesting aboriginal
tribe has been placed under the fostering care of
the British Lion, while we have been endurance
penance overhead," Wentworth remarked, giving
her his arm. " Let us hope so at least, for our
consolation. That ought to be compensation
sufficient, you know; unless you are of that
selfish order of beings who decline to be comforted
in the midst of their sufferings by the
cheering reflection that 'somewhere the sun is
shining ' ? "

Meaning," said Muriel, " that I ought to be
VOL. II. 38

able to bear my headache or toothache with
equanimity, if supported by the consideration
that my next-door neighbour is in perfect health
and spirits ? "

"Precisely so. You apprehend me exactly.
I recommend you to bring the idea  which is
highly philosophical  into play next time you
are attacked by the ailments you have mentioned.
A grain of practice is worth a bushel of theory."

"I will endeavour to do so without fail. I
promise all the more readily, as I feel no threatening
of such woes at present."

So I should suppose. Will you accuse me of
attempting another compliment if I say that
apparently the world has worn well with you in
all ways since I saw you last ? Or may I tender
my congratulations ? "

Certainly  and consider them accepted with
thanks, please. I wish I could think of something
appropriate to say in return, but ideas fail
me for the moment. Will you try and imagine
all the polite and pretty things I ought to say if
I were equal to the occasion ? "

They shall be taken as said," Wentworth
responded gravely, "after the fashion of loyal
corporation addresses. And now let me return
thanks according to the same pattern."

If all ceremonies could be as easily abridged,
whatadeliveraDce for long-suffering humanity! "
observed Muriel, unfolding her serviette with a
satisfied air. She was really feeling not a little
proud of herself In spite of her dignified
manner, she still suffered occasionally from
timidity ; and she had always secretly dreaded
this meeting, fearing lest, when actually face to
face with Wentworth, she should fail of showing
just the proper amount of easy indifference  so
her own coolness under the ordeal (and she was
able to assure herself without flattery that she
really had been very cool indeed) was a great
source of satisfaction to her. When you have
once weakly allowed a man to think you have a
regard for him, it is often difficult to persuade
him that you have completely changed your
mind; and Muriel, having changed hers, was
naturally anxious that Wentworth should be
made fully cognizant of the change. But to
effect this purpose, it was necessary that she
should appear as indifferent as she felt, since
the smallest sign of confusion, or even of natural
annoyance at being reminded of a foolish bygone
episode in her early life, would be certain to be
misinterpreted by the quondam hero of that
unpleasant and humiliating little story.

"You are campaigning down in Westshire,
are you not ? " she said presently, turning back
to Went worth after a lively skirmish with the
genial bishop who was her right-hand neighbour.
You are a bold man to have attacked the Tory
giant in his own stronghold."

The fierceness of the struggle adds to the
zest of the thing," Wentworth replied. " Perhaps
the extreme uncertainty of the issue does the
same. When up to the last moment in a contest
you feel utterly at sea as to whether your side
is going to pull off the victory or not, it makes
you all the keener to win. I at least should like
to win at Coin, very much."

I hope you may," said Muriel. '' Every seat
is of such consequence just now, when so much
depends on strengthening the hands of the
Government. Besides, a victory in Westshire
would have a certain effect all through the
country. I am afraid, however, there was a
terribly solid Tory majority at the general
election in your constituency."

Things have changed since then. That election
was fought on the old lines, before the new
electors had had time to understand their
privileges and responsibilities, and the Tory
candidate was a local man and a sort of popular

idol. The conditions now are certainly more
hopeful."

Miss Irvine gave me an amusing account of

your first committee meeting last week Oh,

I forgot you were not aware I knew your sister.
It was only about a month ago that I discovered
her to be your sister."

"You know Margaret?" Wen worth said slowly,
as if he were not quite sure whether to feel
pleased or displeased by the announcement.
Have you been acquainted long ? "

"We have known each other a year now.
Your brother brought us together last summer,
and I am glad to say we have met pretty
frequently since then. Does it sound conceited
to say we like each other ? "

No, I think it sounds no more than frank. I
am glad you like my sister."

"She is filled with delight by the accounts
of your hard work at Coin," Mrs. Arlingham
remarked. " I think she rates the value of your
labour, simply as labour, far above that of your
ultimate possible success."

Wentworth turned his dark mournful eyes
upon her. " Has Margaret been lamenting over
my disinclination for serious occupation ? My
family seem to be always looking out anxiously
for fresh proofs of my butterfly nature."

I fancy she thinks you have had play enough
for the present, and ought to come back to your
tasks again," Muriel replied rather absently.
She could not help wondering how it had
happened that she had never previously noticed
the excessive sadness of Wentworth's eyes; or
was it only of late that, in curious contrast with
the rest of his keen, expressive face, they had
come to look so utterly tired, burnt out, and
hopeless ? If the latter hypothesis was the
correct one, he had altered slightly after all 
but in this one point only, as far as appearance
went. Otherwise his outward man was but little
changed, and he carried his forty-four years welland
lightly.

"Play may be as much of a task as work,"

he said in answer to her last remark ; " at least,



if one plays hard. And I do generally play hard,
unfortunately. I have a most unlucky talent
for getting profoundly interested in trifles and
waxing over-enthusiastic about my passing-pursuits.
It is a great misfortune to be so
constituted  it makes one a trouble to one's self,
and very often a nuisance to one's friends. But
one cannot change one's nature."

There is nothings so comfortable as a thorough
fatalism," said Muriel, with an odd little

smile. " Natural temperament we are surely not
responsible for, and temperament and environment
together are supposed to have the making
of most characters. Poor environment ! it has
become a heavily laden scapegoat nowadays."

"You have not attained to the views you
think so comfortable, nevertheless ? "

"Not yet. I have old-fashioned prejudices
still. I think most people have  in some
unacknowledged corner of their minds. Take
yourself for example. Your practice contradicts
your theory. Unless you had a pretty strong
instinctive belief in the capability for change inhuman
nature, you would hardly be toiling now
with all your might to persuade some thousands
of your fellow-men to run counter to everything
that they have been taught to support  and
have supported  for generations past."

"I ask them to change their opinions only,
not their natures," Wentworth returned, " and
I lind even the lesser undertaking uncommonly
hard work. Still, it is well to be at work on
something," he added, with one of his old abrupt
changes of manner, and with a spark of the old
fire lighting his weary eyes. *' What is life worth,
if one is not doing some kind of work in it ? My
year of play bored me dreadfully, Mrs. Arlingham."

Your holiday was an enforced one to begin
with, I am told," Muriel said, feeling a little
softened towards him. " Perhaps if you had
been less unsparing of yourself in the past, so
long a spell of subsequent idleness would not
have been necessary. I hope it has done all
that was needed for you ? " She put her final
question in a tone of cold politeness merely.

Thank you, I had all the rest I needed long
ago ; I hardly know why I did not come home
sooner. But I am not altogether sorry that I
was induced to linger. One picks up all sorts
of useful information yonder."

Your American experiences ought to prove
very useful at the present juncture," Muriel
rejoined. "You have been able *to observe the
actual working of all the different forms of
government the constitution-monomers are so
eaofer for us to imitate."

Wentworth looked half surprised, half amused.
It is pleasant to hear a lady talking of politics
as if she both understood and cared for them,"
he observed. "I feel now that I am indeed back
again in England. The American female mind,
highly cultured as it is in other respects, is
Gallic-like as regards politics. It cares for
none of those things."

Some of the American women I have met
cared for them very much."

Those were travelled Americans  the Euro-realized
specimens. And if you tax your
memory, you will probably recollect that even
their interest was confined to European  that is,
to them, foreign  affairs. To their own politics
they are usually profoundly indifferent. I
suppose Lord EUesthorpe takes good care to
keep your interest in matters political alive ? "

Or Lady EUesthorpe does. She is by far the
most enthusiastic politician of the two," said
Muriel. " But the flame does not require a
great deal of fanning."

"It never did with you," said Wentworth
impulsively. He wished the words unsaid as
soon as spoken, but the perfectly unmoved
composure of his companion's face reassured him.
I am a little surprised," he went on, " to find
you so warm a supporter of the Liberal cause. I
was inclined to fancy you belonged to the ranks
of our formidable opponents, the Dames of the
Primrose League."

Wherefore, pray ? "

Because I imagined Mr. Arlingham to be a
Tory, and supposed that your opinions would
naturally follow the same line as his. Have you

and Lady Ellesthorpe between you succeeded in
converting him to more advanced views ? "

There was no need of conversion in my
husband's case. He inherited his Liberal
opinions from his father, who was a Whig of
the fine old school now extinct. What made
you credit Mr. Arlingham with retrograde
opinions ? "

I think a single remark which he made on
the only occasion when I had the pleasure of
meeting him  now some years ago. I misinterpreted
it, no doubt. I beg Mr. Arlingham's
pardon a thousand times"  glancing in the
direction of the unconscious Jack, who was
sitting near the other end of the table.

It will be easily granted you," Muriel said.
(Certainly no one would have suspected that she
had just heard an astonishing piece of news.)
'' Mr. Arlingham does not take any very absorbing
interest in party politics. But you showed
an absence of the judicial qualities, in leaping to
a conclusion on such slight evidence, which is
really quite unpardonable in a lawyer. You might
surely have cross-examined the witness first ! "

You are very severe, Mrs. Arlingham. But I
freely acknowledge myself in the wrong  I won't
try to deprecate your just condemnation."

What I feel to be even more unpardonable,"
Muriel continued, " is cour giving me a place,
on no evidence at all  except that of an undisciplined
imagination  among the Dames of
the Primrose League ! I protest utterly and
indignantly."

Do you object to their principles, or to their
practice ? "

Primarily to their principles, since I claim to
be a very good Liberal indeed. But a little to
their practice also, in some respects. I do not
think the figure of the female canvasser occupies
a very noble place in the scheme of things, and I
rather object to the part she plays under the
League. It seems to me too much of a wheedling
part altogether. If people cannot be argued
into voting according to my ideas, I don't want
to wheedle them into doing it."

I am glad indeed to hear you say that ! "
said Wentworth, more eagerly than he had
spoken yet. " But we must not throw too many
stones at our opponents in this respect. I know
Liberal ladies who can vie with any Ruling
Councillor of them all  who think no arts too
mean to be employed to win a vote for friend or
relation, and who will stoop to flattery and falsehood
quite unblushingly so long as the flattery

and the fibs are supposed to be gaming adherents
for the ' cause.' A lady who walks by these
principles  she is a very influential person in
Westshire  wanted me to bring down my little
daughter, not yet sixteen, to join her in angling
for votes among the Coin operatives ! Did you
ever hear of anything so preposterous ? "

"I am afraid the influential lady found her
proposition less welcome than she expected."

"Perhaps I refused less courteously than I
should have done. No doubt she meant well
according to her lights. But I was a little
carried out of myself at the bare idea of m}
little Stella  a mere child, though a very dear
one  soiling her white wines in the mud of a
contested election. My children are young, even
for their age  a fact very pleasant to me, and
which I owe to my sister's wise guardianship of
them in my absence."

"They seemed charmingly simple and unaffected,
I thought," said Muriel. " I have seen
them, you know, at your sister's house." The
bishop turning just then to help himself to an
entree, she profited by the opportunity to draw
him into the conversation ; but whether she did
it adroitly and of set purpose or no, Wentworth
could not decide in his own mind. Mrs. Arlington

fairly surprised and puzzled him at every
turn.

She surprised him still more later in the
evening, when he could watch her holding her
miniature court, a radiant though somewhat
stately princess. He was busy receiving something
of an ovation on his own account, but he
found leisure to observe Mrs. Arlingham from
time to time, and even to speculate in a passing
way on the possible causes which had wrought
so marvellous a change. Was she happy, he
wondered ? She looked happy enough, but
appearances are proverbially deceitful, and
Geoffrey Arlingham did not strike him as quite
the man to satisfy the ideas of a woman like
Muriel Ferrars.

The evening was well advanced when he
happened to come again across his hostess, of
whom Mr. and Mrs. Arlingham had just taken
leave. " Well, what did you think of my star ? "
she inquired. " Don't be perverse, and say you
don't admire her, or I shall think you are aiming
at singularity, and you know that is an
unfailing sisn of a small mind."

My mind is large enough, at any rate, to
admit freely that Mrs. Arlingham is beautiful,"
Wentworth replied. " She is very much improved

since I saw her last. But, to be sure, she
was hardly more than a child at that time."

So you knew her already ? "

Not as Mrs. Arlingham. As Miss Ferrars I
knew her a little."

Her people live in Holmshire, I have heard.
Did you 'know her at home as my Eton boy
puts it ? " asked Lady Beatrice, who liked to
know all about her friends' private histories.

Oh dear, no ! " answered Wentworth, who
was not fond of being catechized. "I don't
know her people at all. I met her once travelling
in Switzerland: it was a mere chance
acquaintance."

AT A LITTLE Dinner-party.

My heart's a coward, though my words are brave."

Christina Rossetti.

The polling day at Coin, one of the half-dozen
new Parliamentary boroughs created by the last
Reform Act in the thickly populated manufacturing
county of Westshire, passed off rather
more quietly than had been anticipated from the
excited state of popular feeling in the constituency.
Agents and committee-men on both
sides had, of course, all along protested their
confidence in the final issue  protested it intones
more than commonly stentorian and unhesitating,
for the very reason that they were
really just as much in the dark as to the
probable result of the contest as the most
ignorant Weaver who set his mark upon the
official voting paper. But loudly as these

provincial politicians of either complexion might
bluster, the Tories relying on the unblemished
record of Westshire as a stronghold of the Conservative
faith, and the Liberals waxing strong
in courage as they recalled the brilliant series
of addresses in which their candidate had demolished
his opponent's fallacies and built up,
bit by bit, the stately edifice of Liberal doctrine,
there were few of them to whom the moment
when the result of the poll was read out from
the steps of the Town Hall was not one of
rather trying suspense. "Wentworth, 3561 ; tenant,
3532." The numbers showed with sufficient
clearness the closeness of the struggle, and
the zeal with which it had been fought out.

So Paul Wentworth returned 'to town a duly
elected member of the House of Commons, and
took the oath and his seat for Coin." Took his
seat silently for a while, being in no hurry to
thrust himself prematurely on one of the most
critical audiences in the world, and preferring to
bide his time and take his observations quietly'.
He had plenty to say, and was quite determined
to say it, but his ambition was patient as
well as daring, and he knew that without coolness
and judgment even his gifts of eloquence
would avail him little at St. Stephen's. And

although he was impulsive as well as ambitious,
yet when he chose, he well understood  no man
in England perhaps better  how to make his
impulses wait upon his will.

Meanwhile he went, as in former days, a good
deal into society, and found himself popular as
ever. At first he seemed indolent about resuming
his old part of social idol  perhaps his untrammelled
life in America had inspired him
with a craving for personal freedom and created
a dislike to the flowery chains with which, like
the devout Buddhist, Society insists on wreathing
the limbs of her deities. But after a while
ancient habit proved too strong for this new
craving, or else the perfume of the proffered
incense was a little intoxicating to his senses,
for he soon threw himself again into his I'ole,
and that with apparent pleasure. The incense
might possibly be composed of despicable ingredients,
but there was no denying that it still
smelt sweet.

One person alone there was of Mr. Wentworth's
acquaintance who never gratified his
vanity in the smallest particular, or flattered his
love of power by permitting him to exercise the
smallest ascendency over her or her opinions.
This person was Muriel Arlingham, whom he met,

VOL. II. 39

nevertheless, pretty frequently from time to time.
They happened to move very much in the same
set, a set which had a strong political leaven in
it, and over which Lady Ellesthorpe and Lady
Beatrice Orme in some sort presided. As the
season wore on they saw a good deal of one
another, and even became friendly after a surface
fashion. There seemed no reason why they
should not be friendly. No uncomfortable recollections
appeared to weigh on the memory
of either, and Wentworth was careful to
restrict his conversation to topics of general
interest only. Perhaps he considered that he
owed Muriel this much in return for her
magnanimity in consenting to overlook the past.
On these general topics he found plenty to say
to her, for she was a clever woman now, as well
as a beautiful one. He had always thought hera
particularly intelligent girl, and he was glad to
find that, though she had added knowledge of
the world to her acquirements during the last
four years, she still retained unspoilt much of
her freshness and piquancy of thought. She was
very agreeable to talk to, and as she had evidently
had the good sense to forget all the folly of a
certain three weeks on the Lake of Lucerne 
Fool ! " Wentworth added in a mental aside,

apostrophizing himself, "thrice fool to imagine
she would have a longer memory than other
women ! "  he felt quite at liberty to talk to her
whenever chance threw them in each other's
way. But she had lost her ideal charm for him,
or was in a fair way of losing it, altogether.
Wentworth liked a woman to be above all tliinofs
soft, yielding, and sympathetic, and Muriel was
no longer any of the three. There was a hard
brilliancy about her which provoked and almost
repelled him at times  "about as responsive asa
bit of bright enamel," he would say to himself
angrily. Yet the following evening generally
found him ready to talk to her again, if they
chanced sto encounter one another.

Muriel, on her side, looking out upon the
world with the weariness born of intense disappointment,
found a new amusement in the
mingled brilliancy and bitterness of Wentworth's
light, discursive talk, and enjoyed it
with a keener relish than she was fully aware
of; but rather as she might have enjoyed the
conversation of a new and gifted acquaintance,
for in the Wentworth whom she met nightly in
London drawing-rooms she scarcely recognized
the mental lineaments of the man she had
formerly known. The side of his character now

chiefly turned to lier was one of which she had
hitherto barely surmised the existence  there
had not been much opportunity for displaying
cynical knowledge of the world at the Hotel
My then. Now, if there were still any latent
softness about him, he certainly concealed it
wonderfully well  so well that Muriel caught
herself marvelling what had become of all the
more winning qualities she had once thought so
lovable ? Had they ceased to exist altogether ?
Apparently ; and with them the strange fascination
that Mr. Went worth had undoubtedly
possessed for her in bygone days. She did not
deny that he was still attractive after a sort.
A shrewd, clever, ambitious man of the world,
with a caustic wit, and a graceful address, and
remarkable conversational powers, can generally
manage to make himself attractive if he pleases.
But it needs a good deal morn than this to make
him lovable. ;

Mrs. Arlingham very soon made up her mind
on the subject of the member for Coin ; but he
still inclined to suspend judgment on her for a
while, although it was difficult for him to justify
this suspension of judgment to himself. As
Muriel had appeared to Wentworth on the night
of her reintroduction to him at Lady Beatrice

Orme's, so she continued to appear to him.
Nothing occurred to confirm a vague suspicion
of his that what he saw was not the genuine
Muriel, but only a clever counterfeit, and yet the
suspicion haunted him with unreasonable persistence.
Naturally, he felt not a little tempted to
investigate the question a little further in consequence.
If an interesting problem to which
you believe yourself (rightly or wrongly) to
hold the key is laid before you, it is hardly inhuman
nature to refrain from attempting its
solution, especially if you happen to be unusually
skilful in solving problems of that particular
kind.

The end of June came, however, and Wentworth
had not yet succeeded in unriddling the
enigma that perplexed him. Certainly he had
plenty of other and more important things todo,
for it was a stirring time in the House, and
a series of late sittings left him less leisure than
usual to give to social claims and amusements.
Mrs. Arlingham was busy too, in her own way 
'hard at work killing time," she had said to
Margaret Irvine, with a faint laugh that chilled
Margaret's heart. She was at a loss to explain
a strange hardness which seemed to be creeping
over her friend, and mourned silently that no

sweeter and homelier cares than such as are
entailed by an endless round of party-going and
party-giving should have fallen to Muriel's lot.
For although Jack was more than ever convinced
that he had thrown himself away by his
disinterested and imprudent match, he fully
appreciated his wife's qualities as a hostess, and
encouraged her to frequent entertainments.

On the last day of June Muriel had arranged
to sive a little dinner  one such as she herself
infinitely preferred to the bigger banquets in
which her husband's soul delighted  a party of
twelve only. It was not a duty dinner, but had
been planned by her merely for amusement, so
she felt she had a right to indulge her own taste
in the selection of the guests for the occasion,
and was fortunate in securing the presence of
those whose presence she specially desired. The
success of the party was a foregone conclusion,
when a note which reached her on the morning
of the important day itself threatened to
disturb all her arrangements.

How provoking ! " she exclaimed, after reading'
the unwelcome missive through. " With so
little time left to do anything in ! "

What is provoking ? " inquired her husband,
looking up from his letters, through which he

was glancing in a rough-and-ready fashion before
starting for an early ride.

Lady Beatrice writes to tell me that Mr.
Orme can't possibly come to us to-night.
The date of the banquet to Lord Lyster has
been altered at the last moment, and it is to
come off this evening. ' Of course you will
understand etc., etc. Of course 1 do understand,
but it is an annoying contretemps. Jack, you
must really find some one to take Mr. Orme's
place. It is too late to begin writing notes."

"What a hideous nuisance ! " Jack responded.
"This comes of little parties made up in pairs.
It is always safer to have an extra man or two.
Well, who am I to ask ? "

It must depend on whom you meet and find
disengaged, of course," replied his wife. " Shall
you see any likely people this morning, do you
think ? "

I shall see Fitzpatrick, but he is sure to be
going to the Lyster affair. There's Alister Newton,
if you care to have him."

"Certainly not," said Muriel, flushing. "I

sometimes wonder how you can bear " She

checked herself with a great effort. " He would
not fit in at all to-night," she continued less
vehemently. " You must look out for some one

likely to hit it off with the others, and especially
with Lady Beatrice and the Carlton."

Well, I'll see what I can do," Jack said
rather sulkily, drawing on his gloves. " I don't
see, however, that it's any of my business. The
party's your party, you know." And with this
ungracious promise Muriel was obliged perforce
to content herself, though by no means satisfied
that it would ever be fulfilled, since she had
learnt by experience that Mr. Arlingham never
put himself out of the way to oblige her, and it
was not quite probable that a desirable guest
would exactly cross his path by accident.

However, just as she reached her room to
dress for dinner, her husband ran upstairs With
a self-satisfied air. " I've got a man for you," he
said, " the very man for the place. I met him
on the steps of the Palladium, and was suddenly
inspired to do the right thing and ask him."

Clever boy ! " said Muriel. " You have dissipated
an awful cloud of gloomy anticipation
which has been pressing on me all day. Who is
it. Jack ? I pant to know."

Wentworth  Paul Wentworth. Just the
man, isn't he ? Or what's wrong now ? "  with
a sudden lapse into irritability.

Nothing is wrong ; Mr. Wentworth will do

admirably. I was only thinking it was rather
an informal way of inviting him. You see, he is
not a person to be treated cavalierly, and he has
never dined here before."

Hasn't he ? Then I wonder you never
asked him. He is a man everybody asks, and
he is always civil when we meet. He has
called here, I suppose."

Yes, I have seen his card once or twice.
And I have sent him an invitation for the
seventh ; I did not think I could leave him out
of a large affair like that."

I should think not," Jack replied decidedly.
Wei], he did not give himself any airs when I
asked him to dine ; he seemed glad to come. Of
course I said it was quite a small informal affair.
But as sou have never invited him here before,
I think you are lucky to have got hold of him
now."

'every lucky," Muriel acquiesced rather lifelessly,
turning away.  "Robson," she said
abruptly to her maid, as she entered her room
and closed the door, " I shall not wear that
white gown to-night, after all. It is rather too
girlish for a dinner dress. Put out my dark-blue
velvet instead."

Very well, ma'am. But won't you find the

velvet rather heavy to-night ? It's a very sultry
evening."

"No, I have quite decided upon it." And
Robson refrained from further remonstrance,
perceiving that, for some reason or other, her
mistress was determined on the more severe and
matronly costume  a fact which surprised the
maid not a little, as it was only two days since
that the gown in question had been condemned
by Mrs. Arlingham herself as " very heavy and
unbecoming."

Perhaps it was less unbecoming than she
imagined, for some at least of her guests that
night thought they had never seen her look
lovelier. And when Wentworth arrived on the
scene, he felt quite ready to endorse this
opinion.

He was, apparently, in particularly high
spirits, and the light in his eyes and the unwonted
animation of his manner alike bore
witness to some hidden cause of excitement.
There were several men in the room far younger
and handsomer than he, yet from the moment
he entered it they all seemed to shrink into comparative
insignificance and to look either heavy
or trivial. Beside that worn, speaking face, with
its stamp royal of commanding intellect indelible

impressed on every feature, mere physical beauty
lost much of its attraction and all its power.

The new feelings, whatever it was, which P-ave
so much life to Wentworth's expression, imparted
also more than ordinary fluency and
brilliancy to his talk at dinner, where he sat
on his hostess's left hand  Muriel having decided
in her own mind that she could not
venture to deny him what happened to be, on
this occasion, his rightful position. His vis-avis
Lord Carlton, chanced to be an intimate
personal friend of his own, and the lad}?- allotted
to him proving rather shy and silent, and
plainly preferring listening to talking, the conversation
at the head of the table gradually
became a triangular one between Mrs. Arlington
and her two immediate neighbours.

Just before Muriel gave the mystic signal for
adjournment on the ladies' part, she turned to
Lord Carlton, saying, " I want jou to pronounce
judgment to-night on a new song and a new
singer. At least, I have every hope that the
singer will be new to you. I am not at all sure
about his genius for composition, but I think
there is not much room for doubt about his
voice."

Who is it ? " inquired Lord Carlton. He

was a distinguished amateur, and his tall figure
and fine frank face were as familiar to everybody
in his stall at the Popular Concerts as in
his place in the House of Lords.

Mr. Hartley Egerton  one of the Egerton of
Eastshire. Be was intended for the Bar, and has
been called, I believe, but I don't think he has
ever practised. He hates law, and his whole
soul is absorbed in music. His darling ambition
is to become a professional musician  to make
his fortune as a composer. I should like you to
see and hear him."

''I shall be delighted to do both," Lord
Carlton responded cordially. "How old is the
young man ? He is young, I suppose ? "

About eight and twenty, I fancy : a very
quiet, unaffected man, wholly wrapped up in his
art. I wish he could have dined with us
to-night, but he was engaged elsewhere until ten
o'clock, unfortunately."

"What do you think yourself of his compositions
? "

I hardly know," Muriel replied doubtfully
I am not capable of judging scientifically, you
see. All I have heard is certainly interesting
in its way, but I am not sure whether his ideas
are really original, or only bizarre. One cannot

wish any young man to adopt the career of a
professional singer, or I should think it was
perhaps a pity that Mr. Egerton does not stake
his fortune on his singing instead of his songs
and sonatas. I heard him sing Schubert's
Litanies ' last night  I wish you had been there,
Lord Carlton ! One forgot all about this commonplace
world, and found one's self lifted into quite
a different one for the moment."

It is good to feel so lifted up sometimes, even
if it be only for a moment," said Lord Carlton
gravely. He had a peculiarly grave, simple
manner, specially pleasing in an elderly man of
such dignified appearance.

I don't know," Muriel answered, with a swift
change of mood. " I hate the inevitable fall
after the flight is over."

So you care for music as much as ever ? " It
was Wentworth who spoke this time, in a tone
which Muriel had never heard from his lips
since the renewal of their acquaintance, and
which she fancied his voice had quite unlearnt.

She drew a long breath. '' I care for it more
than ever. Isn't it a thing that one only learns
to love more and more as time goes on ? Can
you fancy any one who had ever cared for music
ceasing to care ? "

No, I cannot," Wentworth answered. *' I
cannot understand such a change, at least. But
people do change very curiously  sometimes
to a degree which is almost terrible to witness."

Muriel caught Lady Beatrice Orme's eye at
this moment, and rose from the table  a little
too precipitately, and therefore less gracefully
than usual. " ' We change our opinions sometimes,
our tastes never,' " she said in a random
way, picking up her fan. "Who said that, I
wonder ? I like to be able to put an author's
name to a quotation. Try and remember before
you come upstairs, please."

When the men of the party did go upstairs,
they found the embryo Beethoven already in
possession. He was not singing, however ; only
sitting at the grand piano in the chiaroscuro of
the half-lighted inner drawing-room, and playing
in a soft dreamy fashion one of Chopin's
nocturnal. Lady Carlton, quite as much of a
musical enthusiast as her husband, was sitting
on a low seat near the player, listening with
keen interest ; but the other lady guests had
preferred hearing his strains from a distance,
where the said strains did not altogether form a
bar to low-voiced conversation, and had remained
in the outer room. Most of the gentlemen, when

they came in, followed the example set them ;
Lord Carlton and Wentworth, however, strolled
on into the semi-darkness. The former joined
his wife beside the piano, and the latter paused
just inside the doorway, where, in the shadow of
the heavy hangings which draped it, he descried
Muriel's figure.

She was standing perfectly still, with her
hands resting on a little ebony table covered
with flowers, as if they had been arrested in
sudden movement towards something. Her face
was entirely in shadow, but a faint gleam of
light from a shaded lamp on a bracket close b}
just revealed the outline of her profile, and the
intense whiteness of her throat and arm against
the dark folds of her velvet gown. She did not
stir at Wentworth's approach  evidently she
was unconscious of it. The music seemed to beholding
her spellbound; and watching her thus,
unseen himself, Wentworth could almost have
cheated himself into the belief that four years
had been blotted out from his life's record, and
that he was back acain with the crirl Muriel in
the dark old salon of the little Swiss hotel.

It was Chopin's G minor nocturne which had
fascinated her  saddest and sweetest of all the
sad sweet lyrics chanted by that strange wild

singer of wonderful tone poems ; and the plaintive,
hopeless strain went on rising and falling,
deepening and fading away, while at every
pause Wentworth could catch the sound of
Muriel's quickened breathing. The interment followed
 that profound chant which interrupts the
grief and despair of the original subject like the
voice of a distant organ, sounding notes of solemn
resignation and bringing a faint hope of peace
and forgiveness to the conscience-stricken, storm-tossed
soul. But this interlude of calm does not
last. The holier harmonies die away, and the
old theme of sorrow and unrest recurs, sobbing
itself at last into quiet for sheer weariness of
pain.

The close of Mr. Egerton's performance was
followed by the usual gentle buzz of thanks and
admiration ; then came a movement of relief and
an outburst of talk in the outer room, and a
little hum of eager conversation round the piano
in the inner. And Muriel awoke from her
abstraction  and saw Wentworth standing beside
her.

Abandoning her former attitude, she moved a
step or two, and as the movement brought her
face into fuller light, Wentworth saw that tears
hung on her eyelashes. As her eyes met his, she

said quite simply, "That nocturne is a great
favourite of mine. It always makes me feel
inclined to cry when I hear it. Of course that
is foolish, but I really cannot help myself"

"Why foolish ? " Wentworth answered. "There
is no need to feel ashamed of being touched by
the cry of a broken heart and a soul in despair."

Does it sound like that to you ? " she asked
eagerly. " It does to me  I have always heard
that cry in it ever since I knew it first. I
remember thinking once that Chopin might have
given it for a motto, 'He found no place of
repentance, though he sought it carefully with
tears.' "

"Then there is one point on which we still
think alike. I am glad to know that' Wentworth
said. "Music weaves its old spell with you, I
see," he added, after a moment's pause. " You
have not yet quite outgrown your propensity for
seeing visions."

Very nearly, I hope," Muriel rejoined,
suddenly resuming the light, indifferent tone of
veiled mockery which always aggravated Wentworth
so intensely. " It is quite a childish propensity,
you know ; indeed it may almost rank
as a childish ailment. Sometimes people take
it lightly, and sometimes severely, to carry on

YOL. II. 40

the simile  I took it very severely indeed, and
consequently I have been a long time getting
over it."

"It is fashionable to laugh at sentiment, I
Irnow," Wentworth replied angrily, "and you
are quite right to follow the fashion, no doubt.
I try to sometimes myself, but I fear I do it
very awkwardly. Just at the critical moment
I generally forget the absurdity of the thing,
and find myself in earnest, quite by mistake.
You should guard yourself against falling into
that error ; it entails all kinds of painful consequences
occasionally."

Muriel's only reply to this was a rather
artificial little laugh. She turned back abruptly
to the flower-table, and began-lifting a large
heavy bowl of tall exotics, which formed the
centre of the floral arrangement.

"Let me help you," Wentworth interposed.
Do you want this moved ? "

It is between Mr. Egerton and the doorway,
as you see," Muriel answered rather brusquely.
"It must retire to the side table. But I can
move it myself, thank you."

Her hands were trembling perceptibly, perhaps
with the weight of the bowl, and Wentworth
took hold of it, disregarding her last words. " It

is too heavy for you. Give it to me," he said,
just letting .his glance fall full on her face fora
moment.

She relinquished the flowers at once, and, with
a mechanical " Thank you," moved  away to the
group by the piano, while Wentworth set down
his burden carefully in the place she had indicated.
And as he did so, he smiled very faintly
to himself

Then he went back and mingled with the rest,
and Mr. Egerton began to sing. There was no
more talking after that. The young man had
one of those voices which appeal directly even to
the most unmusical natures, and he held his
audience silent in hushed enjoyment. He was
shy about performing his own compositions,
though he was ready enough to put them into
Lord Carlton's hands for criticism, but any other
song asked for he was prepared with, no matter
what it might be  his repertory appeared unlimited.
At last one of his listeners suofsrested
that he had not yet given them any Rubinstein.
"Just one specimen of Rubinstein, Mr. Egerton,
if we are not trespassing too much on your good
nature. Won't you give us ' Es blink der Thau ' ?
Mrs. Arlingham, please join your solicitations
to mine ! "

Muriel changed colour slightly. " It is a very-beautiful
song," she said. " I think Rubinstein
is about at his best in it. Please sing it, Mr.
Egerton, if you are not too tired."

Mr. Egerton was not the least in the world
tired, but ventured to hint that it would bean
agreeable change if Mrs. Arlingham were to
sing a little herself Did she not sing sometimes ?

"Sometimes  with the door locked and the
household away," Muriel answered laughingly.
I was never a ' performer,' to use the cant
term, and of late years I have nearly given up
singing altogether."

One never sings or plays after one marries,
I find," Lady Beatrice Orme remarked. " All
my friends tell me that is their' experience, and
certainly I am an example of the truth of the
axiom myself Generally, you see, one's husband
hates music, and that is excuse enough for
throwing it aside."

"My husband is a shining exception to the
general rule, then," said Muriel. " He is very
fond of music. I do occasionally sing even now
to a select audience of one  as he seems to
regret my giving up my one accomplishment."

If I bring his influence to bear, shall I induce
you to sing to us now ? " Wentworth put in.

He meant his tone to be half jesting, but actually
it was sharp to bitterness.

I am afraid he would not consent to have
his influence directed," Muriel answered. *whenever
asks impossibilities, either; he knows
where the sphere of legitimate influence ends. 
Mr. Egerton, may we not have the Rubinstein ? "

The young man struck the first chords
obediently, and Muriel by a gesture invited
Lady Beatrice to a little sofa near at hand. The
two together made a pleasing picture. Lady
Beatrice's fair, piquant prettiness contrasting as
admirably with the darker and more classic
beauty of Muriel, as did her light draperies of
silk and gauze with the severe lines of her companion's
simpler and heavier attire. When the
song was over, Wentworth came up to them.

"I heard Herschel sing that the other day,"
he remarked, " but even he has not spoilt me for
Mr. Egerton. What a treasure you have unearthed
for us, Mrs. Arlingham ! "

Surely you used to sing that song yourself
once upon a time," said Lady Beatrice. " Have
you renounced singing altogether ? "

Altogether  entirely," Wentworth answered,
with rather more emphasis than the occasion
demanded.

You keep your voice for the country's service
now, I suppose," observed Lady Beatrice, smiling.
By-the-by, I think it is very nearly time you
began to instruct a listening country  we are
all on the watch, I can assure you ! "

Wentworth smiled also, but preserved a discreet
silence as to his intentions.

But I am very sorry you have give up
singing," went on Lady Beatrice, finding him
impenetrable to her hints respecting his political
conduct. " I am sorry for many reasons which
you may easily guess, and for one besides which
is not likely to occur to you. You were the
only singer whose German songs ever gave me
real pleasure, because with every one else I am
at a loss to catch the words."

Mr. Egerton is very fairly distinct," Wentworth
said.

Not distinct enough for me. My knowledge
of the German language is slender, I am ashamed
to say ; I never really got over the difficulties
of the dative case ; and if I lose a single conjunction
or preposition, I am lost. Now as
regards ' Es blink der Thau.' I have a hazy
impression of there being something about dew
and moonbeams at the beginning, and something
else about a dream that is to last eternally at

the end, but that is all. If you instituted an
inquiry, you would probably find that every one
in the room is in like case. They have caught
a few words, and jumped to what appears a
plausible conclusion, but they don't really understand
much better than I."

"I think Mrs. Arlingham understands," said
Wentworth quietly.

Are you so good a German scholar ? " Lady
Beatrice asked, turning to her hostess. How
exceedingly pretty Mrs. Arlingham was looking !
only a trifle pale, certainly.

I ? " Muriel answered in a startled way.
Well, yes  pretty good, perhaps. I was in
Germany a good deal as a child."

The best way of learning a language," Wentworth
rejoined, his face darkening suddenly.
You can point out an error in the conclusion
Lady Beatrice drew as to the moral of *Es blink
der Thau,' I am sure ? "

Muriel looked up at him  a kind of terrified
fascination drew her eyes to his face  but she
did not attempt to answer his question. Lady
Beatrice unconsciously filled up the pause.

Mine was a mere guess," she said, laughing.
I heard ' Traum ' and ' ewing,' and pieced them
together as best I could. Had they nothing todo
with each other, after all ? "

Nothing whatever," said Wentworth, with a
strange flash of the eyes, the very reverse of
pleasant or reassuring to encounter. " The
dream was a foolish dream, and never intended
to last, Heine says. I am not sure I don't agree
with him. And now I am afraid I must say
good night, Mrs. Arlingham. You will, I am
sure, excuse my seeming rudeness in leaving so
early ; I had a five-line whip for eleven o'clock."
"Certainly; good night," Muriel answered. To
all outward appearance she was merely a little
formal and absent in manner; but if any one
had told her afterwards that she had trembled
and cowered when Wentworth held out his hand,
she could not have ventured to ' contradict the
assertion.

He went, and she drew a long breath of relief,
recovering herself to find Lady Beatrice asking,
Have you ever heard Mr. Wentworth sing,
Mrs. Arlingham ? You knew him in former
years, I think."

Yes, I have heard him sing  once."
"I always admired his singing immensely.
Were not you struck by it ? "

"I only heard him once  it is difficult to
judge correctly on one hearing. I remember he
had a fine voice," said Muriel, carefully clasping

one of her bracelets, which had come unfastened,
but I think he said himself that he was rather
out of practice just then."

Certainly this was not the verdict of an
enthusiastic admirer. Yet if it could have
reached the ears of Paul Went worth, by this
time fairly on his way to the House of Commons,
he might perhaps have smiled again.

'* ROSEMARY, FOR REMEMBRANCE."

*' What more than found the bystanders
He found within this speech of lies
I know not ; some faint quivering
In the last words, some little thing
That checked the cold words' even flow."

William Morris.

The following night Wentworth made his maiden
speech in the House of Commons.

New members of whom much is expected frequently
disappoint their friends and their party
on their first debut at St. Stephen's, even if later
on they succeed in justifying the estimate previously
formed of their powers. The conditions
of speech in the popular assembly and the kind
of eloquence there appreciated are so radically
different from those that prevail and win
applause elsewhere, that the most practised
platform speakers and the most distinguished

advocates often find themselves curiously ill at
ease when they first attempt to open their lips
in its unfamiliar atmosphere. This is perhaps
specially true of lawyers, touching whose utterances
the House is apt to be peculiarly critical,
and who find it difficult to unlearn all at once
the rhetoric which has proved so convincing
in the case of many an obstinate jury, and
adopt the more unvarnished and businesslike
style characteristic of the experienced Parliamentary
debater. Occasionally, however, there
occurs a striking exception to this rule of comparative
initial failure, and Wentworth's maiden
speech was one of these striking exceptions.
The chorus of approval it met with was unanimous
; there was scarcely a jarring note to mar
it. His political friends were delighted ; his
political opponents were frank in generous admiration;
the press gave him his full meed of
recognition. Not only was his speech loudly
extolled by the Liberal organs, but even the
hostile newspapers spoke of it with respect, and
the Tones itself was forward to congratulate his
party on " this brilliant addition to its debating
power," and to predict for the gifted speaker
a political career as distinguished as the forensic
one he had abandoned. By his retirement from

practice Mr. Wentworth had indeed deprived the
English Bar of one of its brightest ornaments,
and English jurisprudence of its foremost representative
in the council of nations, but it might
be that he was yet destined to render to his
country, in a new capacity, services greater and
more signal than any he had rendered her hitherto.
As a matter of course, Wentworth was met
wherever he went with an outburst of congratulation,
which he accepted simply enough. He
was gratified, and made no profound secret of
the fact. Though he had always cherished a
quiet and unostentatious confidence in his own
oratorical powers, and would not have wished a
single word of his speech withdrawn or softened
down had it been met with a storm of obloquy
instead of a shout of acclamation, yet it was
undeniably pleasant to find the favourable
judgment he had passed upon himself so universally
ratified. He did not plume himself
overmuch on his achievement, but he was
honestly glad that men and women whose
opinion he valued should consider it an achievement.
Strange many-sided paradox as the man
was, there was nothing about him stranger or
more paradoxical than a certain intense simplicity
of feeling which often broke in some

curiously unexpected way through his outer
envelope of cynical shrewdness, and was to be
reckoned among his most winning qualities.
There was something absolutely pathetic about
this characteristic at times. The sight of a man
of Wentworth's years suddenly roused to keen
delight by a passing tribute of king and sympathy,
or touched to the quick by a transient
hurt that (one might have thought) would have
fallen innocuous on any nature less impressionable
than that of a sensitive boy in his teens,
had a decided element of pathos in it for some
minds.

Perhaps Muriel Arlingham was of the number
of these, and that was what caused her references
to Wentworth's triumph, when they happened
to meet soon afterwards at a great gathering at
the American Minister's, to be so extremely light
and cold. She had had evidence, albeit only
momentary evidence, that some remains of the
Paul Wentworth she had once known still lay
hidden behind the social mask of the member
for Coin, and that even now the man was not
entirely made up of ambition, cynicism, vanity,
and arrogant contempt of his less-gifted fellow-creatures.
The barbed words he had addressed
to her at her own house had convinced her that

the volcano was not really extinct, but only
slumbering deceptively. Unless she were very
careful, she might be favoured with another
glimpse of the fiery depths she had erroneously
imagined to have become dead and cold, and
she by no means craved any more such glimpses.
The last had been a kind of revelation to her 
that is, as regards Wentworth; she was not
aware that it had thrown any reflex light upon
herself  and she disliked sudden revelations, and
indeed excitements of all kinds. Since that day
she had felt that it would be necessary to keep
more than ever on the surface of things with
Wentworth, and she guessed intuitively that
to show any but the most languid interest in
him at what was in some sort the crowning
moment of his life, would be to provoke a great
deal of that excitement which she did not want
to witness. So she said as little as she considered
consonant with bare civility, and discovered that
even thus she had said too much. Perhaps Wentworth
had not expected her to say anything at
all, for he seemed gratified  unduly gratified,
Muriel thought to herself, wondering why she
had been guilty, after her late experience, of the
folly of alluding, however lightly, to anything
that concerned him personally.

She changed the subject as quickly as possible
and when on such a theme it was easy to pass
from the particular to the general. Yet although
for the rest of the evening she talked with
even more of sarcasm and levity than she was
wont to introduce into her conversation with
Wentworth, her persistent adoption of this tone
did not succeed  as it had sometimes on previous
occasions succeeded  in causing him to retire
from her side half offended, and wholly out of
humour with her and with himself alike. On
the contrary, he continued to hover about her
until she quitted the scene ; and, though he was
content to follow her lead in his choice of topics
of conversation, he discussed them each and all
with unnatural eagerness, wearing the while a
look of intense earnestness which Muriel had
often seen him wear in earlier days, but which
rarely, if ever, showed itself to her now.

Perhaps it was this look of Wentworth's, ashe
leant against the embrasure of the window
near which Muriel sat, and gazed down fixedly
at her half-averted profile till the mere fascination
of his steady gaze drew her unwilling eyes,
once and again, from the contemplation of the
gardenias and tuberoses in her bouquet to the
dark earnest face above her, which caused one of

two men passing by to remark sotto voce to his
companion as soon as they were fairly out of
earshot, "Wentworth is up to his old games
aoain, I see ! The heroine of this new novelette
is very pretty, at any rate."

I think you are mistaken," said his companion,
with considerable stiffness. "In your
conclusions, I mean. I can only just claim the
lady's acquaintance, but she certainly strikes meas
a woman to be respected as well as admired."

Don't know her. Who is she ? "

Mrs. Geoffrey Arlingham, a distant connection
of Lady Ellesthorpe's. She made her first
appearance in society last year, when you were
in India  her husband came . into a heap of
money quite unexpectedly, from a relation who
died somewhere in America, I believe. People
who know her well say that she is remarkably
clever. If that is the case, I wonder how she
came to ally herself with such a thick-headed ass
as Arlingham  who, by the way, does not appear
to particularly appreciate the prize he has won."

"So I should conclude," observed the other
drily ; " otherwise he would probably look after
her a little better. Wentworth's flirtations are
apt to be serious affairs."

Wentworth is an older and wiser man than

lie was some years ago, I fancy. Every one
notices how greatly he has sobered down  and
as regards Mrs. Arlingham, I believe there is
nothing more serious in question than a friendship."


Do you think he looked exactly friendly just
now ? Or shall we go a step further, and say he
looked fatherly too ? My dear fellow, Wentworth
is past praying for where his vanity is
concerned. He could never be any woman's
friend  not if he lived to complete his threescore
years and ten. He can be a woman's acquaintance
 her courteous, indifferent acquaintance 
or, if she pleases, her lover ; but he knows
no mean between the two. And your friend

Mrs. Arlingham will probably find " The

speaker checked himself hastily, perceiving himself
to be in dangerous proximity to Lady Elles-thorpe,
who happened to be sitting on the other
side of a screen near which he and his companion
had paused for a moment. But his self-recollections
came just too late. Lady Ellesthorpe
had overheard his last mocking speech, and it
continued to haunt her painfully long after she
had returned home, and had had leisure to
ponder its signification.

For Lady Ellesthorpe had received a severe

VOL. II. 41

moral shock. To a woman of her nature it was
exquisite pain even to guess that Muriel, now
almost as dear to her as a daughter, was made a
theme of comment among men, whether of the
better or the baser sort. That her name should
be for a moment, even in jest, coupled with that
of any man not her husband, filled Lady Elles-thorpe
with grief and indignation, but that it
should be coupled with that of Paul Wentworth
filled her with dismay. She blamed herself
severely, albeit most unjustly, for having
neglected to guard against this peril to Muriel's
peace. The child, she felt, was virtually under
her care  for she rated Geoffrey Arlingham's
guardianship at its true valueand she must
have been culpably careless to have allowed
matters to come to the present pass. Her confidence
in Muriel was unbounded : she did not
believe that all the arts of a Machiavelli would
avail to loosen the young wife's firm hold on the
principles of faith and duty, or to confuse her
clear-sighted recognition of the eternal difference
between moral right and wrong. But she knew
that there are dreams and hallucinations from
which a woman may awaken, with her moral
grasp unshaken and her moral standard as lofty
as ever, but with her life's happiness in ruins at

her feet, nevertheless. Was this to be Muriel's
fate ? " God forbid ! " Lady Ellesthorpe said
earnestly within herself, mentally resolving that
no present pain, whether to herself or to
Muriel, should weigh with her in her efforts to
avert so terrible a catastrophe as that.

LADY Oglethorpe SPEAKS.

*' Nay, the world, the world.
All ear and eye, with such a stupid heart
To interpret ear and eye, and such a tongue
To blare its own interpretation."

Tennyson.

I WAS not sure whether you kriew it or not,"
Lady EUesthorpe said slowly and regretfully,
and I wanted to keep it from you as long as I
possibly could. But lately I have fancied that
you guessed something of the truth."

"Yes," Muriel answered in a mechanical,
emotionless way. She sat, looking calm even to
coldness, opposite her motherly friend, whose
grieved voice and moistened eyes showed plainly
how deep was her emotion. " Yes, from one or
two things that happened lately I thought it
must be  as you say."

When I came here to-day," Lady EUesthorpe

continued, " I was still undecided as to whether
I would speak or not, and if it had not been for
what Ellesthorpe told me last night, I would
certainly never have spoken. But I reminded
myself that, as his wife, you could do more for
him than any one else, and yet, while you remained
in ignorance, you could not help him at
all. Supposing I did not tell you, and then you
should reproach me hereafter for having denied
you the chance of saving him ! " Lady Elles-thorpe's
eyes filled with tears, and her voice
faltered. " If you knew already, my speaking
can have made but little difference."

"It is only a sort of confirmation," Muriel
replied with an effort. " The truth came to me,
I scarcely know how, months ago. Perhaps
seeing that he was worried and uneasy, and
knowing that those men were always with him,
made me guess at first how it must be. I tried
to do what seemed best, without asking questions.
That I could not have done. But of
course he has not told me." She spoke in little
broken phrases, as if she had not strength for
more.

Those men ! " Lady Ellesthorpe repeated
eagerly, passing over the pathetic indication of
disunion contained in the young wife's last

words simply because it revealed a grief utterly
beyond her power to reach or comfort. "It is
Graham and his set who have led Geoffrey
astray. Every young man newly endowed with
wealth and unpractised in fashionable follies is
fair game to such as they are. They are not
swindlers or cheats, of course ; no doubt they
plume themselves on being gentlemen and men
of honour, but I doubt not they manage to make
their friendship with Geoffrey conduce mightily
to their own advantage. I don't pretend to
understand the mysteries of the turf, and
Ellesthorpe knows little more of such matters
than I  still, people who do understand them
say that Geoffrey is 'heavily dipped,' as they
call it, in that quarter. But my husband does
hear the club gossip, unfortunately ; and oh,
my dear, I should not dare tell you what
Geoffrey is said to have lost to Alister Newton
at ecarte, two evenings running last week !
Child, you must try and save him before it is
too late."

''Or save the remainder of our fortune,"
Muriel answered, attempting to smile. "That
is what it really comes to, after all, isn't it ? "

"You know I did not mean that," Lady
Ellesthorpe replied, as severely as it was possible

for her to speak. "Don't be flippant, Muriel.
Humanly speaking, your husband's welfare

depends on you, perhaps. Cannot you "

No, I cannot," Muriel interrupted very sadly.
'' I shall try ; oh, be assured that I shall tr} !
Dear Lady EUesthorpe, do you imagine that I
am so careless as not to have tried already, ordo
you suppose I will not try again with all my
strength ? Only I hope and trust that Jack's
welfare may depend on something different, on
some one better  for I can do so little ! Poor
Jack ! poor Jack ! "

She broke off hastily, as if ashamed of her
passing outburst of emotion ; then rose, crossed
over to the window, and altered the position of
the blinds. Finally, instead of coming back to
her seat, she slipped behind her friend's chair
and kissed her. " Thank you for your goodness,
dear," she said softly. " I think you know what
I want to say, and can't say. I never was good
at expressing what I felt, and now it seems as
if I had lost the faculty altogether. And I can't
talk of  of this, even to you."

Lady Ellesthorpe's sole reply was, "My dear
child ! " followed by a close embrace. And then,
by tacit mutual consent, the two women talked
of other things.

After luncheon was over, however, and while
Lady Ellesthorpe was putting on her bonnet in
Muriel's room, the latter said, "I forgot to tell
you we are leaving town on Monday instead of
Monday week. That may be a good thing 
since it is as you tell me."

"It seems strange that I should wish you
gone," said Lady Ellesthorpe, with a sorrowful
smile, " but I believe it might be best, just now.
Is it your doing ? "

"Partly, perhaps. The St. Henrys asked us
to join their yachting party to Norway, and as
Jack had a fancy that way, I urged it as much
as I could. I wanted to have seen Lucy before
I went, very much ; she has not 'been at all well
lately  but I must be content to give that up.
We shall be rather hurried, of course ; I shall
not have time to take leave of half my acquaintances."


Talking of acquaintances, I met an acquaintance
 or rather a friend, and a very old one  of
yours on my way here to-day."

"' Who was that ? "

Sir John Clavering. By the way, how
much more pleasant and genial he has become
of late. I told him I was going to visit you,
and he responded in his queer gruff voice, ' Then

you will spend your morning with the most
charming young woman I know.' There's a
pretty compliment for you ! "

Muriel laughed softly. " I must recollect that,"
she said. " I haven't so many admirers that I
can afford to think lightly of Sir John's compliment.
I fancy I have been going a little out
of fashion altogether lately ; don't you think so ? "

"I see no appreciable difference," answered
Lady Ellesthorpe, turning to the glass, and
deliberately untying her bonnet-strings to re-tie
them immediately with elaborate care. " You
have gained one new admirer that I would
almost prefer your being without. Child, you
may think of me as an interfering, ridiculous old
woman, if you like, but I am speaking to you as
I should speak to Amy or Nora, my own dear
girls  don't let Paul Wentworth pay you much
attention, my darling."

Lady EUesthorpe ! " Muriel was standing in
the middle of the room, very pale and erect, and
her eyes were full of indignant light. But shc
added very calmly, after her first irrepressible?
exclamation of angry surprise, *'My dear kind
friend, I am not  I could not be offended with
you. But you are utterly mistaken. I have no
reason to consider Mr. Wentworth in any way

an admirer of mine, nor is he in the habit of
paying me any particular attention. We are
good friends when we happen to meet ; nothing
more."

Dear child, I never supposed for a moment
that you concerned yourself about his admiration,
but it is a fact patent to other people's eyes.
And it is an admiration that it is better to be
without, Muriel ; it never benefited any woman
yet. The mere circumstance of being supposed
to have attracted it is a circumstance to be
regretted."

"I have seen but little of Mr. Wentworth,
comparatively speaking," Muriel answered very
quietly, though nothing but the deep, grateful
affection she felt for her husband's cousin could
have prevailed to keep back a very different
reply from her lips. "He is a pleasant man
socially, and  as I said before  we are good
friends when we meet, as we do from time to
time."

' Good friends,' " Lady Ellesthorpe repeated.
Well, that phrase, conventionally used, generally
means courteous acquaintances  and
courteous acquaintanceship is, I think, the only
safe ground for any woman to venture on with
Mr. Wentworth. There are many men, thank

God, whom a woman, however young and beautiful,
may safely call her friends, but he is not
one of those men. Even supposing that he should
at any time prove himself capable of a friendship,
the world would give it another name."

Well," said Muriel, putting a desperate
constraint upon herself, and smiling faintly,
Mr. Wentworth has never troubled himself to
ask for my friendship, so I have not had the
chance of refusing it to him. But, indeed, our
acquaintance would not warrant his doing anything
of the kind; it is a mere surface society
affair. As to his character, I know people are
very severe upon him; though, with beautiful
inconsistency, they quarrel as to who shall have
him at their parties in the same breath."

I don't wish to be severe upon him at all,"
Lady Ellesthorpe rejoined, very glad to slide
into generalities about Wentworth's character.
"Some excuse I am inclined to believe he has
had ; something must have gone very wrong
with him in his married life, or a man with so
many fine qualities could never have gone so
hopelessly crooked. For there is a great deal of
good about him, incontestably, and it is just that
which makes him so dangerously attractive.
And for the time being, whatever his aim or

interest, he is frightfully sincere, and seems to
mean all he says, thoroughly. I have known
him ever since he was little more than a lad, and
I often find it difficult to be sufficiently hard on
him. I assure you, Muriel, that though it is
against my better judgment  and my better
principles too  yet I never spend half an hour in
Paul Wentworth's company without feeling an
intense admiration, and almost a reluctant fondness,
for him ! "

For shame ! " Muriel answered lightly. " How
can you venture to confess to such reprehensible
weakness when you have just had the temerity
to give me a duenna-like lecture on matronly
deportment ? Dear Lady Ellesth'orpe, I wondered
at your courage in attempting the lecture, but
having performed that notable feat, who but you
would have been frank enough to add the
confession immediately afterwards ? " And it
was amidst laughter, after all, that Lady
Ellesthorpe's visit came to an end.

But although Muriel laughed at her friend's
misgivings, she nevertheless, as far as lay in her
power, steadily avoided Wentworth during the
next few days, and when at last compelled to
encounter him, met him with an invincible coldness
and indifference which puzzled and piqued

and wounded him all at once. However, finally
it had the desired effect of ridding her of his
presence. There is small pleasure in attempting
to talk to a woman who persistently answers you
in brief uninterested monosyllables, and who
suffers her attention to be distracted by every
passing trifle in the midst of your most spirited
narratives or your most brilliant flashes of wit.

Muriel really had cause enough for absence of
mind without simulating it. A renewed attempt
to gain her husband's confidence had only
succeeded in widening the breach between them,
converting Jack's callous indifference into active
resentment and something very like impatient
dislike ; and it was not, moreover, easy for her to
forget the words with which he had fluno back
her earnest entreaties and gentle arguments in
her face. And though he utterly refused to
make known the state of his affairs to her, and
contemptuously rejected her timid proposal to
make some retrenchment in their growing
expenditure, she gathered instinctively that
things with him were (mly going from bad to
worse. Day by day he grew more uncertain and
unaccountable in his moods, and Muriel watched
his outbursts of reckless high spirits and his fits
of inexplicable depression with almost equal

anxiety. The St. Henrys put off their yachting
party for three weeks, to the further complication
of her anxieties, so that they were bound to
linger on in town till the fourth week in July ;
and Jack's intimacy with the so-called friends
who were ruining him grew closer every week.
Where was it all to end ? Muriel asked herself
sadly, fifty times a day.

THEN AND NOW.

Ham. I did love you once.

Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so."

Shakespeare.

The last evening of Muriel's second season in
town had at length come, and she was going to
spend it at the house of Lady Beatrice Orme.
As she drove thither with her husband, she
asked herself whether she were glad or sorry
that the mad revel was about to stop for a time,
and found it very hard to answer her own
question. On board the St. Henrys' yacht, or sitting
quietly at Eversleigh while Jack wrought his
annual havoc among the partridges, there would
be so much time for thought, and thought was
unspeakably painful to her nowadays. On the
other hand, she was growing weary of the
incessant round of make-believe enjoyment, and
of the necessity for watchfulness, even in her

most innocent actions, which pressed itself upon
her with redoubled weight since Lady Elles-thorpe's
loving admonition had been uttered.
Perhaps too  although this was but a faint hope
Jack might be more easily influenced in his
old home, away from Alister Newton and his
other new associates. "Only probably Alister
Newton will be there too," Muriel concluded
with a sigh. And then the halting of the
carriage put a truce to her meditations.

Lady Beatrice Orme was not, on this particular
occasion, holding one of her great receptions.
Lie had called her party a " small and early "
one ; nevertheless, she had thrown open the
whole of her fine suite of reception-rooms, and
invited guests enough to ensure their looking
tolerably full. There was singing going on
in one of the rooms, but Muriel was not in the
mood for music. She sat down in the great
Louis Quinze drawing-room, where only a handful
of people were sitting or standing about, the
warbling of the favourite prima donna of the
hour having attracted the greater number, and
Mr. Cunningham, a young Radical member of
Parliament, eagerly appropriated the chair by
her side.

*' I looked in at the Reform on my way here,"

the young man said, when he had sufficiently
lamented Mrs, Arlingham's approaching departure,
and discussed his own plans for the autumn.
They are in an awful way about this unlucky
division."

What division ? " Muriel asked.

Haven't you heard the news yet ? Why,
Government were beaten at nine o'clock on the
Sualiland question  a majority of thirteen. It
is only a side issue, of course, but it will shake
their credit at a rather critical moment. The
chiefs are furious, I hear ; all the more so that
the defeat was thoroughly unexpected. You
see, so many of their own men voted against
them."

"Against them, and with their consciences,
perhaps," Muriel answered warmly. " It always
puzzled me to understand how any really high-principled
man could uphold the Government
action in Sualiland ; and now it seems that for
once principle has triumphed over party spirit.
You don't mean to say that you voted for that
shameful convention ? "  tui'nino her fair indica.
nant face suddenly full upon him.

"No," said Cunningham reluctantly. "But I
did not vote against it, either. It did not seem
quite fair to embarrass Ministers at such a
VOL. II. 42

moment. So I left the House before the division
was called."

Muriel sat silent, but her silence was quite
as eloquent as any spoken condemnation could
have been, and quite as unendurable to Mr.
Cunningham.

I am afraid you think very poorly of my
action, Mrs. Arlingham," he began in an eager
tone of self-exculpation, " but I assure you that,
as it is, I am regarded as a semi-traitor to the
cause. I have had various dark looks and
cutting speeches hurled at my devoted head
already to-night, in consequence of my absence
from the division. As to Wentworth, Morrison
and his following would annihilate him if they
could."

What is Mr. Wentworth's offence ? "

"He got up unexpectedly, and made a most
brilliant speech  quite the best thing he has
done in the House yet  dead against Ministers.
It was like the springing of a mine. Till then
they had thought themselves pretty safe, though
there had been the usual protests from the
other side, and from a few free-lances on our
own. But Wentworth completely turned the
tables upon them. You know his gift of irony
well, it had full play to-night. I could not

help enjoying the thought of what Morrison's
sufferings must have been while Wentworth was
commending his pet scheme as ' a noble application
of Liberal principles to the treatment of
subject races ' ! Before Wentworth sat down,
its fate was sealed. All the Independent Liberals
voted with him, and about twenty of the rank
and file. You may imagine how they were
blessings him at the Reform, and declaiming
the unfitness of such a firebrand for office of any
kind. He has thrown away any chances of
that sort he may have had, for the present at
least. Last week he was pretty sure of something
before very long, and now

"What of that?" Muriel interrupted with
a flash of enthusiasm. " Risht is riffht."

"Mrs. Arlingham, if one began to indulge
scruples on matters of detail in things political,
one would soon find it impossible to act with
any party at all. This action of Wentworth's

has not only injured himself, but Ah, here

he is ! " And Wentworth did in fact make his
appearance at that moment, and came up to
greet Mrs. Arlingham.

Was Cunningham giving you an account of
my crimes ? " he asked presently, when the
young man, feeling himself vaguely de trap and

ill at ease, had reluctantly withdrawn and joined
a group of men a little way off. "I suppose
you, too, are highly indignant with me for
embarrassing your friends, and are fully persuaded
that I did it out of sheer freakishness.
Strangle that no one can be brought to credit me
with a conscience ! "

'consciences seem out of fashion nowadays,"
Muriel answered; "politically, at any rate. It
is a good thing to be reminded sometimes that
they do exist still, and have to be reckoned with
occasionally."

She spoke quite coldly, almost cynically, yet
her words brought a passing quiver to Wentworth's
lips. He glanced down at her, leaning
over the chair Mr. Cunningham had just quitted.

Do you mean," he asked eagerly, " that you
approve what I did  that you think I was right
in doing it ? If so, you are singular in your
opinion."

Something in his tone touched her very
strongly. For the first time, in answer to the
question which was half an appeal, she looked up
at him, and he saw the fire that still lingered in
her beautiful eyes. " Indeed I think you were
right," she answered. "Why need you care
what professional politicians say of you, or what

the world thinks ? There were at least men
enough, like-minded, to follow where you led
them."

She had spoken on the impulse of the moment :
spoken in sympathy with all that was best, in
forgetfulness of all that was worst in him 
spoken once more with all the eager warmth of
her girlish years. For an instant he did not
answer, but before he uttered a syllable, she
knew what she had done. The light in his
face as he bent a little, a very little nearer to
her before answering, was more eloquent than
any words could have been. " Thank you," he
said breathlessly at last; and then there was
silence again for a minute.

And in that minute of silence, while his look
still held hers fast. Went worth learnt all that he
desired to know. One unguarded moment, one
impetuous sentence, had undone the work of
long years of struggle, of self-discipline, of self-deception
that had striven nobly to convert
itself into calm reality, and, however unwillingly,
her eyes could no longer refuse to make
voiceless confession of the miserable truth. It
was said, and could never be unsaid again.

It had all passed in a minute. Perhaps Wentworth,
strong in his triumph, could afford to

show her a little mercy, or perhaps the shock of
this sudden solution of the enigma that had
puzzled him so long was almost too much for his
own strength, for he drew back a little, with
what sounded like a long-drawn sigh. Then
Muriel rose from her chair.

Will you take me into the music-room ? " she
asked. "Madame Tornii is beginning the Shadow
Sono' and I think I should like to hear it. It
suits her voice so perfectly."

They found the music-room full to suffocation.
Every seat there had been appropriated long
before; movement was almost impossible, and
even the very doorways were filled with a
listening crowd. Wentworth managed to secure
for his companion a little unoccupied space of
blank wall  it was the best he could do for her.
Then he took up his station by her side, and
watched her as she listened, or seemed to listen,
to Madame Tornii's marvellous roulades and
fioriture. She was as colourless as her white
gown  a simple, rather girlish dress of soft
falling lace  or the pearls twisted about her
throat, and she looked intensely weary too,
leaning back against the dull red wall, and
shading her face a little from the light with
the flowers she carried. Yet in Wentworth's

eyes she had never appeared quite so beautiful
before.

The Shadow Song came to an end amidst
a burst of applause, followed immediately by a
hum of renewed conversations, and by a rain
of questions, comments, criticisms, and light
laughter. Muriel alone said nothing till Wentworth
turned and spoke to her.

"You feel it terribly hot in this room,
don't you ? " he asked with a kind of grave
solicitude.

It is very hot, I think  yes."

"And you will be tired to death standing
here besides," he went on, his voice softening
more and more. " You are as white as this " 
touching one of the lilies in her hand.

o

I have a little headache," she replied.
*' From the heat, no doubt  it is nothing of any
consequence."

It is of consequence," he began ; then, checking
himself slightly, " At any rate, it shows that
you ought not to be standing, and there is no
chance of a seat here. Let me take you into
the next room. You will still be able to hear."

Oh no  no, thank you," she interrupted
nervously. " I much prefer staying where I am.
I can hear the music so much letter  and then

I want to speak to Mrs. Margrave, if I can. I
wish I could catch her eye during the interval ! "

Fate, in the person of Lady Beatrice Orme
herself, a dainty little figure, exquisitely attired,
made her way through the crowd and halted
before Muriel at this juncture.

My dear Mrs. Arlingham, I am sure you are
oettinof crushed to death in that corner ! This
room is far too small for the number of people in
it ; but, sou see, I did not reckon on every one
finding Madame Tornii's voice more attractive
than their own. It was very undiscerning of
me ; I am so sorry. As for you, you look quite
done up with the heat. Won't you go and
study Hamlet while the interval lasts ; or have
you seen the picture already ? No ? Then I
insist on your seeing it  it is my chief joy for
the moment, and I know you love pictures. 
Mr. Wentworth, please take Mrs. Arlingham to
the Oak Room, and show her 'Hamlet and
Ophelia ' without* further loss of time." And the
energetic little lady cleared a path for them in
the direction she had been indicating, all-unconscious
of Muriel's evident reluctance to carry
out her suggestion.

The back of Mr. Orme's house was built out
in the form of a quadrangle, of which the music-room

formed one whole side, and the so-called
Oak Room another. The way to the latter lay
first through that smaller drawing-room to
which Wentworth had already proposed Muriel's
transferring herself, and then through a conservatory
full of ferns and tropical climbers,
where the perpetual play of a little fountain
kept the air cool and moist. It was an undeniable
relief to pass from the over-heated
music-room into this soft scented atmosphere,
the silence of which was only broken by the
rhythmic splash of the tiny spring, as it rose and
fell among great clumps of maidenhair.

The Oak Room contained no furniture  nothing
at all, indeed, save pictures, and of these
not a large collection. Mr. Orme prided himself
on buying only masterpieces, whether ancient or
modern, and masterpieces are not to be had
every day. A long, narrow, picturesque room ib
was, and, like the conservatory, silent in itself,
for it was quite untenanted. * But through its
three great windows, flung wide open to the
warm July night air, came the sound of voices
and the ring of laughter from the motley throng
in the music-room, as it moved to and fro on the
other side of a narrow gulf of darkness.

Mr. Orme's last acquisition, the ' Hamlet and

Ophelia ' of a great German artist, occupied the
place of honour at the head of the room. Wentworth
led his companion before it. "This is
what we have come to see," he said. " Do you
admire it ? "

Muriel studied the picture a little while in
silence before she answered, 'every much. I
don't care specially for the colouring  it seems tome
a little harsh ; but the drawing is magnificent,
and the whole conception is so noble and
so full of poetry. I suppose artists will never
be tired of trying to portray that scene."

I suppose not. I think no artist has given
us a perfect realization of the idea as yet, but
this man has come very near it. It is a beautiful
thing, but intensely sad. Perhaps it could
not well be otherwise, seeing it is intended to
illustrate the saddest line in Shakespeare. This
artist, however, refuses to accept Hamlet's words
literally. Do you see that ? "

Muriel looked again steadily at the canvas
before her. " Yes, I see," she replied. " I prefer
that view of the episode, of course, because it
happens to be my own. I don't believe Hamlet's
I did love you once ' was genuine. It was
merely in his part just then."

"Yet Ophelia seems to have accepted it as

genuine, though she at least ought to have
known better. She should have been able to
see through Hamlet's disguises, if she really
loved the man. Hers must have been a poor
weakling, uncomprehending affection, after all."

Muriel made no rejoinder. Through the doorway
came the music of the little fountain's soft
regular plashing ; through the window, that of a
girls happy laugh, as she played with the tassel
of the music-room blind and talked to her lover.
Half drowned in the distance, a peal of distant
church bells chimed intermittently, rising and
falling with the nioht breeze.

If one plays the madman long enough, people
refuse to believe in one's sanity even off the
stage," Went worth resumed. " One gets identified
with the character altogether  or would
certainly do so, if there were not generally one
person in the world with whom one can drop
the mask. Thank Heaven for that ! life would"
be unbearable else." He spoke abruptly, with
his eyes still on the picture.

"Perhaps the better way would be to abjure
masking altogether," returned Muriel, trying to
continue the discussion in indifferent, philosophic
fashion. " If people were less anxious to appear
other than they are greater, cleverer, wittier

better  it strikes me there would be a much
larger amount of real happiness in the world."

The amount at present existing there would
certainly bear adding to. How much happiness
worth the name do you suppose the world contains
? How many really happy people are
there, I wonder, among the crowd yonder ? " 
signing towards the window.

They are a tolerably contented-looking set,"
Muriel answered in a studied matter-of-fact
way. "I don't think you would find many
victims to Weltsclimerz among them."

You think so  because you saw them smile
pleasantly, and heard them laugh, and exchange
compliments, and say brilliant things to one
another ? Very superficial judgment, Mrs. Arlingham.
We will take ourselves for a sample
of these happy people. Have we not done all
those things this very evening ? Could any one
have found a flaw in the perfection of our
masking and mumming during the past hour !
Would not the world say that we both have
everything the heart of man and woman need
desire ? Yet are we happy, either of us ? You
know we are not. We pretend to be so : to the
world, to each other, and sometimes even to ourselves
 but the whole thug is a ghastly sham.

We are both most unhappy, most miserable, and
we both know it. Can a hundred denials of the
truth make matters a whit better for either of
us?"

She at least had not strength for one. And
indeed what availed denial of the truth with
this man, who read her inmost soul better than
she could read it for herself?

*you will say that it is better to leave the
wretchedness unacknowledged, and that to talk
of it only makes things worse. I agree with
you in a general way. Only sometimes, when
the pain has grown and grown till it has
become unendurable, one must needs cry out.
There is a limit to endurance."

Muriel gathered up all her forces for a reply.
I think you are too morbid," she said as calmly
as she could. "T agree with the world that
Fortune has favoured you in many ways  and
me also, for that matter. I cannot consent to be
included among the secret misanthropes of your
catalogue, I assure you."

There was a blaze of scorn in Wentworth's
eyes. " I beg your pardon," he said coldly. " I
beg your pardon a thousand times ! Of course
you have everything to make you happy  why
should you not be happy ? Youth, and beauty,

and wealth, and admiration are enough for
any woman's happiness, no doubt. Love is a
make-weight that can be easily dispensed with,
if necessary, without materially altering the
balance of the scale. Unfortunately, I am
differently constituted  I am not skilful in
adjusting things, and I miss the poor make-weight."


Little conventional artifices had ever been
but a miserably insufficient barrier with which
to oppose Wentworth's deadly earnest  Muriel
had known that instinctively once. But she had
lived so long now upon conventions, that she
fell back upon them in her need as a matter of
course. " Hush ! " she said, putting up her hand
and turning from him to the open window.
"Madame Tornii is singing again. What is
this ? "

Madame Tornii had been singing for some
minutes, as it happened. She was in the middle
of Tost's "At Vespers," and on the soft night
air came the clear, solemn chant, dirge-like as a
requiem for the dead 

More cold than these has grown your heart,
More cold your hand I used to press ;
And never death has such a smart
As your forgetfulness ! "

There the singer paused, and Wentworth filled

up the pause. " True' he said softly, as he leant
against the frame of the window towards which
Muriel had moved impulsively, " there is worse
suffering than the suffering of to-night. I knew
what it was in its fulness three months ago.
Anything rather than that ! "

Muriel trembled a little, and a subtle chancre
passed over her face. All unacknowledged to
herself, his forgetfulness had been the worst
part of her pain; and the certainty that he
loved her still brought with it a moment of
tumultuous gladness. Wentworth, with his eyes
on her face, grasped the meaning of that change
well enough.

"It is difficult to tell some gladness from pain,"
he said in his deep, thrilling voice. " There
must always be so much pain for us, every way ;
but it is not and cannot be all pain to-night.
Don't you think, with poor Othello, ' if it were
now to die, it were to be most happy ' ? "

Did any one ever before pray for strength to
laugh ? Scarcely, perhaps. Yet I think Muriel
went near to praying for it at that moment.
And she did laugh ; although the laugh, when it
came, had well-nigh ended in a sob.

"You are full of gloomy fancies to-night, Mr.
Wentworth," she said. "That kind of thinrr is

generally a little infectious, but you go quite too
far for me. I really have not the slightest desire
to quit this mortal sphere at present."

Her poor little flippant shaft, shot in desperate
self-defence, glanced off unheeded. Sensitive as
Wentworth usually was to such missiles, this one
did not strike out of him even a momentary
of resentment.

What use is it to talk like this ? " he asked
sadly and pitifully. "What possible use  knowing
what we both know now ? And knowing
it, what good shall our parted lives do us ?
Muriel"  lingering with passionate fondness *on
the syllables of her name, and leaning suddenly
forward to clasp his hand over* hers  " Muriel,
tell me one thing in truth, though Heaven knows
it is an idle question enough ! Instead of a hopeless,
loveless life  to die so, with your hand in
mine, would it not be infinitely better ? Would
you not be glad  as I should be glad ? After
all the long bitter past, if there were no more
bitter future for us, we mioht well be content
with this one perfect moment ! "

The time had come for Muriel to speak; no
longer by transparent conventionalities or dignified
evasions, but in absolute unshrinkinor truth ;
out of the depths of her own storm-tossed but

steadfast spirit, straight to the soul looking
at her in its great love and despair out of Paul
Wentworth's eyes. Lie was white as marble,
but she no longer trembled as she lifted her eyes
to his, and answered, without even attempting to
withdraw her hand from the grasp in which he
held it, " For this one moment ? Yes, perhaps
I might almost be glad too  in my madness.
But when it was over ? Have you thought how
it would be with us then, in the presence of
God?"

Slowly and silently Wentworth let go her-hand.
All the passion died out of his face, andover
its ashen pallor swept the shadow of a great
awe. *rit was I who was mad; you must forgive
me," he murmured half audibly, with lips that
quivered as if from acute physical suffering.

Muriel's strength had been exhausted in that
supreme effort, and she knew that her only safety
in return to the outside world. "I am rather
tired," she said, in a way that was half dignified,
half childlike, " and I think I would like to go
home now. Will you take me to m} husband,
please ? "

Wentworth gave her his arm without a word,
and they passed out together. In the neighbouring
drawing-room they easily discovered Geoffrey

VOL. II. 4o

Arlingham. He was talking eagerly to a group
of young men, and he took no notice of his wife's
presence until Wentworth, quitting Muriel, went
up and summoned him.

"I am so glad to have found you, Jack,"
Muriel exclaimed, as her husband approached
with manifest unwillingness. " I should like to
go home now, if you don't mind."

Why are you in such a desperate hurry ? "
inquired Mr. Arlingham ungraciously. "We
have not been here long. "

The rooms are so hot," Muriel answered
gently, "and I have a headache. I should be
very glad to get away."

Oh, in that case, better go by all means," her
husband rejoined carelessly, turning to go back
to his friends. " I dare say you will be all right
when you get out of the heat."

Are not you coming with me ? " she asked
hastily, and almost appealingly. She spoke in
an undertone, vainly hoping that the words
might not reach Wentworth's ear where he stood
a little apart from them.

Oh, I really can't ! "  Jack's customary polite
formula of refusal when requested to do anything
likely to interfere ever so slightly with his
personal convenience. " I'm going on to Colonel

Marshall's with those fellows. Mr. Went worth
will see you to the carriage, I've no doubt. Ah,
thanks ! and good night "  in answer to Wentworth's
grave sign of assent.

Wentworth cast a single look of scorn and
hatred and unspeakable contempt at Arlingham
as he moved away, but when he turned back to
Muriel his face had grown perfectly impassive.
He would not lay a straw's weight of additional
burden upon her, already so heavily oppressed
with pain of his creating, and he knew that the
cruellest part of the humiliation she had just received
at her husband's hands was the fact that
he had been a witness to it. He even forced
himself to say quietly, " Mr. Arlingham is right :
you will be better when you have made your
escape from these heated rooms. I will take you
to the ante-room, which is cooler, before I order
your carriage. We shall find Lady Beatrice on
the way."

She assented mechanically ; all the force had
gone out of her. She felt like a child that has
run to its guardian for protection, and finds
itself thrust away with contemptuous roughness
to face the dangers threatening it alone and
unassisted. Jack's harsh words had hurt her as a
scornful blow might have hurt such a child.

Sit down," said Wentworth in his calm,
authoritative way, when they had reached the
ante-room, and he had found a chair for her near
the open door, half in the shadow of the ]mortier.
I will fetch your wraps  give me the number 
and no one will disturb you here."

No one disturbed her, as he said ; she was left
in peace and silence till he came back again, with
her white cloak hanoinor on his arm, and that
curious look of self-repression on his pale, set
face. Muriel stood up, and he put the cloak
round her shoulders.

"Your carriage has been called," he said ; "it
must be there by this time, I think. Will you
go down now ? "

She turned towards the staircase. A sudden
gust of wind from the open hall door caught her
unfastened cloak and blew it apart ; Wentworth
put out his hand as if to gather it round her
more closely, and then suddenly drew it back
again. " It is quite chilly now  a breeze has
sprung up," he said in a stifled voice. " Fasten
that up before you go."

She obeyed him as simply as if she had been a
child. But though her hands were unsteady at
the work, he did not offer to help her ; and it

was not till he had put her safely into the
carriage that he spoke again.

Good night  and I suppose also, good-bye.
You leave town tomorrow, I think ? "

Yes, tomorrow."

His hand just touched hers for a moment.
The change will be good for you, no doubt ; it
is time for every one to leave London who can
do so. Good-bye."

CHAPTER PAGE

T. Content? . . . . . 1

II. "Sweet is True Love" . . 17

lU. "Et td, Brute?" . . . . 32

IV. "What Mrs. Arlingham knew . . 44

V. Art  OR Nature? . . . . 70

VI. "By the Visitation op God ' . . 90

Iii. The Worst op it . . . . 99

VIII. Ik the Valley of Achok . . 113

IX. " The Corn Incident " . . . 131

X. "What I could, I did" . . 152

XL Ordeal by Fire . . . . 166

Nil Vale! 189

XIII. The Aftermath . . . . 209

XIV. Helen's Diplomacy . . . 232

XV. At St. Stephen's . . . . 257

XVL "Yours and the WoJild's, and God's" . 274

'n

OF

PAUL WENTWORTH

CHAPTER I.

CONTENT ?

Color che son content
Nel fusco, perche speran di venire
Quando che asia, alle beate gente."

Dante, Inferno, I.

A DARK dull afternoon late in. November. Overhead,
a leaden, low-hanging sky, which at the
extreme edge of the horizon seemed to melt into
and become confounded with the great rolling-expanse
of a wide Leicestershire plain ; underfoot,
long stretches of muddy road, and flat
soaked meadows out of which the incessant rain
of weeks past appeared to have washed their very
greenness, where it had not actually converted

VOL. III. 4'A

them into cold, unlovely lakes. Every brook for
miles round was swollen temporarily to the
dimensions of a river. On all sides were to be
seen broad, yellow, turbid streams, moving sluggishly
among sedges, reeds, and scattered willows
to their confluence with others like unto themselves
; when, for all their apparent sluggishness,
they overflowed their banks, obliterating hedges
and gates and familiar landmarks, and dealing
around them a vast amount of silent mischief
The atmosphere was filled with a subtle mist,
not sufficiently dense to be called a fog, nor wet
enough to be dignified by the name of rain, but
which nevertheless hung heavily and visibly on
every tree and bush and wayside hedgerow,
blotting out the last touches of autumn colour
which still lingered there with the remaining
leaves and gave its only possible suggestion of
beauty to this most unattractive landscape.

An unattractive landscape it was, brooded over
by a most unattractive day ; consequently, there
were few people abroad whose business did not
force them away from their warm firesides.
Even the party of hunting men who had ridden
out from Clay burn Hall that morning on their
way to a distant meet, ardent devotees of the
chase as they one and all were, had started halt

reluctantly ; and at four o'clock the roads were
almost deserted, save for an occasional passing
farm-cart, and a stray child or two returning to
some distant hamlet from school. Muriel Arlington,
sallying forth for a late afternoon's walk
on such a miserable day, was tolerably secure of
the solitude she craved.

Not that she desired solitude for purposes of
reflection. Far from it. She had had ample
time already for that unpleasant exercise, after
her husband had flung angrily away to join his
hunting friends at the close of another fruitless,
disheartening interview ; she had had the whole
of a honos morning in her own room, while her
hostess supposed her to be busy writing letters,
and so good-naturedly forbore to disturb her.
She knew she should have time enough and to
spare in those still longer night-watches when
oblivion would refuse to come at her bidding,
and all the mocking ghosts of the dead past, all
the miserable presentiments of the menacing
future, which she managed after a fashion to
exorcise and keep at bay during daylight hours,
would crowd upon her sleeping vision. No,
she had not come out to think, nor even to try
and distract her thoughts, but for a more prosaic
and unromantic reason. She was not a woman

given to tears as a rule, but a new grief added
to her sum of trouble, and realized for the first
time that day, had sufficed to let loose an unwonted
tempest. Naturally, she did not wish
her friends to see that she had been crying; so
she came out to try that peculiarly English
specific for an aching heart and wounded spirit
a long country walk.

Her way lay over a couple of fields  less low-lying
or better drained than the rest, for they
were comparatively dry  where a well-kept footpath
led from the Clayburn demesne to the highroad,
and finally to the village, a forlorn little
cluster of houses grouped round an old square-towered
Norman church, about a mile off". Just
before crossing the road, the field-path described
an abrupt curve at the corner of a little closely
set plantation of oak and fir, and at the end of
the curve was a small iron swing gate. Muriel,
rounding the corner with the peculiarly swift
light walk which had been hers from childhood,
the step of a woman accustomed to the wide
spaces, the open air, and free movement of country
life, almost ran against a man who was
leaning over this gate in a contemplative fashion,
with a bundle of letters in his hand.

She recovered herself with a hasty " I beg your

pardon !" Before the words were out of her mouth,
the gentleman against whom she had been within
an ace of jostling so unceremoniously was lifting
his hat with a dawning smile of recognition ;
as she ceased to utter them, she found that she
was standing face to face with Philip Irvine.

The sight of him was a kind of shock to her.
She had not seen him for more than three years ;
not since the morning when by his counsels he
had unwittingly fixed her destiny in life; and
his sudden apparition reminded her of more
than she cared to remember. But she betrayed
nothing of all this in her manner.

"I am immensely surprised to see you," she
said, " though I am very glad to do so. I don't
know why I say I am surprised, either ; it is
quite as natural that you should be here as I.
Only it is so long since we met, and it seems
strange to meet you at last in a Leicestershire
lane, since it is hardly likely that you have comedown
to hunt ! "

No," Irvine answered with one of his grave
smiles. " I had business in the north, and on
m way home I am spending a couple of days
with an uncle of mine, who is rector of a parish
about two miles from this. I walked over to
the post-town for the second post, as my uncle

contents himself with one batch a day, and I
had just halted to glance through some of my
letters when you came up. I am glad to see you
looking so well, Mrs. Arlingham."

He did not express any pleasure at meeting
her. The renewal of their acquaintance gave
him indeed no special pleasure, and did give him
a certain amount of not altogether unaccountable
pain. His steady determination for two
years past not to renew it, was due to other
causes than a mere disapproval of Muriel's eager
participation in what he considered the sinful
frivolities of fashionable life.

Yes, thank you, I am very well," Muriel
answered, with a scarcely repressed sigh. There
were times when she almost hated her own
health and strength, and the consciousness of
physical youth which was as an earnest of long
years of life to come. And already, at twenty-three,
she was so tired of life, so tired !

Mr. Arlingham is well too, I hope ? " pursued
Irvine courteously. " No doubt he is here
for hunting purposes ? "

My husband is quite well, thanks. Yes, he
is enjoying his stay in the Shires very much.
We have been paying rather a long visit to the
Meredith, the good people up yonder, but our

time is up next Monday. Then we are going
1 don't know exactly where. Mr. Arlingham
has not quite made up his mind."

There was a sort of dull patience, a repressed
pain in Muriel's voice which struck Irvine's ear
and roused his sympathies. He could hardly
have told why, but instinctively he felt sorry
for her. Perhaps he might have proceeded to
make a shrewd guess at the nature of her
trouble, had he not been busy with a more
personally interesting question  namely, how
to put to her a question he both longed and
feared to ask. Before he could frame his query
in what he judged to be fitting words, Muriel
spoke again.

By-the-by, I am glad to have an opportunity
of reproaching you," she said. " Why have you
never been to see us in town, Mr. Irvine ? We
expected you fully for a long time, but at length
we had perforce to resign expectation. Let me
hear your excuses."

You know, I think, that I don't visit much.
I am rather a busy man, Mrs. Arlingham ; and
among your friends I should be more or less out
of place, I fear."

Muriel flushed slightly. " We are mere butterflies
in your estimation, I know," she answered,

half bitterly, half sadly, "But all my friends
are not butterflies, I assure you ; and there are
times when I am actually serious myself! Your
sister would vouch for so much as that, I think."

Irvine's stern lips relaxed a little. " Margaret
is very much attached to you," he said. " I often
hear of you from her. I believe you spent part
of last summer together, did you not ? "

Part of the autumn, rather. I was not quite
the thing when we came back from a yachting-expedition
towards the end of August, and they
said I wanted quiet. Too much gaiety, I suppose
! "  with a curious semi-defiant glance at
Irvine's severe face. " Margaret was more sympathizing
than you would have been in such a
case. She knew that in most people's houses,
or even at home, I should have other guests or
visitors to bore me to death : so she just came
and carried me off" with her to Devonshire,
where I had a month of real rest. What peace
and delight it was, every day of it ! "

I am glad you enjoyed it," Irvine said kindly,
softened in spite of himself " It was a great
pleasure to Margaret, I know ; and her life,
though a fully occupied one, is lonely in some
respects. She does not make friends very easily,
but she looks upon you as a real friend."

Her friendship is of infinite value to me,"
Muriel replied. " I cannot tell you how much
I have learnt from her, or how she helps me 
unconsciously very often  every time I see her."
Then, with a recurrence of the impulse which
had come upon her once before, and which came
to so many people in this man's presence  an
impulse to go beneath the surface of things, and
exchange conventionalities for realities  she
added, "The farther one advances in life, the
more one needs help of this kind. Such help
you gave me once yourself"

I am glad to think so," Irvine responded
gravely.

"Not that I used your counsel rightly at first,"
Muriel went on eagerly, as if it were a relief to
speak, even by implication, of something higher
and deeper than the subjects which formed the
usual topics of conversation with her now. " At
first I misapplied it; I made terrible mistakes
through my own impatience and wilfulness, and
then for a time I was inclined to be angry with
you"  smiling faintly. "But at last I am beginning
to learn, slowly perhaps, yet I do think
surely, the real meaning of what you taught me
so loncj ago."

There was a little quiver in Muriel's voice as

she concluded, but she had been looking straight
at Irvine all the while she addressed him. As
in her girlhood, so now, she felt an utter absence
of shyness and self-consciousness in speaking
thus freely to this young man whom she knew
so slightly, but to whom all the spiritual part
of her went out in instantaneous sympathy.
Neither did any curious element in this relation
between them seem to strike him either.

'' I am heartily thankful to hear you say this,"
he answered with a beautiful light in his eyes.
If it is the lesson of endurance and self-sacrifice
that you are learning, you will do well and
safely, Mrs. Arlingham. Forgive me for having
supposed that it was otherwise with you."

You had every excuse for thinking so,"
Muriel rejoined quickly. " I don't seem to
people in general much like a person who is
learning any lesson at all, except how best to
amuse myself, do I ? Mr. Irvine ! "  with sudden,
passionate earnestness  "give me your experience.
I know you always choose the harder
path for yourself, as you advised me to do.
Does your choice satisfy you ? Are you content
with it ? "

Philip Irvine drew a long breath before he
answered slowly, " I think I may truthfully say

I am. There are times with us all when the
spirit of unbelief and rebellion is strong fora
while. But at the worst moments I do not
regret ; I would not undo anything of the past.
God has given me to feel that I could have done
no otherwise."

Muriel's question had been a general one ;
Irvine's answer related rather to the supreme
sacrifice of his life, the sacrifice consummated one
summer morning, more than three years ago, in
the drawing-room of the old Holmshire Manor
House. But his secret was still unknown to
every human being save himself  and one other,
who had kept it so safely shrouded in a mantle
of sacred silence that not even her nearest and
dearest had been able to guess at its existence.
So now Muriel only said, " Thank you for
answering a question which I fear I was presumptuous
in asking. Some day perhaps, when
I am more fit for it and more worthy of it, that
content will come to me too." She stopped, and
held out her hand to end the interview. After
the words that had just passed between her and
Irvine, it would have seemed utterly incongruous
to return to the qualities of everyday
small-talk.

But the young man ignored the proffered

hand. " Must you go ? Are you in a hurry ? "
he asked, with a nervous eagerness quite foreign
to his usual cold, grave manner. " You have not
yet told me about your people in Holmshire.
How are they all ? "

Muriel's face grew troubled, though she only
said, " My father is extremely well, thanks. He
has been made very happy lately by a visit from
George, who is home from India on a three
months' furlough. Of course you know George
is married now ? His wife is a charming girl ;
we are all delighted with her. They sail again
the week after next, I am sorry to say."

And your sister ? She is well too ? "

The suggestion of trouble in Muriel's face
deepened. " No, indeed, she is far from well ;
we are very uneasy about her. She is going out
to India with George and his wife on the seventh ;
all the doctors say it is her best chance, and we
try to hope everything from it. But we are very,
very anxious."

Philip Irvine turned deadly white, but he
uttered no word of regret or sympathy. " I had
heard nothing of this," he said. " Has she been
iU long ? "

We thought not, at first ; but now, looking
back, it seems to me as if this had been coming

upon her gradually for a long, long while. Oh,
Mr. Irvine, how is it that one is always so
blind  that one never sees these things intime
? "

'' How came it to pass that you did not see ? "
he asked sharply, almost fiercely. His own pain
was so great that he could not think of Muriel's ;
and the idea of Lucy drooping and dying by
slow degrees unobserved maddened him against
those whose duty it was to have watched over
her.

"I was not there," Muriel answered gently.
My father  well, men are so slow to notice
little ailments" ("I should have seen quickly
enough ! " Irvine thought bitterly to himself),
and my cousin, whom you remember, was
away nursing in one of the hospitals for two
years after I left home. And Lucy always said
it was nothing, nothing ! It was only a cold, or
she was overtired, or some such little unselfish
excuse to keep us from being anxious. She is
very different from what she used to be," the
sister added with regretful tenderness; "much
more grave, and serious, and thoughtful ; though
even now, at times, she is full of life and spirit.
You know she was always so bright in those old
days."

And how honos is it since this illness beoran ? "
Irvine demanded in a harsh, inquisitorial tone,
fixing his blue eyes, which in the last few
moments had grown colourless and hard, full on
Muriel's sad face. " What do you call long, Mrs.
Rhino-ham ? Months, or weeks ? "

"Rather years than months," Muriel replied,
half frightened by his imperious manner and
inexplicable agitation. " It must be quite three
years since she first began to ail something,
though we hardly knew what. I don't think
she was ever quite well after the summer of
three years ago. You remember  that very hot
summer when you came down to stay with
us?"

God help him ! he remembered only too well.
For a minute he felt as if he had been told that
he had killed Lucy; and he stood gazing at
Muriel, white and silent.

At length he managed to say hoarsely, " You
are not without hope ? "

Oh no, no ! " Muriel answered eagerly, with
a horrified shrinking from the bare idea of hopelessness.
"It is not consumption, you know;
only a kind of failure of strength, and a bad
cough, so that the doctors think the consequences
might be serious if she stayed in England. We

quite hope two or three years in India will make
her well and strong ao-ain."

You are not going with her ? "

I ? Oh no ! I could not, you see ; it would
be quite impossible." She could have smiled to
herself in bitterness at the simplicity of the
question, as she recalled the cutting words and
stubborn objections she had encountered that
very morning when craving permission to spend
a few days with Lucy before she left England,
merely because the projected visit happened to
interfere with some unimportant arrangement of
her husband's. " My sister-in-law will be very
good to her," she added, feeling vaguely sorry for
her companion. "She is devoted to Lucy, and
Lucy looks upon her as if she were her own sister
already."

I am glad of that," Irvine answered briefly
and with effort. "And now I must say goodbye;
you will believe that I feel very deeply,
more deeply than I can say, for you all in this
trouble and anxiety. You will be seeing your
sister soon, doubtless ? "

Next week, probably."

When you see her, will you tell her something
from me ? I should like her to know "

He came to a dead stop suddenly.

Yes ? " said Muriel interrogatively. " She will
be glad to hear of you again, I am sure. What
is the message ? "

A sort of spasm shook Irvine's impassive face
for a moment. "No," he said more decidedly.
On second thoughts, I will not send a message ;
better so, perhaps. Good-bye, Mrs. Arlingham.
May God help and bless her ! I dare not say
more."

Muriel left her hand in his for a minute.
Thank you for being so sorry for her," she said
in her old childlike way. " And  you won't forget
her in your prayers, will you ? She will
like to know she has those now."

Irvine was actually turning away ; but at
Muriel's last words he looked back. " Those she
has had always," he answered. " You may tell
her that, if you will."

Then he went rapidly away down the dark
wet road, where the thick enveloping mist-pall
soon shrouded him completely from sight; and
Muriel turned and wandered slowly back to the
house she had lately quitted. She had forgotten
all about her projected walk.

"SWEET IS TRUE LOVE."

Not all unhappy, having loved God's best
And highest."

Tennyson.

A WEEK had gone by, and Muriel was sitting
with Lucy in the drawing-room at Alderton.
There were winter berries instead of summer
blossoms in the old china flower-bowls, and a
great wood fire sparkled and crackled on the
hearth; otherwise the picturesque, comfortable,
home-like room was quite unchanged. It was
growing late in the evening. Mr. Ferrars and
his son were safely ensconced in the smoking-room,
and George's pretty, tender-hearted little
wife had made some kindly excuse about "going
to sit beside baby," in order to leave the two
sisters to themselves for an hour. And well as
they loved her, they were glad of the tete-astute,

YOL. III. 45

during which they could either talk or sit on
in silence, with no light but that of the leaping
flames, happy in that perfect sympathy which
has no need of words. Muriel leaned back in
the old familiar tapestry-covered armchair, and
tried to fancy herself a girl again ; while Lucy,
half sitting, half lying on the hearth rug, with
her thin flushed cheek resting against Muriel's
knee, gazed quietly into the glowing embers,
and smiled now and again to herself a smile
which bespoke at once a little sadness and a
great content.

At length the clock struck eleven, and Muriel
roused herself from her reverie. "You ought
to be going upstairs, dear," she said. " I am a
miserable nurse to have kept you up so late."

"Oh, I very rarely go to bed early," Lucy
rejoined cheerfully. "Never if I can possibly
help it ; the early part of the night is always my
worst time. And I have heaps of things to ask
you still, Queene "  using an old fond childish
appellation which had not fallen upon Muriel's
ears for years past. "Tell me a little more of
your doings this summer."

"There is not much to tell. One country-house
visit is so like another, when one comes
to try and describe it; especially to you who

don't know the people. (After al], they are
generally very much alike too.) And all the
time we were yachting round Norway I Alas ill
and out of sorts, and incapable of enjoying things.
I think I must have been stupid with illness ; I
hardly remember anything about it now."

Poor Queene ! " Lucy said softly, slipping
one hand  a hand which felt, oh, so terribly
light and small  into her sister's. "But you
are quite well again ? "

Quite well and quite strong. I began to get
better from the day that I went to Margaret
Irvine's."

"Margaret is one of the sweetest women I
know ! " Lucy exclaimed with grateful enthusiasm.
" I delighted in her as soon as I saw her.
And she is the right sort of friend for you : she
appreciates you as few people can."

She thinks a good deal more of me than I
deserve, I am afraid ; but anyhow, her goodness
to me this autumn was unutterable. That month
in Devonshire was a veritable little heaven of
peace, Lucy."

Muriel was not aware how much that last
impulsive sentence of hers betrayed of the un-peaceful
character of her everyday life. Lucy,
who grasped its meaning well enough, had nevertheless

far too much wisdom and fine tact to let
it appear that she did so.

Were you alone with Miss Irvine all through
September ? " she asked.

"Except for the two children, who were no
trouble to either of us. She would not ask anyone
else."

What children do you mean ? Those nieces
I saw at her house one day ? "

"Yes: Stella and Mabel Wentworth. Their
father went to Russia in August for a vacation
tour, and left them with Margaret, as he does
very frequently."

Are they nice girls ? "

"Scarcely more than children as yet, though
Stella is all but sixteen. She is very impressionable
and warm-hearted and lovable ; I grew very
fond of her. Mabel is colder and less childlike,
somehow, though she is younger than her sister."
Muriel looked thoughtfully into the fire. " Stella
grew very fond of me too," she added after a
minute, half to herself. " Hers is a very loving
nature, I think."

As she spoke, there rose up vividly before her
the remembrance of long golden September afternoons
when Stella, with her pretty coaxing ways,
would caressingly insist on her dearest Mrs.

Rhino-ham's coming to sit with her under the
great beech tree which overshadowed Miss Irvine's
little lawn, in order that, in the absence of aunt
and sister alike, she might the better be able to
engross wholly the attention of her now and
enthusiastically worshipped friend; and of how
the girl would lie there for hours at her feet,
pouring out tales of the past, rhapsodies of the
present, impossible visions of the future, with
the natural eloquence she had learnt from Wentworth,
brightened now and then by a touch of
his sparkling wit. She remembered how closely
his name was interwoven with every history and
reminiscence and plan of his young daughter's ;
and how, as Stella talked on, she had found
herself learning more and more of that " other
side of the shield " hidden from public gaze : of
Wentworth's tender patience and sweet temper
and unfailing forbearance with the children who
adored him so selfishly (since when was not a
spoilt child's unreasoning, unreasonable love
more or less selfish ?) ; of that deep reverence
for high and sacred things which was so strange
and yet so powerful an element in his wayward,
complex nature; of the quick sympathies which
had again and again prompted him to acts of
almost Quixotic generosity utterly unknown to

the world at large; and of the innate chivalry
which enabled him to perform those acts with
such thoughtful delicacy and forgetfulness of
self, that the very recipients of his kindness only
realized with difficulty the fact that anything
had been done for them at all. And with the
remembrance of these things came the old secret
thrill of irrepressible pride and delight which
the hearing of them had wrought in her, followed
by the swift keen stab of self-reproach which
was its natural sequel. She knew that she had
listened readily, far too readily, to Stella's innocent
chatter on those sunny September afternoons,
and that when, in momentary compunction,
she had checked or turned the conversation, it
had been with half-hearted resolution only,
knowing that the young devotee would soon
wander round again to the old fascinating subject.
For " my father " was the centre of Stella's
world, the prince and hero of her fond, faithful,
implicit devotion ; he was her knight sans peur
et sans reproche, the cleverest, handsomest,
noblest of the sons of men. She worshipped him
with a single-hearted loyalty and a blind fanaticism
which saw in him neither fault nor flaw ; in
her eyes he was one peerless, having neither equal
nor second among any that walk this nether earth.

Muriel shook herself free of that pleasant,
painful, self-accusing recollection with a little
sigh.

By the way," she said, " when I was at Clay-burn,
I saw some one we all used to know in the
old days  Mr. Irvine. We met quite accidentally.
I was out for a walk one horrible foggy day,
when I encountered him going over to the post-town
from a neighbouring village. I was really
glad to see him again."

Lucy said nothing ; her one care for the
moment was to keep perfectly still. If only she
could get her hand out of Muriel's ! If only her
heart would not beat so that she dared not
attempt a single question !

"His never calling on me in London was
rather uncivil, of course," Muriel went on
serenely ; " or rather, it would have been uncivil
in any one else. Somehow one never thinks
of judging Philip Irvine by ordinary standards.
He is not quite like other people, you know."

No, very unlike; Lucy knew that well enough.
If only she could get breath enough to say so, or
to say anything !

*'I spoke to him about his omission," Muriel
continued, " but not as if I was offended  which,
indeed, I am not in the least."

'what did he say?" Lucy forced oat the
four words in a curious strained voice.

Oh, he answered me much as I expected him
to do ; he made no excuses, but gave some reason,
I forget exactly what, such as only he would have
thought of giving. I wish I could remember
how he put it, but I have forgotten."

She had forgotten ! After three years and a
half of silence, three years and a half of that
deadly hunger for tidings of a word or a look of
Philip Irvine's which nothing had ever come to
satisfy, Muriel had met him and talked with him
and forgotten what he said ! It was hard,
bitterly hard. But Lucy gave no expression to
her feeling. She only withdrew her hand from
her sister's, picked up a newspaper that lay on
the rug beside her, and folded it into the form
of a fire-screen as well as her shaking fingers
would allow. Then she leant back again, and
asked, in as steady a voice as she could command,
" Was Mr. Irvine looking well ? "

"Yes  no. He has grown thinner than he
used to be; still, he seemed very well. You
know he was always pale, and then that honos
of his  do you remember ? "

Yes, Lucy remembered.

Well, owing to his thinness, he has rather an

appearance now of being all throat and eyes :
but he must be strong. His is a trying life, such
as only a strong man could lead."

It needs strength every way' Lucy returned
brusquely. Then she paused and waited for more.

Muriel looked at her counsellor, the fire, for a
moment before speaking again. Then she put
her hand softly on the dark head at her knee.
"Lucy," she said timidly, "had you ever any
idea that Mr. Irvine cared for you ? "

The girl started violently, and then made a
desperate effort to recover herself "Why do
you ask ? " she inquired. " Has he  has he
spoken of me to you ? "

He asked after you, and of course I had to
tell him of your illness, and that you were going
to India. Then I saw how it was with him.
It was not mere regret, nor kindly feeling, nor
sympathy for me that I could see in his face ;
it was such grief as a man only feels when he
loves  and loves very dearly," Muriel added
pityingly. " Poor fellow ! I was sorry for him,
Lucy, truly."

Lucy lay still, hardly knowing whether joy or
pain was uppermost with her.

Did you never guess anything of this ? "
Muriel asked again.

Then for the first time the girl lifted her head
and looked at her sister, with a glad, proud light
in her eyes. " Yes, I knew," she answered simply.
He did not mean me to know, but I found it
out ; and then he told me."

But you do not care for him ? " Muriel
pleaded appealingly. "You have not been
dreaming of him all this while, Lucy ? I could
not surely have been so blind as that ! "

I meant you to remain blind," replied Lucy
quietly. " I hardly know why I have told you
now."

Then it is so ? And it is that which has
altered jou so, my darling ! "

*' Do you think it has altered me for the
worse ? " said Lucy, with a faint reflection of
one of Irvine's own smiles. " Muriel, listen. If
there is one thing in my life for which I
thank God night and morning  yes, and many
times in every day too I  it is for having
known hint, and for the knowledge that he
loves me." i

A love which has brought you nothing but
sorrow," Muriel said bitterly. She rebelled
vehemently against the thought of suffering as
Lucy's portion, though she was learning to accept
it quietly as her own. " What right had he tolet

you know of its existence, if it was out of his
power to make you happy by it ? "

"Did I not tell you that he never intended
me to know ? I found it out one day, without
his speaking a word. Was he to blame for that ?
Only, when he knew that I had found it out, he
was too brave and true to go away and leave me
to uncertainty and misconception, and so he told
me all. And I was never so proud of him as at
that minute."

He is a good man, I know," said Muriel, still
bitterly. " Only I wish he would not have spoilt
your life with his goodness."

Say rather that he taught me by his example
what life really was, and what might be made of
it. I would not have had him act otherwise ;
I am quite sure of that now. But even when I
was most unhappy, when he first went and left
me, I think I could hardly have been glad if he
had elected to come back and give up his work
for my sake. He would never have been quite
the same in my eyes again. I wanted him to be
perfect, you see ; I should not have felt satisfied
for him to be less than perfect."

I cannot quite see the need of such a
sacrifice."

Cannot you ? Not when I tell you that he

had always proposed to devote his whole life,
himself and all he had, to his work, and to
keep free of all earthly ties, that he might be able
to do it the better? Ought he to have broken
through such a resolution as that for me, or for
any one ? "

Maybe not. Yet I am sure now that part
of what I saw in his face the other day was self-reproach."


You are mistaken," Lucy answered proudly.
'' He knew he was doings risht." Then, with a
swift change of manner : '' Muriel, did he send
me no message  nothing at all ? "

And Muriel repeated all that Philip Irvine had
said, and gave the only message he had dared to
send.

When all was told, Lucy sat silent for a
minute, and let fall two or three quiet tears.
It is a great comfort," she said at last ; " it seems
sent to me like God-speed for my voyage, doesn't
it ? If I should never come back, Muriel, you
will thank him for that blessing, and tell him
how happy it made me, won't you ? For "  as
she saw her sister shiver slightly  " we must
face that possibility, you know. Perhaps I shall
not live very long in India, and there would be
no harm in giving him such a message then."

You speak as if his message were of more
consequence than your life' Muriel broke out in
irrepressible pain. " Do you wish not to get well,
Lucy, that you talk like this ? "

I hardly know what I wish sometimes," the
girl answered gently.

At least you might wish to live for the sake
of others," Muriel urged passionately. 'even
for his sake  Philip Irvine's. If you love him,
you would surely wish to spare him such grief."

Perhaps," said Lucy slowly, " it would not
grieve him so much, after all. Not because he
does not love me  oh no  but just because he
does. I can do so little good, I am of so little
account in the world at the best of times ; and
since I grew weak and ill, I am nothing but a
care. I dare say he imagines me suffering, suffering
very likely a great deal more than I really
do, and unhappy as well ; I think sometimes he
would be better content if he knew I was safely
out of it all."

To hear Lucy talk, it was difficult to believe
that she had not seen or heard from her lover for
more than three years past. In her implicit
trust and intuitive sympathy, she spoke as if she
had not been parted from him for a day.

"It is different in his case," she went on

reflectively " I could not wish him to die before
his time ; there is so much work to be done, and
so few like him to do it. And then, when I think
of his hard, lonely life "  the weak voice faltered
for the first time  '' still I try always to remember
that the very hardness and loneliness is only
adding brightness to the crown he will have
by-and-by."

Almost too deeply moved for words, Muriel
bent over Lucy and kissed her forehead. " My
darling!" she mui cured softly. 'have you
been very unhappy all this time, Lucy ? "

Not all the time. At first, when it was quite
new and fresh ; and afterwards, from time to
time  even now occasionally, when I grow
foolish and impatient, because I cannot see him
or hear of him ; but I have so much to comfort
me. It is not as if I had really lost him, when
I know that he only gave me up for the greater
love of God and God's work. Is not that something
to be glad of ? "

Yes," Muriel said. " You may well be glad
of it."

'' Then if I do hear a stray mention of him, it
always relates to some good cause which he is
helping forward, or some wrong which he is
trying to redress, or else to the poor and wretched

people whom he is teaching to lead new lives by
giving up his own to them ; so that I know, as
well as if I were with him, that every year he is
only growing better, and nobler, and more Christlike.
Dear Muriel "  as her sister bent her head
upon her hands  " don't grieve for me so much.
Indeed I am not unhappy ; you need not be so
sorry for me."

Muriel lifted her pale, tearless face. "Sorry
for you ? " she exclaimed. " If you only knew
how I envy you ! Lucy, I think you are the
happiest woman I ever knew."

ET TU, BRUTE ? "

There, where I have garnered up my heart ;
Where either I must live, or bear no life, 
To be discarded thence ! "

Shakespeare.

Margaret," said Paul Wentworth, coming into
his sister's morning-room one bleak forenoon
early in the following March, " I want you to dome
a favour."

'' Well, Paul ? "

"I am going down to the Delamere' this
afternoon for two or three days. Will you have
the children here while I am away ; or rather,
will you have Stella ? "

I will have both gladly," said Margaret, rising
from her writing-table. "But why Stella in
particular ? "

I am rather uneasy about her," Wentworth
answered, knitting his brows and pressing his

lips tightly together  a favourite trick of his
when anything was weighing on his mind. " She
is not like herself"

Not ill ? " inquired his sister eagerly.

"How am I to tell?"  with a sort of suppressed
irritability which was, as Margaret well
knew, merely a cover for intense and painful
anxiety. "She declares there is nothing the
matter with her. When I suggested asking
Falconer to have a look at her, there was a storm
of tears and entreaties, and protestations that she
was perfectly well. I did not like to insist, as
there really seemed nothing to take hold of, and
the bare idea distressed her so much. I don't
know why she should have taken such a dislike
to poor Falconer, I am sure ; he used to be rather
a favourite of hers."

If I had been you, I think I should have
insisted."

You would not if you had seen her just then.
I don't know what harm insistance might not
have done; she was not fit to be reasoned
with."

(" Whose fault is it that she is so often unreasonable
? " thought Margaret to herself.)
Aloud she only asked, " Do you think she has
been working too hard at her lessons ? I have

VOL. III. 46

noticed myself that lie has often seemed depressed
and absent of late."

Wentworth turned pale. " You have noticed
it too ? Since when ? " he demanded in his most
abrupt tone, the tone which with him always
betrayed the strongest mental agitation.

I can hardly tell. You see, she comes here
so often that it is almost as if we lived in the
same house ; and when one sees a person daily,
one is slow to notice little changes."

So it seems," Wentworth observed drily. " I
suppose you can tell whether the alteration
began days or weeks ago, at any rate ? Because
that would make a good deal of difference in my
feeling as to consulting some one about her," he
added more gently.

It is rather weeks than days since I first
thought her out of sorts," Margaret admitted
reluctantly. "You have not seen it so long, I
suppose ? "

No, only for about a fortnight past. She is
curiously changeable: one moment in feverish
spirits, and the next moping and silent. Mabel
says she is always talking and crying in her
sleep; and nervous she certainly is. This very
morning I went suddenly into the schoolroom
before going out, and found her there alone 

at her prayers, I verily believe, for she sprang
off her knees looking guilty and distressed, dear
child ! as if she had been caught doings something
wrong. Well, the mere surprise of my
unexpected entry brought on an attack of such
violent trembling that T was quite alarmed.
There must be something wrong, Margaret."

She never used to be nervous," said Margaret
reflectively. " I really think she must have been
overdoing her brain in some way."

I don't fancy so. Miss Lawson is very
judicious ; common sense is her strongest point,
and I know exactly the amount of work she
gives the girls. It is not too great for any
healthy child of Stella's age."

Silence for a minute. Then Wentworth added,
with a manifestly painful effort, " The worst of
it all is that Stella has grown very reserved.
She does not talk to me in the same perfectly
frank way that she used to do. I cannot feel
sure that she is not suffering, and won't acknowledge
it."

Margaret's expression became grave. " And
you want me to inquire into things for you, and
find out if there is anything really amiss, while
Stella is here ? Is that it ? " she asked in a
business-like manner.

Wentworth winced. He hated admitting that
any one might possibly succeed with his idol,
where he himself had failed.

Good heavens, no ! " he replied hotly, " The
last thins: I wish is to have the child tormented
with questionings and catechising, which would
only induce her to think herself seriously ill
when probably there is nothing in the world
the matter with her. I merely want you to
have her with you while I am gone, and just
observe her quietly. Surely any woman worth
the name could do such a simple thing as that !
If you think she needs doctoring, take her to
some man who knows what he is about  not
Falconer, as she has taken such an invincible
dislike to him  and write to me at once what
he says. Do you understand ? "

Margaret rejoined meekly that she thought
she quite understood. She was a spirited woman
enough on ordinary occasions, but she did not
often venture on a dispute with her half-brother,
especially when he was in a dictatorial mood.
Besides, she was sufficiently sorry for his present
anxiety to overlook easily any little want of
fraternal politeness on his part.

Wentworth, after bidding his sister good-bye,
and executing two or three little matters of

rather pressing business, went on his way homeward
considerably lighter in heart for having
enlisted Margaret's aid. He was to leave haddington
by the three o'clock express that day,
and it was now already past two, so he had little
time to spare. Of his younger daughter, who
was spending the afternoon with some youthful
friends, he had already taken leave ; there remained
only his farewells to Stella. And Stella
he found, not as formerly he would have done,
ready to waylay him on the stairs or curled up
reading in his study armchair, but sitting solitary
in a window-seat of the deserted schoolroom 
for it was holiday-time, and Miss Lawson was
temporarily absent from her unruly kingdom 
with a countenance showing unmistakable traces
of recent tears. She looked up, on her father's
entrance, with one of those nervous starts which
were becoming habitual to her.

Well, little one," said Wentworth, sitting
down on the window-seat likewise, and putting
a caressing arm about her, " I have arranged

for you to go over to Street till Friday

But why are you sitting up here in this forlorn
condition ? And you have been crying again !
This is terrible, my darling ; there must be
something quite amiss with you."

Stella uttered an incoherent murmur to the
effect that there was nothing the matter with
her ; she was not ill.

No," said Wentworth incisively, a new light
seeming to break in upon his mind, "I don't
believe you are ill, my child ; I think you are
unhappy." He looked searchingly into her eyes.
"I see I am right, dear ; what is it ?"

Stella made a sudden movement which had
the effect of half hiding her face on her father's
shoulder. Except by that significant action, she
returned no answer to his question.

"There is something pressing on your mind,
my star," Wentworth went on, stroking her hair
with a kind of wistful tenderness. " This is the
very first time you have ever kept any of your
troubles from me, and see how you are punished,
properly punished, by your conscience for your
undutiful behaviour ! Come, confess."

He felt her quiver in his arms before she
answered desperately : " I can't ! I would if I
could  do believe me, father ! But I can't, I
can t !

We will see about that," Wentworth rejoined
very gravely, but very lovingly as well. " I
do not choose that you should keep this trouble
of yours, whatever it may be, secret from me,

Stella. I don't often order you to do things,
my little girl; but for this once I speak with
authority. Tell me immediately what is the
matter."

Stella did not stir. She only murmured again,
I can't ! " in a voice which sounded rebellious to
Went worth's ear.

You refuse to tell me ? " he exclaimed in
amazement, incensed at last, but sorely wounded
as well. " Then you cannot be surprised if I
conclude that it is something more than a
childish scrape which is weighing on your
spirits. For the first time in your life, I am
seriously angry with you, Stella. You have
offended me deeply. What have I done ? How
have I ever failed in love towards you, that you
should deny me your confidence in this way ? "

The accent of pathetic reproach in his last
words almost nullified the severity of those which
had preceded them. It went straight to Estelle's
heart.

Can't you believe me ? " she cried, in piteous
pleading, springing upright and standing before
him. " I cannot tell you ; I dare not tell you ! I
have done nothing wrong ; it was not my fault.
Won't you trust me a little, father ? I am not
such a child now; won't you believe that 1

may be doing right in not telling ? And I have
promised too," she added half to herself.

But Wentworth's quick ear had caught the
last faint sentence. " Promised ! " he repeated
sharply. "Promised that you would keep a
secret, some secret that you are ashamed of,
from me ! What right had you to make such
a promise ? If you have done so, then I absolve
you from it ; and that is enough."

"It is not enough," cried Stella, standing at bay.
I won't break it." Her voice sank suddenly to
a tone of entreaty again, and the great dark eyes
tilled with tears. " Don't look at me like that,
please, father darling ; I promised for your sake."

Don't equivocate ! " Wentworth interrupted,
with an ominous flash in his eyes. He was
thoroughly roused now. " How could you have
promised to deceive me for my sake ? To whom
did you give this promise, pray ? To Mabel, I
suppose ? "

Oh no ! Mab does not know. I would never
have let her know."

Wentworth regarded his daughter curiously.
I am glad to hear it," he remarked. " I should
be sorry to think that my children were in league
to deceive me. Now, Stella, for the last time,
will you tell me the truth ? "

How can I ? " she asked, with a look of
anguish, and of intense effort to master that
anguish, quite terrible to see on so young a face.
I could not, even if I had not promised her."

Of whom are you speaking ? " demanded
Wentworth sternly. " Who is it that knows this
secret of yours ? "

Stella buried her face in her hands. " Oh, I
hope I am doing right to tell," she sobbed.
Mrs. Arlingham knows ; I promised Mrs.
Arlingham."

Perhaps it was as well that she could not see
her father's face at that moment.

Is that all ? " he asked presently, in a constrained
voice. " Is there no one else ? "

No one. Only Mrs. Arlingham."

"And Mrs. Arlingham advised you to keep
this secret from me ? That was a strange thing
for Mrs. Arlingham to do," Wentworth observed.
Why did you make her the keeper of your
secrets, may I ask ? "

"Because I could not help it, and "

A rattle of the door handle, and a prolonged
and respectful fit of coughing from the footman.
The brougham's at the door, sir ; and there is
barely time to catch the express, if you please."
Having delivered himself of this warning

announcement, John Thomas withdrew with all
convenient speed, perceiving his presence to be
neither necessary nor desirable just then.

Wentworth got up and buttoned his overcoat.
Then he turned aorain to his daughter.

Have you nothing more to say, Stella ? Are
you content to let me go away like this ? "

Stella threw herself impulsively into his arms,
and clung about his neck. "I am not content
; it breaks my heart," she said. " It is
not that I will not tell you, father; I cannot.
And though you don't believe me, it is for your
sake."

At her last words  words which to him seemed
manifestly false  Wentworth stiffened into stone.
You will not very easily persuade me of that,"
he replied. " Perhaps when I come back, you
will be able to make up your mind to tell the
truth, also for my sake. I assure you I should
much prefer it to anything else you could do forme.
Meanwhile, good-bye."

And he started on his journey looking even
a trifle more self-reliant and impassive than
usual, but with a tempest of anger and wounded
love raf]in2r in his heart, and an unutterable
anguish of keen-edged disappointment stabbing
him through and through. Anger was uppermost,

perhaps, for the moment. He did well to
be angry, he told himself.

Yet what did it all mean  this mysterious
reserve of Stella's, this still more mysterious
action of Muriel's in the background ? Why
was fate always at work forging fresh links to
draw him close to this woman, whom, for the
very reason that he loved her so passionately,
he had honestly striven to renounce ? What
did it mean ? And as he asked himself again
and again this fruitless question, there came to
him in every sound  in the sighing of the wind,
in the irregular patter of the raindrops against
the carriage-window, even in the measured and
constant forward motion of the train itself  the
same unvarying answer, which to his excited
imagination carried fiendish mockery in its unchanging
syllables, " Mrs. Arlington knows."

WHAT MRS. ARLINGHAM KNEW.

There's rue for you ; and here's some for me  you may
wear your rue with a difference."  Shakespeare.

Paul Wentworth prolonged his stay in the
country considerably beyond the two or three
days he had originally allowed himself. There
was no temptation to return to town during the
recess, and even when Parliament reassembled
there was very little doing at first. Easter fell
early that year, and people seemed inclined to
linger on as late as possible at their country
houses, and were only too glad to welcome
Wentworth among their guests ; so he paid a
number of short visits to various acquaintances
in the home counties, intending to wind up his
holiday with a couple of nights at Grasmere,
Lord Carlton's pretty little retreat near Mario w.
He had partially recovered the shock of his

last interview with his daughter, but only
partially. That is to say, the first fever-heat of
his indignation had cooled somewhat, but the
wound inflicted by Stella's hand still throbbed
painfully. She had sent after him a letter,
pathetic in its unstudied distress, entreating his
forbearance and forgiveness ; and he had written
a tender and reassuring reply. It was impossible
for him to cherish abiding anger against his idol.
But nevertheless, he could not forget that to his
appeals for perfect frankness Stella had shown
herself as obdurate as ever. She would give no
hint as to the cause of that nameless trouble
which had erected itself into a barrier between
them, and met all arguments on the subject by
a stubborn silence which filled Wentworth with
mingled anxiety and impatience. The old perfect
confidence was gone for ever.

Yet Margaret wrote encouragingly, endeavouring
to convince her brother that only some
girlish fancifulness was in question, and assuring
him that Stella herself was clearly making great
and generally successful efforts to throw off her
inexplicable tits of depression. The physician to
whom Margaret had taken her said there was
nothing seriously amiss : " a little want of tone,
and perhaps rather too active a brain at work."

He had recommended fresh air and tonics, and
fewer lessons for the present; all of which recommendations
Margaret was carrying out to the
letter, and, she thought, with beneficial results.

So Wentworth tried to persuade himself that
he was satisfied, remaining all the while profoundly
anxious. But as nothing could really
relieve his anxiety short of learning Stella's
secret, either from herself or from the only person
besides herself who knew it, and both these
alternatives appeared for the present alike out
of the question, he tried to thrust aside all further
speculations on the subject, and roused himself
to meet his old friends, the Carlton, with such
spirits as he could command.

He arrived rather early in the afternoon, and
found only his hostess within-doors. All the
men belonging to the house-party had gone to a
distant meet of the Buckhounds, and the ladies
were out walking. When Lady Carlton had
welcomed her guest, she proposed, if he were not
tired by his journey, to go and meet them. " I
know which way my niece will have taken," she
said, "and I have not been out yet myself to-day,
so I shall be glad of a little fresh air, if you feel
inclined for a stroll." Wentworth felt very much
inclined that way, after a tedious journey ina

particularly crowded and stifling railway-carriage.


It was a pleasant spring afternoon, and Lady
Carlton herself an agreeable and appreciative
companion, so that Wentworth was rather sorry
when, after half an hour's leisurely walking, he
descried the company they had come to meet 
four or five more or less youthful feminine
figures, amongst which towered conspicuously
the tall form of Lady Carlton's niece, a handsome,
majestic joung matron of eight or nine
and twenty. Wentworth knew her slightly, and
advanced to greet her, while Lady Carlton proceeded
to introduce him to the rest, who were all
strangers to him. No, not all ; or else why this
fierce painful thrill at his heart, why this wild
throbbing of his pulses at sight of the girlish
figure in the grey dress a little further on ? By
an instinctive, involuntary movement, Muriel
Arlingham had turned aside, apparently searching
for primroses in the picturesque overgrown
hedgerow; but in a moment more she had
recovered herself, and came forward, her pale
face looking very pure and proud under her wide
grey hat with its drooping feathers.

How do you do, Mr. Wentworth ? " she said
in a soft even voice. " You have brought us fine

weather, I am glad to see. This is the first
really spring day we have had this year."

He made some light response as his hand
touched hers, and then every one else began to
talk too. It was not such a terrible affair, this
meeting, after all.

They all turned and walked back together
towards the house. Wentworth was a little more
silent than his wont, perhaps ; but Muriel talked
fluently. Some of her companions questioned
her about a visit she had paid to Rome during
the previous winter, and she expatiated enthusiastically
on its delights.

"I wonder you enjoyed it so much," Lady
Carlton's niece, Mrs. Bernard, observed at last.
You were so unwell when you were there ; I
remember I thought you looking deplorable when
we passed through. I came home feeling quite
anxious about her, didn't I, Aunt Mary ? I don't
believe Rome agreed with you, but I suppose you
rose superior to all that. Now, if the climate
of a place doesn't suit me, I always hate the
place."

'' Oh, I felt the drawbacks to Rome at the
time," Muriel answered lightly, " but now I have
forgotten them, and only remember the advantages.
It is a way one has in looking back on

past pleasures, don't you think ? The little
anxieties, the little rubs, the little annoyances 
one forgets all these, and recollects only the
broad general happiness, which at the time, perhaps,
they may have marred considerably."

So that, after all, happiness always seems
greater in retrospect than it ever was in actual
possession ? Is that your experience ? " asked
Lady Carlton, smiling.

I think so, on the whole," Muriel replied,
trying to smile also.

What do you make, then, of the poet's
sorrow's crown of sorrow ' ? " Wentworth asked
suddenly. " When the very thought of the lost
happiness has grown hateful, for instance ? "

It need never become so, according to my
ideas," Muriel answered in an unruffled tone, as
if she were discussing some purely academic
question. " I am at issue with the poet on that
point, though he is the divine poet. Lady Carlton,
you have a brier on your dress ; let me take
it off for you."

Wentworth walked on with his hostess after
that, and paid no further attention to Mrs.
Arlingham's movements, until they reached the
gate leading from the meadows through which
they had been wandering to the shrubberies of

VOL. III. 47

Graymere, and he discovered that she was no
longer of the party. Then he asked where she
was.

'' I think she stopped to speak to an old woman
near the last stile' said Mrs. Bernard.

We will wait for her here, then' Lady Carlton
said. " It was old Jane Townsend she spoke
to, probably; Jane is a great crony of Mrs.
Arlingham's/'

If that is the case, their conversation may be
of a protracted nature, perhaps, unless it is interrupted'
Wentworth remarked. " Suppose I go
and interrupt it ? "

He started swiftly across the field, with a
sudden eager purpose fermenting in his brain.
Why, since chance or Providence had thrown
Muriel in his way again, should he not try
through her to fathom the mystery of Stella's
trouble ? What if she did resent his appeal ?
He could but make the attempt; and for the
moment Muriel herself was not so much the
woman he loved as the holder of his child's
secret.

When he reached her she was just taking
leave of her humble friend, an ancient dame who
moved feebly and with difficulty with the help
of a stout stick, but whose bright grey eyes

and wrinkled countenance still beamed with
intelligence.

Then Lizzie is no better ? " Muriel was saying,
as she took the old woman's hand.

No, noways better."

Does she still suffer very much ? "

"Above a bit. But she be rare and patient.
Mother,' says she to me, ' I'd rather take my
punishment in this life than in the life to come.'
And I reckon she's right. Our sins be bound to
find us out some time, here or there."

But there is forgiveness for those," Muriel
murmured shyly, flushing as she perceived Wentworth
standing near.

So there be, so there be  for the sins themselves.
But there's the consequences, my dear
lady ; we can't undo them  leastways, not here.
I reckon, perhaps, never. I mean no disrespect
to the Almighty, but it seems as if the Lord
Himself couldn't undo that as is done. And so
I take it we must be punished some time ; and
better here, as poor Lizzie says, comforting herself
like. I'll be sure and give her your message ,
ma'am, thank you kindly. Good evening, ma'am."
And the aged creature hobbled away, with a
glance of admiring affection at Muriel, and one
of half-distrustful inquiry at the man who had

UN/VFRCirv nc

stood silently by to listen to the outpourings of
her simple soul.

Is that scientific theology or unscientific
heresy ? " he asked, with the old scornful curl of
the lip, as he and Muriel moved forward in the
direction of Lady Carlton and her friends.

"It is too terrible to be treated lightly, anyway,"
Muriel answered. "And I think it is
terribly true, myself."

He looked at her curiously. " I thought you
good people professed a religion of love," he
remarked half mockingly, yet with a questioning
sound in his voice.

Muriel returned his look steadfastly, and there
seemed to him a sort of compassion in her gaze.
I can only answer you in Browning's words,"
she said  " ' All's Love, but all's Law.' At least,
so it seems to me."

You think so ? " he rejoined, and then they
walked on faster, and said no more.

They were nearing the shrubbery gate, and
he had spoken no word on the subject which lay
nearest his heart, when Muriel herself unconsciously
gave him the required opening. " How
are your children ? " she asked, chiefly to break
the awkward silence.

They are very well." he answered. " At

least, Mabel is. I am a little anxious about
Stella."

About Stella ? " Muriel repeated with a
startled look.

"Yes. I wanted to speak to you about her.
Will you give me a few minutes alone to do so,
either to-day or tomorrow ? "

You wish to speak to me about Stella ? "

"About her, and her only," he replied impatiently.
" You need not fear' he added, lowering
his voice, for they were now almost within
earshot of the rest of the party, "that I shall
trouble you with my own concerns, or with any
subject whatever other than a secret of my
daughter's, of which she tells me you have the
keeping. I think I ' may fairly claim the right
to inquire into this. When can I see you in
private ? "

Strange to say, Muriel showed no resentment
at Wentworth's imperious manner. She merely
answered in the same subdued tone that he had
used, " You will find me in the library half an
hour before dinner." Then they came up with
Lady Carlton, and nothing further could be said.

Wentworth ensconced himself in the empty
library  safe to remain untenanted for the next
half-hour  as soon as the first bell had rung and

dispersed the other guests to their rooms; nor
had he long to wait for Muriel's promised appearance.
In about five minutes she came quietly
in. She was dressed in black, and there seemed
to Wentworth something strange and unusual,
set beautiful with an almost unearthly beauty,
in the expression of her face. Was it patience
he read there, or pity ? He could not feel sure.

"This is very kind of you," he said briefly,
and would have placed a chair for her. But she
declined it with a gesture of thanks, and, murmuring
something about the coldness of the
evening, moved to the mantelpiece and stood
leaning against it, holding out her slender hands
to the blaze of the newly kindled wood fire. She
did seem really cold, for she shivered from time
to time.

You wished to ask me a question ? " she
said at last, seeing that Wentworth, usually so
fluent, forbore to begin the conversation, and
remained at the other end of the hearths: in
embarrassed silence. " A question relating to
your daughter Stella ? "

He bent his head in assent. "Just so. For
some time past I have been uneasy about Stella,
Mrs. Arlingham. She has been quite unlike
herself; moody, depressed, changeable, and 

what she never was in her life before  extremely
reserved. Neither her aunt, her sister, nor I
myself can induce her to tell us what it is that
weighs on her spirits."

He paused for a rejoinder; then, receiving
none, went on : " You can imagine that all this
makes me very anxious  the more that I find
the child is not ill physically, so that I am
driven to conclude she has some trouble of mind.
Indeed, she has admitted as much to me. It is
the only thing I have induced her to admit," he
added with great bitterness ; " for I find that she
has been taught it is her duty to keep her trouble
a secret from me, and so well has she learnt her
lesson, that all my arguments are powerless to
shake her determination. I own I am surprised
to find, further, that her adviser in this matter is
yourself"

No answer issued from Muriel's lips; but in
the grey twilight which was beginning to fill
the room, as the sun set behind the trees that
shaded its single window, Wentworth saw her
tremble and change colour.

"I have lost my daughter's confidence, it
seems," he continued more bitterly still, " and,
as I gather from her, in consequence of your
instructions. I have never extenuated my

offences against you, or pretended to be any
better than I am  which, God knows, is bad
enough  but could not you have chosen some
other means of wreaking your just vengeance
on me ? Whatever else I have been, my children
have not found me wanting ; there at least my
conscience acquits me. Could not you, in your
merciless saintliness, have devised some other
punishment for me than this one ? "

Muriel uttered a low, inarticulate exclamation.
Do you mean to say that you believe I did this
thing willingly ? " she demanded. " Or what is
it you think I have done, except it were to try
and save you and her both in so far as I could ?
What has Stella told you ? "

She has told me that she cannot explain the
reason of her trouble because she has promised
not to do so  because she has promised you. ' I
promised Mrs. Arlingham; and Mrs. Arlingham
knows ' "  dwelling with marked emphasis on
the words which had been haunting him so
cruelly for weeks past. 'therefore, since you
do know, Mrs. Arlingham, I have to beg that
you will impart your knowledge to me. What
is wrong with my Stella ? "

There was a sudden pathetic break, a sudden
tender inflection in his voice at the final question.

Don't ask ! " Muriel entreated, leaning forward
with a gesture of supplication. "As you
value your own happiness and hers, don't ask !
Believe me, it is better not, a thousand times
better. She will forget it, outgrow it, live it
down, and you need never know. I believe she
is strong enough to go on now as she has begun.
For your own sake, above all, I entreat you to
spare yourself while it is still possible."

Wentworth was ashen-grey by now, but his
mouth was set in a firm uncompromising line.
I thank you, I have no desire to spare myself,"
he replied. " I am not so easily moved as you
imagine; and when my daughter's happiness is
at stake, I prefer shattering my own sensitive
feelings to being kept in the dark respecting
hers. May I again request you to tell me all
you know ? "

Muriel drew a long breath, as of one about to
make some superhuman effort. "I will," she
answered, and moved a little from the mantelpiece,
leaning both hands on the back of a chair
standing near.

Last January," she began, fixing her eyes
mechanically on Went worth's face, like a child
repeating its lesson, " before we went to Rome, I
went up to London for a couple of days. I called

to see your sister Margaret. Your children were
with her; it was Stella's birthday. Margaret
was suffering from neuralgia, and could not go
out."

Well ? " said Wentworth, more gently than
he had spoken yet.

"Mabel was to have gone that day to the
dentist's in Simple Street, and Margaret was
distressed at not being able to take her. She
asked me to go in her stead, and I consented.
Stella begged to go with us."

Again Muriel had to pause to take breath.
She was panting audibly now, and where Wentworth
stood he could almost fancy he heard the
beating of her heart.

I left Stella by herself in the outer room at
Mr. Campbell's," she went on, quivering from
head to foot, "with the Graphic to look over
while we were gone. I thought we should not
be away long ; but Mabel was very nervous, and
we were detained longer than I had expected.
When I came out again, I saw by Stella's face
what had happened. She had read it all."

"Read what?" Wentworth demanded hoarsely.

She had got hold of a number of Toivn Talk''

"Not the one  not that of the 20th of
January ? "

Yes. That one."

Oh, my God ! " And with that one exceeding-bitter
cry Paul Wentworth turned and flung his
head down upon the mantelpiece, and covered
his face with his hands. And for the space of a
few minutes there was a terrible silence.

At length Wentworth lifted his head. " I ask
your pardon," he said fainth'-, "for whatever I
said in my haste just now. I suppose the presentiment
of this thing was upon me. Did she
show you what she had read ? "

Yes. It was the first I knew of the existence
of that paragraph, or I would have died rather
than have left her within reach of it."

Perhaps you believed the story it told of me ?
Many people did, in spite of its inherent improbabilities.
When my best friend's wife left
her home suddenly and without explanation, it
was of course quite natural to conclude that /
was in some way responsible for the step."

''I did not believe a word of the story. It
was manifestly an invention, as I told Stella."

Hitherto Wentworth had spoken without looking
round; now he turned his haggard face
towards Muriel. " I am surprised at your feeling
able to disbelieve the charge  until it was withdrawn.
What did you say besides to  to her ? "

I told her to forget the whole thing ; to put
it from her mind ; to regard it as springing out
of that bitter political jealousy which delights in
slandering its opponents, and never to think of
it again. Then "

"Go on' he said sternly.

She referred to the comments that followed
the story  to those references to the past. She
asked me if it were true that such things were
said in the world ; if people really thought of  of
you as Toimi Talk said they did ? She seemed
almost beside herself at the idea."

And you said ? "

I told her that  like most prominent public
men  you had your share of enemies, and that
some of these were unscrupulous men, always
ready to magnify or invent a fault. I begged
her not to dwell on anything they might say,
and she answered, ' It cannot matter if it is not
true.' "

Was that all ? It could hardly have ended
there."

No, it was not all," Muriel answered with
quivering lips. " I thought I had pacified her,
and put her off  that all might still be well 
when all at once she caught my hands and said,
After all, this is the real question : is it true,

any of it ? I want only one word.' Mr. Wentworth,
I did my best  Heaven knows I did 
for her and for  for you. But it was useless.
She put aside what I said, she divined everything
I would not say. She forbade me to play
with her ; she wanted only to know the truth.
Was it true, any of it ? ' For pity's sake, don't
ask me to tell you any more ! "

I think," he said very quietly, "I can imagine
the rest for myself. Don't distress yourself, Mrs.
Arlingham ; I am quite convinced you did your
best. Truth will out, you know, sooner or later,
and even if you had been a better actress, Stella
could easily have got her question answered elsewhere.
The verification of Town Talk's references
would have been a matter of no difficulty
for any one  in any case, the wreck of her faith
in me was inevitable. The paragraph itself
would have done the work unaided, in the end."

"At least it could not kill her love," Muriel
said tremulously. " Do not imagine that."

I don't imagine it for a moment. If she had
ceased to care for me, I could hardly have broken
her heart."

Surely, surely," Muriel pleaded, " it is not so
bad as that. She has suffered very much, no
doubt  oh, I know it ; I can guess something of

what she has felt since that day  but part of her
suffering is due to the consciousness of the secret
that has thrust itself between you and her. Blame
me for that. But for me she might have been
frank with you from the first. But I thought
too much of you, too little of her, and so I laid
on her a burden too heavy for her child's strength.
Now that you know everything, it is in your
power to take that burden away."

And when I have taken it away  what then ?"
he asked. " Can I take away the knowledge of
evil, too  an evil of which she was wholly ignorant
till she learnt it by the recital of my sins ?
Can I take away the shame  God, mine I 
which has crushed her innocent spirits, and made
her afraid to lift her eyes in my presence for fear
I should read my condemnation in them ? "

Sometimes I think," Muriel murmured, flushing
deep crimson as she spoke, " that even now
the whole meaning of those  those accusations
can hardly have revealed itself to her. Much
must have remained vague."

Perhaps so, for a while. But all was not
vague, and what was unmistakable would soon
help her to interpret the rest. Besides, she is
fast growing into a woman : will you guarantee
me against the further experience of life which

must infallibly teach lier all that remains for 
learn of the meaning of that accursed paragraph
? No, there is no escaping this thing, no
possibility of rendering it less horrible. Your old
crone was right, Mrs. Arlinoham. One's deeds
and their consequences remain, and the Almighty
Himself cannot do away with either  even were
I so presumptuous as to expect Him to interfere
on my behalf

Well," he added, after a moment, " I wonder
you don't remind me that I only reap as I have
sown. I am quite ready to acknowledge it myself
'All's Love, but all's Law,' you said this
afternoon, I remember. I see the law here most
distinctly ; I cannot say I perceive much of the
other thing. Why, if Providence was determined
to punish me, could it not do so without involving
that innocent child ? Some lesser torture
might have sufficed even for me, one would
think. If I have been all that my worst enemies
say, am I to blame for the deadly mistake that
poisoned my life from the very outset, and made
me what I am ? I do not expect you to understand
me. How should you ? To do that, you
must know what it is to have the love of your
life turned into a veritable curse, to have your
dearest faith trampled in the dust, and your whole

existence darkened by a deception so bitter that
it has destroyed the best part of your belief inhuman
nature itself. Since you do not know
this "

Do not I know it ? " The words broke from
Muriel against her will.

A change passed over Wentworth's face. "You,

too ! " he exclaimed. " Not Muriel ! Is this

what I have done for you ? "

She hesitated a moment. Then she put aside
conventionality, reticence, pride, fear, and took
up the task she deemed assigned her.

I did not mean to have said it," she replied ;
but I will not take back my words now. That
is what you did for me once."

So," he answered, " I have succeeded in ruining
the lives of the two I love best in the world.
Truly, my punishment is well devised."

My life is not ruined," said Muriel quietly.
It never can be, except by my own fault."

"As mine has been."

"As yours is not," she contradicted gently.
Gone very much astray, perhaps ; defaced and
spoilt for what it might have been once, but
surely not past repair. I, too, went wholly
wrong, yet "

My sins and yours ! " he interrupted, with

a half-smile terrible in its contemptuous self-mockery.
" They are so alike ! "

When weighed against our different temptations
 who knows ? " she asked. " It would
have been easy for me to do right, comparatively
; perhaps it was hard for you."

His eyes softened almost reverentially. " I
cannot see where you failed," he said. " First in
your early childhood, and now, even as the wife

of a man who does not love you " He set

his teeth fiercely.

No, he does not love me," she answered with
a sad humility. "Have I any right to expect
that he should ? I have done him a great wrong,
for I married him without loving him. I married
him, though "

You loved me," Wentworth put in, in a quiet,
matter-of-fact way.

Muriel flushed again, a painful, burning flush
I persuaded myself at the time that it was no
so. I deceived myself, to begin with ; deceived
myself wilfully. I was impatient, and wanted
to forget, and my pride had been wounded  it
does not matter how. I thought my marriage
would help me there. I was vain, too, and liked
power ; and it was pleasant to be loved  so I
thought." She stopped, with tears in her voice.

VOL. III. 48

When I first saw that I was nothing to my
husband," she resumed, "I was angry, bitterly
angry. ' Why should everything fail me like this ?'
I thought. And when you came back and roused
the old pain again, I was angry too. It seemed
so hard that I could never be left in peace ; that
I must be always suffering like this. But at last
I have learnt why it is, or I am at least learning.
And so my life is not ruined, and yours need
not be."

What analogy can possibly exist in such a
case ? " Wentworth retorted. " You have not
brought misery on others. There are no hopeless
consequences of evil-doing for you to contemplate."


You are mistaken," Muriel replied ; " I can
never undo the evil of my marriage. How do I
know but what, if Jack had had for his wife a
woman who really loved him, instead of one like
me "  she drooped her head heavily  " perpetually
fighting with her own false heart, he might
not have been a wholly different man ? That
thought is almost more than I can bear. Yet it
is exactly that which I must learn to bear : that,
and the loss of his regard, which is a daily
trouble and grief to me  all the more because I
know it is just that I should have lost it what

can I do but take it as patiently as I can ?
Even"  and here she grew white to the lips 
that love for you which I cannot wholly root
out  I think sometimes that the pain and the
shame of it will stay with me all my life as part
of my punishment ; and all that is left to me is
to bear them as such."

Her tears were almost choking her, but she
wrestled them down and went on. " Yet I don't
despair. It is better to feel as I do now, than to
be  as I was for a time  so hard that one can
feel nothing. You will wonder why I have told
you all this' she concluded hurriedly.

"No," Went worth answered, still with that
fixed reverential gaze, "I don't wonder. I
know; I understand perfectly. You would
shrink from nothing if you could save me, as you
think. To help me in my bitter strait, you do
not even hesitate to step down from your own
pure safe elevation and to put yourself on a level
with me ! You angel ! But I am past your
help now. Since I have no longer even my
children to live better for, what matter what the
end of it all is ? "

This is not an end, but a beginning," Muriel
said.

A beginning ! " he repeated ironically. " A

beginning, verily ! out of such intolerable shame
and horror as this ! " She saw him clench his
hand and turn away to conceal the spasm of
pain which shook his features. "When I have
just become utterly hateful to myself, and loathe
my own existence ! Besides, who told you I
had any desire for such a beginning ? Will
it give me back that child's love and trust  the
only thing, except one, in this world that I really
prized and valued, and would have given my
life for, gladly ? Forgive me, though ; I have no
right to inflict my railings upon you. Can you
forgive me for the sake of that which I may not
even speak to you, you for whom it is little to
say I would do anything ? "

Muriel's face was transfigured by a sudden
illumination. " Then do the one thing that could
make me happy, even now," she answered. " Be
what God surely meant you to be  the noblest
man I ever knew."

She did not wait for a reply, but before she
could quit the room one reached her, low and
broken indeed, but distinctly audible nevertheless.
" Your faith is truly great. If I had not

lost Stella, I almost think " Wentworth's

voice failed him.

Muriel turned impulsively and stretched out

her hand towards him for an instant; but he
made no responsive movement. It was only a
slight momentary gesture, quickly withdrawn
again, and perhaps from its very slightness and
rapidity it passed unnoticed by Wentworth. Or
perhaps he did see, and yet purposely ignored it ;
taking, by that . simple act of self-enforced
quiescence, the very first step upwards that he
had taken for many and many a day.

ART  OR NATURE ?

 If there be
A devil in man, there is an angel too,
And if he did that wrong you charge him with,
His angel broke his heart."

Tennyson.

How she got through the dinner that followed
closely on her interview with Wentworth, or how
she bore her part in the long evening which
succeeded that, Muriel never had any clear and
distinct recollection. She only remembered
vaguely that German politics had formed the
principal topic of general conversation, and that
she had talked a great deal  she imagined,
rather more brilliantly than usual ; but all her
memories of the scene were so nightmare-like
and phantasmagoric, and her own condition of
mind while the necessary tension lasted seemed
to her, on reflection, to have been so strange and

SO abnormal, that it was almost a relief to wake
up on the morrow, after a short morning sleep,
to the old, weary, but safe sense of suffering and
endurance. Yet the return to her ordinary self
made the ordeal of meeting Wentworth again all
the more difficult.

It was rather late when she appeared in the
breakfast-room, but her first glance round the
table showed her that he was not present. Perhaps
he was still out on his wanderings : he had
a fancy for early morning walks in the country,
she knew. Nothing more likely. Yet no : for
what was this that Lord Carlton was saying in
reply to the lady on his other hand, who had
made her entry at the same moment as Mrs.
Arlingham ?

He's gone, I am sorry to say ; gone by the
early train, in answer to an urgent summons
from his sister. Didn't you hear the stir in the
house soon after six this morning ? There was
barely time to get him off when the telegram
came. It had arrived at the office just too late
for sending out last night, unluckily, or he might
have caught the night mail, and saved several
hours."

"Illness at home, I suppose?" said Lord
Carlton's neighbour. Muriel's lips felt paralyzed.

"Yes, one of his daughters. The eldest, I
believe. At least, I think he said it was the
eldest. I only saw him for a moment as he was
starting. Time was everything to him, for he
ought to have had the telegram the day before
yesterday ; but owing to his not having sent his
last two addresses to his sister, or left them
where he was staying previously, it has been
following him from place to place, and has
been telegraphed to at least half a dozen wrong
addresses. I trust he may not be too late, for
I fear the daughter is very ill."

Had she met with an accident ? "

*'I don't know, Mrs. Russell. The telegram
was not very explicit, I dare say; telegrams
seldom are. But I did not actually see it. I
should hardly fancy there had been an accident,
however; a sudden illness rather, I think I
gathered. Poor Wentworth ! it was a terrible
shock to him. I think I never saw a man in
such a frantic state of anxiety. Of course this
unlucky delay made things worse for him."

His wife died suddenly in his absence from
the effects of an accident, I recollect," Mrs.
Russell commented reflectively. " Quite a tragical
end hers was, poor thing! She was so pretty,
too. But she and her husband were not on very

good terms, were they ? People talked a good
deal some years ago. I don't know whose fault
it was, exactly."

Lord Carlton's fine countenance clouded with
annoyance. " Neither do I," he answered stiffly.
Mr. Wentworth is not a man given to the discussion
of his domestic affairs even with his
friends, of whom I am happy to count myself
one." After which remark, the lady deemed it
prudent to try a change of subject, and Lord
Carlton gladly seconded her efforts.

Meanwhile the early train, dragging its slow
parliamentary length along, was just landing
Wentworth at the Great Western terminus in
London. To his fevered impatience  an impatience
to which the speed of the fastest
express that ever ran would have seemed halting
the journey of three hours had been a period
of veritable torture, of momentarily increasing
dread. At intervals he read and re-read the
words of Margaret's telegram, vainly trying to
gather some grain of encouragement from the
message which simply said in its cruel brevity :
Stella very ill with sudden inflammation of the
lungs." Not a word more. Not even " Come ; "
but then Margaret knew that it was unnecessary
to add that. And two whole days lost already !

He could not, dared not, think what might have
happened meanwhile. He should go mad if he
did ; he must turn his thoughts elsewhere. He
looked resolutely out of the window.

Over Maidenhead Bridge  how large Maidenhead
was growing ! The place was getting quite
spoilt, to Wentworth's mind. These wretched
little suburban residences, with their clothes-lines
and gravel tennis-courts, were ruining it
utterly. Those people in the bigger villa close
by the river-arch, which would proudly advertise
itself as ''' standing in its own grounds," no
doubt, were playing tennis as usual. Did they
never do anything else ? He wondered if they
played at night, by moonlight ? Perhaps they
were a family of a dozen or so, and took the
court by relays. Surely the train was slowing ?
Yes, a wayside station. Great heavens ! these
stoppages at places where no one ever got in or
out ! What was the exact hour when Margaret
despatched her telegram? 'april 20th, 6.25
a.m." Very early. She must have been up all
night. That meant it was fully forty-eight hours
old before he got it  and forty-eight hours with

inflammation of the lungs She would think

he was staying away deliberately. AVhat marvel,
seeing what else she had heard of him ? Supposing

No, he would not suppose. There

was the white country-house, with its sweep of
lawn stretching down to the river, and its sweep
of woods clothing the hill behind, which he had
always admired as a typical specimen of an
English home. He speculated idly, as he had
speculated many times before, who lived there ?
Stella had once said she wished to live there, he
remembered. What doctor would Margaret have
been likely to call in ? Falconer ? Surely not,
after all he had told her himself of Stella's sudden
antipathy to Falconer. It would be highly reprehensible
and obstinate of Margaret to have
done such a thing; he should have given her
credit for more common sense and feeling.

That embankment needed strengthening : there
would be a serious landslip in case of heavy rains
setting in unexpectedly. The company ought
to see to it  he had a great mind to write to the
Times. A propos of newspapers, there was that
letter he had intended to send to the Morning
Planet. "Sir  Since you have done me the
honour of reporting certain of my more recent
utterances in your columns, perhaps you will
also he good enough to admit certain corrections
of the highly imaginative report which appeared
there on Thursday last  corrections trifling in

themselves, hut nevertheless of sufficient importance
to contain the whole gist of what I said
in contradistinction to what your reporter supposed
me to say  to the people of Dorchester."
Was that stinging enough ? Hardly. These

irresponsible journalists And she had held it

in her hand, read it, had it stamped in upon her
memory ! It might be haunting her now in the
midst of her pain and her struggle for life; if,
indeed, that struggle were not already over.
What o'clock was it ? Only half-past eight.
Only an hour and ten minutes since he left
Graymere ? Impossible ! And two days lost
already ! What could be worse than Margaret's
telegram ? If she had only said " ill "  but "very
ill " ! What more could she say, except one
thing ? Perhaps she had only sent the telegram
to prepare him; perhaps at the very time she

despatched it No, no ! He would not believe

that. What would Muriel have thought of it ?
"7 thought too much of you, too little of her"
Well, she must have heard by now. How like
an angel she had looked last night ! " This is not
an end, hut a beginning "  a beginning which
was to end  where ? Another station. Only
twenty minutes to nine ! and those two days to
make up yet. Why were they stopping this

unconscionable time ? And so on, and so on,
through the three hours which seemed like three
years of an agony long drawn out.

No carriage or servant was awaiting him at
Haddington, but it could not be otherwise, he
remembered, as it was impossible for Margaret
to know when or whence to expect him. This
mattered little ; a hansom would take him even
more quickly than his own brougham. Through
noisy, melancholy-looking Cambridge Terrace;
through the network of dull respectable squares
and streets beyond it; then skirting a bit of
Edward Road, and out into the great stream of
traffic near the Marble Arch ; down Park Lane,
with a glimpse of the bright-hued Park borders
flaunting their full spring glory on his right
hand, and the planes and chestnuts bursting into
tardy, reluctant leaf overhead ; round a familiar

corner, and Thank God ! the blinds were up

yet. Till Wentworth saw the open windows he
hardly realized how faint had been his expectation
of finding Stella alive.

Miss Wentworth ? " was the sole question he
put to the elderly butler who answered his
cautious knock. Despite his excitement, he did
not forget that quiet might be needed on entering
the house.

"Much the same, sir, ever since yesterday.
She takes a little more notice this morning, so
Dickinson says. We expected you yesterday
morning, sir."

"I know. The telegram had to follow me
about. Is she awake ? "

I expect so, sir. She lies mostly very quiet
in the daytime. The doctors are up there now."

Wentworth was half-way across the hall by
this time, but turned round to inquire sharply,
What doctors ? "

Dr. Boulton and Sir George Carmichael, sir.
Sir George was called in yesterday. Miss Irvine
wrote "

Where is Miss Irvine ? " interrupted Wentworth
from the staircase.

In Miss Wentworth's room, sir."

The door of Stella's room stood wide open  for
the day was warm and close, as the later days of
April are apt to be occasionally  and from it
issued a subdued murmur of voices, the voices
of Margaret Irvine and the two physicians, who
formed a group just inside the doorway on the
right-hand side. On the left, sheltered by the
open door itself from view, was Stella's bed,
where the girl lay propped up on a great heap of
pillows.

She lay very still, as if in a half-stupor of
exhaustion. The fever-flush of the past night
had already faded from her cheeks, leaving them
deadly white ; her eyes were closed and her limbs
perfectly motionless; but there was a tell-tale
line across her smooth young forehead which
spoke of semi-conscious pain, and she breathed
irregularly and with difficulty. Of the low-voiced
questions which Sir George Carmichael
was putting to her aunt she seemed totally heedless
; but when Wentworth's footfall, guarded as
it was, sounded in the corridor, she started
slightly, and a shade of colour came into her
face. Her eyelids quivered, and finally unclosed.
"Father  it's father," she said in a faint
whisper, half to herself Not so faint, though,
but what it caught Wentworth's ear as he
crossed the threshold.

He passed by Margaret and the doctors with a
curt, recognizing nod, and went straight to
Stella's bedside, taking the weak hands she tried
to hold out to him in his own. " My child, my
darling ! " he murmured, with what sounded like
one great stifled sob. Then he dropped into the
vacant chair beside her, and bent his head over
the little hands he held.

There was a minute's silence, and Stella grazed

on her father in growing alarm, for he was verifying
her worst fears by his strange conduct.
He must, indeed, be angry with her, with an
anger past softening, for he had not even taken
her in his arms or kissed her, his poor sick child !
How could she guess that he dared not ; that he
was waiting, in his new-found anguish of humiliation,
for a movement from her that she was
powerless to make ?

The needful sign came, nevertheless ; came in
those irrepressible tears which are only wept of
extreme weakness, and mingled with them the
broken words of appeal : " Father, won't you kiss
me ? I am so ill, so ill ! "

Wentworth answered nothing. But the embrace
in which he clasped Stella said more than
any words could have done. She had no need
thenceforward to doubt either his love or his
sorrow.

Not a word was uttered while father and child
thus clung together. Margaret watched them
anxiously, divided between sympathy for her
brother and dismay at the thought of the harm
such agitation as this might effect in a case
like Stella's. Dr. Boulton examined a picture
on the wall, and tapped his foot noiselessly but
impatiently on the carpet with a slightly contemptuous

expression of countenance ; and grey-headed
Sir George Carmichael walked across to
the window and became lost in contemplation of
tile hyacinths in the window-box. But he also
took off his spectacles, and wiped them significantly
more than once.

Father," Stella whispered, as he held her
close, " you are sure you are not angry ? Not in
the least ? "

Yes, m} darling, perfectly sure."

"I was afraid  after what you said. But I
meant to do right. If you only knew ! "

I do know," Went worth said, and then held
his breath for the rejoinder.

Stella trembled violently. "How  how did
you know ? "

"Mrs. Arlincrham told me. Hush, darlings !
it is all no matter. Don't think of it any more."

No one else ever knew of it," Stella exclaimed
excitedly into Wentworth's ear. " Not even Aunt
Margaret. Sometimes I was afraid I might have
talked of it when I didn't quite know things 
at night, you know  but she says I never did,
never ! "

Wentworth was speechless.

I was afraid Mabel might guess, too," Stella
faltered on, "but she has no idea. Oh, father !
VOL. ill. 49

why didn't you come to me sooner ? I have been
so ill!"

"My star, I only knew it this morning. I
had gone far away from the place where you

last heard of me, and they had to send What

is the matter, darling ? "

For Stella's eyes had closed again suddenly,
and her head was hanging limp and heavy
against his shoulder.

Then Margaret came forward. " It is just one
of those attacks of faintness which come over herat
times," she said in a quiet, practical tone.
"Move, Paul, and let me come to her. There,
she will be better presently.  It is not often she
speaks so much, or even seems to notice fresh
people in the room," she added in a rapid sottovoce
to her brother. " You had better go and talk
to Sir George and Dr. Boulton for a while, and
leave her to me."

Yes ; pray come," said one of the two physicians,
who was leaving the room, whence he
was speedily followed by his colleague. And
Wentworth went  went obediently and waited
patiently till the indispensable ten minutes' consultation
had taken place between the medical
men, and he could be admitted to hear his
sentence, Stella's sentence, from their lips.

He recovered himself when alone with them 
the pride and self-mastery which had forsaken
him utterly in his daughter's presence came back
to him in that of these comparative strangers.
His questions were as clear and searching as if
he had had both men under cross-examination.
Their manner of reply struck him as very dissimilar.
Dr. Boulton, a little, keen, dark man of
middle age, answered briskly, fully, and straight
to the point ; while Sir George Carmichael,
whose naturally spare, stooping figure had been
rendered even more bent and shrunken by advancing
age, and whose scanty locks were fast
growing white as snow, gave his answers reluctantly,
evasively, and always with evident
pain. On one point, the extreme gravity of the
case under discussion, the doctors were plainly
agreed. Only the younger man enunciated his
opinion with an almost brutal frankness, and
the elder with a grave, kindly sympathy which
made the most of every hopeful or encouraging
symptom.

She has youth on her side, we must remember,"
Sir George said, with a compassionate
glance through his spectacles at Went worth.
Still, there is no use concealing from you that
the attack is a very acute one, and that her

strength has been rapidly, very rapidly, reduced
by it. There are various complications present,
you see, which may partly account for this rapid
reduction of strength. But not entirely."

*miss Wentworth has evidently a weakly
constitution," Dr. Boulton put in incisively.
Yet I believe she has had good health until
now, or, at any rate, until quite recently ? "

"Perfect health," Wentworth replied. "She
has never known a day's illness."

Such being the case, she should have been
better able to throw off an attack of this kind 
unless, as I says, there exists some inherent
weakness of constitution. Of course there are
complications, as Sir George"  with a slight
inclination towards that eminent consultant 
has already informed you."

What complications ? "

"A generally weakened state of health, and
a highly excitable condition of the brain and
nerves ; both of which have greatly tended to
increase, if not to produce, the fever which is
your daughter's most unfavourable symptom.
Sir George quite agrees with me here. There
has been a certain amount of delirium present
every night since I first saw Miss Wentworth
three days ago ; and there has also been occasional

wandering by day. I have employed
opiates, but with little success so far."

"Would anything painful  any trouble or
anxiety pressing upon the mind be likely to
give rise to such symptoms as you have mentioned
? " Wentworth might be supposed to be
addressing Dr. Boulton, but he looked at Sir
George Carmichael, and it was Sir George who
answered 

"Very possibly. Can you suggest"  looking
keenly yet kindly into Wentworth's eyes  " any
probable recent irritation of your daughter's
nerves ? Any intellectual excitement, or overtaxing
of the brain ? For instance, too many
lessons, or too many sensational novels to read ?
I questioned her aunt on the subject, and she
seemed inclined to attribute the breakdown in
health and spirits, which, I am given to understand,
occurred some weeks before this illness,
to overwork."

My sister is mistaken," said Wentworth, with
ashen lips. " Overwork has nothing to do with
the matter. I have discovered the real cause."

And that is ? " queried Dr. Boulton. " I half
fancy I have guessed it too," he added in an
undertone, as if communing with himself

Wentworth gave him one fiery glance and

went on, addressing himself exclusively to Sir
George this time.

I dare say you know that the society papers
say unpleasant things of me sometimes. Occasionally
they are true ; generally the reverse.
One such paragraph, which appeared in Town
Talk last January, was, most unhappily, seen
and read by my daughter."

Ah ! most unfortunate indeed ! " commented
the irrepressible Boulton. Sir George Carmichael
said nothing at all.

I saw soon afterwards," continued Wentworth,
" that something was amiss with her,
but she would not confess what it was, to me
or to any one. I only learnt the truth of the
matter last night from a lady who was accidentally
present when the paper fell into her
hands. It appears that she then formed an
inflexible resolution to keep her discovery to
herself, in order to  to spare me at all costs."

Sir George Carmichael grasped Wentworth's
hand impulsively. "I thank you a thousand
times for telling us this," he exclaimed ; then
returning to his usual quiet manner : " We know
better now what we have to deal with, you see."

"You think, then, that this trouble has had
an injurious effect ? " There was such suppressed

agony in the tone of the question that
Sir George Carmichael could gladly have caught
Dr. Boulton by the throat for his brisk " Undoubtedly."
As Went worth still looked at him,
he added reluctantly, " To some extent, perhaps ;
we can scarcely pronounce positively. The present
illness is purely accidental, we must remember
; both Dr. Boulton and Miss Irvine tell me
that it can be clearly traced to a severe chill."
Can anything be done ? "
To remove the irritant cause, you mean ?
Well, Mr. Wentworth, I would recommend you
to let your daughter know that you are aware
of her secret, and so get her to try and dismiss
it from her mind. There has evidently been,
from Miss Irvine's reports, an effort at self-repression
for some time past ; and this is in itself
a strain upon the mind of so very young a girl."
She knows already that I have heard all
about it."

Already ? " Dr. Boulton lifted his eyebrows
slightly. " Good, though ; you did well to tell
her at once. Miss Irvine stated that when full
consciousness returned after an attack of semi-delirium,
Miss Wentworth frequently inquired
what she had said  evidently showing that
she was afraid of betraying something. This,

and a few words she let drop when not quite
herself, first started that guess of mine which
has been proved correct."

Wentworth turned quickly away for a moment,
and the aspect of his countenance when
he turned back again did not dispose Sir George
very kindly towards his talkative colleague.
But he managed to restrain himself until, after
wringing Wentworth's hand at parting and
trjdng to infuse into his clasp all the sympathy
he could not well utter, he found himself alone
with Dr. Boulton in that gentleman's comfortable
little brougham. Then some at least of his
pent-up indignation broke forth.

"You might really have been more merciful
to Wentworth, Boulton," he said. " Poor fellow,
poor fellow ! Whatever his past errors may have
been, he is expiating them now in a way which
may well make any man sorry for him. Faugh !
these scandal-mongering journalists, who spend
their time prying into the darkest corners of a
man's life, if haply they may be able to unearth
and drag to lisjht some dead and buried shame of
his past to blot his present with ! Heaven may
forgive and forget, but the society papers, never."

"Wentworth is an uncommonly good actor,"
retorted the other coolly. " That scene with the

child when he came in was the best thing I ever
saw him do yet. It was, in its way, quite consummate.
Only don't mistake very perfect art
for nature, my dear sir."

Did it ever occur to you that it was possible
to make the converse mistake ? " Sir George
asked.

"How?"

To mistake nature for art. The man was
carried completely out of himself for the moment.
How else do you account for a proud man like
Wentworth voluntarily making such a statement
as he made to you and me subsequently ? Poor
fellow 1 "

He is a deucedly clever fellow, at any rate,"
murmured Dr. Boulton obstinately. " He knows
how to pose, and how to turn his very humiliations
to account. Supposing all this tale had
come out through the poor girl herself, would he
have shown up quite so well ? Especially as she
is dying, to a certainty. I had little hope of
saving her yesterday, and I have next to none
to-day. Do you see any chance for her ? " he
asked, after a minute's pause, as his companion
preserved an impenetrable silence.

No, humanly speaking, none. She is dying,
undoubtedly."

BY THE VISITATION OF GOD.

Behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes
with a stroke."  Ezek. xxiv. 16.

Yes, she was dying. They all knew it: the
doctors, the nurse, the faithful Dickinson, the
very servants of the house. Margaret knew it,
though she never spoke of it ; Wentworth knew
it, though he never acknowledged it even to himself.
At last, when two more days and nights
had gone wearily by, they saw that Stella herself
knew it also, and accepted her fate with the
quiet resignation which comes so often, even to
the very young and happy, when really about to
die. " I shall not get well now, Aunt Margaret,"
she said, when the third morning came, and she
had struggled back to consciousness again for a
while ; and Margaret dared not contradict her.
Wentworth, who was in the room, but standing

just out of sight, moved suddenly into view, and
then turned and went out without speaking.
Stella looked after him wistfully.

I did not know he was there," she observed.
Still, he must have known soon. Poor father ! "
Her pity was all for Wentworth ; regret for herself
seemed scarcely to exist at all.

But it was not often that she could talk even
so much as this. A great part of her time was
spent in a kind of heavy stupor, which to Wentworth's
uninitiated eye often looked so like sleep,
that he could hardly credit the doctors' assurances
that it had nothing in common with health-giving
slumber. At first this frequent unconsciousness
of Stella's seemed to her father the worst of trials,
but he soon learnt to prefer it to her waking
moments, when he had nothing to do but stand
by and contemplate the sufferings, physical and
mental, which he and all others were often
alike powerless to relieve. Throughout those
forty-eight hours, long because so full of pain,
yet short because he knew they must be the last
of Stella's ebbinG: life, Wentworth was writhing
under that worst of tortures  a torture which
almost every human being is destined at sometime
or other to endure  the sense of utter
helplessness in the presence of a distress which

he would gladly have given his own life to
alleviate.

Nor could he hide from himself the most cruel
fact of all, that this distress, in so far as it was
mental and not physical, was his own handiwork.
With the return of her fever at night, Stella still
wandered in mind from time to time, and though
she spoke few coherent sentences, and her delirium
was never of the painful or violent kind,
yet she let fall enough for Wentworth to see that
the shadow of that dark burden which had so
long oppressed her mind still rested upon it.
Her eager inquiry, " What did I say last night,
Aunt Margaret ? " when complete self-recollection
returned with morning liorht, was to him a
daily-recurring martyrdom.

The third time she put it, he stepped forward
and answered it himself. "Nothing of any consequence,
my darling. Don't trouble yourself
about what you say or don't say. It is no matter :
for you have no secret to keep now, remember.
I know all about it."

It is for other people," she urged faintly.

Other people know already," he answered
with reckless frankness ; " you could tell them
nothing fresh. Other people don't think of
your father quite as you do, sweet. For you

love me still, my child, don't you ? Just as
before ? "

Why shouldn't I ? " Stella asked, trying to
stroke his hair with very feeble, tremulous fingers.
"Nothing could make any difference  in that
way. Only  I was sorry. It seemed so dreadful
to think that they could write so of  of
you."

She stopped a moment, with a new hope
breaking suddenly in upon her mind. What
if, after all, her suffering had been causeless ?
What if the accusations of Town Talk had been
mere lying slanders, and Mrs. Arlingham a
false or over-credulous witness to their truth ?
Father," she asked, with the boldness and
directness that death, known to be close at hand,
gave her, "it wasn't true, was it  what they
said of you ? I can't think now why I ever
believed it."

Wentworth's heart seemed to stand still for
an instant. Then he averted his face, and
answered almost harshly, " Some of it was false,
Stella  a good deal of it. But not all."

She made no rejoinder. Only, after a minute,
her weak arm clasped his neck more closely, and
she moved her head on the pillow so that her
cheek mijht rest against his hair.

Well, darling' he said at last, " I had to tell
you the bitter truth."

I told you it made no difference  no difference
at all' the girl replied in a stronger voice.
Except that I love you more, because I know
you must be unhappy. I wish I could stay with
sou now."

"You will be better off  elsewhere," he returned,
hardly knowing what he said.

"Yes," Stella assented simply, as if the assertion
admitted of no question. "But you will
want me, I know."

"Don't trouble yourself about my wants. I
am not worth any sorrow, darling."

I am only sorry because I thought you were
quite perfect. But it does not matter. You will
be, some time."

"Your faith in me is great, my child," he
answered as soon as he could speak, unconsciously
using the very same words he had used
to another three days before. And after that
they talked no more, then or at any time, for
the flame of Estelle Wentworth's earthly existence
had well-nigh died down in the socket, and
this conversation was its last flicker of brightness
before it finally went out for ever.

All through that day she was beset with pain

and restlessness, but as night came on  the third
night after Wentworth reached London, and the
sixth of her illness  she grew, contrary to her
usual custom, easier and more tranquil. The
doctors paid their usual evening visit about nine
o'clock, and gave Margaret her instructions for
the night. Dr. Boulton expressing his belief that
it would be a more comfortable one than his
patient had had yet. But Sir George Carmichael,
when Wentworth looked to him for
confirmation of this favourable opinion, preserved
an obstinate and discouraging silence,
only saying into Margaret's ear as he passed
out, " Keep a close watch upon her, and don't
hesitate to rouse her for the cordial, if necessary.
I see signs of a change."

About midnight Margaret sent the nurse away
to rest in the adjoining room, and herself took
the watch  a watch shared by Wentworth, who
had never once thought of sleep since the hour
of his arrival, except such sleep as he could
snatch at brief intervals in the daytime. It was
a very quiet watch, broken only by the administration
of the cordial at Irregular intervals ; for
on this night Stella neither moaned nor wandered
she lay comparatively still.

About two o'clock in the morning there was a

slight attack of breathlessness and restlessness,
lasting five minutes or so. Wentworth, who
till then had been standing at the foot of his
daughter's bed, now changed his position to a
chair beside it, and Stella soon sank into her
former half-conscious condition again, with her
head partially supported on his shoulder. Margaret
sat by the fire, and trimmed it noiselessly
from time to time.

The hours went by, and none of the three
occupants of the room seemed to stir. Stella's
breathing grew gradually quieter and less painfully
audible; Wentworth sat on like a figure
of stone; Margaret looked from the father and
child to the fire and back again. She knew well
enough that it was only a question of hours now
with Stella, and how would Paul bear his life
in the future, she wondered ? How, when the
present tension was at an end, would he endure
his recent discovery of the nature of Stella's
haunting secret ? For Margaret, too, had by this
time learnt all the meaning of that pitiful
mystery.

Still the hours went by. The sickly dawn
was beginning to steal into the room, and Margaret
softly put out the now useless night-lamp.
The little clock opposite her on the mantelpiece

pointed to twenty-five minutes past five ; in forty
minutes it would be time for Stella's cordial
again.

Ah ! a falling coal awoke her from her involuntary
slumber of exhaustion. She was on her
feet instantly, shivering as one only does in the
chill of dawn, and wild with terror lest she
should have overslept herself No, thank God !
she had not been asleep more than half an hour.
The hands of the little timepiece stood only at
five minutes to six; but it was fully day now,
and as Margaret turned towards the bed, she
saw Wentworth rise to his feet and lay Stella
gently back on her pillows. He stood looking
at her a moment, took up her hands and kissed
them tenderly, one after another  "How foolish!"
thought Margaret, " and how likely to disturb
her ! "  and then fell back in his former attitude,
with his arms crossed over his breast, gazing
down upon her.

Margaret poured out the cordial, and advanced
with it from the other side. So far Wentworth
had not seemed to observe his sister's movements,
but now he made her a warning gesture,
so fierce almost in its mute vehemence, that she
started back. She stood irresolute a few seconds ;
then, setting down the glass, she crept round to

VOL. III. 50

her brother's side with an undefined terror at her
heart, and laid her hand on his arm. " Paul ! "
she said appealingly.

He did not reply.

Paul ! "  more urgently still. " Is she asleep,
do you think ? "

Wentworth turned and faced her  faced her
with a look which to her dying day Margaret
will never forget, and which, for its fixed anguish
of despair, she prays she may never again behold
on the face of any human creature. "No," he
answered very quietly. " She is dead  quite
dead."

THE WORST OF IT.

And your sentence is written all the same,
And I can do nothing  pray perhaps ! "

R. Browning.

It came upon me as a shock at the last ; I had
no idea the end was really so very near at hand,"
Margaret said, brushing away a few quiet tears.
Of course Sir George had spoken of a change,
and that expression of his alarmed me at first ;
but afterwards all the change I saw seemed to
be a change for the better. Not that I cherished
any actual hope of her recovery ; but she seemed
so much easier and quieter. Well, it was very
merciful that it should have been so. There was
nothing more we could have done. Only it
seemed so terrible that I should have slept
through those last few moments."

I understand that," Muriel rejoined gently,

with a compassionate glance at Margaret, whose
mourning dress seemed to emphasize the extreme
pallor of her worn, delicate face. " Did your
brother expect it, do you think ? "

The cloud of sorrowful recollection on Margaret's
features deepened into a darker shade of
present anxiety. She shook her head slightly.
I hardly know," she replied. " He never spoke
to me about her state before she died, further
than to put such questions as he desired to have
answered ; and he always received my replies
without comment. All through those dreadful
three days I was telling you of, he never once
remarked to me that she seemed better or worse.
And since  oh ! since I have not dared to speak
of her at all."

"Is that well?"

No, it is not at all well," Margaret acknowledged.
" But I dare not, Muriel, I dare not.
Though I am so fond of Paul, I believe I have
always been a little afraid of him ; and to intermeddle
with such grief as his is more than I can
adventure. Yet it is dreadful leaving him to
himself If only Philip were here ! He may be
by tomorrow, perhaps."

How long is it since you sent for him ? "

''I wrote more than a fortnight ago  just the

day after ; but I could only direct the letter to
the poste restante at Bergen, to wait for him
there. He intended going to Iceland first, and
returning by way of Norway to Sweden, when
he started ; but he had not made up his mind
how long he should be on the road. It depended
a good deal on how fast he picked up ; he has
overworked very much of late. I had such
scruples about bringing him home any sooner,
that I did not actually ask him to come ; I only
just stated facts, and left him to judge for
himself"

He will be sure to come," said Muriel, with
conviction. " But in the mean time "

In the mean time, can I do nothing, you
mean ? Muriel, if you saw Paul as he is now,
you would know that he is quite beyond anything
I could possibly do for him. What can I
say ? Philip might help him, perhaps ; no one
else."

At ordinary times Margaret Irvine might and
did often think of her younger brother as a
visionary, a dreamer, an enthusiast, though she
was far too loyal to stigmatize him openly by
such names ; but now, in this " strait and dreadful
pass " in life, she turned to him with instinctive
confidence as her one possible counsellor, his

brother's one possible helper. Since he lived in
habitual contemplation of the mysteries of life
and death, he might just possibly have a word
to say on this one.

Did you write to Paul yourself at all ? "
Margaret asked presently, breaking the silence
that had succeeded her last speech. " He had a
great many kind letters of sympathy, I believe,
though he never showed any of them to me."

No ; oh no 1 "  with an irrepressible shudder.
How could / possibly write to Jim ? " Then,
catching a startled look on Margaret's face,
Muriel recovered herself by an effort, and explained,
" Letters from outsiders at such a time
are little better than a mockery. Would it have
helped your .brother in the least to know that
one person more was sorry for him ? "

I don't know," said Margaret. " I thought
you might have said something helpful, perhaps ;
you have such a helpful way with you sometimes.
And then "  with a faint flush overspreading
her face  "jou knew what no one
else did, you see."

Muriel pressed her hands together on her knee.
Don't remind me of that, for pity's sake," she
said. "Though why should I ask you not to
speak of it, when I can think of nothing else ?

It was my fault, my fault ! Margaret, you must
be mad to talk of my writing to your brother
in his grief  I, who am the very cause of it !
He may well feel that, but for me, his child
might be alive now. Yet I meant so well, so
well  for him and her both. God knows I
did ! "

Margaret rose from her chair, and slid on to
her knees beside Muriel. " My dear child," she
said, pressing Muriel's cold fingers in her own,
who doubts you  who blames you ? Not Paul,
I am sure. He knows you acted for his good,
his happiness "

Yes," Muriel interrupted ; " just so. It was
for his good, his happiness, I acted ; I forgot her.
I deceived myself  wilfully, I begin to think
now. I put her aside, and persuaded myself
that in sparing him I was sparing her also, when
in reality I was not considering her at all. I
judged her by myself What right had I to do
so ? Because I, a woman accustomed to play a
part and keep every feeling that would shame
me in the eyes of the world a profound secret,
until I have become a mere hollow mask to
myself as well as to every one else, could have
borne the burden I laid on that innocent child,
was that a reason for concluding she could bear

it also ? The silent falsehood which would have
been nothing to me killed her ! "

Hush, hush ! " Margaret said soothingly.
Don't accuse yourself so wildly. If you erred,
it was an error of judgment which the wisest, as
well as the kindest, might have committed. And
the real cause of this terrible trouble lies otherwhere
than with you, as Paul knows too well.
It is that which has shattered him so utterly.
It is not his grief which is driving him to
despair; it is his remorse. I might have comforted
him as regards his sorrow ; as regards the
rest I am powerless. That is why I say to
myself a hundred times a day, ' If Philip were
only here ! ' "

Supposing he were," Muriel answered, " what
do you think he would say ? "

I think he would say," said Margaret slowly,
"that it was perhaps well that this had happened;
more, that it was undoubtedly well.
From Philip's point of view I don't see that he
coidd say anything else. Even from mine 
which is not altogether his  I can see that it
may be so."

She rose hurriedly from her kneeling position,
and began nervously to mend the small fire
which was smouldering in the grate. " I have

never spoken about the one shadow on the
brilliancy of Paul's life and career to any human
being before," she said rapidly ; '' but  well, you
know now. I suppose you knew before, after
a fashion; most people do. He was never
hypocritical; if anything, he made rather the
worst of himself than otherwise, dear fellow !
For he is so dear, so capable of good, so full of
fine impulses towards better things, Muriel. I
am his sister, and I know. I don't speak of his
talents  no one can say that his intellectual
gifts have not been well employed ; I speak of
what he might be, and what  even in spite of
all his falls and faults  he is, in himself"

I understand ; I believe you."

Then," Margaret said, turning round suddenly,
" don't you see  for I am beginning to see 
that if one believes, as you and I do, in ' a Power
not ourselves that makes for righteousness,'
one may well expect that it would not allow a
life which might have been so noble to be hopelessly
marred, while yet there remained any
means of restoring it to its original self? And
supposing this were the only way ? "

It is a very strange way."

Philip, if he were here, would tell you that
it is by strange ways the world is governed,"

said Margaret, with a faint smile. Then she left
the fire and went back to her seat again.

Muriel," she said, after a minute or two, asher
friend showed no disposition to break silence,
"I don't want you to judge Paul too harshly.
He has had his extenuating circumstances ; I
don't say that they excuse, much less that they
justify him, but they do at least explain him.
He was always, unfortunately, impulsive and
sensitive and impressionable, but I verily believe
all might have gone well with him notwithstanding,
if his nature had not been warped by
his circumstances. It would have been so easy
to have led him riofht through his affections !
As it was, his unhappy marriage simply threw
him back upon himself, and all that abnormal
craving for sympathy which has been his lifelong-bane
was left worse than unsatisfied. Poor
Alice ! I do not want to speak harshly of her
in her grave, but I find it hard to forgive her
even now. He worshipped her so intensely,
Muriel ; if it had not been for incurable frivolity
and invincible hardness, she could never have
lost him. But I do not think she cared to keep
him ; he was too much trouble. His very affection
was a nuisance to her, poor shallow soul I

I think Paul has never got over the shock of

that first blow  I mean, the discovery that Alice
never cared for him in reality," Margaret continued
presently. " I suppose it shook his trust
in womanhood alton-ether. At least  for I think
she had before her death effectually killed all
love for herself in him  that is how I interpret
his showing no inclination to marry again, which
I half hoped he might have done."

"You hoped that?"

I half hoped it  if Paul could have fallen in
love with a really noble, womanly woman, and
she had loved him in return, it might have been
like the opening of a new life to him. But I did
not dare, hope it altogether."

Why not ? " Muriel asked.

Because I could hardly hope that the kind
of woman I should have desired for his wife, the
woman who might be his salvation, as I imagine,
would ever consent to marry him ? Do you
think she would ? "

"If she loved him," Muriel responded half
audibly.

Even if she loved him, and therefore consented
to overlook his past, she might still be
afraid  afraid to trust his future  so it always
seemed to me. Now such a dream seems further
off than ever."

Because this loss has swallowed up every
other feeling ? "

No, because it has unfitted him to make any
woman happy. With this cloud of perpetual
remorse upon him, what could he do except
bring the shadow of it upon any one who loved
him supremely ? And nothing short of supreme
love could be any help to him."

And what do you suppose the shadow would
count for, with such love as you speak of?"
Muriel demanded, with a sharp ring of scorn in
her voice. " For nothing, for less than nothing 
except to increase and deepen the love a hundredfold."


"If love like that were to be found at all,"
Margaret replied sadly. " It is at least too rare
for us to hope to find it within the compass of
our own lives. Besides, what right has Paul
to expect an affection wholly unselfish, wholly
self-forgetting, looking for no happiness beyond
that of liohtenino- bv a little the weight of his
suffering, self wrought as it chiefly is ? I do
not ask so much for him, nor he for himself. A
woman, be she ever so devoted, has a right to
look for some happiness where she gives her
love."

Do you think," Muriel asked, with a strange

fixed look, "that love and happiness ever go
together ? "

My dear Muriel ! " Margaret exclaimed.
"Yes, surely I think so. I know it, indeed,"
she added, a tremulous smile just wavering on
her lips. She had been very happy herself once
in days of which she never spoke now, but of
which the fragrant recollection often made her
happy yet.

Your experience has been different from
mine, then," Muriel retorted bitterly. " Do you
call it happiness to be dependent on another
person's most careless word, or capricious look,
or passing inflection of voice for your very life ?
To be such a slave to some man  in whose
estimation you rank very likely as a mere plaything,
an object of the most trifling amusement
that a sharp sentence from him, or a cold
good morning,' makes the whole world dark
to you ; so that your existence is one long dread
of displeasing him, even when he is most tender
and kind ? Is it happiness to know that he is
everything to you ; that health, position, money,
every friend and relation you have, are nothing
as set against an hour in his presence ; and that
to him you are a faint interest, a means of
gratifying his vanity, at best an agreeable companion,

a woman he has 'a fancy for such ashe
has had and will have again for a score of
others ? Do you call this happiness  this long
misery of hope and fear, when you imagine
yourself loved in the morning, and find yourself
forgotten before the day is out ? "

No, no ! " Margaret rejoined hastily. " But
you generalize too much, Muriel. Where there
is real confidence, real mutual trust "

Trust ! " Muriel broke in. " Did I say there
was no trust  that there was not trust the
most absolute, the most unsuspecting, confidence
amounting to idolatry, both in the man and in
his love ? What then ? Yes, what then ? When
the day comes on which you find out that all
this was based on a falsehood, on a hideous fraud,
the discovery of which has killed everything 
reverence, belief, honour  everything except the
love which makes your life an agony ;  will you
tell me to be happy then ? "

Margaret was struck dumb with astonishment.
Was this impassioned creature the self-contained
woman she had known so intimately for years
past ? That Muriel was an unhappy Avise she had
divined long ago ; but what was there in Geoffrey
Arlingham to have stirred at any time such depths
of passionate feeling as Muriel revealed ?

' The love ought to die too," Muriel went on,
heedless of Margaret's silence; "but supposing it
will not ? Supposing it cannot ? Is it happiness
to live in a perpetual struggle with it ? Is it
happiness to be separated from what you love in
such a way and by such a barrier that, though it
is torture to be apart, it is far worse torture to
meet ? Is it happiness to know that when he
is triumphant, you must not feel glad ? Or to
see him suffering, suffering intolerably, and not
dare say a word of comfort, however much you
suffer with him ? Worst of all, to see the evil
growing stronger and the good weaker in him
as the years go by, and still to be able to do
nothing  yet you know there is no escape for
you. Though not only all the sorrows, but all
the sins, seem to fall on you and crush you down
as if they were your own, you can do nothing 
only go on loving, loving to your own unspeakable
wretchedness ! "

She broke off suddenly and walked across to
the window, where she stood looking out into
the street.

"And then to remember," she added half
audibly, " that but for your own wicked folly
it might have all been yours to do."

Again Margaret did not speak. A kind of

helpless terror took possession of her ; she felt
desperately afraid, and dared not ask herself of
what. So great was this terror that all compassion
for Muriel remained for the moment in
abeyance. It only awoke tardily when, after
some minutes, her friend came back to her side,
and laid a timid hand on her shoulder.

"Margaret," she said quite quietly  she was
a little pale and tremulous, but otherwise perfectly
herself again  " I surprised you very much
just now, I am certain. You did not understand
what I meant, did you ? "

No, dear, no," Margaret faltered. She would
not have understood for worlds.

"I have held the opinions I enunciated this
evening for many years," Muriel went on, with a
miserable attempt at a smile; "and I had justa
little temporary fit of mania, which made me
give utterance to them for once. I am sorry to
have shocked you, but it has done me good to
speak, and you need think no more about it ;
neither need I, since happily you did not understand.
Promise me that you will never try to
understand, Margaret."

And Margaret promised.

IN THE VALLEY OF Actor.

And seven days he walked through it, by a path which few
can tell ; for those that have trodden it like least to speak of it,
and those who go there again in dreams are glad enough when
they awake."  C. Kingsley.

I WILL try to arrange what you wish about the
concert, Philip. I must see one or two people,
and secure their help, before I go into the final
arrangements with you, but by the day after
tomorrow I dare say we may be able to put the
affair on a practical footing."

Very well ; I will look in again on Friday,
then. And now I suppose I had better be off,
for the rain has stopped, and I have no end of
things to do before dark."

"Put on your coat before you go down,"
Margaret responded, moving to fetch the garment
in question from the back drawing-room.
We may call this summer, but to me it feels

VOL. III. 51

positively wintry. How is your cough, Phil ?
Really better ? "

Really gone' Irvine replied, accepting the
coat with an indulgent smile. " It is quite a
thing of the past now. My holiday in the north
effected wonders."

I was afraid it had been cut too short to be
of any use at all," Margaret said. " How did
you think Paul looking when you saw him
last ? " she asked abruptly, twisting one of
Irvine's buttons round and round in her fingers.

Very worn and ill indeed. Of course he said
he was all right, and evidently resented my
making any remark on his personal appearance
whatever. The affectation of cheerfulness he
tries to keep up with me is pitiably transparent,
and infinitely sadder to witness than any outward
show of grief could be."

Tears were in Margaret's eyes. " Mr. Orme
met him coming out of the House on Thursday
it was the niofht of the division on the Welsh
Riots Bill, and he had been down to vote  and
told Lady Beatrice afterwards that he thought
Paul's smile now was the saddest thing he ever
saw. Has he never said anything at all to you,
Philip?"

Not a word since his utter breakdown when

we first met a month ago. That was complete
enough while it lasted, and appalling to witness
I am thankful you were spared it  but even
then he hardly said anything, and he has been
entirely reserved since. Only once, when he
was in a very bitter mood, he remarked that
he thought I had hardly magnified my office in
the matter of preaching and exhortation as he
should have expected."

And you  what did you say ? "

I told him I thought the preaching had been
done so forcibly, without the intervention of any
human instrument, that there was nothing left
for me to say. He only answered, ' Anyhow, I
thank you for your consideration in sparing me
useless homilies,' and then went on to speak of
something else. That was three weeks ago
now'

I had hoped so much that he would turn to
you, and that you would be able to help him,"
Margaret murmured despondently.

I don't think this is a case for any one's
help. ' Every man must bear his own burden.' "

Margaret flushed nervously. " Don't be angry
with me, Philip, but  are you quite sure that
you went just the right way to work ? He
must want comfort so much."

There I disagree with you entirely," Irvine
answered with a sudden accession of sternness.
*' His is not a wound to be soothed and salved ;
it is a just suffering to be endured."

You are hard, Philip ; I think you are unmercifully
hard. Surely Paul's grief is terrible
enough to make one forget all about his past
errors."

Call them by their right name  sins," said
Irvine, more sternly still. " There is nothing
gained and a great deal sacrificed by giving soft
names to ugly realities. But I should be very
sorry, Margaret, if I thought this was a case of
mere grief, or even of mere remorse. I think 
I hope I am not mistaken  that it is something
quite different."

What ?" Margaret asked.

Self revelation. Therefore it is a process
with which I have neither the right nor the
wish to intermeddle. It is in all men's lives a
terribly painful process ; in Paul's case I can
well believe that it must needs be a torture
surpassing words. But if I could, I would not
try to soften it."

Margaret repeated, " I think you are cruelly
hard."

Then you think the Divine laws hard too,"

Irvine rejoined quietly. " But it is the old story
of which we were speaking just now. Because
Paul is dear to you, therefore his suffering is
above all other suffering: you are full of pity
for him, but indifferent to all else. Even in
what we know  in his present trouble, for instance
 see what misery he brought on others !
And what of the rest ? If the sum of all his
reckless self-indulgence has wrought were
reckoned together, do you think we could
venture to say that his punishment, great as it
is  God perhaps only knows how great  is too
great to be just ? "

Margaret was appalled into silence. Why
was it that, as her brother spoke the solemn and
terrible words which closed her lips to further
argument, there came ringing back on her ears
words uttered a few weeks earlier, in the same
place, by a woman's voice ? " What then ? When
the day comes on which you find that all this was
based on a falsehood, on a hideous fraud, the
discovery of which has killed everything in you
reverence, belief, honour  everything except the
love which makes your life an agony ;  will you
tell me to be happy then ? " What had Muriel and
her secret heart-wound to do with the matter ?

You see, it was the same with Paul himself,"

Irvine went on, seeing his sister made no rejoinder.
" Evil never showed itself to him fully
as evil, till it touched the thing he loved. Then,

indeed It is always like that, more or

less."

I wonder what induced him to send for
Mabel so suddenly ? " Margaret said musingly.
"He was quite determinedly set against her
returning home when I ventured to advise it
just before you came back, and said that if
it was not convenient to me to keep her, he
should send her to the Chamberlains. You
did not persuade him to alter his decision, I
suppose ? "

I said nothing to him ; I saw it would be
useless. But I told Mabel she had better write
and ask permission herself to come home, which
I believe she did at once; and you saw the
result. You will probably have her back again
before long, though, I am afraid, if Paul goes to
America."

Do you think he really will go ? "

He had pretty well made up his mind to it
on Sunday. Perhaps it might be the best thing
for him just now  that is, if he took Mabel with
him. But I fear he is determined to go alone.
However, I am going to dine with him tomorrow

night, and then I shall hear what his
final decision on the whole question is. I can
tell you about it on Friday. Good-bye till
then."

But when the time for dining with his brother
arrived, it did not seem likely that Irvine would
have much to communicate to his sister on the
morrow. Wentworth kept up the conversation
during the tete-astute dinner with unflagging
persistency, but never allowed it to wander
for a moment from general subjects; and the
presence of the servants, indeed, forbade any
strictly personal discussion. With the hour of
dessert Mabel appeared, looking dignified and
almost womanly in her crape evening dress and
jet ornaments, and thenceforward her father's
attention was wholly given to her. So unwilling
was he to part from her for a moment,
that he proposed their all adjourning to the
drawing-room together, since Irvine took no
wine. And Irvine could not well oppose the
proposition, though he was profoundly disappointed
at losing the opportunity of exchanging
a few words with his brother in private.

The opportunity occurred after all, however.
Mabel was summoned to give audience to a
dressmaker, who, for some occult reason best

known to herself, had chosen this very unseasonable
hour in the evening for the ceremony
known as " fitting on " various garments, and
had to leave her father and uncle. " Don't belong,
darling," the former said wistfully as she
rose to go. " Remember, I shall be on my way
to America in a few days ; let me see as much
as I can of you now."

She will take some little time, I know," was
Mabel's response. "I don't think it will be
worth while my coming down again to-night."

Oh yes, it will ! " Wentworth rejoined, with
an eagerness positively painful. " Come down
for a little while, Mab. I will give you half
an hour's ' extension of time,' if you come back
quickly."

As soon as the door had closed behind the
young girl, Wentworth threw himself back in
his chair and began talking rapidly, as if bent,
at all costs, on preventing Irvine's choosing his
own topics of conversation.

Where are you ensconced now ? " he asked,
while Irvine was noting with concern the deep
hollows which the last few weeks had made in
his temples, the darkness under his sunken eyes,
which betrayed a sleeplessness not of one but
many nights' duration, and the feverish brightness

of the eyes themselves. " Are you back at
your old quarters ? "

No, I am still in Holly Street. It is an outlying
part of St. Lucy-at-Forcl, away from the
river ; the water-side missions don't touch it, and
even the City missionaries seem hardly to have
found it out. It is rather a difficult place to
get at."

You will go back to Bethnal Green eventually,
I suppose ? "

I think not. I believe I shall stay where I
am."

*' Why do you make the change ? Are the St.
Lucy-at-Fordites specially encouraging specimens
of ruffianism ? "

"So far, quite the reverse. But one cannot
expect to accomplish very much single-handed."

"These single-handed contests  one to ten
thousand  sound very fine on paper and in
platform speeches," Wentworth remarked, "butin
practice I doubt their success. Why don't
you stay at Bethnal Green, where at any rate
there is a regular organization, and therefore a
better chance of making some permanent impression
on the great mass of brutality ? I say
nothing against your sacrificing yourself to these
ideas, if such is your pleasure ; but I protest

against your throwing away strength and talents
on a purely quixotic enterprise. It is such a
waste of material, such a pouring of treasure into
the well of the Danaides."

Even so it would not be altogether wasted,
from a Christian point of view," Irvine said.
However, I quite agree with you as to putting
every talent to a tangible use, and there is really
nothing quixotic about this affair. The Bethnal
Green parish I worked in formerly being now,
as you say, fully organized, can very well dispense
with me ; and the Holly Street district, on
the other hand, has literally no one at present,
for the Rector of St. Lucy's and his two curates
are overwhelmed with the care of the water-side
population alone, and the Nonconforming bodies
have overlooked it strangely. So I concluded it
my duty to move there, and endeavour to breakup
a little fresh ground."

You seem to like the roughest places you can
find," said Wentworth. " It is hard work to be
always pioneering."

Somebody must make the first breach in the
wall," Irvine answered in a matter-of-fact way.
If you have been trained to that special part of
the work, and have chosen to join yourself to
that particular corps in the army, it is simply

your business to go and make it. I am glad to
say, though, that I shall not long be single-handed
in Holly Street. Young Lister is coming to join
me there after the middle of the Long Vacation."

What Lister ? Not the son of the Conservative
M.P. for Chadgrove ? "

One of his sons. He has four, I believe ; this
is the third."

You will fall out in your politics before the
October term comes round," said Wentworth,
with a mechanical attempt at a smile such as
that which had struck Mr. Orme with compassion
in the lobby of the House of Commons. "No
scion of the house of Lister will ever be able to
swallow your transcendental Radicalism. I cannot
imagine how Lister pere can contemplate
without horror the notion of one of his darling-boys
being exposed to the influence of such contaminating
ideas."

We serve a common Master' said Irvine
quietly. " The rest is more or less a matter of
detail. By the way, I am the bearer of a sort
of message to you from Lister himself He
mentioned, when I saw him yesterday, that he
had heard incidentally you were going to America,
and wanted to know if you had found a pair as
yet  if not, he would be glad to pair with you

for the remainder of the session. He is going on
a sea-voyage himself, for the benefit of his throat.
I told him I knew nothing of your arrangements,
of course, but I would mention the subject to
you, and you would write to him about it."

"I am infinitely obliged to him, but my
arrangements are made already, as it happens."
Wentworth spoke curtly, as if he did not care to
be further communicative.

The curiosity of Irvine, usually the least curious
of men, was fairly roused.

Who is your pair ? " he asked. " I fancied
you might have had difficulty in finding one
just now."

"Very likely," was the reply. "But I have
not been in search of a pair. I wrote this
afternoon to apply for the Chiltern Hundreds,"
Wentworth was evidently taking enormous pains
to speak with perfect indifference, as if the fact
he announced was one of no possible interest or
importance to himself or any one else. '' I don't
know when it may be convenient for me to
return from America; perhaps I shall try my
hand at founding a new state there  if I can
find a piece of unoccupied ground for the experiment,"
he added, with a half-laugh.

Irvine rose involuntarily from his chair with

an exclamation of dismay. " You have actually
resigned your seat ? "

Well ! " returned Wentworth impatiently,
with a defiant look directed full at his brother.
What then ? I know what you want to say :
waste of talents and opportunities, duty to the
country, etc., etc. Cannot the sermon be taken
as preached ? By all means deliver it if you
like, though ; but I warn you that I know all
the arguments already, and could answer them
beforehand, if I chose."

Irvine's lips compressed themselves closely fora
moment before he answered, " You are mistaken.
I have no sermon to deliver. I have one question
to ask, and one only. Do not you think that
self-revenge would be a nobler course for the
future than an unavailing attempt to revenge
one's self on God ? "

Wentworth grew very pale, but his look did
not waver. " You bring strange accusations, and
use strong language, Philip Irvine," was all his
reply.

I acknowledge it. But I am accustomed to
speak the truth plainly, as you know. This act
of yours is an act of revenge, and assuredly
not of self-revenge, except in so far as it partakes
of the nature of a soul-suicide. I leave

you to decide against whom the vengeance is
directed."

You draw reckless and rather unwarrantable
conclusions from such a simple proceeding as the
resignation of a seat in Parliament," said Wentworth,
with white lips.

Because the act is only the final link in a
chain of such acts ; because  pardon me, Paul,
but I cannot speak less than the unvarnished
truth  it is the logical result of a life lived on
the principle of indemnifying self at the cost of
rebellion and lawlessness for that which is not
lawfully given. It was the very principle acted
on the other day by those poor fellows whose
cause you branded me as a Socialist for espousing
in a measure, when the punishment legally their
due fell upon them. What, I ask you, had been
given them ? A childhood spent in ignorance
and degradation, followed by a manhood of
exhausting and repulsive labour, sordid want,
and perpetual disappointment, with everything
to tempt them to vice and everything to repel
them from virtue. So they indemnified themselves
by attacking God and society  the one
with their voices, and the other with their
bludgeons  and you condemned them as miscreants.
You had, as far as man can see, every

earthly blessing a man can desire, except  forgive
my reference  one, possibly "

Except the one which would have made the
rest worth having ; except the one the absence
of which rendered all the rest valueless," interrupted
Wentworth. " Philip, I have listened to
you more patiently than most men would have
done under the circumstances ; but you are a
strange fellow, and it is difficult to quarrel with
you. Only, for Heaven's sake, don't talk of what
you don't understand  you who never loved a
woman, and therefore cannot possibly guess what
an utter wreck her faithlessness may make of a
man's life."

There," said Irvine, with a quiver of the lip,
after a brief struggle with himself, "you err.
You err greatly. It has been my desire to place
my hopes above and beyond this world, and I
believe I am upheld in this endeavour ; if I were
not, my life would be past endurance. And I
have been more lightly dealt with, I admit 
there was no question of anything but the purest
faith in the woman I loved and shall always
love  but if you imagine I know nothing of the
bitterness of a lonely life and an unsatisfied
longing, yes, and of the sharpness of self-reproach
too, you have judged hastily."

Irvine spoke with rising agitation. He had
stripped off the veil which shrouded his dearest
secret in answer to his brother's outbreak of pain
and reproach, just as unhesitatingly as he would
have performed any other painful act which he
conceived to be a duty ; but the sacrifice of his
reserve had been a great one. Perhaps no one
but Wentworth himself could have understood
how great.

He laid his hand kindly for a moment on the
younger man's shoulder. "I beg your pardon,
Phil," he said huskily. " I am sorry to hear this.
I hoped your life was altogether your own choice
and pleasure."

It was so," said Irvine, with a curious brightness
in his eyes. 'rand it was too easy so, I
suppose."

Can nothing be done in the future ? " Wentworth
adventured. His quick sympathies were
all aroused, and for the moment he had forgotten
himself entirely.

Nothing. My own deliberate choice has
barred the way. It is all done with, for this
world."

She is  she is living, is she not ? "

"I believe so," Irvine answered. The three
words held all the fulness of his renunciation.

Wentworth took two or three turns up and
down the room. " Well," he said at last, coming-back,
'' you have not attempted any indemnification
of self for what you lost, most assuredly. I
certainly did ; and how I have succeeded  how
well I have succeeded," he repeated in a tone of
such intense yet subdued anguish that Irvine,
strong and steadfast as he was, felt himself fairly
unmanned, " there is no need for me to tell you."

"Then, in God's name," said Irvine very
solemnly, when he could speak again, "don't
repeat the sin, and invite a repetition of the
punishment. You have the child that is left
you"  Wentworth started as if Irvine had
stabbed him  " keep her with you, both for your
sake and hers. And you have great powers and
gifts, and a career before you which, so long as
its rewards were of value in your eyes, you
spared no pains to make for yourself. Why
are you going to fling it all aside to idle
away your intellectual prime of manhood in
America ? "

Wentworth slightly averted his head. " Because,"
he replied, " I may be better able to forget
there what I cannot bear to remember."

But you have no right to forget," said Philip
Irvine.

VOL. III. 52

Then Mabel came in again, and nothing more
could be said that evening; and at the end of
two days Irvine had not seen his brother again.
But on the following Sunday afternoon Margaret
came to pay him a visit in Holly Street, and
while she was there, a note in Wentworth's
handwriting was brought to him. He opened
it; read it through slowly, twice; and then
silently handed it to his sister across the table.
It consisted only of a few lines.

"June 28th.

"Dear Philip,

I sail for New York from Liverpool
tomorrow afternoon, taking Mabel and her
governess with me. My love to Margaret. Say
I will write or telegraph to her on landing.
'' Your affectionate brother,

Paul Wentworth.
Pes.  I have paired with Lister for the remainder
of the session. EUesthorpe and Orme
are anxious that I should retain my seat, at any
rate for the present, as they anticipate a general
election in December or January."

"THE Cold INCIDENT."

Shall I speak humbly now, who once was proud ? "

E. B. Browning.

The prognostications of Lord EUesthorpe ant
Mr. Orme proved to be perfectly correct. Soon
after the Houses rose in August, riots of a very
serious character broke out in Wales, necessitating
the passing of a Riots Bill far more
stringent in character than that which had become
law during the previous June ; and Parliament
reassembled for a brief autumn session in
order to give effect to this measure, Ministers
undertaking, if provided with temporary powers
sufficiently large for the preservation of law and
order in the Principality, to appeal at once to the
country on the justice of the main point at issue
between the Government and those who were
beginning-to be called " the rebels." . The Bill

was passed, therefore; members returned to spend
a rather anxious and unquiet Christmas in their
more or less distant homes, and the writs went
out for a general election in January.

There was the usual excitement and the usual
turmoil  perhaps even more than the usual
amount of wilful misrepresentation, reckless
speech, and embittered writing. It was a contest
in which men's minds became strung to a
peculiarly high state of tension, and in which no
quarter was given or taken on either side. Consequently,
the number of venomous personal
attacks made alike by party politicians and
party journals waxed unusually large, and their
character was marked by abnormal savageness
of tone. The struggle was destined to become a
veritable landmark in the private history of
many of the combatants, by reason of the irreparable
divisions it created between those who
formerly met as friends outside the debatable
ground of politics, and the breaches which it
widened into impassable gulfs in the case of
others who were in any sense of the word
enemies.

Sir John Clavering, returning at the end of
January from a year's cruise round the world,
came to the conclusion that England was a much

less desirable place than he had been wont to
imagine when his yacht was floundering in the
Atlantic rollers, or he himself was getting slowly
fried by a tropical sun while lying-to, waiting
for a breeze, in the South Pacific seas. Politically
and socially, his native land appeared to
him to have run mad on the Welsh scare ; and
critically  well, with the streets of London
rendered positively dangerous by an accumulation
of half-melted snow which it seemed to
be nobody's  perhaps because it was everybody's
business to clear away, and the atmosphere so
murky that it was impossible for him to read
his Times at midday without the help of candles,
even such a sturdy old Briton as worthy Sir
John might be pardoned for thinking regretfully
of the even temperature of San Francisco,
and wishing that he had deferred his return to
his mother country until a more genial season
of the year.

His patriotism and his temper were subjected
on his first arrival to two additional trials, neither
of which they could well support, but which,
when combined, became altogether insupportable :
a touch of rheumatism, and the absence of Lady
Clavering, who had gone down to Brighton, like
a dutiful daughter, to visit her parental home

and her venerable parents after so long a separation
as the late adventurous journey had entailed.
Of course Sir John might have gone to Brighton
too, had he chosen ; but he did not choose. He
had a rooted prejudice against Brighton after
Christmas, just as he had a prejudice against
using the steaming power of his yacht if it could
possibly be avoided. But for his obstinate love
of sailing, the Vieille need not have been so
often lying-to in enforced inaction during his
protracted voyage.

Sir John therefore stayed in London, abused
the weather, grunted more than ever, and consoled
himself as best he could by nursing his
rheumatism, frequenting the Carlton, and dining
with the few friends who were not still engaged
in the political campaign. One of these was a
certain Colonel Townsend, an elderly bachelor
of large fortune, who had been greatly addicted
to sport in general and the turf in particular
during his earlier years, but who had long ago
renounced all these pursuits, and his profession
as well, in favour of literature at home and travel
abroad. Sir John had managed to pick up a
good deal of out-of-the-way information in the
course of his wanderings, and this proved interesting
to 'his friend, whose sense of humour was

at the same time gratified by the highly original
manner in which the said information was served
up to the curious.

The two were dining together at Townsend's
house one night, as frequently happened, when
it suddenly occurred to Sir John Clavering to
make an inquiry about his old young friends
the Arlinghams. " By the way, Townsend," he
said, "you know something of Arlingham, my
Holmshire neighbour, don't you ? Can you tell
me if he and his wife happen to be in town just
now ? Lady Clavering would never forgive me
if I omitted to look them up."

They are certainly not in town, to the best
of my belief," the other man replied. " I believe
they are abroad. I know they left England
directly after the final crash last October."

"Crash!" quoth Sir John gruffly. ' What
crash ? "

"Do you mean to say you don't know that
Arlingham has rained himself  irretrievably, I'm
afraid  on the turf?"

How should I hear anything about it on the
high seas ? " demanded Sir John testily. " I was
half-way to New Zealand in October last. Bless
my soul ! I'm excessively sorry. How did he
contrive to do it ? "

The old story. A weak young fellow with
more money than brains, and utterly unaccustomed
to the management of wealth, falling
into the hands of the Philistines in the shape
of an unscrupulous crew who set him gambling
on the turf and elsewhere one knows the upshot
of the story beforehand. I rather pity
Arlingham  I believe folly and weakness are his
chief crimes  and I am heartily sorry for his
wife. Poor little soul ! it must have been a
rough awakening for her, if, as is supposed by
most people, she had no previous inkling of the
real state of affairs."

Was the crash generally known to be impending
? "

"Yes, very generally. Every one knew that
Arlingham was heavily embarrassed before he
went to Italy last winter, and it was said that
he tried on that occasion to retrieve his fortunes
by a course of heavy play at Monte Carlo  with
the usual beneficial results. Then he came back,
increased his rains stable, and lost a huge sum
on the Derby  ran a horse at Longchamps for
the Grand Prix whose performances caused even
the Parisian flavour to mock  finally made
despairing efforts to recover himself at the
autumn meetings, failed in everything, and had

to confess himself utterly routed. After that he
went off to the Continent again, having managed
to turn his moor and the house at Rutland
Gate into ready money. It is to be hoped he
Avon't leave all that at Monte Carlo too."

Sir John sat aghast at his friend's story. "And
Eversleigh ? " he faltered. " Fortunately, though,
that can't go to the hammer too."

"No, it is very strictly entailed. Eversleigh
is let for a year only, I believe ; but I should say
it was highly improbable that Arlingham would
be able to return and live there when the year
is out. It is a deplorable affair altogether. Such
a fine fortune almost entirely dissipated in three
years ! "

It ought never to have been in Arlingham's
power to dissipate it," Sir John answered indignantly.


'the old fellow in Australia died intestate,
didn't he ? I thought so. Well, it has always
been my opinion that for a young man to have
a big amount of capital at his absolute command
in hard cash  as it seems Arlingham had  is
about as unmixed a curse to him as may be, in
the majority of cases."

"Do you know where they are  Arlingham
and his wife ? " Sir John asked, not without

feeling. " I have known her all her life very
nearly, poor child."

I have no idea whatever, beyond the mere
fact that they are out of England. There was
quite an excitement about the affair at the
time  Mrs. Arlingham was always popular, you
know, and a good deal admired  but by this
time it is all ancient history, and people have
ceased to feel any interest in the matter. There
have been other intermediate excitements, and
now the election has for the moment absorbed
everybody's thoughts.'

Talking of the election," said Sir John, who
for all his rough exterior had a warm heart, and
was too genuinely moved by Muriel Arlingham's
misfortunes to care to discuss them further with
a man who felt only the interest of a passing
acquaintance concerning her, " I am as much in
the dark touching its ins and outs as I am with
regard to the social events that have taken place
lately. I want you to enlighten me on one or
two points. First of all, what is meant by a
mysterious allusion I have come upon more than
once in the newspapers to some episode connected
with the election at Coin ? It is generally
referred to in a darkly oracular manner as ' The
Coin Incident.' "

Curious ! " ejaculated Colonel Townsend.
Curious, I mean, that you should have come
for information on that subject to me rather
than to any one else, for I was present when the
incident,' as the penny-a-liners are pleased to
call it, took place."

"Indeed! I thought you eschewed politics
and political campaigning altogether."

So I do, as a rule. Party politics interest
me very little. But this Welsh business is a
national question," said the old soldier, drawing
up his tall figure, " and every trueborn Englishman
is bound to support the National party on
such an occasion. In so far as I am a party man
at all  which, as you know, is a very short way
indeed I suppose I may call myself a Conservative,
but all those minor distinctions are
obliterated just now. I knew Wentworth would
have a hard fight to hold the seat for law-abiding
Liberalism as against scarcely veiled Socialism,
and, as I had some little property in the neighbourhood
of Coin, I felt it my duty to go down
and support him."

Hem ! " answered Sir John rather grudgingly.
Well, you may have been right  you may have
been right."

"The constituency, which in the old days

before the last Franchise Bill used to be very
blue ' indeed, has grown extremely Radical of
late. When Wentworth won the seat two years
ago, it was by a very small majority over a
staunch Tory candidate. Now no Tory would
have the ghost of a chance in Coin. It was a
very moot point indeed this time whether the
weavers  weavers seem to have a constitutional
inclination for Socialism  would put up with
Wentworth 's wide, majestic, Imperial-Liberal
views, if I may call them so, when contrasted
with the narrow rant and cant of the workingman
demagogue who opposed him. However,
things went better than I expected. Wentworth,
who came back from America only just in time
for the campaign, spoke magnificently on almost
every occasion, and his meetings grew fuller and
more enthusiastic every night."

He is always a fine speaker," said Sir John.

*' He was never finer than at Coin last month.
Well, you may imagine that this did not suit the
other side's game at all. They were at their
wits' end. So, as Clay could not succeed in
talking Wentworth down, he began to write him
down ; and being a coarse fellow without much
regard for truth and none for good feeling, you
may fancy that he did not stick at trifles to

gain his end. There is a vile little newspaper
published in Coin which is devoted to Clay's
interests  a kind of Eatanswill Gazette, you
understand  and this pestilential print began to
fill its columns day after day with covert insinuations
against Went worth's character."

Colonel Townsend paused to stir the fire, and
then resumed again : " Went worth, as we all
know, though a man of most brilliant parts and
I believe  of very noble disposition, has not
altogether a flawless record to show as regards
his earlier years. I don't suppose many of us
have that ; but he was always a reckless fellow,
and so his indiscretions became more widely
known than most men's. Of course this was a
splendid card in the hands of the Socialists, and,
if they had played it well, might have ruined us
and him. Luckily they went a little too far.
They got tired of hints and innuendoes, and
proceeded to open slander. Do you remember a
scandalous story about Wentworth which Town
Talk ventured to publish a year ago, and which
was afterwards withdrawn as false ? "

Sir John nodded assent. " I remember. It
was a good deal canvassed in the clubs at the
time, but was proved in the end to be a pure
invention."

Exactly. Well, this story was reproduced in
full by the Coin Banner of Right. Of course it
made a profound impression, though Clay took
care to keep his organ clear of an action for libel
by having the withdrawal printed with it. I
don't know, by the way, if you recollect that the
withdrawal was made in such a form as to be
almost more damaging than the original accusation
? "

No, I don't remember anything about it."
Well, that I can show you ; I kept filed
copies of that admirable journal, the Banner,
during the canvass." Colonel Townsend walked
across to a cabinet, and took out a small heap of
newspapers, from which he selected one. " Where
is it ? Let me see  hem ! Ah, here ! After
giving the details of the original calumny,
which I needn't repeat to you, the worthy editor
proceeds as follows :  ' It is true that our London
contemporary tuas afterwards induced  hoi, it
hoots not to inquire  to withdraw this particular
charge against the Crown lawyer whom
immoral capitalists, renegade Liberals, and unscrupulous
Tory agitators have confined to try
and foist timon the suffrages of the men of Coin ;
hut we think it only fair and needful that our
readers and the electors generally should knot

in ivhat tertius the withdrawal was made. We
therefore subjoin the entire paragraph.

' " It appears that a statement published last
week in this journal " town Talk) " concerning
a certain well-known lawyer and M.P. is unfounded.
We desire herewith to express our regret
that it should have found its way into this as
into other newspapers. But, after all, the honourable
and learned gentleman in question has only
himself to thank if such rumours obtain too ready
credence. He 'has been the acknowledged hero
of so many tales similar in character to that
lately current amongst us, that it need create no
surprise in his mind if even logical and sober-minded
persons are occasionally, as in the present
instance, led astray in their conclusions by a too
close consideration of mere probabilities. There
are possible drawbacks, as the brilliant member
for Coin is perhaps beginning to discover, to the
enviable but peculiar fame which attends a social
career like his  stinging whips which the gods
are pleased to fashion for our scourging out of
our pleasant vices. One of the most galling of
these consists in the awkward retentiveness of
some people's memories, and the unwelcome
advent on the scene of old acquaintances who,
just when we are masquerading most successfully

in the livery of virtue, insist on hailing us as one
of the wicked."

' Tims the Editor of Town Talk. We commend
his reflections to the serious and unbiased
consideration of the brave and righteous men of
Coin. In reproducing them we have only fulfilled
an imperative duty, having no desire to
inflict personal pain upon Mr. Wentworth or
his friends. Mr. Wentworth has recently suffered
domestic bereavement of a painful hind ; and if,
as has been credibly reported to us by some who
shoidd have had good opportunity of knowing
the truth, the fatal termination of an illness
which all united in deploring vas not improbably
accelerated by the perused of the story in
question, a certain amount of punishment has
already been meted out to one who is the worthy
agent of a Government equally devoid of feeling
and principle, a Government which is now
trampling on the dearest rights of man in Wales,
in order that it may have its hands free to rivet the
fetters of the world-men of England' I hope
you admire the gratuitous brutality and devilish
malignity of those concluding sentences," Colonel
Townsend wound up, his handsome face ablaze
with indignation.

"Referring to the death of his daughter, I

suppose ? Abominable ! ' muttered Sir John.
'but, even supposing this were true, how could
they have heard it ? "

"Servants," answered Townsend, briefly and
suggestively. "These low reporters will push
themselves anywhere, and don't care what gutters
they fish in, so they hook up the slander
required."

What was done ? Did you answer them ? "

"Wentworth answered them. By Jove, that
man has the pluck of a lion ! He positively
carried me off* my feet for a few minutes that
evening, and I thought my days for enthusiasm
were over. I'll tell you how it was. The day
this scoundrelly attack appeared, Wentworth
was going to address a large meeting in the
Town Hall. This precious rag is an evening
paper, published about six o'clock, so he knew
nothing of its last exploit when he appeared on
the platform. Owing to disturbances at recent
meetings, we had issued tickets for this one, but
by some collusion with one of the doorkeepers,
I suppose  an emissary of the other side had made
his way in and scattered a number of copies of
that day's issue of the Banner all about the hall.
As Wentworth came to his place, one was handed
up to him by somebody, and while the chairman

VOL. III. 53

was speaking, he opened and read it. He did
not move a muscle, but I saw him turn livid
suddenly. * Good God, Wentworth ! ' I said,
what's the matter ? ' He hesitated a moment,
and then turned and put the thing into my hand
without a word."

"Truly," said Sir John, who was getting nearly
as much interested, if not as excited, as his friend,
it was a test which might well have tried any
man's courage ! "

Colonel Townsend continued, without heeding
the interpolation, " I asked him if he thought his
opening the paper had been observed; because,
if not, I should advise his quietly ignoring the
whole thing for the evening. ' Let us get through
this safely,' I said, ' and tomorrow you can write
them any reply you like.' For answer, he simply
signed to me to look at the body of the hall, and
I saw at once that quite a third of the audience
had copies of the Banner in their hands. My
dear Clavering, that was an awful moment ! I
can tell you I heartily regretted having allowed
myself to be drawn into the political whirlpool
again."

Well ? " asked Sir John eagerly.
*' Well, Wentworth got up. I shall never forget
his face as he confronted his hearers  the mino-led

anguish and fearlessness of it. When he began,
in a low clear voice, ' Gentlemen '  the only sign
of flurry about him was that he forgot to include
the chairman in his address  stay a moment ; I
have his speech here somewhere."

Colonel Townsend dived again into his cabinet,
brought a paper to light, and held it out to the
lamp, which he turned up for his own better
convenience in reading.

' Gentlemen,  Before we proceed to the consideration
of those national topics on which it
is my purpose to address you this evening, it
appears necessary that I should speak a few
words on a subject purely personal. This is a
circumstance which I regret, but as your former
representative and as a candidate for your
suffrages next week I feel I have no choice
left me in the matter. The charges contained
in the paper which I hold in my hand, and
which I perceive in the hands of a large proportion
of those present at this meeting, are
such as cannot be passed over in silence. With
respect to the slanderous story which is there
given in detail, I think it is not needful for me
to say much. Its truth was, at the time of its
circulation, wholly disproved (cheers), as you
will observe that the editor of Town Talk himself

admits. (Hear, hear, and a voice, " So he
does") That he has chosen to accompany his
witness to its falsity by a multitude of other and
vaofuer insinuations detracts, or should detract,
nothing from the value of the testimony itself 
perhaps should rather increase its value, as
showing plainly that it emanates unwillingly
from an avowed and implacable enemy. Gentlemen,
the story was false ; from first to last a
lying and wholly groundless invention. When
I add that I make this assertion on the honour
of an English gentleman, I have, I trust, said
enough. (Loud cheers.) '

(so far, so good," Colonel Townsend commented
parenthetically. " The surprise to us all
was yet to come.)

 But the paragraph quoted brings against mean
indictment of a larger and more extensive
scope. To this indictment you will expect  and
you will be fully within your rights in expecting
that I should return some kind of reply. And the
reply which I return, the only reply which perfect
honesty and frankness permits me to return,
is that I admit, to a great extent, its truth,
although that truth is expressed in a cruel and
malignant form. I hold it alike useless and insincere
for me to protest to you, an audience of

plain working-men, who prefer, I presume, the
plain unvarnished truth to any kind of delicate
equivocation, that there is not much in my past
life on which I look back with deep shame and
bitter regret. Of the precise magnitude of my
errors, and of the question whether they have
been so great as to disqualify me for the work
I have endeavoured to do and hoped yet to do
again as your representative, it is not for me
now to judge, but for you. For my own part, I
had cherished a hope  I trust, not a presumptuous
one  that my back being finally turned
on a past which is my darkest recollection, I
might not even now be counted altogether unworthy
to serve my country and my fellow-countrymen
in that position which seems to
offer me the greatest opportunities of usefulness
to both. Your suffrages alone can finally answer
this question, as I have said. But I conceive it
my duty, considering what has taken place
to-night, not to await even their verdict. I shall
at once place myself unreservedly in the hands
of the National Liberal Committee ' (here the
speaker made a slight inclination towards the
noble chairman), 'and shall be entirely guided
by their advice and decision in the matter of
further prosecuting my candidature.'

(" There was a dead silence after this for a
moment ; you might literally have heard the
traditional pin drop. When Wentworth began
again, his voice  which had been quite steady
hitherto  became suddenly tremulous, and I was
in mortal fear lest he should be going to breakdown
altogether.)

' There is one allusion, one insinuation, in this
article of the Coin Banner of Right, on which
you will observe that I have refrained from
making any comment whatsoever. Its nature
is such that I am sure no elector of Coin, be he
my political suppose or my most bitter political
opponent, will expect me for a moment to dwell
upon it. I speak not of its truth or falsehood,
which can concern none here ; neither do I appeal
to the common humanity which its mention has
outraged. I hold it unnecessary to do so, since
I decline to believe that any man not rendered
temporarily insane by political fury could deliberately
attempt to excuse, much less justify, the
infliction of a wound so horrible on any fellowman,
even were that man his unpardonable foe.
The matter itself I refuse to discuss. Questions
so awful are best left to a man's own conscience
and the Ruler of it. Gentlemen, I have done."

That was all," Colonel Townsend concluded.

refolding his newspaper. "He turned round,
drank a glass of water  in dead silence all the
while, for the men seemed too stupefied to cheer
and then turned back again and made the
finest speech on the Welsh riots I have heard
him make yet. Afterwards he went home and
wrote his letter to the committee. So now you
know the history of 'The Coin Incident'  and an
uncommonly startling incident it was, I can assure
you!"

'' But what was the result of the affair ? "

"Why, of course we would not accept his
proffered resignation  assent to his withdrawal
would be the more correct phrase, I suppose. I
hope we are none of us too purblind yet to know
a man when we see one. If I had felt sure beforehand
that it would cost us the seat, I don't think
I could have advised the rest to let Wentworth
withdraw."

Then the seat was lost ? "

Not exactly ! My friends the weavers also
knew a man when they saw one, apparently.
Wentworth was returned by a majority which
had leaped up from 29 to 730, and the editor of
the Banner of Bight found it expedient to retire
for a space into the valley of silence and seclusion.'

"WHAT I COULD, I DID.'

. To trace the hidden equities of divine reward, and to
catch sight, through the darkness, of the fateful threads of
woven fire that connect error with retribution."  Ruskin.

Summer, autumn, winter  all these had come
and gone, and another spring was abroad upon
the earth.

And if everywhere was to be felt something
of the beauty and joyousness of the season, its
most riotous beauty and overflowing joyousness
seemed to be flung out over the grey university
city on the banks of the Isis, where the soft
spring breeze was rustling pleasantly among the
great branches of the elms in Christ Church
Walk, and the river-side meadows were dappled
all over with patches of white and yellow 
where the quiet gardens of the colleges had
suddenly flushed into a thousand colours, and

even the ancient walls themselves had grown
bright here and there with rainbow hues. Everywhere
the time of the singing of birds had come,
but nowhere so fully as at Oxford, where the
nightingales sang even at noonday in the dark
cool recesses of Bagley Wood, and the swallows
eddied and circled, twittering gaily, round the
battlements of Magdalen Tower, and the homely
little sparrow himself chirped more cheerfully
than elsewhere, from his fearless perch on some
Gothic window-sill.

It was the last week of May, and the beautiful
old city had put on her festal robes, ready to
rejoice in the manly feats of the youngest of her
children at their yearly aquatic contest, and to
smile a welcome to those elder sons of hers who
returned for a brief season to pay Alma Mater
her annual tribute of respect and affection. Ina
word, it was the week of " the Eights," as they
are fondly and familiarly known to Oxford men ;
and the Oxonian of the past had come down with
his wife and daughters to see how the younger
generation comported itself in the struggle in
which, ten, twenty, or even thirty years ago, he
had himself borne some triumphant part. He is
a leading barrister now, our old Oxonian, or a
popular preacher, mayhap even a rising statesman,

or a distinguished man of letters ; but never
will the most flattering article in the Times or
Athenaeum, or the sight of a very sea of upturned
faces below the pulpit of the metropolitan cathedral,
or even the plaudits of an excited House of
Commons, thrill him with such a sense of gratified
pride as the wild cheers which told him, while
the boat in which he held the proud position of
stroke glided past the winning-post, that his
college was head of the river.

So the queen of universities had her halls and
walks and garden glades filled to overflowing, in
these last bright days of May, with a more or
less motley crowd ; for the throng included a
whole galaxy of fashionable idlers from town,
who found it pleasant to spend part of the Whitsuntide
recess in Oxford. Some few visitors
there were who came only for a single day, and
among these came Paul Wentworth, escorting his
daughter Mabel, who was now nearly eighteen.
Since her recent formal introduction into society,
Mabel had developed as abnormal an appetite for
pleasure of all kinds as could be expected even
of her mother's child. Nothing came amiss to
her in the shape of amusement, and without
amusement of some kind she could not exist,
apparently ; so Wentworth found that, if he was

not to lose his hold over her affections altogether,
he must consent to resume the habits which
he had almost wholly laid aside, and cultivate
society's good graces for her sake, if not for his
own. The task was painful to him beyond
words, but he performed it unflinchingly, and
counted himself well paid by a careless word of
thanks, or a mere expression of selfish gratification
even, from Mabel's lips. She was not prodigal
of either, it is true; but this made Wentworth
value such utterances the more. Only Margaret,
watching the shadow which would often steal
over her brother's worn face in the midst of his
keenest arguments and most brilliant conversational
passages-alarms, guessed the nightly self-sacrifice
at the shrine of Mabel's craving for
enjoyment, and felt her heart grow hot within
her at the unresponsive, passive indifference with
which the girl accepted her father's untiring
efforts to make her happy. Where Mabel's concerns
were in question, Wentworth was never busy,
never tired ; no exertion was too great for him,
no detail too small to evoke his eager interest
All which solicitude and devotion Mabel took
very quietly, as no more than her right. Since
Wentworth showed himself so desperately anxious
to please her, she concluded that it was his one

duty in life to do so, and she could perceive no
reason for endeavouring to spare him in anyway.
Even his political obligations, the only
calls upon his time ever allowed to interfere
with her plans and desires, she resented bitterly,
with all a woman's strength of resentment, joined
to a child's obstinacy of unreasonableness. Thus
she had taken it into her wilful head to spend
three days at Oxford, and was sorely chagrined
and angered when her father reluctantly announced
that he could not possibly spare more
than twelve hours from his work at the Welsh
Office.

It is the recess," she murmured rebelliously.
What is the use of a recess if we are tied fast
in London all the time ? "

My darling, you don't understand," Wentworth
explained patiently. " Departmental work
does not stop for the recess. With affairs in
Wales in their present condition, it is positively
necessary that I should be at my post."

The other Ministers are away," Mabel persisted.
" When the Premier and Lord Ellesthorpe
and Mr. Orme can go abroad, surely the Secretary
for Wales might take three days at Oxford.
And you are not even in the Cabinet."

No," rejoined Went worth, forcing a smile.

Not yet. When I reach that exalted position,
perhaps I shall be able to take more holidays.
At present I must devote myself to the duties
of my humble secretaryship. I am only on trial,
as it were, and so is the office itself just now ;
I have everything to learn, you know. You
wouldn't wish the first Welsh Secretary to be
pronounced a failure, would you ? "  slaying a
caressing hand on his daughter's shoulder.

She released herself quietly from his hold.
"It is all very well to laugh' she replied pettishly,
"but it is hard that you will never do
anything I ask you, father."

Wentworth's eyes gave one irrepressible angry
flash. " Mabel ! " he exclaimed reproachfully.
Then, checking himself, he added with a kind of
weary resignation, " Well, I suppose it is difficult
for you to understand these things; perhaps I
ought not to expect you to do so. I must repeat
that it is impossible, utterly impossible, forme
to leave London for three days at present;
but I will take you to Oxford for the day
either on Tuesday or Wednesday, whichever
you prefer."

So on Wednesday, which Mabel fixed upon as
the last and most exciting day of the boat-races,
she and Wentworth travelled down to Oxford by

an early train. They lunched with Irvine in
his rooms at St. Bride's, where Mabel, who had
a wholesome awe of her uncle, was fain to
conceal the ill temper she made no secret of to
her father, and finally went down to the river
about four o'clock in such a veritable glory of
May sunshine as should have sufficed to dissipate
the worst and most settled cloud of girlish
resentment. It was not without its effect even
on Mabel's mood. She unbent visibly as they
rowed leisurely along under the trees that
overhang the Cherwell, and by the time they
reached the Isis itself, and had crossed the
rickety plank bridge which must be passed in
order to gain their coign of vantage on St.
Swithun's barge, her smiles were no longer constrained
and joyless.

She vs speedily seized upon by a group of
acquaintances, as was Wentworth himself in his
turn, and he saw hardly anything of her for the
rest of the afternoon. Only, in the interval after
the second division races had been rowed, she
came to him and said carelessly, "I am going
with Mrs. St. John to the Christ Church barge
for a change. You will find me there when it is
time to go away."

Wentworth let her go without protest, glad

that she should be happy anywhere and content
even though it were apart from him, for he had
long siice resigned himself to the knowledge
that he no longer counted for a factor in the
sum of her happiness. He let her go, stifling a
sigh as she tripped off, and turned his attention
to the scene around and before him  to the
masses and contrasts of colour grouped together
on the long line of barges crowded with well-dressed
women and girls in delicate or brightened
summer gowns ; to the shifting kaleidoscope
on the opposite bank, where all the colours of
the rainbow were continually crossing and recrossing
each other like the shuttles in a loom,
as young Oxford, in the various dyes of its legion
boat clubs, cricket clubs, and tennis clubs, ran
excitedly to and fro; to the St. Swithun's men
climbing warily into their outrigger aloilo-side
the barge, while a dozen more such shallow
graceful craft were beginning to make their way
up the smooth stream to the starting-point far
out of sight  the whole moving picture set in
such a frame of emerald meadows dappled with
white and gold, and of majestic trees in the perfection
of their spring verdure, and bathed moreover
in such a flood of sparkling sunshine as
might well enchant the eye and heart of a man

whose time for the last five weeks had been
divided between harassing despatches, protracted
small-hour sittings, and distasteful society, between
the atmosphere of the House of Commons
and the atmosphere of London drawing-rooms,
Wentworth withdrew a little from Irvine and
his friends that he might contemplate all this at
his ease, possessing himself of a vacant seat
which he espied at the back of the barge 
vacant, that is, in so far that it was only occupied
by a lady's dust-cloak.

He was not long left in possession of the
coveted resting-place, however. Not two minutes
had elapsed before a figure detached itself from
the crowd at the extreme upper end of the barge,
where the throng was thickest, and came towards
his corner. The owner of the cloak, no doubt,
who possibly considered herself the owner of the
seat as well. He rose instinctively as the lady
approached, and as he did so, perceived that it
was Muriel Arlingham.

At the same moment she recognized him, and
recognized also that she was too near him already
to think of retreating unobserved. There was a
slight, an almost imperceptible, hesitation about
her for a second; then she moved on and held
out her hand.

How do you do, Mr. Wentworth ? Are you
staying in Oxford ? "

No, I am only here for the day. I came to
bring my daughter," he answered briefly and
formally. " I hope you are well ? "

"Quite well, thank you. Is your daughter
here ? " Muriel asked, glancing round inquiringly.

She is on the Christ Church barge," Wentworth
answered, following her glance, "with a
party of friends. 1 am sorry she is not at hand ;
I should like you to have seen her. She has
altered a great deal of late, and grown into a
young woman all in a moment."

Girls do alter very rapidly at her age,"
Muriel rejoined. " I have heard of her at various
times, and every one tells me how pretty she is.
Of course I knew she had been presented in
March."

You have not been in town yourself yet this
season, I think ? " Wentworth said, in as matter-of-fact
a tone as he could assume.

"No, nor at all last season. We have been
abroad nearly two years, and only returned to
England a few das ago. We have been leading
rather a desultory life lately. You, on the contrary,
have been very full of work ; at least, so
we judged from the newspapers."

VOL. III. 64

Yes, I have had plenty to do," he answered.

Muriel wondered whether his work agreed with
him. He had certainly aged by ten years
rather than two  the actual time which had
elapsed since she saw him last in Lord Carlton's
library at Graymere  but then, she had always
felt persuaded that that day had been the last of
his perfect prime of manhood, the death-day of
that youthfulness of mind and spirit which had
clung to him so long. His face had rather gained
than lost in intellectual force, by an extreme
thinness which gave more striking prominence
to its large outlines and strongly marked features ;
but its chief characteristic now seemed to Muriel
its settled patience of expression  a patience
almost terrible in its fixedness, eloquent as it was
of perpetual suffering and perpetual endurance.
That look, Muriel knew instinctively, Paul
Went worth would carry with him to his grave.

"I may congratulate you on having joined the
Ministry, I suppose ? " she said a little timidly.
"We were very glad to read of your appointment
last February." Wentworth noticed that she was
careful to use the plural pronoun in speaking of
her interest in his affairs, thus associating herself
with her husband.

Thank you," he replied. " The appointment

must have been a great surprise to you, no doubt,
as it was to most people, and above all to myself.
There seemed to be many reasons why office
should not be offered to me ; but the times are
difficult, and I suppose pressing needs outweighed
considerations of expediency."

Muriel, who had read the history of the Coin
election, like every one else, could easily guess
what thought underlay Wen worth's words. She
answered more hastily than was usual with her,
Yours is no light undertaking at present, unhappily
; but already things seem to be on the
mend in Wales. If you can succeed in reintroducing
order there, it will indeed be matter for
rejoicing."

It is a great ' If,' " Wentworth replied rather
sadly. 'the outbreak at Broom-y-Clos last
week was not a very encouraging token of
success, I fear."

It was an isolated outbreak," Muriel rejoined
with something of her old eagerness. " After all,
the great thing is to be moving on the right
lines."

Ah ! as to that, I am quite confident," Wentworth
answered her. "Whatever the errors of
Government in the Welsh business heretofore,
they have laid down the right principle now.

and are acting on it. Had I not felt convinced
of this, I would never have accepted office. As
to the results of my administration, I am not
over sanguine; but that is not my business."
He looked full at Muriel, with eyes in which the
old unshaken fearlessness still reigned, but tempered
and softened now by a touch of sorrowful
humility. " I believe that it is worse than useless
to try and escape the consequences of past
errors, however earnestly and honestly you may
try to repair the errors themselves. The law is
the same for men and nations, and we can only
do our best and accept our punishment." His
lips quivered slightly. " I do my best," he
added, as simply as a child might have said it.

A light flashed over Muriel's face and died
away again, leaving, nevertheless, a radiant trace
of its passage behind. The only real happiness
she might ever know on earth had been given
her by Wentworth's words. Since things were
thus with him, she could be well content.

She took up her cloak, and turned to go back
to her former station. " Good-bye," she said
gently but resolutely. "If my husband should
pass presently, will you kindly tell him whereto
find me up there ? I have been expecting
him for some time ; he has been lunching with

friends afc the Randolph, and told me to meet
him here more than two hours ago. So I came
with my cousin, Mr. Osborne, who is pulling bow
in the St. Swithun boat. Mr. Arlingham must
have been detained in some way ; I cannot think
what has become of him."

I will tell him, certainly." In his heart he
was asking furiously what Aiiingham could be
about to desire his fair young wife to come and
meet him, and then fail to keep his appointment,
leaving her alone in so public a place. And
what did that look mean, that look of uneasiness
almost amounting to fear, which crossed Muriel's
face when speaking of her husband's absence ?

ORDEAL BY FIRE.

It may be the height of courage to say * I dare not,' and the
height of love to say ' 1 will not.' "  Bishop Stubbs.

Wentworth's questionings were destined to receive
a speedy answer. About ten minutes after
Muriel had left him, he saw her husband stroll
up to the steps of the St. Swithun's barge and
climb rather heavily on board.

Went worth regarded the young man critically.
Arlingham, too, had altered a good deal during
the past two years, and altered for the worse.
His dress was of a pronounced " horsey " character,
and there was a strong suggestion of the
turf and the betting ring about his whole appearance
; his face, too, was flushed, and his blue eyes
still his chief beauty  looked unnaturally
bright. He had evidently, Wentworth decided,
taken quite as much champagne as was good for
him during that prolonged luncheon at the Randolph

; and tliougli he was still quite in possession
of his senses, he was just sufficiently excited to
talk a little louder, laugh a little more boisterously,
and stare about him with rather more
freedom than was perfectly consonant with
gentleman-like good manners. Wentworth's hand
clenched itself in a mingled passion of loathing,
dismay, and frantic apprehension, as he watched
him proceed leisurely towards the upper end of
the barge, evidently in search of Muriel, followed
by his companion. For Arlingham was not
alone ; and if anything could have increased
Wentworth's indies nation and distress, it would
have been the sight of this companion of his  a
well-known professional betting man of more
than doubtful reputation, with whom all the
higher stamp of racing men had long before
refused to have any dealings, and on whom even
the more respectable bookmakers were in the
habit of looking askance. What in the name
of Heaven did Arlingham mean by bringing such
a blackguard to a college barge, and into the
company of ladies, including his own wife ?
Good heavens ! Wentworth was on his feet as
if he had been struck. Arlingham was introducing
the man to Muriel, and he was coolly
taking a seat by her side.

The bookmaker, who had no doubt indulged
quite as freely in the Randolph champagne as
his host, appeared to feel no awkwardness in his
unaccustomed position, but laughed and chatted
with an air of easy familiarity which in Wentworth's
eyes seemed to border very closely on
insolence; while Muriel, plainly shrinking from
his neighbourhood, grave brief cold answers that
failed altogether of their purpose in checking his
advances towards acquaintance. She made a
gesture of appeal to her husband, but he disregarded
it, and went forward with the crowd to
the rail of the barge, over which all who could
reach it were now leaning eagerly, since it wanted
but a few minutes of the hour fixed for the first
division boats' start.

It only needed that irrepressible token of
dislike and fear on Muriel's part to decide Wentworth's
course of action. Since there was no one
else to protect her, he must do so. He stepped
quickly forward, and touched a man standing
near him on the arm.

Townsend," he said rapidly, as the person he
addressed turned round in surprise, " will sou. dome
a great service ? "

"Surely, my dear fellow, if I can. What is
it?"

In your career on the turf, did you ever
come across a bookmaker named Whetstone ? "

I knew him by name and by sight ; I took
good care never to know him in any other way.
A consummate scoundrel, if ever one stepped !
What of him ? "

He is here, on this barge," Wentworth said
breathlessly. " The man who had the effrontery
to brings him here has introduced him to a lady
of my acquaintance, and I can see that he is
annoying her. I want to rid her of him quietly
without doing anything to attract people's
attention, you understand ?  especially as I don't
think the fellow is quite sober. May I say that
you want to speak to him for a moment ? Ask
him a few questions, and keep him in play for
five minutes if you can, will you ? " He turned
away, hardly waiting to hear his friend's words
of ready acquiescence, and the next minute he
was standing: before Muriel and the bookmaker.

Pardon me," he said, lifting his hat with
punctilious politeness to the latter, "for interrupting
you; but a friend of mine  Colonel
Townsend  is particularly anxious to speak to
you on a matter of pressing business. Will you
give him a few minutes' interview ? You will
find him over there "  signing in the direction

of Colonel Townsend, who stood a little apart
from the rest of the crowd.

"I'm not doing business to-day," the man
answered rather insolently. " I'll wait upon the
Colonel some other time, if he pleases, with
pleasure. This isn't a day for business, is it,
Mrs. Arlingham ? " he demanded, appealing to
Muriel in a familiar tone which made Wentworth's
blood boil.

He was almost beside himself with passion,
but he preserved his composure admirably.
Colonel Townsend's business is of the utmost
importance," he repeated, "and he is leaving
Oxford for the north this same evening. I must
beg you "  here Wentworth fixed his eyes on
Whetstone in such a manner that that worthy
quailed beneath them  " I must really beg you
most earnestly to comply with his request. In
view of the unusual circumstances, this lady will,
I am sure, excuse you readily."

A faint "Certainly," from Muriel.

Well, if I must, I must, I suppose," said the
bookmaker sulkily, rising slowly and reluctantly
to his feet. " I'll be back presently." He looked
as if he would have liked to add something more,
but that steady, overmastering gaze of Wentworth's
cowed him into silence. He moved away
without further remark.

Then Muriel looked up to Wentworth with
a passion of gratitude in her eyes. "What
shall I do ? " she said appealingly. " I must go
home."

"You are ill," Wentworth asserted abruptly,
for she was trembling from head to foot, and
every vestige of colour had left her face. Even
her lips were livid in their deadly whiteness.

She did not deny his assertion. " I must go
home," she repeated, half rising. Wentworth
motioned her back into her seat.

"Not this moment," he replied in a brief,
business-like way. " Wait till the gun has gone
off for the start : then no one will pay any
attention to you. You can hold on for a few
minutes longer, I am sure." He looked at his
watch. " It is just past the hour now."

One minute  two minutes  three  then came
the sound of a distant report. Wentworth replaced
his watch and took up Muriel's cloak.
'' There it is," he said composedly. " Now come."

Muriel rose obediently.

Go straight on downstairs," Wentworth continued
in the same tone of quiet command, " and
I will join you. I have to speak to my brother
first, but I shall be with you instantly ; you will
not have to wait."

He kept his word to the letter. By the time
that Muriel, with the help of the hand-rail, had
reached terra firma, he had issued his brief
instructions to Irvine, and was again by her
side.

Mr. Wentworth," she said helplessly, trying
to support herself b} putting one hand on an old
broken post close by, " I am very sorry  but I
am afraid  I am going to faint  "

Before all these people ? " said Wentworth
severely. "You will please do nothing of the
kind; and you need not if sou exert yourself
You can walk across that bridge and round the
first bend of the Cherwell perfectly well if you
try. I shall not even give you my arm."

The salutary sharpness had its effect  the
effect which Wentworth intended it to have.
Pale, cold, tremulous, nearly blind, with her
heart throbbing in her ears and her limbs almost
refusing to do their office, Muriel did nevertheless
manage to drag herself across the swaying planks
and to struggle a few steps further by the Cher-well,
until the first friendly winding of the path
took her out of sight of the barges. Then she
sank down on a bench which was happily at
hand, utterly exhausted. "I shall be better
presently," she faintly said. "This is just a

faintness from my heart. I have it occasionally
if "

"I know," he said hastily  and his voice was
marvellously changed. But he instantly resumed
his former tone again, saying, "Give me your
handkerchief to dip in the water, and then put
it on your head. Hadn't you better take off
your hat ? You can do it for yourself, can't you ?
You need not mind ; no one will come this way
at present. Let me put your cloak behind you
to lean against  so. Nov I would recommend
you to keep quiet for a few minutes."

Muriel obeyed his orders implicitly, one after
another and then remained leaning back motionless,
in silence broken only by the faint sounds
of distant cheering on the river bank, while he
stood quietly on the gravel path beside her. A
certain sense of restfulness, born partly of extreme
momentary weakness and partly due to
a consciousness of Wentworth's watchful ]protection,
stole over her. Had her companion
spoken a single word, however kind or sympathizing,
such a word would have jarred upon
her; but his silent presence was a source of
strength in itself.

At last Wentworth, seeing the colour begin to
return to her cheeks, felt constrained to break

the silence. 'rare you better?" he asked. But
he did not put the question with much eagerness.
It occurred to him whether for Muriel herself it
might not have been happier had she failed to
recover so easily. To have had her slip quietly
away out of life altogether, instead of coming
back to it to face such a future as he foresaw for
her, would have been the least painful fate that
could befall her, to Wentworth's mind.

She looked up, startled out of the semiconscious
dream into which she had drifted,
and almost expecting to find herself in the
rough shepherd's hut of seven years earlier, and
see Wentworth standing in the doorway with
the glamour of those days about him still. But
she bore the shock of her sudden return to
bitter reality very calmly. " I am much better,"
she declared. " Indeed, I feel almost well now."

That's right," Wentworth answered, with
resolute cheerfulness. "They have stopped
cheering now, so people will soon be moving
off. If you feel equal to it, therefore, I think
we had better be going too. Can you walk, do
you think ? "

Oh yes ! " Muriel answered confidently But
no sooner had her feet touched the ground than
another wave of deadly faintness swept over

her. "I don't believe I can," she ejaculated
despairingly. " What am I to do ? There is no
possibility of driving."

Wentworth inwardly cursed the folly of the
university authorities, or the Town Council, or
whatever local body was responsible for leaving
the approaches to the river without a carriage
road. " Where are you staying ? " he asked.

With luy cousin, Miss Bretherton. She has
taken a house near the Parks  in Ridley
Gardens."

'' That solves the difficulty, then. The Cher-well
is navigable as far as Ridley Gardens, I
know ; and I can row you up in m} brother's
boat, which we left close by. 1 will have it
here in a moment."

So it came to pass that, in a few minutes,
Muriel found herself seated once more in the
stern of a boat, with Wentworth opposite to
her. But they did not talk, as they would have
done in the old days. She was still feeling ill
enough to have a good excuse for silence; and
he devoted his whole attention to keeping the
little craft he directed clear of the banks of the
narrow stream, and avoided even looking at his
companion.

It was she who spoke at last. '' I wonder if

my husband will be alarmed at my strange disappearance
? " she said, with an odd little laugh.
I ought to have told him I was going home."

You need not be uneasy," Wentworth answered
gravely. " I thought of that, and left
a message with my brother for him. Philip said
he would find him out, and I dare say they will
walk home together."

Muriel's eyes gave a curious flash. " If they
do, I fear they will bore each other terribly,"
she observed. " Your brother is a most admirable
man, Mr. Wentworth, but I am afraid
his improving discourses will hardly go down
with Mr. Arlingham and his friends ; he is a
little too high-flown for ordinary people. My
husband would probably imagine that he was
beincr taken to task or instructed, and there are
few things he dislikes so much. Most men share
that feeling."

I don't think Phil is at all likely to commit
such a strategical mistake," Wentworth replied
lightly, taking no notice of Muriel's sudden
resentful bitterness. " If he were in the habit
of making such blunders, he would not have so
many friends left among his old pupils. Did
sou know, by the way, that Mr. Arlingham had
been a pupil of his once ? "

I knew he had coached with him for a short
time. But my husband gave more of his time
at the university to boating than to books 
which, I am sure, must have been a great source
of annoyance to his late tutor. Doesn't your
brother consider the river more or less of a snare
to Young Oxford ? "

Again Wentworth deliberately ignored the
singular tone of Muriel's remarks. "No, I
believe he is all in favour of plenty of physical
exercise," he rejoined. " He would be glad to
introduce it among his East Enters, if only he
could get the necessary space wherein they
might disport themselves. Do we land here, at
the end of this road ? "

No ; my cousin has a landing-place at the
bottom of her garden, just round the corner."
And two or three more vigorous strokes of
Wentworth 's sculls brought them to the half-dozen
steps which led down from Miss Brethren's
sunny, well-kept lawn to the Cherwell.

Wentworth made the boat fast, and Muriel
sprang out with a great show of agility. But
once on land, it was plain that she still trembled
so much that she could scarcely walk, and that
she was trusting partly to the stick of her sunshade
for support. Nevertheless, Wentworth

VOL. III. 65

did not offer to help her, judging that she would
prefer to remain unassisted ; he only followed
watchfully behind her, carrying her cloak, and
happily the way across the lawn and up a
smoothly gravelled path, between newly planted
flower-beds, to the house was not long or
fatiguing. Muriel did not go round to the front
door, which was on the other side of the pretty,
semi-ecclesiastical looking building, but went
straight in at the open French window of the
drawing-room, and sat down on the sofa. Wentworth
quietly laid down the cloak he carried.

Perhaps, after feeling so faint, it would be
well if you had some tea, or something of that
kind, wouldn't it ? " he inquired almost timidly.
Would you like me to ring for your maid ? "

"She is a luxury I have dispensed with,"
Muriel answered, in the same hard, defiant tone
she had used in the boat  a tone utterly new
to Wentworth from her lips. " I have gone
back to Spartan simplicity in my domestic
arrangements lately. However, Miss Brethren's
maid would have answered the bell if you
had rung it ; but I don't feel any particular
craving for tea, thank you. I only want a little
salutary quiet now to recover myself perfectly."

Wentworth turned a shade paler, but did not

permit himself to betray the slightest annoyance.
"Very likely you are quite right," he
replied. " I dare say an hour or two's rest will
quite restore you. I can therefore the more
easily ask you to excuse me at once, as I have
to meet my daughter in time to go to Christ
Church for half an hour before we leave for
town. Good-bye. I trust you will soon feel
altogether yourself again."

She let him touch her hand and utter his
formal farewell while she sat still, thanklessly
silent in the agony of wounded pride, which
for a few minutes had made her like another
woman. But when he actually turned away,
she knew that she could not let him go thus.
Mr. Wentworth," she exclaimed, rising to her
feet, " forgive me that I have not  that I cannot
thank you for what you have done for me today.
Forgive me, please, as you pity me."

He turned back, his eyes suddenly soft with
tears. " My dear child," he said very gently,
there is nothing for me to forgive, nor any
reason why you should thank me. As an old
acquaintance, I thought I might venture to try
and be of service to you under circumstances
that were a little annoying  that was all ! "

All ! " she repeated. " You were generous,

thoughtful, considerate beyond words  and I
repaid you almost with insults. I tried to
wound you because you had helped me. You
cannot think more hardly of me than I do of
myself Why should I be too proud to bear
your pity ? "

I do not think' Wentworth answered rather
unsteadily, "that pity, mixed with so much honour
and reverence as mine is, need hurt you."

Everything hurts me to-day," she said hopelessly.
" Kindness, I think, most of all. Consider
me mad for the moment, if you like, only don't
think me ungrateful ! "

There is no question of ingratitude here,"
Wentworth replied ; " I understand you perfectly.
You should not try a man beyond his strength,"
he added, half below his breath.

But Muriel neither heard nor heeded his last
words. "You are mistaken if jou think you
understand," she returned ; " it is impossible that
you should. And please do not be sympathetic.
If there is a thing I shrink from on earth, it is
sympathy ! "

She had tried him beyond his strength. Paul
Wentworth had known many fierce temptations
in his life, but never so fierce a one as that which
assailed him at this moment. He took two or

three hasty steps about the room, and finally
came over and stood before her. " Muriel," he
said hoarsely, " is our fate going to be too strong
for us, after all ? "

She shrank together suddenly. "No  oh no ! "
she ejaculated faintly. " Surely, surely not."

I think it seems so," Wentworth replied, with
a kind of desperate calm. "We have done our
best, we have struggled against this with all our
strength  you know it  and what is the result
to us both ? I appeal to you. You have striven
for years to be a perfectly true and loyal wife to
that man  I will not speak of him, because he is
sour husband  and to-day you had your reward.
According to my imperfect fashion  a very
different one from yours, but it was the best I
could do, and I did it honestly  I have struggled
also. That conflict is over now, as far as I am
concerned."

She did not interrupt him, she did not contradict
him. She only turned away a little, and
stood looking out through the open window.
Why should you despair ? " she said falteringly.
" It is only the old miserable story "

No, it is not only that," Wentworth broke in.

After what has happened to-day, nothing is oran

be the same. Am I calmly to leave you to

a repetition of this afternoon's scene, or worse i
It will be worse, as time goes on ; common
experience tells you that it must be worse. Can
you expect a man to whom you are the most
precious thing on earth to acquiesce quietly in
such a fate for you ? I neither can nor will
acquiesce in it. Hitherto I have kept silence,
but now that I see what a life lies before you,
now that it is too late to hope for anything else,
it seems as if even what I could give "

He broke off abruptly, but a voice at his
ear whispered, " Go on. Go on," it said : '' luhat
are you hesitating for? For conscience and
righteousness sake ? A likely story  from you !
You know that if you do stop short now, it is
simply for the sake of your ambition, to safeguard
your political career, and for fear your newly
whitewashed name should he freshly blackened in
the world's eyes. You are not in the least conscientious
: you are only rankly selfish. It is
not a choice between good and evil, it is a choice
between this woman and yourself "

But Muriel had turned slowly round from the
window, and was facing him, deadly pale. " I
will not believe it is too late," she said. "It
is only because I am so wounded and bruised
and humiliated that I cannot see right from

wrong for the moment. But the power to see
will come back  it will come back ! I am sure
it will. Only you must help me now, while I
have no strength at all."

"I am yours  for everything," Wentworth
answered impetuously. " I can love and care for
you, at least "

Muriel put up her hand to silence him. '' Hush,
don't say that ! " she implored. " Don't you see
that it is the one thing 1 cannot bear ? To beloved,
to be cared for, to have done with terrors
and conflicts and scruples  don't you see that
it may seem a sort of Paradise to me ? For the
moment  only for the moment, I know. I am
mad to-day, but tomorrow I shall have got
back to my reason. Till then, help me ! "

How ? " he asked. " Have I not said "

Again Muriel checked the words on his lips :
her voice took a ring of passionate appeal. " You
see how weak I am; 1 cannot prevent your
seeing it. You see that I am broken-hearted
and almost desperate ; that 1 would do anything
if I could only forget myself  and be loved a
little. But I trust you. Because you know that
I cannot bear to hear even once more what you
said a moment ago  just because you know that
I was glad to hear you say it, therefore "

There was a brief pause before Wentworth
answered : a pause of a few seconds only. Then
he very quietly completed Muriel's broken
sentence. " Therefore'' he said, " I will never
say it again. Never  so help me God ! "

He had indeed faltered dangerously and
stumbled heavily, but he had not fallen so far
as to be incapable of recovering his lost standing
ground. "For what I have said too much
already," he added, after a minute, " I can only
ask very sorrowfully your forgiveness."

Muriel leaned her head against the window
frame, and covered her face with her hands. " I

knew  you would see " she said brokenly.

Her tears were dropping fast and silently.

Wentworth looked at her with an unspeakable
grief and compassion which had nothing
of self left in it. No one could help her, he
knew well, and least of all he himself, who dared
not even attempt to utter a word of comfort,
or lay so much as a pitying touch on that bowed
head for a moment. She must carry her own
burden, and carry it alone to the end.

Promise me one thing," he said at last ;
"promise me, Muriel, that you will not stay
with him any longer. You have those who
love you, and a home  go back to them and

to it. He has lost all right to expect you to
stay, and you can do nothing for his happiness 
if you are still anxious to sacrifice yourself to
that."

She raised her startled face. " Oh, I could not
leave him ! " she answered. " You forget the
wrong I have done and am doing him. My only
clear duty is to make what reparation I can.
Now, too, when he is poor and unhappy  it is
in treat measure his misfortunes which are
making him so different, so different to what

he once was " Tears would not let her say

more.

You are hard on me," Wentworth said. " Do
you think nothing of what I must suffer henceforward
? "

"I have no right to think of you," she
answered simply. " He is my husband."

For your own sake  I did wrong to ask that
you should remember anything else  for your
own sake, then "

"We will not speak of that further, please,"
Muriel interposed. Wentworth's decision seemed
to have given her back in an instant all her own
lost steadfastness. " My mind is made up."

Can nothing be done ? " he asked passionately.
" Why should you be condemned to such

a fate ? Even I have Mabel and my work left
me. I have something to live for, if not to
make life worth living, while you  you have
nothing."

"You are mistaken; I have my duty. That
ought to be enough for me always, and by-and-by
will be, perhaps. You must not think of meas
you have seen me to-day ; that darkness does
not come often. I am glad it has passed now,
before I have to say good-bye to you for the last
time. For I think we must not meet again, even
as acquaintances, now."

"I suppose not," Wentworth acquiesced heavily.
And  there is nothing I can do for you, now or
ever ? "

Nothing," she answered steadily. " Except
to go on fulfilling my ideals, as you have been
doing of late. You know my old craving after
fulfilled ideals. I would like to think you were
happier, that is all. Good-bye." A faint smile,
which had a touch of victorious satisfaction in it
for all its pathos, parted her lips for a moment.
My love to Mabel," she added.

Wentworth held her proffered hand silently in
his, looking into her sad face an instant longer 
then he let it drop without a word. Since there
was nothing he could do for her, now or ever.

of what further use were any words between
them ?

Passing down the garden on his way to his
boat, he encountered Miss Bretherton, looking as
trim, light, and energetic as usual. Despising
boat-races, she had been attending a lecture
given by the Professor of Music, and carried an
armful of notebook. He stopped to greet her
and explain his presence in her demesne.

Miss Bretherton's response was of the coldest.
She had met Wentworth in London some years
earlier, and had formed one of her unaccountable
antipathies to him ; and this antipathy had subsequently
been abundantly justified to her mind
by certain narratives retailed to her by her
friend. Lady Clavering. Her manner by no
means softened when Wentworth informed her
that Mrs. Arlingham had felt faint in the course
of the afternoon, and had allowed herself to be
escorted home by him. For all his habit of self-command,
he could not altogether repress certain
evidences of recent agitation, even while he narrated
in a matter-of-fact fashion the details of
what had taken place on the river, and expressed
his regret that Mrs. Arlingham's sudden
attack of faintness should have obliged her to
leave the St. Swithun's barge at the most

interesting moment of the day ; and Helen
Bretherton's quick suspicions were aroused at
sight of this ill-concealed emotion. From that
hour forward she was Paul Wentworth's bitter
and implacable enemy.

VALE !

Under another heaven,
In lands where neither love nor memory
Can plant a selfish hope in lands so far
I should not seem to see the outstretched arms
That seek me, or to hear the voice that calls,
I should feel distance only and despair;
So rest for ever from the thought of bliss,
And wear my weight of life's great chain struggling."

George Eliot.

It is recorded of one of the heroines of an
American novel that she was seized on a memorable
occasion with an unwonted fit of silence
and abstraction, after which she proceeded to
address the assembled company  rather a numerous
one, by the way  as follows:  "Do yon
know that I actually have serious thoughts
sometimes ? I think that very likely some of
us  most of us  are going to the dogs. And I
wonder what it will be when we get there ! "

Had Jack Arlingham been as frank and outspoken
as this New England maiden, he might
fitly have employed her utterance to describe his
own state of mind. Muriel's husband, too, had
an uneasy consciousness that he was "going to
the dogs " at an extremely rapid rate ; and that
the goal towards which he was making such
striking progress would prove highly undesirable,
he strongly suspected  so his " serious thoughts "
served to make him tolerably uncomfortable.
There, however, his self-communing stopped
short. He had never inquired vith sufficient
closeness into the nature of the road he was
travelling to be thoroughly convinced of the probable
and, indeed, inevitable ruin that awaited
him not very much further on, much less to
become persuaded that the only chance for him
lay in turning right round in his course, and
trying a fresh departure altogether; therefore,
he still allowed himself to be drawn onwards,
although with a miserable fear upon him. The
intense indolence of nature which had been his
curse through life became doubly his curse now.
He so hated the trouble of thinking at any time,
especially about anything disagreeable; and it
cannot be denied that repenting and beginning
anew  particularly in debt and poverty, when

one has been long accustomed to luxury and
credit  is an eminently disagreeable and fatiguing
business. Then Arlingham had his share
of pride, and his downfall before the world
galled him cruelly. Since his return to England,
he had become convinced that all hope of living
at Eversleigh must be abandoned for so honos a
period that it no longer seemed even worth
while disputing whether the terms of the lease
which handed it over to the present tenant
should be enlarged to twenty-one, or cut down
to fourteen years  and this was the last and
bitterest drop in the bitter cup of humiliation
that he had mixed for himself If he could
have kept up his old home, he would still have
felt that he retained in some measure his old
standing among men ; but since Eversleigh was
gone, all was gone, and unless some sudden turn
of fortune, such as he was always hoping and
scheming for, occurred to give him back what he
had lost, all that remained to Jack in life was
to amuse himself as best he could. The taste for
amusement, unnaturally repressed in his boyhood
and early youth, had grown almost insatiable
since his accession to fortune, and to consequent
independence.

Regarding his wife and her feelings on the

matter, Arlingham manifested the most complete
indifference. She never troubled him with complaints
or reproaches; and, if people do not
complain, the most obvious as well as the most
convenient conclusion is, that they have nothing
to complain of. Since Muriel could accommodate
herself with such perfect ease, and absence even
of remark, to the altered circumstances of her
life, it was natural to suppose that the alteration
did not affect her deeply  Jack not being one
of those over-sympathetic souls who are fond of
divining unspoken sorrows. If you wished to
bring your grievances to Mr. Arlingham's notice,
it was needful to put them into words and press
them on his attention in an audible tone of
voice, otherwise he was apt to conclude that no
grievance could possibly exist  at any rate, he
carefully refrained from making any inquiries
on the subject. Which deliberate bridling of his
curiosity showed undoubted wisdom on his part ;
for though he was happily callous to silent and
unobtrusive suffering, he would have disliked
excessively such suffering becoming vocal and
forcing itself on his observation  a catastrophe
which might easily have resulted from injudicious
questioning.

Indifferent and unsympathetic as Arlingham

was, however, he knew that he had well-nigh
passed the limits of his wife's forbearance that
fatal afternoon on the St. Swithun's barre.
Muriel's cold, grave manner made him aware of
this, deepening a certain sense of shame on the
subject of his own conduct which had come upon
him unbidden as soon as Irvine had fulfilled
Went worth's instructions by giving him a simple
message to the effect that " Mrs. Arlingham was
feeling overtired, and had therefore decided to go
home without waiting for the race to be over."
In the light of the next morning what he had
done looked even more unpardonable; and all
the gentlemanlike instinct which remained latent
in him urged him to make apology for it. He
was neither fiend nor ruffian ; only a very weak,
vain, and intensely selfish young man.

As good fortune would have it, he found his
wife alone in Miss Bretherton's morning-room,
that lady having gone out on one of her many
missions of usefulness, charity, or self-improvement.
Muriel, who looked very pale and fragile,
was writing a letter on foreign paper, but she
just glanced up as her husband made his entrance.

I have copied those instructions for Rogers
you spoke to me about on Tuesday," she said.
You will find them on the mantelpiece."

VOL. III. 56

"Thank you. I'm awfully obliged." He felt
rather less softened towards her when he saw
how she was occupied, wondering instantly if
she were writing a graphic account of his misdeeds
to her sister  a suspicion the very occurrence
of which to his mind showed how little he
understood her real nature. However, he had
come to say a certain thing, and he meant to say
it. " I hope you are better this morning, Muriel,"
he remarked awkwardly, after moving about the
room a little.

I am much better, thanks. I have rather a
bad headache, that is all." There was relenting
already in Muriel's tone ; it was so rare for her
husband to show any evidence of interest in herat
all, that his inquiry quite touched her.

"I'm afraid that brute Whetstone's manner
annoyed you yesterday," Jack went on more
awkwardly still. " I'm sorry now I introduced
him to you; perhaps I ought not to have
done it."

I did not like his manner, certainly," Muriel
replied. " It would have been better if he had
not come to such a place at all, I think."

As it's my college barge, I imagine I'm the
best judge as to the people I can take there with
propriety," Jack retorted sullenly. "And I've

no doubt he meant to be as civil to you as he
knew how. However, I'm sorry I made him
known to you, as you didn't like it. Of course
you couldn't be expected to like him"  Jack
felt himself very magnanimous here  "I don't
ask it of you. He's a coarse sort of fellow,
whom no lady would be likely to take a fancy
to. But he asked particularly to be introduced,
and as I'm doing a good deal of business with
him just now, I thought it best not to refuse him."

Jack ! " Muriel cried, startled out of her usual
self-possession. " You are not in his power in
any way, surely ? "

Who said I was in his power ? How you
run off at a tangent, and wrest a man's words, as
women always do ! Because I may feel it my
best policy to keep a man in good humour, does
it necessarily follow that he can smash me if
he chooses ? Do have a little common sense,
Muriel ! "

"I had no wish to wrest your words," said
Muriel, trembling slightly, "but I was startled
for the moment by them. I have grown nervous,
I suppose," she added, with a pathetic attempt to
smile.

Jack was touched in spite of himself. " Poor
girl ! " he said, touching her arm half caressingly.

I am sorry if you were upset yesterday. And
why I should have given in to Whetstone's
cheek, I am sure I don't know. Whatever he
does, he can't prevent things going utterly to the
bad now. If I could have held on at Eversleigh,

indeed " He turned away his head for a

moment.

"I know it is hard to have to let Eversleigh,"
Muriel said gently. All bitterness had gone out
of her ; she felt only a great compassion for Jack
now. " One can only hope that we may be able
to go back there before so very many years are
over. Of course I don't know the details of
your affairs, but I fancy that might be done,
with care and self-denial. I, at least, will do my
best for it."

Jack shook his head. " You know nothing



about it," he said. But he did not speak unkindly.


"Meanwhile," Muriel continued, "have you
thought of any plan for the future ? Of where
we had better go when we leave this, I mean ?
We cannot stay very much longer with Helen,
you know."

I have no wish to stay a moment longer with
Helen than Helen wishes to keep me," Jack
replied, with sudden offence. " You told me she

was greatly attached to you, and she was certainly
pressing in her invitations."

She was, indeed," said poor Muriel. *' And
she will be delighted for us to stay on a while
longer. Only eventually, you know, we must
set to work to think "

It does not take much thinking," Jack interrupted
roughly. " There is only one thing to be
done, and that is to go abroad again."

The colour sprang into Muriel's face. She had
determined to make one last effort for a future
that should be better than the past. " Is that
necessary ? " she asked appealingly.

I haven't looked at the question in that light.
It is simply the only tolerable life for a man with
my present wretched means."

But it is such a terribly unsatisfactory life ! "
Muriel pleaded eagerly. " Wandering about from
place to place  with no home and no real friends.
You know you got thoroughly tired of it before ;
and then you had none of the country life you
like, no occupation and no sport. I remember
your telling me you onlj went to Monte Carlo
because you were so dreadfully weary of Florence.
Now, living quietly in England, we could really
manage on less money than we spend in travelling
about."

Living in some abominable suburb in a semi-detached
seven-roomed house, perhaps we could."

No, no ; I did not mean anything of that
kind ! But supposing we were to take some
small house in the country, a kind of hunting-box
perhaps, in the valley of the Thames ? Nota
river-side house, for that would be too expensive,
I suppose ; but one near enough for you to
get some boating and fishing in the summer,
which you always like. And if we were economical
 I would try to be very economical
indeed  you might manage to rent a little
winter shooting. Surely that would be better
than going abroad ? "

"No, I don't think it would be at all better,"
Jack responded, "You forget that a man does
not care to live in a wilderness. Economy and
fishing are all very well, but a little companionship
would not come amiss occasionally. You
can read all day, you see ; but I don't exactly
care for that sort of vegetable existence."

"You could have your friends down to see
you in a quiet way  real friends would not mind
encountering a little dulness; and I would try
to be more sympathetic and cheerful, and make
you happier." She rose from the table, and
came and leant her trembling hands on his

shoulder. " Dear, I am afraid I have not always
been to you all that a wife should be, in sympathy
and unselfishness ; but try this plan, and see if
I will not think of you, and you only, henceforward
in everything ! "

You are very keen on your plan," Jack said,
with a faint sneer. He was not altogether unmoved
by his wife's entreaties, but nevertheless
he did not mean to yield to them, and, being
desirous of silencing her, could think of no way
of doing it save by downright rudeness. " You
might as well mention your real reason for being
so very anxious to stay in England and live in
the valley of the Thames. I think there must
be something beyond my enjoyment concerned."

Muriel grew paler than ever, but she forced
back the indignant words that rushed to her
lips. Her recent discovery of her own perilous
weakness  she who had always felt herself so
strong before !  had filled her with such an agony
of self-reproach and self-distrust as quenched
resentment before it was well kindled. Perhaps
aU this was part of her punishment for her
yesterday's sin.

"You are wrong there," she said very
tremulously. " I was thinking only of you,
though not only of your enjoyment. Jack, you

know all the miserable outcome of our last stay

abroad "

I know that luck has been most cursedly
against me for the last two years, both at home
and abroad," Jack interposed moodily. " However,
I suppose it is bound to turn some day.
Meanwhile, if I am to live in genteel poverty,
I'm not going to do it next door to my own
place. On that point my mind is made up.
You would probably get uncommonly tired of
a cottage in the country yourself before three
months were over : I should not be able to talk
literature to you all day like Cunningham, or
discuss State affairs with you a la Wentworth.
By the way," added Jack, who, like many weak
men when they want to back themselves up ina
decision, was purposely working himself into
a passion, "I congratulate you on your latest
admirer, Muriel. For a lady who sets up so high
a standard, I must say you don't choose very
high-minded friends. I don't go in for exaltation
personally, but I fancy I might quite shine
as a saint beside Wentworth, if I tried."

Muriel's white lips moved, but made no audible
sound. Arlingham was half frightened at the
expression on her face.

You need not look as if I had said something

unpardonable," he ejaculated irritably, bis fear
showing itself as fear in small natures is apt todo
 namely, in an outburst of petulance. " You
may have as many admirers as you please, for
aught I care. Only don't worry me again about
staying in England, because I won't do it; at
least, not till I can live at home like a gentleman."

And Muriel never "worried" her husband
again on that, or indeed on any subject. After
what had passed between them, she recognized
finally the utter fruitlessness of such efforts on
her part.

One petition only did she subsequently prefer :
that when Jack went to London to make arrangements
for their final departure from England,
she might remain behind at Oxford with her
cousin. " I would far rather not go," she urged
timidly, "if you have no objection to going without
me."

"But I have an objection," Jack answered
surlily. " I shall probably want you." He had
been dining with a party of friends at one of the
river-side hotels, and from various causes had
returned home in no pleasant mood. " It is
your business to go, and you have no good reason
for staying behind. If you had one, you could
state it."

Cannot you imagine that I might wish to
avoid meeting people ? " she asked, flushing.

You need not meet people more in London
than in Oxford  except those you wish to meet,"
Jack said, with a disagreeable laugh. " You had
better not persist further in this whim of yours,
Muriel, or perhaps I shall think the reason you
don't give is not a good one."

Muriel looked at him steadfastly with her great
sad eyes. "If you were quite yourself this
evening, Jack," she said, with pathetic dignity,
you would never have said that to me. I will
try to forget that you ever have said it."

And her efforts to forget were seemingly
crowned with success. She went to London with
him, did faithfully his every behest, worked untiringly
at the necessary preparations for their
journey and their presumably lengthened sojourn
on the Continent, and all without further remonstrance
of any kind. At the same time, however,
she managed to escape paying or receiving any
visits. A few people heard she was in town and
came to seek her out, but she contrived to be
away or engaged when they called, and to the
greater number of her acquaintances her presence
in London remained absolutely unknown. Only
Margaret Irvine was not so easily put off as the

rest, and came again and yet again until she
found Muriel at home and, so to speak, in her
grasp.

When the friends first met, Margaret began by
reproaching Muriel for her want of zeal in not
coming to see her. But somehow the reproaches
died off her lips. Muriel offered very little excuse
for her apparent neglect, but it was plain to
Margaret's clear eyes that there was some great
and painful reason for it. Some new reason,
surely ? since Muriel's loss of fortune and position
was an old story now, and had hitherto created
no breach in their close friendship. Indeed,
what possible difference should it make to either
of the two ? But now there was a new reserve
about Muriel which Margaret could neither
explain nor ignore.

She was so disappointingly reticent about her
plans, that Margaret was constrained to discourse
of her own instead. She was very busy just
then, she told her friend : she had let her beloved
little house for a year, and was going to take up
her abode with Wentworth. " I don't like it a
bit," she protested. "You know how I clung
with a thorough old maid's fondness to all my
poor little trumpery things : I hate to think of
their being handled by strangers, and I shrill

yearn after them sadly many a time, I know, in
Paul's big handsome house. I do like my own
chimney corner, Muriel. Nieces are sometimes
an infliction as well as a joy to maiden aunts, I
assure you ! "

'rare you going to take charge of Mabel,
then ? " Muriel asked.

Yes. She is rather headstrong, and Paul
fancies she will be the better for having an older
woman always with her. I wish a little sometimes
that I were not that older woman just
ready to his hand; or that he would listen to the
idea of a companion-chaperone for her, or get her
married, or marry himself ! " Margaret said, with
mock wrath. " However, I have only promised
to go for a year ; I have not pledged myself for
longer. One cannot tell what may happen ina
year. Mab might get married, as I say ; I am
sure I wish she would ! "

It would be a pity  for her father, would it
not ? " Muriel ventured to say, hating herself for
her weakness in putting the question all the
while.

"I don't know," Margaret replied, dropping
her lighter manner all at once. "She is the
light of his eyes ; and yet I am always in dread
lest she should do something to hurt him. In

short, Muriel, Mabel is not another Stella by any
means. I find it hard to believe sometimes that
she is as near akin to me as Stella was. Happily
she is young yet; there is time for her to outgrow
her hardness. For she is rather hard, I am
afraid."

Had Mabel failed him too ? Muriel's heart
was so full that she dared not try to speak ;
and soon afterwards Margaret rose to go.

If you are really leaving on Thursday," she
said, " I suppose there is no use, dear, in asking
you to come and see me. But you will write tome
as soon as you can, won't you ? Where do
you think your first halting-place will be ?"

I do not quite know," Muriel answered. She
was white with the effort necessary to make her
last sacrifice  a sacrifice which she had decided,
since her own weakness had been so clearly
proved to her, it was her unmistakable duty to
make. " And as regards writing, Margaret 
will you believe that it is from no want of affection,
no want of interest in you, my best, dearest
friend, if I do not write ? Even if I never do ?
For I think  I think I had better not."

Better not write to me ? " Margaret repeated
in amazement. She could hardly believe that
she had heard Muriel aright.

"You see," Muriel said, holding both her
friend's hands, and gazing into her face with
eyes full of grievous longing and of a yet more
bitter anguish of farewell, '' I have to take a
new departure from henceforward. My life will
lie outside England now ; it will be better forme
not to recur to old things and old friends.
It might make me discontented, and anxious to
hear about  about things at home, instead of
giving myself up to making a new home elsewhere.
It will be best for me and for  for them
that we should break with each other quite finally,
as far as this world is concerned, I think. When
I cannot hear anything at all  then perhaps it
Avill be easier. At least, I shall be doing my best."

"I think you have always done that," said
Margaret, as well as she could for tears.

Muriel still held her fast. " You are not angry,
Margaret ? Cannot you see how it is ? "

My dear, how could I be angry with you ?
But I think you have grown fanciful and nervous
and over-scrupulous. Perhaps you are tired, and
that has upset your judgment for the moment a
little. For I do think that to cut yourself off
from all communication with your friends at
home is a piece of unnecessary cruelty to yourself
and to them."

It is not unnecessary' Muriel answered, with
increasing agitation. " You don't know what a
weak, miserable creature I am. I thought, too,
that I was strong ; I thought so till quite lately.
But I am not, I am not ! I get so  so easily distracted
and impatient ; but if I knew that I could
never hear from those I had left, that never again
as long as I lived could I know anything or ask
a single question, perhaps I might do better. And
I want so much to do better, Margaret, even if it
be ever so difficult "

Margaret was shaken out of all her accustomed
calm. " It seems so terrible ! " she exclaimed.
Why go so far as to make it a resolution ?
When you are away, you will sometimes find a
foreign country lonely, and you will long to
write and hear of those who love and care for
you, dear child."

As a rule, Margaret Irvine's was a gentle and
pleasant voice only ; it lacked any finer qualities.
But now the depth of the feeling which moved
her gave it a passing intonation of Wentworth's,
and the very words she uttered brought back
other words of Wentworth's own speaking. " I
can love and care for you, at least," Muriel seemed
to hear him say again with that wonderful tenderness
she had found it so hard to resist; and the

terrible sweetness of the recollection warned her
to stand firm in her resolve.

'' I know that well," she answered bravely, but
with a sharp throb of inward pain, as she realized
even in anticipation how great the bitterness of
the instilled longing would surely be, " and that
is the very reason I  I dare not write."

Margaret's face changed. Something of the
vague terror that had possessed her in her interview
with Muriel after Stella's death returned
upon her. She could only clasp the slight figure
very tenderly in her arms. " This resolution of
yours is a very sad one for me," she said at length.
And yet I will not try to persuade you to rescind
it, Muriel. Only you know I love you ; and when
happier times come, as I believe and trust they
will, you will write to me then ? "

And Muriel could not refuse that poor promise
to her friend. But for herself she cherished no
illusion. Their separation was final : what
happier times could be in store for her now ?

THE AFTERMATH.

All things grow sadder to me, one by one."

E. B. Browning.

The twelve months that passed after the Darlings
left England were eventful months in the
annals of the country. Wales, after a period of
treacherous tranquillity, which deceived all but
the initiated, who knew what fierce and irreconcilable
elements of sedition were at work under
the surface calm that seemed to have settled
down upon the Principality, had broken out in
fiercer turbulence than before, and there had not
been wanting many men scattered up and down
the land  men who, as a rule, were neither cowards
nor alarmists  to proclaim that the ominous word
Rebellion would soon have to be substituted for
the less alarming Riots at the head of those
columns upon columns of disquieting or startling
VOL. III. 57

telegrams which appeared with depressing regularity
in the daily newspapers. However
hopefully regarded, the time and the situation
were allowed on all hands to be serious, most
serious. Wales seemed determined to follow the
example of the sister island in extorting virtual
autonomy from the imperial authority, and with
the sisterly help afforded her, appeared for a
brief moment almost strong enough to dictate
her own terms. Such were the straits of the
Executive, hemmed in between growing disorder
and contempt of law on the one hand, and a
half-hearted House of Commons on the other,
that for a few days only two alternatives of
action seemed left open to them : either to concede
whatever they demanded to the rebels, or
to declare something like a civil war.

Fortunately they refused to adopt the first of
these desperate measures, and the necessity for
adopting the latter was averted by the Government's
holding firmly on its way in repressing
violence and disorder, while at the same time
promising instant consideration of all reasonable
grievances. The Prime Minister and the Secretary
for Wales had alike made up their minds
that, of the two terrible alternatives presented
to them, the second was to be preferred, since

even civil discord would surely prove less deadly
in its effects on all true national life than a base
surrender of the honour and unity of Great
Britain into the hands of men whom Wentworth,
for all his staunch Liberalism, was not ashamed
or afraid to characterize as traitors. These two
Ministers, with Lord Ellesthorpe and Mr. Orme,
made an uncompromising stand for " No concession
to rebels," and they managed to drag
timid or recalcitrant members of the Government
along with them in their decision. And soon it
became so clearly apparent that England as a
whole was stoutly on the side of the uncompromising
four, that their hesitating colleagues
took courage and became more whole-hearted
in their support of the needful repressive
measures.

It was a stirring year, and for no man more
than for him who presided over the Welsh Office.
Wentworth came and went between Whitehall
and the Principality, and hardly knew himself
which portion of his life was really most harassing
and restful  whether the days when he
went about Wales with a couple of detectives at
his heels, more than half expecting the sharp
report of a revolver at the corner of every street
and the sharp advent of the tiny bullet which

would end all harassing perplexity and unrest
for ever, or the nights when he took his place
on the Treasury Bench to meet the never-failing
storm of question, calumny, and insult. On the
whole, the latter ordeal tried him most, and did
far more than any concern for his personal safety
to stamp fresh lines on his worn face, and increase
the number of grey threads which were beginning
to grow noticeably apparent among his
thick dark hair. Some of the Welsh " Nationals"
were neither particularly refined in mind nor
over nice in their choice of language, and they
had all heard or read the story of the last election
at Coin, unhappily for Wentworth.

But throughout he bore himself manfully,
preserving as unwavering a demeanour, night
after night, in the face of malignant taunts which
cut him to the quick of his sensitive spirit, as he
had done at the supreme moment when a furious
mob invaded the station at Gwyll-y-Cefn and
surrounded the compartment in which he sat,
howling madly for his life. This quiet, unshaken
courage  which had something pathetic in its
steadfastness  won its victory at last over the
prejudices even of those stern moralists who
for a long time refused utterly to the man the
admiration they could not deny to the administrator.

For touching Wentworth's administrative
powers there could be but one opinion.
Before six months were over his strong hand
and will were making themselves felt throughout
the length and breadth of the disturbed
districts; outbreaks were every week becoming
fewer in number, and such as did occur were
decreasing in violence; order was returning,
trade reviving, and England and Scotland aUke
drew a long breath of relief as the bugbear of
the "Welsh scare" becjan to fade and dwindle
into remoter distance.

But there had been terrible moments in those
six months : days and nights when the telegraph
offices were literally besieged, and the newspaper
boys paraded the streets even after midnight;
days when calm Philip Irvine went about his
work in a fever of anxiety, when Margaret lived
so to speak on the rack, and even cold-hearted
Mabel Wentworth woke from her self-absorption
to share the general terror for the fate of him
who walked literally so often with the shadow
of death upon him. Margaret never forgot the
sudden radiance of her brother's face when she
told him long afterwards of one special evening
on which Mabel utterly refused to go to some
ball, to which she had long been eagerly looking

forward, and had remained sitting up all night
with her hand locked in Margaret's, till in the
grey dawn came the knock of the telegraph boy,
bringing the laconic message, "All quiet here
now. Home this evening." So intense was the
gladness it expressed, that Margaret took courage,
feeling that all joy in life was not yet over for
Paul.

This especial joy was, however, short-lived.
With the cessation of personal danger to her
father, came also the cessation of Mabel's temporarily
revived interest in him. Perhaps a certain
amount of remorse had mingled with that interest,
and intensified it; it may be that the idea of
Wentworth's being exposed to a sudden violent
death had kindled some feeling of regret for past
indifference and ingratitude. But once he had
escaped this deadly peril and returned to his
everyday work in London, the remorse faded
away. Wentworth, however, who did not forget
so quickly, cherished faithfully the remembrance
of Mabel's past concern for his safety, and held
the recollection tenderly in his sad heart for-many
and many a day.

The twelve months of the " Welsh crisis " were
fairly at an end, and British home affairs were
slowly beginning to resume their normal condition,

when Wentworth appeared late one afternoon
at his sister's. Margaret had, at the end
of the year agreed upon, returned nominally to
her own abode, though she rarely remained in it
for more than two or three days together, Wentworth's
frequent absences from home necessitating
her being still often an inmate of his house.

It is the old story," he said, with that shadow
of a smile which had become habitual to him of
late years ; " I want you to come over and take
pity on Mab, as usual."

Where are you going ? " Margaret asked
quickly. " Not to Wales again ? " She could
not get over a certain nervous horror of his going
to Wales, though he had frequently assured her
that there was no longer the smallest danger in
his doing so.

"No, not to Wales at present, I am glad to
say. I am going down to Ellesthorpe's from
Saturday to Monday to meet the Premier."

In preparation for the next Cabinet Council ?
Paul, do tell me ! You know I am trustworthy,
and I cannot help hearing things whispered. Is
it true what I hear ? "

"That I am to have a seat in the Cabinet?
Quite true. It is no secret now ; I got the letter
this morning''

Margaret's eyes sparkled. " Ah ! I thought it
must come soon. Dear Paul, I am so glad ! "

"It is pleasant," he said quietly, but rather
sadly too, " to find some one who is glad of one's
successes. For I suppose this would be called
a success."

Then Margaret knew instinctively that he had
already told Mabel, and that Mabel had not
exerted herself to be at all glad. Probably she
had been too preoccupied deciding whether she
would have the ivory fan a naval admirer of hers
had brought her from China mounted in lace orin
feathers for Lady Beatrice Orme's next dance.
Margaret thought she might almost be forgiven
for hating Mabel a little at that moment.

"Don't go just yet," she entreated, as her
brother took up his hat to depart. " I should so
like to talk to a rational person for a few minutes,
and try and recover my mental balance a little.
I have had Lady Clavering here all the morning,
and she has nearly chattered away all the mind
I have. And I see so little of you nowadays,
Paul."

I have so little leisure, my dear," Paul
answered. He was evidently pleased, almost
touched, by her anxiety to keep him. " I have
two or three notes to write now, but if I may

write them here, I can stay a few minutes and
talk to you meanwhile. Ordinary sized notepaper,
please "  as Margaret promptly unlocked
her envelope-case.

He sat down to the pretty writing-table to
dash off his letters, and Margaret took a seat
opposite, and watched him With sisterly pride.
What a noble head he had, and what power and
vivacity and resolution there was in the dark
face bent over the blotting-book ! Only his hair
was getting rather grey ; she did not care to see
that.

Wentworth looked up and interrupted her
silent reflections on the subject of his personal
appearance. " Whom did you say you had had
with you this morning ? " he inquired.

"Lady Clavering. I think you must know
hera funny little woman with a wonderful
tongue. Sir John Clavering has a very pretty
place in Holmshire, called Newgate. I went
down there once for a week, and was nearly
talked to death."

Holmshire ? " Wentworth drew his dark
brows together for a moment. Then he looked
down again and went on writing rapidly. " Talking
of Holmshire," he said, " have you any news
lately of your Holmshire friend, Mrs. Arlingham ? "

How strange ! " Margaret exclaimed. " Lady
Clavering has just been asking me the same
question ; in fact, she called here on purpose to
ask it. And I could only tell her that I had no
news at all."

'' I thought Lady Clavering herself was a great
personal friend of Mrs. Arlingham's," Wentworth
observed.

She has known Muriel all her life. I had
half a hope  as I told her  when I saw her
arrive, that she might have brought me some
news, instead of coming to ask for it. But it
appears that Muriel has not written to the
Clavering either. It is very curious and very
sad."

When did she last write to you ? " Wentworth
inquired, still without lifting his eyes from
the paper.

She has never written to me at all," Margaret
answered sorrowfully.

Wentworth looked up at this. " Do you mean
that you have never heard from her since she
left England more than a year ago ? " he demanded,
with a kind of stern surprise, laying
down his pen.

Never. And I have no reason to feel
astonished at her silence, for she told me when

we parted that she should not write, either tome
or to any of her friends in England. But I
never dreamed that she would have kept her
word so inflexibly."

"Ah!" Wentworth drew in his breath so
sharply that it sounded as if he uttered an
exclamation. " That is a curious whim of your
friend's, to cut herself off from every one. She
has relatives living in Holmshire, hasn't she ? "
He had taken up his pen again, and was busily
addressing several envelopes.

Her relations are all out in India now, except
her father. And he has recently married an
American lady, and gone over to spend some
months in his new wife's country. Had he been
at home. Lady Clavering would of course have
gone to him for news, instead of coming to me."

Then you do not even know where your
friends are at present ? " Wentworth was now
beginning to fold his correspondence.

I am not sure ; I heard where they were a
little while back. But speak in the singular
number, please. Mr. Arlingham is no friend of
mine. His wife is entirely thrown away upon
him, except in so far as the trial of being his wife
has served to bring out the intrinsic beauty of
her character. Why she ever married him, or

how she could ever have persuaded herself that
she was in love with him at any time, I cannot
understand."

Wentworth frowned. " Women marry for
many reasons' he said shortly.

"Many women do, certainly; but Muriel
Arlingham is unlike and above most women."

These things seem to go by a law of contrasts,"
Wentworth returned. " And the pity of
it is, that the noblest women so often do marry
the most contemptible men."

"A commonplace admirable man would not
have satisfied me as Muriel's husband," Margaret
said ; " but in Mr. Arlingham there was absolutely
nothing to admire whatever. He was utterly
unworthy of her in every way. Don't you think
so?"

Wentworth was stooping forward to stamp
his letters. " I never yet met," he answered ina
quiet voice  through which, nevertheless, there
ran a thrill of intense passion  " the man whom
I should have judged worthy of her. But for
her husband to remain what Arlingham remained,
showed a lowness of nature beyond all
remedy. If the man had had the very smallest
grain of nobleness in him, it would have come
out at her touch. He would have grown better
simply by being near her."

Margaret did not answer. A formless suspicion
that had honos haunted her mind bee'an to take
colour and shape there ; she fancied she could
guess now why Paul had never married again.

You have heard of your friend, though not
from her, I think you said ? " Wentworth remarked,
after a few seconds' pause. He had
risen from his chair, and was putting his little
heap of notes together.

"I heard of her two months ago from the
Dalrympless. She was then at Venice, and they
met her by chance in St. Mark's one day."

I hope she was well ? "

Mrs. Dalrymple said she looked very white
and delicate, though not precisely ill. But they
did not talk much; she was shy and nervous,
and evidently shrank from conversation. They
proposed calling on her, but she made so many
difficulties that they felt it was best not to
press it."

What did Mrs. Dalrymple say besides ? "
Wentworth inquired, coming nearer to Margaret,
and standing over her as he put his
question. She could not refuse to answer it,
though she trembled at the turn the conversation
was taking.

"Very little about Mrs. Arlingham herself

I fancy their interview with her was of the
briefest. The rest was only hearsay  the gossip
of the English colony at Venice, which one must
of course accept with due reservation. A great
deal of what Mrs. Dalrymple heard may have
been untrue, or, at least, a gross exaggeration
of the truth. I hope so, at least, with all my
heart ! "

I suppose," said Wentworth, setting his teeth
and looking: his sister straight in the face  " I
suppose it is said that  that her husband ill-treats
her ? "

Margaret could not answer for a moment ;
the look in her brother's eyes terrified her too
much. " Not that positively," she said hurriedly,
when she had recovered herself "When he is
well, quite himself  I fancy he is only indifferent
and neglectful ; bub since he lost his
money and allowed himself to be drawn into
associating with people beneath him, he is not

always himself by any means ; and then

Oh, my poor Muriel ! What a fate for such a
woman as she is ! "

Compassion for her friend had overpowered
every other consideration in Margaret's mind for
the moment.

Wentworth made no reply. He dared not.

lest he should betray himself, and one whom
he thought of far more than himself.

It is one of those cases of hopeless misery
which rouse a feeling of blind rebellion in one
at times," Margaret said  most injudiciously, it
must be acknowledged. " Why does she not
leave him ? I do not believe any law, human
or Divine, could be invoked to compel her to
stay."

She will never leave him," Went worth
answered, forgetting his part. " She will work
out that penance to the end."

Margaret glanced uneasily at his stern, pale
face, and judged it well that he should know
the whole scope of Muriel's parting resolve.
When I knew where the poor child was, and
how things were with her, I could hardly forbear
sending her a few lines," she said. " Even
if she did not choose to answer my letter, I
fancied a little affection might do her food.
But on reflection I dared not, remembering how
earnest she seemed in wishing to hear from no
one."

Why does she wish not to hear ? " Wentworth
asked.

Because," said Margaret, who could barely
restrain her tears, " she wished to forget all

about England and those in it. I can only
follow out her wish, though I cannot understand
it."

Cannot you ? " replied Wentworth, with a
touch of scorn. " I think I can. But I must
be going now. Good-bye. I  I am sorry to
hear what you have just told me."

Margaret had spoken of " a feeling of blind
rebellion," but her wildest fears could never
have pictured to her such a storm as she had
conjured up in her half-brother's breast. \Tiy
had he yielded to his paltry scruples  or, rather,
to his unmanly love of self and fair fame  when
Muriel's fate had been in his hands a year
before ? It was he who had drawn back, not
she. At that moment it would scarcely have
needed more than a word and a touch  he had
known it well at the time  to make her his,
safe for ever from all the ghastly possibilities
of her present wretched existence. And her
misery was due in the main to him  to Wentworth
himself ! Had he not wrecked her youth,
she would never have become Arlingham's wife ;
and then, when the opportunity had been given
him of rescuing her from the worst consequences
of that fatal marriage, he had flung it aside.
She might have been saved, had he so pleased.

Saved ? Nay, the very word itself rebuked
him. Saved, indeed, from a life of fear and
anxiety and undeserved suffering, the very
thought of which wrunor his heart ; but how ?
By exchanging it for one of self-reproach and
shame and lifelong remorse  the only life possible
to such a woman as Muriel had she been
induced in a moment of madness to leave the
strait, hard path of duty and obedience. Wentworth,
expiating even at this hour his own past
sin in the knowledge of her suffering, knew in
his heart that she was happier than he. No
cloud rested on her soul now as she looked upto
God or out upon the world ; there would be
none resting there when she came to die.

I think there was something like an inarticulate
prayer in Went worth's mind that Muriel's
might not be a very long life.

He had been walking homewards all the while
that these thoughts surged and struggled in
turn for the mastery within him, and by the
time he reached his own house he was orrowino
calmer. He must write to the Premier now,
and then he would have to go down to the
Welsh Office for an hour; but there was no
hurry, for he could go on straight to the House
from Whitehall. No ; on second thoughts he

VOL. III. 58

must return home again, for he had left a
message for Mabel that she might expect him
at dinner, and she might be disappointed if he
failed her. The thought of her possible disappointment
would not allow him to make the
excuse he longed to make, and so escape from
the gay talk and the laughter and the bright
scenes which must always surround Mabel. Ah,
well ! he had had long practice now in the art
of smiling on serenely in spite of a broken
heart and a spirit wounded to the death ; and,
let his own suffering be what it might, not a
shadow of it must be permitted to fall on her,
his light-hearted darling !

He could hear her clear voice and rippling
laugh issuing from her oWn special sitting-room
upstairs, the door of which stood ajar. She
was busy consulting with her faithful maid and
quondam nurse over a new dress she was to
wear that night, and a rustle of silken draperies
mingled itself with her words every now and
then. Wentworth paused f(:)r an instant at the
door on his way upstairs, and even laid his hand
upon it, but he did not go in. A note lying on
a little table in the lobby caught his eye, and he
turned aside to open it.

It was only a note of congratulation from one

of his colleagues, and he was putting it down
half read, when he heard his daughter say, " Mr.
Wentworth is going to dine at the House, I
suppose, Dickinson ? " Mabel affected a formal
style in speaking of her father to strangers and
dependants.

No, Miss Mabel," replied Dickinson's voice.
He told me to say he would be home to dinner
at eight, and asked if your new dress had come
in good time."

Dear me, what a nuisance ! " Mabel exclaimed
pettishly. "He will be expecting me
to dress before dinner, that he may be able to
see how I look, and I really can't do that. I
should be sure to crush all this tulle most
terribly, and spoil the whole effect."

"No need to do that. Miss Mabel. Mr. Wentworth
said he meant to go with you to Lady
Hatherop's this evening for an hour or two. I
was to tell you to let Mrs. St. John know she need
not call for you, and say yoii would join her at
the ball."

How tiresome ! " Mabel's clear level voice
rang out remorselessly ; every syllable it uttered
was cruelly distinct. " What on earth put that
into father's head, I wonder ? I hate going to
dances with him ; I would ten times sooner have
gone with Mrs. St. John ! "

A few minutes before, Wentworth had imagined
that he knew what the extreme of suffering
meant, and that there was nothing further for
him to experience in the matter of pain. Now
he found he had been mistaken.

He received the blow dealt him unawares very
quietly, however. For a moment he put his hand
to his breast, as a man who had been struck to
the heart might do  perhaps it were not altogether
a figure of speech to say that he had just
been so struck  and then turned and continued
his way upstairs. In about twenty minutes he
came down again, and this time he went straight
into his daughter s sitting-room. She was tying
up a bouquet of Mareschal Noel roses with long
streamers of pale yellow ribbon, Dickinson
standing by, admiring and assisting.

Mabel," Wentworth said, in a voice which he
tried to make as natural as possible, " have you
written to Mrs. St. John to tell her not to call for
you this evening ? "

Mabel was startled by her father's manner. It
was not angry, nor even severe, yet it frightened
her vaguely. " I  I was just going to," she
answered, putting down her flowers in a hurry.

"Don't disturb yourself," Wentworth rejoined,
with the faintest touch of irony in his tone.

"You need not write at all now  indeed, I am
glad you have not written  for I am not going
to Lady Hatherop's after all."

Are you not ? What a pity ! " Mabel responded.
The words smote Wentworth with a
double pang ; their careless politeness was so like
Alice ! He wondered, too, what Dickinson's
opinion of Mabel's sincerity might be.

But you are coming home to dinner, at least,
father ? " the girl continued.

Half an hour earlier that question would have
thrilled Wentworth with unreasonable delight.
Now he only answered, rather sternly, " No ; I
shall not do that either. I shall dine at the
House, probably."

Again Mabel felt vaguely uneasy. "I wish
you could have seen me in my new gown ; it is
just perfection," she said with facile hypocrisy.
Look, is not the colour lovely ? "

Wentworth glanced at the much-belated
confection as it lay on the sofa. " It is a very
pretty dress," he answered. " I dare say it will
suit you very well." Then he made his final
effort. He took Mabel in his arms, and kissed
her. "Good-bye, dear. I hope you will enjoy
yourself this evening," he said very gently.

Half touched, half anxious to conciliate him

for she knew not what reason, Mabel responded
with a clinging caress. But at that Wentworth
put her from him quickly. " Don't ! " he said
sharply. '' You hurt me." And with those
enigmatical words he went away.

At the House only smiles and congratulations
awaited him ; at the clubs men gathered in knots
and talked of his new dignity and of how well
he had earned it, of his year of great work for
the nation, and of the honours that surely awaited
him in the future. For his past  he had lived
it down, men said, or was living it down ; and,
besides, who would remember to set bygone
frailties against the solid achievements of one
who had deserved so well of his country ? He
was fairly on the road to a magnificent success
in public life ; he was overleaping every obstacle
in his onward march to political power and
influence, just as he had done once before in his
legal career. Lucky ? Was there ever such a
lucky fellow ! Everywhere on the crest of the
wave  his very defeats turned into victories.

There is a success which knoweth its own
bitterness, as there is a defeat in which dwells
a hidden joy. There may have been a cruel
canker gnawing at the root of that very bay tree
which to David seemed to flourish in insolent

pride ; and even in these latter days the poet's
assertion 

" Deny alle Schuld yacht such auf Eden,"
is more generally and literally true than we
think for. Only, men wear such cunningly
devised masks now, that the majority of onlookers
are deceived ; and it would have been
hard to convince those who met Paul Wentworth
that night  those who heard his ready
answer in debate, received his easily turned
reply to their congratulatory speeches, and
marked his self-contained bearing as he sat on
the Treasury Bench  that this same brilliant,
fortunate man, this Polycrates of the hour, was
all the while crying out silently in the recesses
of his tortured soul, " My punishment is greater
than I can bear."

The not so very false, as falsehood goes 
The spiiiDing out and drawing fine, you know ;
Really novel-writing, of a sort,
Acting, improvising, make-believe 
Surely not downright cheatery ! "

R. Browning.

On a beautiful day early in the following May,
Muriel was sitting on a balcony of the great
hotel at Cadenabbia, looking out on what is
perhaps the loveliest prospect in all the lovely
Italian lakeland. It was late in the afternoon.
A pleasant breeze, just strong enough to temper
the fervour of the sun's rays, and to set the
numerous fleet of light boats which dotted the
steel-coloured waters of the lake in every direction
dancing and rocking gaily, was ruffling all
that beautiful expanse of water which reaches
from the Balbianello Point to where Menaggio

nestles under the great wooded mountains
dividing Como from her sister lake of Lugano.
Beyond the promontory where white Bellagio
lay literally ablaze with fiery golden sunshine,
the wind was blowing in greater earnest. It
came sweeping up the Lecco arm of the lake in
strong warm gusts which crested the waves it
created with foam, and tossed a great flat boat,
laden with grain (and on its way down from
Gravestone, no doubt), so remorselessly from side
to side that the swarthy red-capped sailors who
manned it were obliged to lower their square
brown sails and take to their huge oars instead.
They did not seem affected by this misfortune,
however, and toiled on patiently and cheerily,
three men labouring doggedly at each oar in their
curious native fashion of standing upright and
pulling forward, and breaking now and then into
a snatch of song by the way. Opposite Menaggio
and away to the left, where the waves seemed
roughest and highest, Vienna  most picturesque
of all lake-side villages  lay halt in shadow,
clustering round its tall campanile ; and in a
cleft of the hills close by Muriel could descry a
perpetually recurring flash of snowy whiteness 
sole visible sign of the half-concealed cascade
which, on nearer approach, reveals itself as the

Fiume Latte, a true " river of milk." Though the
snow still lay on the Val Telling range, and the
season was nominally that of spring, Cadenabbia
already rejoiced in the full glory of summer
warmth and beauty ; everywhere was the scent
of roses, and the rhododendrons and azaleas in
the gardens of the Villa Charlotte clothed the
slopes onwhich they grew with an unbroken
sheet of bloom down to the very water's edge.
Muriel sat on her balcony with a look of quiet
satisfaction on her face, drinking in the loveliness
that surrounded her with every breath she drew,
and listening to the sweet deep-toned bells of
San Giovanni sounding solemnly across the
water.

Hour after hour went by, and she still sat
there in tranquil solitude, seemingly well contented.
Helen Bretherton, now her constant
companion, had an adventurous spirit, and liked
to do and see all that came in her way to be
done and seen; so Muriel, whose energy had
forsaken her of late, was perforce becoming used
to spend much of her time alone. Perhaps this
frequent solitude had charms for her ; which was
a fortunate circumstance, since, except for her
enterprising cousin, she was alone in the world
altogether.

It was little more than a year before this
special May afternoon that Miss Bretherton,
coming in late one evening from a college concert
at Oxford, had been startled to find this telegram
lying on her hall table : 

Fror(i the Rev. Edward Being,

British Chaplain at Venice,

To Miss Helen Atherton,

25, Ridley Gardens, Oxford.

Mr. Geoffrey Arlingham died this morning,
after a week's illness. Come instantly to Mrs.
Arlingham."

And Helen had gone as she was asked, scarcely
able to credit the tidings conveyed to her; but
she found them literally true. Jack had "got
a chill "  one of those mysterious and deadly
chills which seem peculiar to Italy beyond all
other countries and climates  and it had made
short work of a constitution never strong, and
enfeebled for some time past by constant overfatigue,
excitement, and self-indulgence. He had
died almost without a struggle to retain his hold
on a life of which he had grown more than half
weary, and bitterly conscious of " having made a
hopeless mess of everything," as he said regretfully

 thus pathetically recurring in his last
hours to his old boyish expression of self-dissatisfaction.


In that concluding scene of his life history he
had turned wistfully to his wife, and Muriel had
not failed him. She had always been so ready
to pardon his wrongs towards herself at all times
that he knew he had hardly to ask her forgiveness
before it would be granted him ; but he wanted
more of her than her forgiveness  he needed
her to soothe, uphold, and encourage. And all
these things Muriel did, and did alone and unassisted.
While her husband lived, no one, she
was determined, should come on the plea of
assisting her, his wife, to disturb his dying hours
by their stranger presence, or to witness the
bitterness of his unavailing regrets. Only when
she had actually closed his eyes in that sleep
that knows no waking, would she yield to any
suggestions to send for friend or relative. Then
she said, " Send for Helen  my cousin. And tell
her to come soon!'

Muriel was very ill herself after this. Ill, not
of any definite complaint on which a physician
could have put his finger, but with that utter
prostration of mind and body which so often
follows a long period of unnatural tension

suddenly terminated by a great shock. Vague
and intangible as her malady was, she was
nevertheless very near dying of it. But youth
and the accumulated strength of twenty-seven
years of unbroken health triumphed, and she
struggled slowly back to life again.

Perhaps, after all, her illness was a blessing to
her. In that long-enforced inaction and utter
seclusion from the world, and in the inevitable
absorption of her thoughts to a great extent in
bodily ills and discomforts, her overstrained
mind had its opportunity of lying torpid,
becoming gradually relaxed, and then slowly
waking up, with the return of physical wellbeing,
to a new set of feelings and impressions.
The painful past was indeed still very present
with her, but her vivid recollection of it had
been mercifully dulled by those protracted
months of suffering weakness, when it had so
often seemed doubtful whether she herself might
not slip away from life for sheer want of will
and strength to live. Now that she was better,
she knew well that she had never really wished
to die; she had merely experienced for a brief
space that sense of excessive exhaustion which
makes life itself seem a thing of too much effort
to be endured. Her youth was full of bitter

memories  of peril and conflict and grievous
disappointment; but life was in itself good, and
returning health delicious, and she was vet
young enough to hope that the future might
hold better things in store for her than the past
had done. She defined nothing, planned nothing,
expected nothing ; only this vague confidence
was upon her, gradually filling her darkened
world with sunshine.

Her thoughts of her husband had become
infinitely kind and pitying thoughts. Now that
it was a sacred duty to think of him as tenderly
and as reverently as possible, she felt it no sin
to try and forget as far as possible the dark
years of their married life, and to revert in her
recollections rather to those earlier days when
Jack was her playmate, her friend, and finally
her proud and happy accepted lover. The Jack
of her girlhood seemed to have little in common
with the moody, dissipated man whom she had
vainly sought to soften and restrain by unmurmuring
patience and a life of uncomplaining
devotion which he failed to recognize till he
lay on his deathbed; but it made her at once
happier and more sorrowful to think of him in
his boyish simplicity. For the Jack of those
days her tears flowed indeed, but with less

bitterness. She was glad to remember that a
touch of his old simple self had returned to him
at the last : it made the memory of their final
parting less terrible.

When months had passed away, when the
first shock of her husband's almost sudden death
was over and she was at length well enough to
think about herself at all, she found that her
chief sensation was one of restfulness, of cessation
from struggle of any kind, and of an
almost absolute passivity of feeling as regarded
the future. All wish to try and order her life in
any way had gone out of her. She had made so
deadly a mistake in trying to order it for herself
once, that she had conceived a kind of dread not
only of any action which, should partake of the
nature of an effort after happiness, but of any
decision which could seriously affect her future
at all. She preferred sitting still with folded
hands to see what that future might bring
her. Even in all minor matters she let Helen
Bretherton decide for her, gladly accepting her
cousin's choice rather than incur the responsibility
of choosing for herself.

Thus, when the autumn came, and she was
strong enough to leave Venice, and Helen proposed
a winter and spring in Italy as safer than

returning to England just then, she acquiesced
unresisting. Happily, means were not wanting
to her to carry out the plan. Eversleigh,
indeed, had passed into the possession of a
distant heir, and the poor remnants of Jack's
fortune barely sufficed to satisfy his creditors,
but by the death of her godmother, which took
place about a month after that of her husband,
Muriel had inherited such an income as would
henceforward be amply sufficient for her simple
wants, and that without undue economy. The
helpless anxiety concerning material provision
for the future and the ever-increasing pressure
of debt were among the heavy weights lifted at
last from her slight shoulders. No marvel that
such relief induced a peaceful frame of mind to
which she had long been a stranger.

This sense of peace deepened as the winter
went by. Little by little, the feeling of absolute
freedom from any necessity for conflict grew
upon her, filling all her mind with a calm which
in itself was rapture to one so storm-tossed as
she had been for years. Gradually, too, the
memory which for years she had been resolutely
crushing, the love which had hitherto been only
her sharpest misery and her chief source of self-reproach,
reasserted itself  shyly at first, for it

was long before she dared allow herself to dwell
upon it, or could cease to regard it as a dangerous
weakness. But when once she had summoned
courage to look it full in the face  when she
had recognized that it was mere self-deception
to ignore its existence, and a piece of unworthy
and childish sentimentalism to persuade herself
that pitying sorrow for Jack's wasted life and
pathetic death had annihilated the one master
passion of her heart, a great and quiet content
fell upon her. She might think freely of Paul
Went worth now, and for the present she asked
no more than this. To be able to dwell proudly,
yet without incurring self-condemnation, on his
ffrowino fame and increasing honour among
men ; to read every recorded word that fell from
his lips with eager, blameless eyes ; above all, to
have leave to hold the recollection of him in her
solitary heart and to utter his name tenderly in
her prayers  all this was enough and more than
enough for one who had been so long forbidden
to love him, and who found in the simple luxury
of loving a continual source of passionate delight.
I do not think Muriel questioned much whether
Wentworth, for his part, still loved her. Perhaps
she took that for granted, deeming it impossible
that his love could be less steadfast than her own.
VOL. III. 69

Neither was she, as yet, very anxious to see
him. For a long time she could not well have
endured the thought of such a meeting; and
afterwards she was well content to wait for it,
having a happy confidence that in fitting time
it would surely take place. When Wentworth
thought it right and well to seek her, he would
do so : she did not even trouble herself to conjecture
how soon that day would arrive.

Of him, except indirectly, she heard nothing.
Margaret, when she had learned Muriel's widowhood,
had indeed ventured to write, and when
Muriel's long illness came to an end, she had
answered her friend's letter, a response which
finally led to the resumption of their old correspondence
 but in her now frequent and regular
epistles Margaret scrupulously avoided all
mention of her half-brother. She spoke often
of Philip, and occasionally of Mabel ; but touching
Mabel's father she said nothing at all.
Muriel, wearying sometimes in spite of her newfound
content for one little mention of the
beloved name, began to think that the interdict
she had laid formerly on Margaret's letters had
scarcely been a needful one.

When it was time to leave her quiet winter
retreat at San Remo, and she found herself

actually on the road to England, this repressed
desire for tidings of some kind grew stronger.
Perhaps the season itself stirred all the latent
youth and hope within her ; perhaps the very
loveliness of the scenes through which she was
passing  for, at Miss Bretherton's suggestion,
they were travelling slowly homewards by way
of the Italian lakes  rekindled the old natural
longing for some positive beauty and happiness
to illumine her still, shadowy life, and render it
more in harmony with its surroundings ; perhaps
the very knowledge that she was drawing week
by week nearer to London, and therefore to Wentworth,
combined with all the rest to disturb the
dreamy peace in which she had dwelt so long
with presentiments and anticipations and half-acknowledged
hopes which set her heart beating
at every " sunset touch " of remembrance, and
brought such new light into her eyes and colour
to her cheeks that Miss Bretherton decided she
was regaining all the bloom and beauty of her
girlhood. Helen wondered at the change, and
cast about in search of a reason for it, but could
find none.

She had been speculating on the subject while
climbing the Tasso San Martin, and came in
from her excursion with her mind still full of

the unsolved problem. She went straight to
Muriel on the balcony, for she had met the waiter
on the stairs bringing up the afternoon letters,
and he had given her three for Mrs. Arlingham.

The first, which was from Margaret Irvine,
Muriel opened eagerly ; and having read it, she
put it aside with a heightened colour and a shy,
half-suppressed smile. But she did not speak of
the contents. When she had glanced through
the remainder of her correspondence, however,
she turned to her cousin, saying, " Marjory hopes
to arrive this evening, but she does not say
whether by way of Lugano or Yarese."

Marjory St. John was the daughter of an
invalid retired judge who wintered regularly at
San E,emo. Mrs. Arlingham had made a kind of
pet of the girl during the past winter, and had
invited her to join her at the lakes for a week
or two before she returned to England.

Very like Marjory, to be so vague in her
announcements," responded Helen Bretherton,
who was rather jealous of the young lady in
question. "Have you heard from your stepmother
too ? "

No, this letter is from Mr. Earle  my cousin-inlaw,
Fred Earle. He is coming to Cadets
Muriel said, with a peculiar little smile,

gazing at the steamer which was slowly but
steadily making its way over from Bellagio, "and
he writes to know which hotel we are staying
at, as he doesn't want to be a long way off from
us. Poor Fred ! his ideas of Cadenabbia are
rather magnificently extensive, I am afraid."

Helen Bretherton had found the key to her
problem at last ! She knew perfectly now what
it was that had wrought so great a change in
Muriel during the last few weeks. How blind
she had been not to see sooner what the young-man's
constant comings and goings at San Remo
meant ! His following them to Cadenabbia
was of course conclusive ; and such a marriage
would soon make up to her dear Muriel for all
she had suffered in the past. A bright, frank,
clever fellow, rising fast in the diplomatic
service too.

Helen was fond of leaping rather hastily to
conclusions, you perceive. She had almost
settled the details of the wedding, while Muriel
was still watching the approaching steamer with
that half-smile on her lips, and in her mind going-over
the postscript of Margaret's letter : " / a7}i
going to take Mabel to the Isle of Wight for three
weeks tomorrow. Paul starts to-day for a
short holiday in Italy. Yoio lull see him, I

liope Margaret's significant silence was significantly
broken at last.

But although Miss Bretherton was brimming
over with misplaced pleasurable agitation, she
knew Muriel too well to let it appear ; and the
impulsive, romantic little woman with the
colourless hair and eyes was clever enough to
dissimulate well on occasion. She took up a
basket from the table, feeling that, tired as she
was, she must do something to work off her
suppressed excitement.

Our flowers are growing rather faded," she
observed. " I think I will go out and get a few
before dinner."

My dear Helen," Muriel said, leaning back
in her chair, and squeezing Margaret's precious
letter tenderly between her hands, "you are
quite a prodigy of energy ! But I really believe
your energy will kill you one of these days :
you will die of perpetual motion. Do leave
the flowers till tomorrow 1 They will do very
well."

But Miss Bretherton would not be persuaded.
To-morrow was Sunday ; and by tomorrow the
roses would be quite dead. She must really go
and look for something to replace them.

Very well," Muriel said resignedly. " A

wilful man, you know  still more a wilful
woman. Only if you are really going, please
wait at the landing-stage till the steamer comes
in. If Marjory has elected to come by Lugano
and Porlezza, she will probably be on it, and
you can tell her to come up to me here."

Miss Bretherton assented readily. She did
not much like Marjory St. John, but she liked
being the first to meet her. Muriel, from her
luxurious lounge on the balcony, watched the
trim little figure standing in an attitude of
expectation while the steamer hove to, and
silently extolled her cousin's good nature and
kindness of heart for the thousandth time.

A good many people were disembarking, and
a good many more were lounging about to see
them arrive, so there was something of a crowd
in the neighbourhood of the landing-stage ;
and though it is situated almost immediately
opposite that particular balcony on which
Muriel was sitting, she found it difficult to
ascertain whether Marjory St. John was among
the flock of arrivals or no. Apparently no ; for
if the girl were there, Helen would not have
lingered to talk to the tall man with whom she
had just shaken hands, and who looked almost
like Was it possible ? Yes, it was he,

Wentworth himself! He must have travelled
as quickly as his sister's letter.

Muriel was on her feet for a moment ; then
she checked herself, and resolutely sat down
again. It could only be a question of minutes
now before they met : Helen would bring him
up at once. No, Helen had turned aside with
him into the plantain avenue which leads to
the Villa Charlotte, talking earnestly. What
could those two possibly have to say to each
other ?

It was a pity that Muriel should have been
out of earshot of the speakers, one of whom
was literally and indeed Paul Wentworth. And
a most unwelcome apparition he was in Helen
Bretherton's eyes. Unwelcome he would have
been at any time, but at the present juncture
his appearance on the scene might be little short
of disastrous to Helen's newborn hopes and
schemes. She had never forgotten the suspicions
she had conceived at Oxford two years
previously ; and, great as was her personal antipathy
to Wentworth, in whom she firmly believed
no good and all evil things to dwell, she
had an exaggerated opinion of his powers of
fascination. Her old dislike and distrust of him
returned upon her in full force ; and though she

was not, as a rule, a very brave woman, she
determined that she would make one valiant
effort before she permitted this man to interpose
the memory of his unscrupulous passion between
her beloved Muriel and the young lover sails
peur et sans reproche, who was already on his
way to Cadenabbia to woo her.

But to produce the effect she desired she must
not let her animosity to Went worth appear ;
she must be 'diplomatic," as she phrased it.
Therefore she assumed a very cordial manner,
and greeted Mr. Wentworth with quite a respectable
show of effusive pleasure. Where was
he staying ? When had he left England ? Was
his daughter with him ? How strange that they
should meet at the very moment of his landing !

I left England the day before yesterday,"
Wentworth said briefly, in answer to the eager
string of questions addressed to him, " and I
reached Bellagio just an hour ago. I am travelling
quite alone. Having heard that you were
staying here  you and Mrs. Arlingham  I came
over. Is Mrs. Arlingham in ? "

He spoke very simply and manfully, without
any attempt at conventional subterfuges, and
Helen began to think it might be hard to turn
him from what was evidently a settled purpose.

This is very kind of you," she said. " My
cousin is at home, certainly, but she is just now
resting before dinner." Which statement, as far
as it went, was fairly veracious.

' I hope she is not ill ? " Went worth said,
anxiously. "I understood from my sister that
her illness was quite a thing of the past."

It is, indeed," Helen replied. '' She has
recovered her health entirely, I am glad to say.
But she is still rather languid at times, and it is
late in the day "

I see," interrupted Wentworth, trying to
master his impatience ; " you think it too late
for a visit. It is very late, I suppose. But I
was thinking of sleeping at Tremezzo : a friend
of mine has a villa there. Perhaps Mrs. Arlington
might be inclined to see me if I called
tomorrow ? I will come at whatever hour you
think best likely to suit her."

Miss Bretherton appeared to hesitate a moment.
" I should really be afraid to say," she
answered reluctantly at last. "The truth is,
Mr. Wentworth, my cousin rather shrinks from
seeing visitors. I do not quite know how to
propose to her to receive you."

The old dark flush came into Wentworth \s
cheek. He began to suspect this little woman

with the light eyelashes of being his enemy 
which indeed she was  and of trying to stand
in his path. " Will you at least ask her on my
behalf ? " he uroed, with as much gentleness and
deference of manner as he could force himself to
assume.

I am sure I would gladly do so " Helen

began. Then she checked herself, and said impulsively,
" Mr. Wentworth, you are a generous
man ; I am sure I may trust you."

Wentworth bent his head stiffly. He did not
believe that Miss Bretherton really thought him
either generous or trustworthy ; and he was
perfectly right, for she did not. But she believed
him to be very proud, which she fancied
might answer her purpose equally well.

My cousin, as you know, and as all her
friends must know," said the little woman
tremulously, for what she was doing frightened
her dreadfully, " has had a very sad life of late
years. Her marriage was a terrible mistake,
and her husband, poor fellow, made her extremely
unhappy. She is only just recovering
from the shock of his death. Following, as it
did, on so much previous trouble and anxiety
it had a very injurious effect upon her health.
It is my endeavour, my earnest endeavour, that,

as far as possible, she shall have nothing brought
before her to remind her of that miserable time."
Helen paused, and looked appealingly at Wentworth.


He bent his dark brows in ominous determination.
" And therefore you think it is better that
Mrs. Arlingham should not see me  is it not so ?
for fear of reviving painful memories ? I have
taken that question into consideration too, Miss
Bretherton. For which reason I never had any
intention of calling on Mrs. Arlingham until I
had received her express permission to do so. If
she feels that my presence is likely to cause her
the slightest pain, she has only to decline my
visit."

Wentworth was speaking now with so much
resolution that Helen felt she must go considerably
further than she had ventured yet, if she
wished to gain her end.

I only gave you part of my reason just now,"
she said hurriedly, and it was at this point in
the conversation that she took a few steps in the
direction of the plantain avenue, having become
suddenly alive to the fact that she and her companion
were standing in full view of Muriel's
balcony. " I will tell you the other part too.
Why should not I ? " she added in a burst of

confidence. " You have known Mrs. Arlingham
for many years, I believe  almost from her childhood.
I may therefore say to you frankly that
I have good hope now of something more than a
mere obliteration of her sorrows for my cousin,
and that she is on the eve of a great happiness
which will, I trust, fully make up to her for all
she has suffered. But her mind has become very
sensitive, and scrupulous, and easily disturbed,
and I dread the effect of anything recalling what
was so painful and distressing in the past. I
dread it inexpressibly, Mr. Wentworth." Helen
was very much agitated and very much in
earnest. There could be no doubt on either of
those points.

"I perfectly understand your motives. Miss
Bretherton," returned Wentworth, who had all
at once grown deadly pale. " They are clear tome,
quite clear. What is not quite so clear to meas
yet is the nature, or rather the full extent, of
the fact at which you have hinted. Am I to
understand that your cousin is about to be
married ? "

Helen Bretherton was apt in the heat of her
various impulses to exaggerate the truth occasionally
 she had never yet in her life deliberately
falsified it. But the temptation to save Muriel

with a word was great, and she had gone almost
too far to draw back now with honour to herself,
while a france at Wentworth's inflexible countenance
convinced her that nothing but a plain
downright assertion would have any weight with
him. It was only doing a very small evil that
great good might come of it; and Fred Earle
was actually on his way to Cadenabbia  she
would merely be anticipating events by a few
days.

Yes," she answered unflinchingly. " But it is
a secret at present." She congratulated herself,
as she spoke, on the way in which Mr. Wentworth
had framed his question. "About to be
married" just fitted the peculiar circumstances
under which she felt herself forced to reply with
an anticipation of the coming truth.

Half an hour later, when she came up to Muriel
with a basketful of azaleas, she found her standing
in the sitting-room eagerly awaiting her
return, with a strange brilliancy in her eyes and
a great spot of feverish colour burning on either
delicate cheek. Helen began to expatiate on
the beauty of the azaleas, but Muriel could not
listen to her raptures long without interrupting
them.

"Whom did I see you talking to after the

steamer came in ? " she asked with assumed
carelessness. " Wasn't it Mr. Wentworth ? "

So, in spite of Helen's tardy precautions,
Muriel had seen him ! " Yes, it was Mr. Wentworth.
He had just come over from Bellagio."

*' Is he staying here ? "

No, he has gone on to Tremezzo, I believe.
I fancy he is not making a long stay anywhere.
Curiously enough, Muriel, he knows Mr. Earle
well, and says he is perhaps the most rising man
in the diplomatic service."

"Does he ?" rejoined Muriel eagerly. "What
did he say about him ? " She would have asked
the same question just as eagerly had she heard
that Paul had been discussing the merits of the
man who sold cherries in front of the hotel ; but
Miss Bretherton smiled, well-pleased at this new
proof, as she deemed it, of Muriel's inability to
conceal her interest in Fred Earle.

Nothing very particular ; only vague generalities
of approbation and admiration," she
responded cautiously. "Let me see, what did
he say besides ? Oh, he talked of his journey
a little: he had come straight through from
London, he said, and was quite alone. It would
look better if he took that poor motherless girl of
his about with him a little more, it seems tome."

Muriel did not heed, perhaps did not even hear,
this moral reflection of her cousin's. Her mind
was otherwise occupied. Tremezzo ? It was very
near. He might easily walk over to Cadenabbia
before breakfast, unless he found it quicker and
more convenient to take a boat, or there was an
early steamer. Only why had he put off* coming
even so long as tomorrow ?

Did you ask Mr. Wentworth to come in ? "
she demanded, going into the balcony to fetch
the letters she had left there.

He seemed to think it was late for a visit,"
Helen answered evasively.

"Well, it would have been rather late, I
suppose," Muriel returned, with that happy
smile just parting her lips again. "He would
probably have made us late for dinner ; as it is,
I believe I shall hardly have time to change mistress
now. But it does not really matter in the
least."

Certainly it did not matter  how could anything
in the world matter now ? He would
come tomorrow; he would surely come tomorrow.
All night the carillons sounding over the water
sang her that one chime.

AT ST. Stephen's.

*' I never heard Isut two voices in my life that frightened me
by their sweetness. They made me feel as if there might be
constituted a creature with such a chord in his voice to some
string in another's soul, if he but spoke, she would leave all
and follow him, though it were into the jaws of Erebus." 
O. W. Holmes.

But he did not come on the morrow, nor on the
next day, nor on the day which succeeded that.
Slowly confident anticipation gave way to cruel
suspense, and then, having passed through every
stage of that hope deferred which maketh the
heart sick, ended in a dead calm of despair.
When the third evenings closed in without hrin(]-
ing him, Muriel knew that he would never come.

She did not try to deceive herself as to the
reasons which kept him away. Only one could
exist : a desire to avoid meeting her. He knew
she was there  Helen had told him ; Helen had

VOL. III. 60

even invited him to come and see her, and he
had pleaded the lateness of the hour as an excuse
for declining the invitation. He would not even
spend a single night in Cadenabbia, lest he should
encounter her by chance. How she hated herself
for the conclusion she had drawn so hastily
from the postscript of Margaret's letter, and how
unreasonably bitter she felt against Margaret for
writing it ! And yet she could hardly wish that
it had been left altogether unwritten. It had
been worth while  it was worth while to suffer
as she was suffering, to have had twenty-four
hours of such supreme happiness first.

She thought she grasped fully the significance
of his act, but she could not feel sure of the
motives which had prompted it. She could conjecture
many, but none satisfied her wholly.
The most plausible seemed that he could not
altogether pardon her the part she had played
towards his lost Stella; and though the vivid
recollection of what had passed at their last
meetings in Oxford seemed to contradict such a
supposition, she got over the contradiction by
assuring herself that he had then been carried
away by a flood of chivalrous compassion which
had temporarily overpowered every other feeling.
In calmer moments he had judged her

differently; and perhaps her culpable weakness
on that miserable day had helped him to a sterner
judgment concerning her. She could not, perhaps
would not, face the possibility that the love
he had so long felt for her might simply have
died a natural death, swallowed up by the tide
of his advancing ambition, or swept out of
existence by the current of a newer fancy.

However this might be, her visions were all
at an end  her vague confidence in the future,
her eager looking forward to the end of her
journey, her exquisite shadowy anticipation of
undefined happiness awaiting her in England,
all were alike gone. Helen Bretherton grew
uneasy at last at the change in her darling  at
Muriel's sudden lapse into silence and indifference,
and at the total cessation of her newly
revived interest in men and things. Her uneasiness
increased when she found that Frederic
Earle's visit, on which she had counted so much,
availed nothing to lighten the weariness and
depression from which Muriel suffered, and that
Muriel seemed only too glad to find excuses for
sending him away with Marjory St. John on
every possible occasion, and remaining alone
with her own thoughts, which, if anything might
be gathered from her face, could not be very

happy ones. Helen made one attempt to gain
Muriel's confidence on the subject of her secret
trouble, but was so firmly, albeit gently, repulsed
that she dared not try to repeat the experiment.

Once or twice an uncomfortable misgiving
crossed Miss Bretherton's mind, as to whether
her diplomacy had been quite successful in promoting
Muriel's happiness, but she quickly put
the misgiving aside. She was so perfectly persuaded
that it could not be for Muriel's advantage
to have anything to do with Wentworth,
and so entirely convinced that she must be in
love with young Earle, that she declined to
reproach herself for her crooked dealings, and
argued that the pale face and sad, listless manner
which grieved her could only be induced by the
distress Muriel must feel at witnessing the faithless
Earle's growing devotion to the obnoxious
Miss St. John, with whom he was certainly indulging
in a very promising flirtation. "My
poor darling is so proud that she chooses to
encourage it," said Helen indignantly to herself,
but it is breaking her heart all the same."

They lingered long on their homeward road,
for Muriel seemed to have lost all desire to reach
England quickly, and Helen had never been eager
to get back early in the summer. So it came to

pass that July had begun before they reached
London and parted company, Miss Bretherton
returning to her modest mansion at Oxford, and
Muriel sroino down to her old home at Alderton,
where only her father was left to welcome her
now. As Helen sat looking out at the rich
green meadows between Reading and Tallow,
she found herself wishing more decidedly than
she had ever done before that she had not expressed
herself quite so definitely at Cadenabbia
on the subject of Muriel's contemplated marriage.
Then her ensaoement had seemed to Helen a
certainty, to be proved in a few days' time ; and
now, whatever else was uncertain about Muriel,
it was quite certain that she was not engaged to
Mr. Earle, and mioht never be ensaejed to him,
since he had apparently transferred his fickle
affections to Miss St. John. And here a new
idea suddenly darted into Helen's brain. Was
it Marjory who had been the attraction all along?
The girl had been a daily visitor at the Villa
Charm during the previous winter : was it her
presence which had been the real magnet regulating
the young attache s comings and goings ?
Helen turned faint with dismay as this solution
of at least part of the mystery burst upon her
mind. Had Muriel been deceived like herself,

or had she seen clearly all the time at what shrine
Mr. Earle was really paying his devotions ?

Well, it was too late to go back now. Helen
was far too great a coward to provoke Muriel's
Avrath by a confession of what she had done, for
she guessed instinctively that the moment of her
confession would be the last of Muriel's confidence
in her; and she could not endure the
thought of losing her cousin's confidence. Still
less had she any intention of humbling herself
before Wentworth, and thus leading to the very
catastrophe she had plotted and prevaricated to
avert. Yet she was desperately uncomfortable,
and could only comfort herself by reflecting that
the harm done was not, after all, very great. She
lead at least succeeded in delivering: Muriel from
the unscrupulous wiles of a man she thoroughly
detested, but whom  much as she disliked him
she believed she could trust to hold his tongue
on the subject of the pseudo-engagement. Helen
felt instinctively that she might trust to Wentworth's
honour to keep the secret she had imparted
to him in confidence ; and she had never
positively stated to him that Mr. Earle was the
man to whom Muriel was " about to be married."
If he had chosen, from other remarks of hers, to
infer as much, that was his affair ; he could not

proclaim his inferences as a fact. So Helen
argued with herself, and was mightily comforted.
She would indeed have felt quite happy, but fora
certain sense of resentment against fate for
having placed her in the position of a forger of
unlikely falsehoods, when she had only meant
honestly to tell the truth  by anticipation. Just
so, poor Helen. It was the anticipation which
created all the disorder.

Muriel, as has been said, had gone straight to
Alderton, declining all the hospitable invitations
of Lady Ellesthorpe and Margaret Irvine to halt
in town on her way. She had a nervous horror
now of accidentally crossing Wentworth's path,
and so seeming to force upon him the meeting
he had taken such pains to avoid. Even her
rapid transit across London from station to station
was full of terrible possibilities to her, and it was
not until she found herself safe within the familiar
walls of the Manor House that she felt secure
from the chance encounter which, a few weeks
earlier, she had reckoned upon as one of the blissful
probabilities of her return, and the very idea
of which had suddenly become unendurable.

It so happened, however, that she had to go to
London after all. There were certain formalities
to be gone through in connection with the little

property left her by her godmother, which absolutely
required her presence in town for a time.
Thither, therefore, she went at the besjinnino of
August, gladly consenting to make Lady Elles-thorpe's
house her home during her brief stay, on
the sole condition that her hostess would not
insist on her going anywhere or seeing any one.
And to this condition Lady Ellesthorpe agreed
readily. " Indeed, I should have hard work to
find means of breaking the compact," she wrote
in reply, "for there is nobody left in London
now but a few wretched M.p's, whose wives and
families, less devoted than myself, have already
fled, and left them to their dreary fate."

When Muriel had been in town a few days,
however, there was a sudden burst of excitement
 "got up," Lord Ellesthorpe told her,
expressly for her benefit, it seemed to him."
A rather irresponsible but prominent m-ember
of the Opposition  " a leader of the free-lances,"
Lord Ellesthorpe called him  gave notice to
move a vote of censure on the Government
in re some of their recent acts in Wales, and
Ministerial whips went forth to the north, southeast,
and west, to summon absent members for
this unexpected debate and division of importance.
"You had better go with my wife tomorrow

night and hear it' Lord Ellesthorpe
said to Muriel. "It will probably be worth
hearing. Lynwood " (the "free-lance") " is always
racy, and there will be one or two other good
speakers on his side, and Orme and Carew on
ours  to say nothing of Wentworth himself, who
is always at his best when attacked."

Muriel grew pale with agitation. The temptation
was undoubtedly very great ; and surely she
might, with a little precaution, get to the Ladies'
Gallery without any risk of encountering Wentworth
by the way. But she would not allow
herself to give an answer on the spur of the
moment. She only thanked Lord Ellesthorpe
evasively, and said she would talk to Lady
Ellesthorpe about it.

That afternoon she had to drive to Lincoln's
Inn to see her lawyer, and it must be supposed
that during her drive she made up her mind on
the subject of Lord Ellesthorpe's proposition,
for as soon as she returned, she went straight to
his wife's room and told her of it. Would Lady
Ellesthorpe go ? She herself would like to go
very much.

Lady Ellesthorpe was perfectly willing to go,
and manifested some surprise at Muriel's thanking
her for falling in with the plan. " I am on

tire to go myself, my dear," she said. "I have
been gradually getting bored to death for lack of
a little excitement lately ; and I shall thoroughly
enjoy hearing our opponents get the worst of
it, as on this question they certainly will. Mr.
Logwood will first amuse us with his reckless
impertinences, and then we shall have the
pleasure of witnessing the process of his grinding
to powder at the hands of Mr. Wentworth,
who will sit down, when the operation is over,
with his usual magnificent air of scorn. I like
that air ; I should think it must be more galling
to the honourable gentleman who has just been
pulverized than Wentworth's most cutting sarcasms
 there is a lofty fatigue about it which
seems to say, 'After all, that pigmy was not
worth the trouble of aroruinoc with.' I should
have been very angry with you, Muriel, if you
had not cared to go; Ellesthorpe told me at
luncheon that he thought you were inclined to
be perverse on the subject, so I am glad you
have seen fit to come to a better frame of mind."
Muriel smiled faintly and flushed hotly. The
decision she had come to was the result of a very
simple circumstance : she had seen Wentworth
that afternoon. He had swept rapidly past her
in his brougham on his way to Westminster, and

although he had not recognized her  he was at
the moment looking over some papers he had
just extracted from his despatch-box  this passing
glimpse of him had awakened all the old
irresistible craving for the sight of his face and
the sound of his voice. " He will never know " 
that was how she tried to salve her pride  " and
there is nothing out of the way in my going;
it is quite natural that I should feel an interest
in the debate. I dare say I might have gone in
any case." Poor Muriel ! all her troubles had
left her just as much of a woman as ever.

Afterwards she said that the scene of that
evening always seemed to her more like a dream
than anything else. The eager watching as the
House gradually filled, when, from having at first
been able to mark the entrance of each several
member, she was perforce obliged, as the crowd
grew greater, to confine her attention to the
neighbourhood of the Treasury Bench itself; the
sudden instinctive consciousness that he was
among that serried group of men close by the
Speaker's chair, and the ensuing vehement anxiety,
amounting almost to agony, for his companions
to move that she might be able to confirm herself
in her belief that he was there ; the sudden dispersion
and movement of the group in different

directions, its members falling into new groups
and combinations like the pieces of glass in a
shaken kaleidoscope, and when these had consolidated
themselves once more, the sight of
Wentworth's tall figure standing in the gangway
holding a brief consultation with one of his
colleagues  all these recollections partook more
or less of a phantasmagoric nature. She could
not remember what followed much more clearly.
She knew that Mr. Lynwood spoke for a longtime,
his speech being, as it seemed to her, a
mixture of violent invective and more or less inappropriate
buffoonery  which latter ingredient,
at any rate, had the desired effect of putting the
House in good humour  and that throughout
the speech Wentworth sat perfectly quiet and
unmoved, only glancing now and then at his
notes, and sometimes salina at the ceiling of
the House as if he found the flood of virulent
abuse simply wearisome. She was vaguely aware
that Mr. Lynwood was followed by some one
else on his own side of the House, who spoke in
the same strain, but more soberly  as well he
might, being a very "responsible" leader indeed,
not of the free-lances, but of the Opposition itself;
that Mr. Orme replied ; and that the next speaker
was a " National " whose harangue was frequently

interrupted by disputes with the chair concerning
points of order. This speaker's utterances
roused her partially from her semi-entranced
condition. Among other pleasantries of like
nature, he alluded to a little scene which had
taken place at question time, and to an expression
of regret then uttered by Wentworth that certain
instructions of his touching the suppression of
disorderly political meetings should have been
so worded as to be capable of misconstruction,
by observing that "though Welshmen fully
appreciated the touching sensitiveness of the
right honourable gentleman's conscience, and had
never failed to admire the frankness with which
he seemed always ready to join his ancient namesake
of Tarsus in proclaiming himself the chief
of sinners both in his public and private career,
yet they were beginning to grow a little weary
of these fulsome expressions of a penitence which
led to no amendment of life." Then Muriel
glanced at Wentworth, and saw that he never
stirred or looked up ; she heard the Nationals
cheering boisterously, amidst cries of " Order ! "
and counter-cheers from the Ministerial benches ;
Lady Ellesthorpe whispered in her ear, "This
happens so often that I don't suppose he cares ; "
and in a moment more a significant hush fell

Ripon the excited assembly. Wentworth was at
the table, and had actually commenced his reply.
Men who were in the habit of hearing Wentworth
speak told Muriel afterwards that the
speech in answer to Lynwood was the finest he
ever made. She herself could have given but a
poor account of its subject matter, so thrilled, so
shaken, so transported out of herself was she by
the mere sound of that voice which had won her
girlish heart with its first accents, and which she
now heard in all its full power and beauty and
matchless variety as she had never heard it
before. Hitherto she had known only a few
notes of the instrument ; now she seemed to hear
all its strings vibrating one after the other.
The tones in which Wentworth delivered his
opening statement were calm and clear and
silvery ; but they waxed deeper, gathering to
themselves an inflection of piercing scorn, as he
made his overwhelming refutation of the accusations
brought against the policy of the Government
he represented, and rising gradually to an
indignant climax, broke out into full volume in
the majestic passion of his peroration, when he
called upon the House to reject the vote of
censure sought to be passed upon himself and
his colleagues for crimes of which they had never

been guilty. Whether he sat down again with
the " magnificent air " of which Lady Ellesthorpe
had spoken, Muriel could not say : her eyes were
too dim to see him at all just then. She only
knew that there was a great outburst of frantic
applause, the House being fairly roused to one
of its rare fits of excitement; that soon afterwards
she was told that the debate had been
adjourned, and that it was time to go home ;
that she stumbled to her feet somehow, and
went down the narrow staircase, walking as if
in her sleep ; and did not come entirely to herself
till she had driven away with Lady Ellesthorpe
in the cool night air, and heard her companion
lament the mischance that had prevented her
being able to congratulate Wentworth on his
performance. " Did you not see ? " she asked
Muriel. "He drove away just as we came out.
Very inconsiderate of him ; people ought to stay
to be congratulated when they have made such
speeches as that ! I had all manner of pretty
things ready to say to him, which will spoil
utterly by keeping." Muriel had not seen Mr.
Wentworth, she said. She could only hope
earnestly in secret that he had not seen her.

Well, she had heard him, and she had learnt
to her cost that she must never do so any more,

if she could possibly help it. If life  such a life
of duty and patience as she desired to live  were
to be possible to her, there must be no more
draughts of such a sweet and deadly elixir as
she had drunk that night, no more surreptitious
snatching of delights which awoke in her such
a tumult of rebellious feeling as she could not
have believed it within the bounds of possibility
she should ever again experience. The daring
experiment she had made must never, never be
repeated, if she was to have any hope at all of
attaining eventually to that peace of mind which
was her sole ambition now. She must run no
unnecessary risk of being forced to see or hear
Wentworth again.

For this reason she excused herself from
visiting Margaret at Margaret's own house,
though she welcomed her friend gladly at Lady
Ellesthorpe's. But for all Muriel's glad welcome
and clinging warmth of affection, Margaret knew
that the barrier which had risen up between
them two years earlier was not yet broken down.
Muriel puzzled her almost as much as Paul 
Paul, who had come back from the journey which
Margaret had fondly hoped was to put him right
with himself and the world a sadder and older
and more careworn man than he set out. It



was all very sad and very strange ; but after
Margaret had seen Muriel, the sadness and the
strangeness of it seemed greater and more inexplicable
to her than ever.

VOL. III.

CI

"YOURS, AND THE WORLD'S, AND GOD's."

Yet in these ears, till hearing dies,
One set slow bell will seem to toll
The passing of the sweetest soul
That ever look'd with human eyes."

Tennyson.

It is April on the Western Riviera : and can
anything, I ask you, be more serenely beautiful,
more tranquilly satisfying to the senses, than
such an April day as this ? The sky overhead
is dazzling blue ; the sea below, its sparkling
expanse broken here and there by jets and
restless of foam literally white as milk, is blue
also, ranging in hue from the deepest indigo
near the narrow beach, where the sturdy Cordillera
fishermen are sleepily mending their nets
or dozing frankly in the glorious laughing sunshine,
through numberless gradations and shades
and semitones of colour to palest turquoise on

the far horizon. On the hills the olives, stirred
by the soft southern breeze, are turning their
silvery under-leaves to the sun, losing all their
sadness of aspect for the moment, and the grim
stone-pines scattered among them are bursting
into fresh shoots of tender green, and the famous
palms of Bordighera, released from the long
winter captivity which was to blanch them for
the Easter festival at Rome, are gladly flinging
out their great fans to the light and air. Here
and there the wild peach trees show themselves,
laden with brilliant bloom, while in some
sheltered spots by the tiny rivers which run
through every valley  baby rivers whose only
work in life is to laugh and dance perpetually
among fallen boulders and over smooth white
stones till they tumble heedlessly into the sea,
adding yet one more shade to its endless kaleidoscope
of colour  a sweet strong fragrance will
guide you to the orange blossom which is just
venturing to unfold itself Among the olive
terraces themselves you may walk almost on a
carpet of flowers. The " faint frail wood violet's "
day is nearly done, albeit her shower relative
of Parma still flourishes in the violet gardens of
Taggia fifteen miles away, but as far as eye can
see are myriads of the delicate white narcissus

of the poets ; while brilliant anemones, red and
blue, double and single, are blooming in the
shadier spots where the fierce sun has not yet
been able to reach and wither their fragile lives,
and you can gather handfuls of tall scarlet
tulips, and of their more delicate lady sisters, at
your will. Down beside those stepping-stones
over the bed of the torrent, there is a nodding
company of starry pale yellow jonquils, and the
rock behind them is clothed with a curtain of
maidenhair kept continually fresh by the leaping
spray. The cicada have begun to chirp in the
sun, and even high up among the terraces you
can hear the faint wash of the sea below, mingled
with a snatch of Italian folk-sono from some
boatman less sleepy or more musically inclined
than his fellows. Old Bordighera slumbers on
the hill, very grey and silent to contemplate
from a distance, though within the narrow precipitous
streets  veritable staircases many of
them, up and down which men and women,
mules and donkeys, walk heavily laden with
equal unconcern  where the tall houses are
strung together by arches leaving visible only
a mere strip of sky, and perpetual shade reigns
dark and cold, there is bustling, chattering life
enough. New Bordighera is realty silent, for

there is little business doing to-day in the few
shops which line the one " long unlovely street "
of the town, and from the hotels and villas
young men and maidens, invalids and children,
have alike gone forth into the sunshine : either
to gather anemones at Camporosso, or to sketch
at Dolce Aqua, or to climb the steep ascent to
queer, picturesque little Colla, where they will
grope for a while in the strange picture-gallery
which is dark even at midday, and look down
on the white houses and red roofs of San Remo,
lying between her two headlands on the other
side of the hill, and finally wander home again
through the lemon gardens of Ospedaletti when
evening comes round. Some who do not care to
extend their wanderings so far have contented
themselves with the olive terraces nearer at
hand. And, indeed, what can the eye of man
desire better to dwell upon than the outlook from
that nook among the olives towards the west,
where we see Ventimiglia frowning on the hillside,
girt with her modest forts, and Mentioned
smiles shyly at us, nestling in her sheltered bay,
and we can look past saucy little Monaco jutting
out into the sparkling sea to the dim blue line
of the Esteems beyond ?

A party of people with whom we are more or

less concerned had chosen this last fashion of
spending their Easter Tuesday, in the April of
the year following that which had witnessed the
failure of the last desperate attempt to upset
the Coalition Government on the Welsh question.
Lady Beatrice Orme, whose gallant exertions
in keeping up her political salon had told
rather seriously on her health of late, had been
spending the winter at Bordighera, and now
that the Easter holidays had released even Cabinet
Ministers for a while from their labours, her
husband had joined her there, bringing with him
a whole contingent of friends to fill the pretty
little Villa Victoria, and cheer his wife's spirits
after her lonely winter. They were a cheery
company; young mostly, and all fairly lighthearted.
The element of seriousness was only
supplied by Paul Wentworth, who, travelling
along the coast, had halted to see his friend and
colleague, and had been hospitably persuaded to
linger on. Even he, however, seemed to have
caught the prevailing infection of gaiety from
the season and the day ; and while the al fresco
luncheon was being discussed, he threw himself
heartily into the spirit of the feast, and was once
again, as in vanished days he had used invariably
to be, the life and soul of the party.

They talked, as people will on these occasions,
in a light, discursive fashion, touching now on
this subject, now on that. At length the conversation
drifted round to the want of society at
Bordighera, and some one asked Lady Beatrice
if she had not found the winter intolerably dull.

Not at all," she protested. " I wanted a
genuine rest, you know ; it was what I came
here to get. And I had the children, who have
been in Paradise for four months. Of course it
was lucky that I felt no craving for gaiety, for
that was certainly not procurable. I had a few
friends at San Remo, but very few ; most people
one knows go to Cannes, you see."

Any one I know at San Remo now ? " inquired
Mr. Orme, lighting a fresh cigar.

Yes, the Secours are there, and the Earls
no, I believe the Earls have gone on to Milan
by this time  and the Cochrane are expected to
arrive there this week. And then there is Mrs.
Arlingham, who has been at the Villa Charm all
the winter."

"I should like to see Cochrane  you might
write and ask-him and Lady Mary to come over
and dine and sleep one day, Bee. We have
room, I suppose ? "

We could manage to squeeze them in, if yuu

really want them' answered Lady Beatrice in a
wifelike manner.

"And Jack Arlingham's widow is there, you
say ? Poor little soul ! she must have a dull life
of it now. She is not too well provided for, is
she ? "

"Rather better than I feared would be the
case. She came into some money unexpectedly
about the time of her husband's death  from an
aunt, wasn't it, Mrs. Bernard ? "

Yes, an aunt of her father's, who had been
her godmother, I believe," responded that young
matron, who, with her husband, was among the
Ormes' guests at Villa Victoria.

"Does she live quite by herself? She is rather
over young and pretty for that yet," remarked
Mr. Orme. "Try one of these cigars, Wentworth
; I can confidently recommend them."

No," replied Lady Beatrice. " She and that
odd Miss Bretherton  her elderly half-German
cousin, you know  are keeping house on joint-stock
principles. They have got an uncommonly
pretty little villa at San Remo, oft* the most
secluded part of the Berigo road. It is really a
most charming little place  only, unfortunately,
out of the way when one wants to go and call,
and hasn't much time to spare."

"Mrs. Arlingham has nearer relations than
Miss Bretherton living, surely?" said Wentworth
interrogatively, joining for the first time in the
conversation.

Yes, but they are all out of reach in India,
I think, except her father. I believe she spends
her summers with him."

I wonder if Muriel will ever marry again ? "
Mrs. Bernard said reflectively, after a minute.
The assembly under the olives was now reduced
to a quartet of members : herself, the Ormes, and
Wentworth. The rest had wandered off in quest
of fresh entertainment.

"Why not?" responded Mr. Orme, who was
lying at full length on the grass, luxuriously
enjoying his regalia. "She is young still, and, I
suppose, pretty still  unless she has altered very
much since I saw her last."

She is more than pretty still, although I cannot
say she is unaltered," Lady Beatrice said.
I hope she will marry some day."

Well, I don't think sentimental consideration
for Arlingham's memory need withhold her long,"
Orme observed. "I have no patience with a
man who can marry a charming girl, and then
behave to her as Arlinojham did."

I wish she would marry, too," Mrs. Bernard

chimed in. "But I rather doubt her doing it.
For one thing, I think she has been almost too
thoroughly saddened to have spirit to begin life
afresh ; and then she gives herself no chance of
forgetting the past, leading such a secluded life
as she leads now."

"She vent about a little last autumn with
Marjory St. John," Lady Beatrice remarked.

"That was purely for Marjory's sake. Muriel
knew that Fred Earle  who is a distant cousin
of the Arlinghams, I believe  was devotedly
attached to the girl, and that Fred's people were
against the match simply because her ' tocher '
was not large enough. She happened to have
some influence with old Mrs. Earle, and her
patronage of Marjory was due chiefly to a desire
to smooth the course of true love, which, by dint
of unwearied efforts, she successful did at last."

Then the engagement is formally allowed ? "

"Yes, and they are to be married in June.
Mr. Wentworth, will you kindly hand me my
sunshade ? The leaves are not wholly efficient
as a screen, I find. Thanks. Won't you come
into the shade yourself ? You look as if you were
finding the heat a little too delightful, and Lady
Beatrice and I both positively enjoy the scent of
a cigar."

It is not too hot for me, thank you," Wentworth
answered briefly.

"If Phoebus Apollo is going to treat us to
much more of this," quoth Mr. Orme from his
recumbent position, "I shall decline Apricalla
altogether. So if you wish your husband to
make one of your picnic-party. Bee, you had
better set it on foot before it grows any hotter."

I am quite prepared," Lady Beatrice averred.
Shall we say tomorrow ? "

You are really promptitude and willingness
to oblige itself," returned her husband, giving
her an affectionately admiring glance from under
the tilted brim of his hat. " In recognition of
which admirable qualities, I will not make even
a single counter-proposition. We lull say tomorrow
 at least, if Mrs. Bernard says so too ? "

Mrs. Bernard proved equally complaisant.
And the Right Honourable Paul Wentworth 
what does he think on the subject ? Will the
affairs of Taffy permit themselves to be neglected
for a whole day ? "

I think so," replied Wentworth, with a smile.
I am trying to forget Taffy's existence for a
while, in so far as he will allow me to do so.
And on the whole he has shown himself pretty
considerate of late."

But when, at eight o'clock next morning, Lady
Beatrice reviewed her party  a contingent of
which was gaily but uncomfortably mounted on
donkeys  before they started on their distant
expedition, Wentworth was missing from the
ranks. "Where's the cruel oppressor of the
down-trodden Cymri ? " she inquired merrily
of her husband, as he issued from the villa clad
in mountaineering garb, and carrying a formidable
stick. " Is he inditing one of his barbarous
despatches to his servile emissaries in Wales ?
If so, I hope he won't be long about it."
I'm sorry to say he is not coming."
"Not coming ? Shameless renegade ! "
He begged me to make his excuses to you,
and hoped you would receive them in a Christian
spirit. He has got several letters to answer  I
can vouch for them, Bee, for I saw them myself
and this afternoon he wants particularly to go
over to San Nemo, to call on a friend there."

Do you know who the friend is ? " asked
Lady Beatrice, whose curiosity was easily roused.
No, I don't. Wentworth did not tell me,"
replied Mr. Orme, turning aside to tighten the
strap of one of his gaiters. But a smile crossed
his face as he spoke. Perhaps among the olives
on the previous day he had observed more

through his half-shut eyelids than he chose to
communicate, even to his wife.

His scarcely formed suspicions were in the
main correct. When towards three o'clock Wentworth
started off on foot along the beautiful
stretch of road which lies between Bordighera
and San Remo, his sole object in visiting the
latter place was to see Muriel Arlingham. Since
Mrs. Bernard's careless words the day before had
shown him how greatly he had been deceived 
wilfully, he began to think, for it had been
impossible to mistake Helen Bretherton's drift
when she spoke to him of young Earle at Cadets
or to forbear seeing that her words on
that occasion had each been carefully weighed
before they were uttered  he had had but one
thought and desire, to see Muriel. He did not
go further than this at present. What had induced
Miss Bretherton to weave a plot in order
to separate Muriel and himself, how Muriel would
now receive him, what he should say to her
when they met, what he hoped and intended to
come of the interview, or if he had any hopes
and intentions at all  upon none of these questions
did he hold converse with himself. He
must see her  that was all. But how should he
find her ? Altered, saddened, too heart-broken

for hope  this was what they said of her. Was
it his apparent forgetfulness and faithlessness
which had saddened her ? Had the act of renunciation,
wrought in a very anguish of self-immolation
wholly for her beloved sake, been
converted by a malignant fate into the deadliest
of wounds dealt her by his own hand ? Was his
crowning deed of reparation become, in fact, no
reparation at all, but, on the contrary, the infliction
of a new and worse injury ? This was
indeed bitter, passing bitter! Well, he should
see her; and even if she turned from him in
anger, it would be something have looked on
her face again.

He went swiftly along the broad beaten track,
breasting the long hill leading up from Ospeda-
lett without break or pause, and never stopping
once to heed the exquisite surroundings of his
way. The pleasant breeze of the day before had
swelled to something like a gale during the night,
and though the wind had now gone down and
the leaves of the olives hung pensively motionless,
the sea had not yet subsided into calm. It
broke on the Capo Nero in sheets of foam, and
flung itself scornfully across the slender molto
which at San Remo affords the sole shelter that
dangerous anchorage offers to passing vessels

from the fierce Mediterranean storms. It was no
longer blue, but a palish green in colour, with
shifting opalescent lights flickering all about its
surface, and here and there strange belts and
streaks of wonderful browns and reds where the
mountain torrents had coloured it with the soil
they brought down with them or the recent
storm had churned up the depths below. But
landward all was calm. Only at long intervals
came that gentle rustle among the olives which
of all inanimate sounds is most like a human
sigh ; the white villas of San Remo had basked
so long in the sun that their red roofs seemed
positively incandescent with his rays, and even
on the lofty plateau above the Old Town, where
the church of the Madonna della Costa stands
white and glittering, there was not a breath of
air to stir the drooping branches of the trees.
The road was almost deserted, except for a few
peasant women trudging sturdily along, with
their great baskets full of olives balanced fearlessly
on their well-poised heads, and an occasional
country cart laden with wood, dragged by a string
of mules in queer ornate harness, gaily decorated
with bells, squirrels' tails, and pheasants' feathers,
and directed by a countryman who cracked his
whip, and sang " Ose Caruli," and flung himself

into all manner of picturesque attitudes in keeping
with the tenor of his song, solely for his own
amusement by the way. Carriages full of tourists
were few and far between. On such a day
people had evidently given the palm to upcountry
excursions.

On the Berigo road itself  at least, on that
portion of it where Wentworth had been told he
should find Muriel's villa  was absolute solitude
and silence. The house was about half-way up
the slope of the hill, looking west, and a little
withdrawn from the road itself, to which it stood
at right angles. From the gate Wentworth
looked across a ravine far below the level of the
road, where a noisy unseen torrent could be
heard flowing and foaming, to a beautiful range
of heights, terraced with olives to their very
summits ; and, lit up by the westering sun. La
Colla gleamed like a jewel set on the forehead
of the mountain beyond. Turning in, he found
himself in a garden where the roses were already
in full bloom, and the orange trees only waiting
to burst into blossom beside them ; while over
the pillared colonnade in front of the low restored
white house, a graceful wistaria and a
Banksia covered with flowers were disputing the
precedence with one another in tangled profusion.

Just such a home as he would have chosen for
her; such a home as he would be glad to picture
her in, during all the years

But an Italian maid had opened the door. Yes,
the Signora was at home  the Signora Arlington
?  si, si, si. Would his Excellency give
himself the pain to walk in ?

No, his Excellency would not do that just yet.
He wished first to know if the Signora was quite
disengaged. This determination he expressed influent
Italian to the handmaiden, who seemed
equally astounded at the determination and the
fluency, and finally prevailed upon her, not without
difficulty, to carry his card to her mistress
leaving him still at the door.

In two minutes the girl came back. La
Signora was at liberty, and Avould be glad to
see his Excellency. Would he give himself the
pain to walk in now ? She ushered him briskly
into the drawing-room, and there left him.

Wentworth looked hastily around. He was
in a small square room with two long French
windows, one opening on the colonnade with
its mantle of roses and wistaria, and the other
looking out over the ravine to the west. It was
just such a villa drawing-room as may be found
by hundreds nowadays all along the coast of

VOL. III. 62

Silurian Italy, speaking distinctly enough of
modest means, but beautified by a taste which
knows how to make use of small prettiness 
of a bit of graceful drapery, a fragment of
Florentine breastwork, or even of a mere branch
of spreading mimosa in a Vallauris jar valuable
only for its perfection of shape. But to Wentworth
the room was eloquent of Muriel. Hei-music
was open on the piano; her books were
piled on the table; a piece of unfinished work,
with the needle hanging from it, lay beside a
closed letter which bore her hand writing. All
this Wentworth saw in a flash of time, as it
were, for he had hardly been a moment alone
when the door re-opened and Muriel herself came
in, a tall slim figure in a pale grey dress, with
ruffles of soft lace at her throat and wrists.

Friends who have been long separated, and
between whom any kind of barrier has arisen,
rarely meet in actual life with much visible
emotion. Wentworth and Muriel formed no
exception to the general rule. They greeted
each other calmly enough as far as outward
seeming went, and Muriel said, " I am very glad
to see you. Will 3011 sit here ? " much as she
mio-ht have uttered those commonplace formulae
to any other morning visitor.

I am staying for a few days with the Ormes
at Bordighera/' Wentworth said, " and as I heard
you were residing here, I thought I might venture
to call. I am fortunate in having found you at
home."

I am very glad I happened to be at home,"
Muriel answered. "It is just a chance that I
did not go to Mariana this morning; Miss Brethren,
my cousin, who lives with me  or I with
her  has driven over there for a day's sketching."

She spoke very calmly, and her calmness gave
Wentworth a mortal chill. Now that they had
actually met, a gulf greater and more impassable
than any which had separated them previously,
seemed to have suddenly opened between them.
How could he guess that Muriel had lived so
long in the habitual repression of feeling that
she felt incapable of allowing any emotion to
show itself? How could he know that, even
while she uttered the words which to him seemed
so cold, she was crying out in her heart, " Thank
God ! thank God ! I have not missed him ; " that
her eyes were noting wistfully how thin was the
hand which had clasped hers for one blessed
moment, and that she had hard work to keep
down her tears when she saw how heavily dashed
with grey were the thick waves on his temples ?

Are you not fond of excursions ? " he asked,
with a strange sinking of the heart.

"As a rule I enjoy them very much. But I
know all this neighbourhood pretty intimately 
and this morning I had a headache. That was
my real reason for shirking the expedition."

"I hope it is a reason which does not often
occur with you ? I was thinking you looked
well  on the whole," he added doubtfully ; for,
though his eyes could recognize no diminution
of beauty in the face which for ten years he had
deemed the fairest on earth, he could not but
perceive that it had lost in roundness and colour.

"I am well  very well," Muriel answered,
with a quick blush which for an instant revived
all the memory of her earliest and most beautiful
bloom. " And you yourself, Mr. Wentworth ?
I am sure your office is one which must tax any
strength."

Plenty of hard work, with a due admixture
of occasional excitement," Wentworth answered,
with a slight smile. " I don't think it has
disagreed with me until this spring, when I
certainly felt a little out of sorts, and good old
Falconer was very anxious that I should try a
run abroad. I believe he was right: I shall
probably go home new-made after a fortnight of

this Paradise, and 'set my ruthless heel on the
Principality '  isn't that the last correct phrase ?
with renewed vigour for the rest of the
year."

The summer before last must have been a
terrible one for you," Muriel observed. She could
not answer him in his own tone ; the unchanged
look of patient pain in his face was wringing her
heart too deeply.

It was trying. But at times I rather enjoyed
it too. Those who have never tried it cannot
imagine how exhilarating it becomes occasionally
to feel that you walk about with your life in
your hand; you find yourself setting quite a
new and fictitious value on the continuance of
your own existence after a little while." Wentworth
spoke with a touch of his old recklessness.

It was terrible, terrible ! " Muriel repeated
in a tremulous voice  the first faint sign of
emotion Wentworth had been able to descry in
her. " But all that is at an end now ? "

For the present, wholly at an end. Things
are steadily quieting down, and I hope we shall
not have to ask for any renewal of our extraordinary
powers."

That is something," Muriel said, with a sigh 
was it a sigh of relief? "And is your holidays

be a long one ? Are you going further on into
Italy ? "

I may run over and refresh my recollections
of Genoa, perhaps; I shall not have time for
anything more, for I must start homewards on
Saturday."

Is your daughter Mabel with you ? " Muriel
inquired. " I should like very much to see her."

No, she is not with me," he answered 
Muriel fancied, a little sadly. " I should like
to have brought her out, but she had one or
two invitations she was very anxious to accept
in England. Perhaps we may do a little travelling
together in the summer instead ; but I don't
think very young girls care generally for travelling
 do you ? It is rather a taste which comes
with maturer years. Mabel prefers those pleasures
which lie near home at present."

I don't know ; I used to be very fond of it
in my younger days," Muriel replied. "But I
have done so much of it during the last few
years, that now I am glad to rest."

"You have chosen a charming resting-place,
at all events," Wentworth said. " This is almost
an ideal villa, I think."

It is rather small, but very sweet and homelike,
and the garden is a great delight all

through the winter. Did you see my heliotrope
hedge to the right as you came in ? Look out
of the window behind you, and admire it,
please ! Miss Bretherton and I are very proud
of that heliotrope hedge : it is considered quite
the finest in San Nemo ! "

Went worth got up and opened the window
wider in order to get a better view of the famous
hedge. It was in full bloom, and a little puff
of wind carried a strong breath of the spicy
fragrance into the room, and awoke in him the
recollection of another day ten years ago, when
Muriel had bent in girlish rapture over the
flowers he had brought her  his first and only
gift. " It is exquisitely pretty," he said, turning
back, and meeting something in her eyes that
set his heart beating madly. Had she remembered
that day too ?

Miss Bretherton deserves all the credit of
its beauty," Muriel said, recovering herself instantly.
" She is head gardener  she rules out
of doors and I within, and so we go on in perfect
harmony." She wondered why Wentworth
should frown so unmistakably at this mention
of her cousin.

She is your constant companion, then ? " he
responded in a voice which sounded rather harsh

She is with me in the winter and spring.
It is fortunate that she is at liberty to leave
home at will, for I have no one else of whom
I could make a Hausgenossin, as the Germans
say."

You had a sister who was not very strong,
I think," Wentworth adventured. " Is she in
India still ? "

Yes, she is still there, and likely to remain
there. She is still extremely delicate ; but in
India she can help certain work, useful work,
a little, while at home she would probably be
quite an invalid. She is so anxious to be
useful," said Muriel, with a quiver in her voice,
'sand all the doctors say her life cannot be a
very long one. And my brother and sister-in-law
are in India too. I have only my father
in England  perhaps you do not know he is
married again ?  and even home is not quite
what it once was. So if it were not for my
kind cousin, I might be a little  lonely."

But you have many friends ? "

Very many, I am happy to say ; only the
best friends cannot quite take the place of one's
own people. Sometimes I have thought I would

go out to India myself " She stopped,

colouring deeply, and quite unnecessarily, for

how was Wentworth to guess that what had
hitherto withheld her from carrying out her
idea was her resistance to put so many thousand
miles between herself and the country whose
air he breathed, where his name was for ever
sounding in men's mouths, and where, perhaps,
once or twice a year she might see him pass
in the streets ? " You have been in India, Mr.
Wentworth, haven't you ? Then perhaps you
can tell me something about this place in the
Punjab, where my people are now ? "

It so happened that he did know the place,
and for the next quarter of an hour they talked
only of that. Then he made a movement to go.
A sick despair was at his heart. If Muriel had
been cold or resentful, he would have tried to
soften or appease her ; but her gentle friendliness
held him back from any effort to approach
her more nearly as nothing else on earth could
have done.

She turned very pale as he rose. " Must you
go?" she said falteringly. "It is a long walk
from Bordighera ; I am sure you must be tired.
Miss Bretherton will not be long now. I
thought you would perhaps have waited till she
came back, and had some tea "

'' Thank you, not to-days' Wentworth answered

formally. " The Ormes have some people
to dinner to-night, and I should not like to keep
them waiting for me."

Muriel offered no further remonstrance. " I am
so glad to have seen you," she said. It seemed
impossible to get beyond that poor phrase.

You are very kind to say so. I feared you
might think it strange that I should have
omitted to call upon you at Cadenabbia last
year. Did you know that I was at Cadenabbia
in May ? "

Yes. I I heard so."

And you did think it strange ? Well, I
had a very grave reason for not calling  I
entreat you to believe me, Mrs. Arlingham, for
this is a very serious matter to me  a very
grave and sufficient reason. I came to Cadets
 to be perfectly frank  for the express
purpose of seeing you. On my arrival I was
informed of a fact  it now proves to be no
fact at all, but a falsehood, and, I think, a
malicious one  which convinced me that I had
better have stayed away. Yesterday I learnt,
for the first time, that I had been deceived, and
that the story I speak of was untrue."

What was it ? " The words broke from her
unawares, between two fluttering breaths.

"I suppose there is no reason why I should
not tell you what it was. I was informed that
you were going to be married shortly, and
therefore I felt it to be a moment when I had
better not intrude upon you. The visit of an
outsider like myself could only have been a
trouble to you. So I decided to  to stay away."
He could not keep his voice quite steady to the
last.

How could you suppose " Muriel began

impulsively. But she checked herself quickly,
if not altogether in time, and said more quietly,
That was the reason, then ? I  I had thought
it was something quite different."

Will you forgive me if I ask a question in
my turn ? What did you suppose the reason
to be ? "

Muriel's eyes fell to the ground at her feet.
That you had not forgiven me  that you found
you could not forgive me the injury I did you
years ago through your child. If you think I
have forgiven myself "

"Hush!" Wentworth interrupted almost sternly.
Do you think I will let you blame yourself for
the consequences of my sins  consequences which,
in your divine pity for me, you tried vainly to
avert ? Is this what you have been thinking

that I stayed away because I wished to
stay ? "

She answered not a word. Only as she stood
before him with her head still bent, he saw her
lips tremble.

'' Muriel," he said gently, coming a little nearer,
"you spoke just now of being lonely. Is it
possible that all the while I have been keeping
this bitter silence for your sake, you have wanted
me?"

Still no answer, unless that one swift look
upward at his face served for one.

"Cannot you understand," Wentworth went
on in the same gentle way, "that when they
told me you had happiness at last before you,
happiness with one who had youth, and a stainless
name, and a bright blameless life to offer
you, it was not for me to throw my shadow
between you and him ? Even now that I know
you free, I could not dare to speak as I am doing,
unless in some sort, of your own will, you had
stooped towards me : I am too unworthy. Do
you want any further answer to the question
why I did not come to you before ? "

She shook her head faintly, and there were
tears on her eyelashes.

A little love would have brought me to you

long ago," Wentworth added, losing command of
himself a little, and taking her cold hands in his,
but a love as great as mine could only keep me
away. I don't know what I am doing, talking
of little and great  what are words to describe
my love for you at all ? "

She was trembling so uncontrollably now that
he put one arm about her  not caressingly, but
as a support  and stood so, looking down at her
with something like compassion mingling with
the reverent, impassioned tenderness in his nobly
transfigured face.

"My child, my child," he said very gravely
and calmly  and never did even Muriel herself
guess the agony of conflict it cost him to preserve
that calmness  " I want you to be very sure of
yourself in this thing. You think you love me,
I know ; but are you certain that it is me whom
you really love ? Recollect what I am  a man
fast growing old, with a miserable history behind
me, and before me a future which must be always
darkened by bitter repentance for the unalterable
past. Is it such a one as this whom you love,
dear, or is it some eidolon of your fancy whom
you call by my name ? "

You  only you."

"Knowing what you know," the grave, tender

voice went on, "can you still give yourself tome
in faith and confidence ? Could you consent
to be my wife without misgivings, Muriel ? "

"Without one."

He caught her close to his heart. "So you
not only forgive all that has been," he said half
audibly, bending over her, "but you can trust
me utterly ? "

"Utterly, Paul, and in all things." Then he
stooped still lower, and kissed her on the lips, as
if to set seal on the troth she had given.

"Your faith is as wonderful as ever," he said
at last, smiling rather sadly, and putting her a
little from him in order to look into her sweet,
radiant face. " It was always great, I remember,
even in the darkest days. I had perforce to try
and become worthy of it ; I could not altogether
disappoint such faith as yours  and little Stella's.
But you have done very unwisely, child, when
all is said. There is plenty of sunshine in the
world; it is nothing but a noble madness that
makes you choose to walk in the shadow with
me."

"So long as it is with you," she replied hurriedly,
the rest matters very little, I think. Perhaps
I may be able to lighten the shadow a little 
and at least I can share it."

Such love as yours carries its own brightness
with it," Wentworth continued in a voice which
he tried vainly to control. " And it might well
be enough to make any man's life sunny. Yet
I dare not deceive you, my darling  there are
some things that even your dear love cannot do.
There is one grief at least that nothing can lessen.
I would not forget Stella if I could  and I can
never forget how I lost her."

For answer, Muriel put her arms about his
neck, as simply and confidently as Stella herself
might have done, and laid her head down again
on his breast. " Dear," she said softly, " I do not
ask you to forget. Though it breaks my heart
to see you suffer so terribly, I can even believe
that it may be right you should remember. All
I hope is that God will let me comfort you a
little."

