Chapter I.

 "Haste thee, nymph, and bring with thee mirthful jest and

S joUitT."'
V

Sakdycot was on the sea and a favourite

resort in the winter of impecunious and enervated

fashion, for Sandycot was salubrious

and cozily sheltered from the east wind. There

were hills behind and on each side, and in the

front a broad sea-level of golden sand circling

' the outline of the town and stretching away

J for miles to right and left till abruptly closed

sin by overhanging cliffs. The town did not

 touch the picturesque or the sublime. It

cJ was built of dazzling white stone, was orderly

jand regular in its arrangement, and intensely

modern in its aspect. Its architectural aspects

had only achieved the commonplace.

VOL. I. 1

It had been called into existence by the
railway, which brought it into direct communication
with London ; but Sandycot was
three hundred miles from the metropolis, a
fact which kept it select in the excursion
train and tourist season, and enforced exceptionally
moderate rents during the winter.
A long imposing pier shot out into what was
popularly termed the harbour, but no seasons:
craft ever cast anchor in its shallow
waters, which at the ebb of tide receded
to the extent of fully a mile. But when the
tide flowed high, pleasure boats came and
went, and small trawlers to supply the piscatory
needs of the inhabitants.

Little more than a generation ago Sandycot
had been the merest fiction of a village, a
little unknown hamlet, with but one small
church of no particular period or architecture,
of no genteel traditions, and with only
headstones and rough-hewn slabs, with here
and there a death's-head and crossbones for
monumental sculpture. A handsome edifice
now stood on its site, and in the stead of the
crony old parson who had held on Sundays

regulation ritual within its dreary walls, and
had on week-days tilled his glebe land with
his own hands, a smart ecclesiastic and two
smooth-faced curates ministered to the spiritual
wants of the people. Modern, commonplace,
and traditionless, Sandycot left nothing to be
desired by its conventional frequenters.

The principal country town of the district,
Nettlethorp, lay some miles inland, but it was
now deserted by the gentry, who with one
consent kept their high-days and holidays in
gay Sandycot, only once in the year rallying
under the old flagstaff of its venerable town-hall,
on the occasion of what from time immemorial
had been known as the county ball.
This ball was as exclusive as ancient Alack's,
and Sandycot was sparsely represented. To
have been at the county ball seemed tantamount
in the eyes of Sandycot to a presentation
at St. James'. It was the linoerinCT
element of a departing assumption, one of the
still recognized prerogatives of a class helplessly
drifting towards extinction.

One of the few remaining mansions still in
possession of the original owners was Egbert

12

Hall. This old manor-house had been in the
Egbert family for five hundred years, during
which period a male heir had not failed in the
direct line. With the failure of such heir
the strict entail would end.

This evil day had been more than once imminent,
and some curious family traditions
existed of how the calamity had been averted,
but these belonged to the " good old times "
and according to the simple plan 

That they should take who had the power,
And they should keep who can."

The present proprietor of the manor-house,
Edgar Egbert, or " the Squire " as he was
commonly called, was a widower with three
maiden daughters of a certain age. His only
son had been drowned when a lad, and the
dreaded day had at last arrived when Egbert
House should cease to be represented by one
of the nobler sex.

In hopes of still averting this misfortune
the squire had been urged by his daughters
to marry again. but his heart was true to the
one love of his life, his dead wife, and he
refused to call another by that sacred name.

I would rather see a stranger in my chair
than in hers," was his conclusive answer to
his daughters' pleading.

It was not aversion to matrimony that had
kept the Miss Egbertss single, it was mischance.
They had all been in their early youth good-looking,
and had not lacked wooers, but an
ill-fate had attended their several engagements,
and now, at the period when this tale
begins, they had, to all appearance at least,
settled resignedly down into a state of single
blessedness.

Mabella was the name of the eldest Miss
Egbert, Dulcibella of the second, and Isabella
of the third. Sybella was six years the junior
of Mabella.

They lived the year round at Egbert Hall,
with an annual interregnum of two months at
Sandycot, where they owned one of the few
old houses that lingered on the outskirts of
the town.

This house was named Egbert Lodge. It
was square, of grey stone, unpretending, but
substantial-looking, and to the last extreme
comfortable with old-fashioned comfort within.

About two acres of ground were laid out
in an old-world garden and orchard, with, in
the front, concession to the modern needs of
a lawn, which had done duty for a croquet-ground
when that game held its day, but was
now transformed into a lawn-tennis inclosure.
Much hospitality was observed in Egbert
Lodge.

The Sandycot season had just commenced.
It had opened propitiously, the weather being
exceptionally favourable. Every house was
occupied and the hotel crowded.

The Miss Egbertss had arrived at the Lodge
a week earlier than their wont, in anticipation
of a visitor in the person of a fair young girl
of some eighteen summers to whom they bore
a distant cousinship.

This cousinship, which from its remoteness
might in families prolific in offshoots have
been ignored or lightly regarded, was by
the Miss Egbertss invested with the importance
attached to articles of vertu which, if
destroyed, can never be replaced.

Relationship in the Egbert family had, with
few exceptions, become traditions.

Judith Aylmere  " Judy " lier intimates
called her  was, however, no tradition ; she
was a reality, and to her far-away Egbert
cousins a very tangible link to a place among
the living. The cousinship was distilled
through the squire's grandfather, whose
brother had married a Mabella Aylmere, and
the only issue of this marriage, a daughter,
having married an Aylmere cousin, gave to
posterity one son, Edgar Egbert Aylmere, the
father, dead of late years, of the Judy of our
tale.

Judy, too, was an only child, and from the
present position of things it seemed not at all
unlikely that she would succeed the last of the
Egbertss in possession of the old family property.
There were none with nearer claim of
Egbert blood, and with the present squire
the strict entail ended. It was, in fact, in the
squire's power to re-entail the lands, or to
leave them absolutely to whom he would.
Judy's possible inheritance was an eventuality
greatly considered by her mother, a widow on
a small jointure. To Judy herself it was as a
far-off vision, a possibility of a future she did

not care to anticipate, even in thought. She
was not given to castle-building, and youth
with its golden present was hers.

This visit to Sandycot was the first in her
character of debutante ; hitherto she had been
received as a holiday schoolgirl, and her
bondage accruing to that status had not been
pleasant.

The day of her arrival at Egbert Lodge
happened to be the day the Miss Egbertss
received  their day at home according to the
now accepted custom.

The room was full when Judy entered it,
and, somewhat bashful, she hesitated as she,
self-announced, opened the door. Her 
was in her hand, and her hair, tied ina
loose bunch behind, fell below her waist.
Judy was not shy by nature, but she was not
always self-assured, and the sudden sight of
the gathered company, talking, moving and
laughing, for the moment checked her advance.
Mabella was the first to notice the
new arrival ; she was seated near the
door, talking with rather a conscious air
to a distinguished-looking man, whose

bearing pronounced him of the military
profession.

Judy ! " lie said, rising and holding out
both hands in warm greeting, which was emphasized
by a kiss on either cheek. In this
Dulcibella and Sybella followed suit, and then
Judy was formally introduced to such of the
company as were her cousins' intimates, but
among these the gentleman in question was
not included. Leaving Judy with Sybella,
who distributed the tea in a recess, Mabella
returned to her seat and her companion.

Who is that Mabella is making herself so
agreeable to ? " asked Judy of Sybella.

Major Tyler," was the curt reply.

The asperity of Sybella's tone warned Judy
not to pursue her inquiries. She merely added :

A handsome man, but not over pleasant -
looking."

Oh," said Sybella, who was given to detraction,
" outward looks and inward graces
don't always go together."

She could not tell why  she was, indeed,
unconscious of the fact  but by some unrecognized
but all-powerful magnetic force her

eyes constantly turned to Mabella's chair and
the dark commanding stranger bending towards
it, and as often, as if by an equally
sympathetic power of attraction, his eyes
at the moment sought hers. Judy became
flushed and angry with herself.

"He'll think I'm admiring him," she said
to herself with a switch round of her banded
locks, " and I'm only wondering what he and
Mabella can have to say to each other all this
time."

'Not one of the company broke in on that
tete-astute ; discreetly all eyes were turned in
other directions. Judy began to move about
the room and to greet acquaintances. She
received congratulations on her emancipation
from school bondage and compliments
on her blooming countenance, which was
ruddy with youth and happiness. The face
was a rounded oval, and the features, though
not actually irregular, were still too piquant
to be deemed of any distinct form of beauty.
The small arched mouth, straight but abruptly
pert-looking nose, soft laughing eyes, and low
broad brow, over which the hair fell in

natural flakes and little feathery curls, made
a very lovely and unique picture of fresh
innocent maidenhood, pure English in type
and country in breeding, for there was nothing
of the town miss about Judy. The incidental
whispers that connected her possible future
with the old Eo-bert estates invested her with
a certain marketable value in the eyes of
Sandycot matrons, and, in the regards of

the grandes dames par excellence of shire

with a consideration and appreciation a city
heiress with treble the amount in present and
hard cash had failed to elicit. For the rest,
she was of middle height, almost defiantly
erect, every line rounded, every curve graceful.

In her progress round the room she arrived
at the corner occupied by Mabella and Major
Tyler, when, at a whispered request from the
latter, Mabella caught her by her pendent
parasol, saying :

Judy, child. Major Tyler wishes to be
introduced to you," which intimation Judy
received with a stiff little courtesy and, to her
extreme mortification, an intense blush.

Now Judy was rather given, when unduly

repressed, to forcible expression. She had a
little repertory of her own, a demonstrative
but in no way an offensive one. On this she
drew as occasion gave rise. " My safety valve,"
she called this reserve, with which, however,
she never flagrantly transgressed either refined
sensibilities or honest prejudice. They had
come to be regarded by her intimates as a bit
of Judy, and so not to be judged on their own
merits, and Judy was, as every one knew,
quite unlike any one else. To her mother,
who was both commonplace and narrowly
conventional, they had come to be a relief
also, for Judy was of a fiery nature, and one,
or two at most, of such expletives invariably
dispersed a summer cloud.

The major returned her frigid obeisance
with a low bow and, as her quick eye observed,
a self-satisfied smile.

I thought it was one of the Needs when
I saw you enter the room," he said, " a vision
of the sea."

Bosh ! " muttered Judy ; when, feeling relieved,
she said simply, " A watery compliment,
is it not, Mabella ? "

Evidently used from the same quarter to
something of stronger flavour, Mabella looked
at the major with a conscious simper and said,
I am afraid Judy, like her name, is not
poetical."

Judith is poetical enough," said the major
deprecatingly ; " it is redolent of poetical
associations."

Which I am not," replied Judy ; then
turning sharply, as if on a pivot, she
added, "Where is cousin Egbert, Mabella?
I shan't feel I've come till I get his double
kiss."

Would a substitute do ? " slyly whispered
the major.

Ask Mabella," was the mischievous reply,
and then Judy catching sight of the squire
through the windows which opened to the
ground walked impetuously away and the
next minute was seen clasping her cousin
round the neck, returning with interest his
double salute. Again by the same occult
force she turned her eyes in the direction
of the retired corner where sat Mabella and
her slightly distrait major, and again over

the gentleman's countenance passed the same
irritating smile of conscious power.

Judy's impulses carry her out of herself,"
said Mabella apologetically ; " she will tone
down in time."

"She could not have better models of all
womanly graces than in her cousinhood of
Egbert Lodge," was the low and somewhat
stilted reply  a reply, though, eminently judicious,
as it implied that in the major's eyes
extreme youth lacked the womanly graces of
maturer years.

Who is Mabella's friend, cousin Egbert ? "
asked Judy, subsiding on the squire's arm and
drawing him towards the back of the house,
that she might, as she said, shake hands with
Tim  Tim beings a small bull-terrier who on

o

receiving days was not allowed to mix with
the family.

Were you not introduced ? " asked the
squire.

Of course we were," she answered sharply,
and we're both as wise as before. He had
never heard of me, I saw that at a glance,
and I most certainly had not heard of him, so

all I know is that he is a Major Tyler, and I
suppose he thinks me a bread-and-butter
miss."

Well, Judy, you know about as much as I
do," and the squire's kindly face took a shade
of care. " He was in the 6th Dragoons, saw
some service in India, I believe, and sold out
just before the new Army BilL Who the
Tyler are, goodness may know, but not I."

Do you like him, cousin Egbert ? "

He is an agreeable companion," was the
evasive reply.

Does Sybella like him ? "

Dulsie does."

Oh, cousin Egbert, you sinuous evader,
just as if you could elude me," and Judy's
laugh rang out in a silvery key, to which
came a response in the shape of a sharp yelp.
"That's Tim, downright Tim," she cried,
quickening the squire's movements by a
vigorous pull, at the same time putting to
her lips a tiny gold whistle suspended to her
watch-guard, and blowing a shrill blast. By
the time they had arrived at the little outhouse
in which for the nonce Tim was confined,

the flooring was strewed with fragments
of the panelling of the door, torn off in the
frantic efforts of the dog to Liberate himself to
greet his well-beloved playmate.

*' No two words about liking or disliking
with Tim," cried Judy, lifting the little animal
and kissing him between the eyes.

The squire laughed.

The major knows that to his cost," he
said.

How does he get over the difficulty with
Mabella ? " asked Judy ; " it's ' love me, love my
dog,' you know, and I'm afraid it's only the
few who appreciate Tim."

"The very few," said the squire, looking at
the animal now " doing statue " as Judy said ;
that is, he had subsided into fixed stillness
against the shut door of his prison. He was
seated on his hind legs, perfectly erect, his
front legs stuck straight out and wide apart,
his little round bull-head, with its thick undershot
jaw, fierce nostril, and protruding eyes of
fiery black, turned up at Judy, imploring,
adoring and defying.

I think you had better put him up now,"

suggested the squire, and he put out his hand
to open the door. A low determined growl
dared him to effect his purpose.

Timothy," said Judy.

Back went all that was left of ears, but only
a quiver from nose to tail answered to the
remonstrating' utterance. 'k m:

"Timotheus." ' -m:-

Another quiver, but not a stir.  f.;;

Cousin Egbert  open, please."

The squire lifted the latch, bending guardedly
across the animal which now quivered violently,
but still stirred not an inch. '

Tim," said Judy in a tone of appeal, and
Tim made a spring forward. Xot in time
though, for the latch lifted, the door swung
back, and suddenly losing his support he
rolled over backwards. Before he could recover
himself the squire had once more closed
the door. . j

Kinder mean that," cried Judy, laughing ;
another minute and he would have walked
in of his own accord ; now there'll be no
quieting him." r -

"Get him a bone," said the squire.

VOL. I. 2

A bone indeed ; Tim lias a soul above
bones ; treat me fair, is all he asks. Oh, cousin
Egbert, there are dog souls as well as human
souls ; it's a very responsible world is this."

She then cautiously opened the door and
let herself in, drawing it after her. In a few
moments Tim's indignant howls had subsided
into an occasional fretful yelp ; then these, too,
ceased, and when Judy issued forth he had
retired to his basket in the corner and had
curled himself up in obedient resignation, to
wait, as Judy had admonished him, " till the
quality had gone." " You may look at him,
cousin Egbert." This from a prudent distance
the squire did, observation which Tim returned
with a snarl of disgust.

The company had all dispersed dien Judy,
accompanied by the squire, re-entered the
drawing-room ; all but two. Major Tyler and
a youth apparently about twenty-three years
old. The name of this youth was Lawson,
Edward, otherwise Ned Lawson.

Judy and Mr. Eawson were evidently no
strangers to each other, and they where as
evidently pleased to meet again ; but while

Judy's greeting was frank, Mr. Eawson's was
constrained ; and as if from, what did not
appear to be this temperament, slyness, he
blushed.

Father dear," said Mabella, " Mr. Eawson
will dine with us," an announcement which
seemed to please the squire. " I am surprised,
Judy," said Mabella, " that a young man like
Mr. Eawson should blush upon being introduced
to a girl like you, a mere schoolgirl."

Now, Mabella, that is spiteful," cried
Judy with unruffled good-humour ; " and I
had my portfolio on the top of my trunk to
show this very night, now I shan't. A schoolgirl
indeed! Why, my head of Socrates in
chalks would turn you white with envy ; and
as for my Melrose Abbey by moonlight, no
room for masterly strokes there to finish off,
it's all master strokes," and she laughed.

I should think it was," said Sybella ;
why, child, you never could draw even a
stick."

Sever tried," said Judy slyly, looking
from under her eyes at the youngest Miss
Egbert, who was thin of visage and formal.

22

But, you see, that is the advantage of a
boarding-school," she continued, as if afraid
of being anticipated ; " there our deficiencies
are supped. Now you had governesses at
home, just another name for self-development."


"Well, Judy, there is one thing I'm glad
of," said Squire Egbert as he opened the door
at the sound of the warning gong for dinner
and with old-fashioned courtesy bowed his
daughters and their merry young cousin
out.

What's that, cousin Egbert ? " she asked.

That, for your tongue's sake, you hadn't a
governess at home."

Well," she retorted, determined to have
the last word, " self-development and self-creation
are sometimes convertible terms."

"Judy dear," said Mabella as she looked
into the former's room to see that all was, as
she expressed it, " comfortable," " whatever
will Major Tyler think of you ? "

He has no notion of thinking of me," was
the pointed answer ; " he's thinking of someone
else. Why didn't you tell me about him

in your letters ?  not even Dulsie gave me a
hint."

A hint of what ? " and Mabella tried to
look dignified and repressive, but only succeeded
in looking important and conscious.

Why, that there was such a handsome fascinating
stranger in Sandycot. You didn't
wish to turn my head in prospective, I suppose.
But no fear, cousin mine, this little
knowledge-box," and Judy shook the organ in
question till the small flaky curls on her brow
danced up and down as if in derision, "is too
well weighted to be easily overbalanced."

"Ah, Judy dear," said Mabella, suddenly
relaxing, and at the same time hastening away,
the heart and the head are different things."

<E

' Love me, love my dog."

By Jove," said Judy to herself as the door
closed on the substantial spinster, " by Jove,
she's bit."

A very few minutes sufficed to make Judy's
simple toilette, and then waiting for Mabella's
maid to add some finishing touches she
threw herself into a low easy-chair, to have
a " think," as she phrased it.

Judy's eyes were arch and blue ; these
she closed, that nothing? miofht distract her
introspective vision. Her lips were arched
in a true Cupid's bow ; she pursed them
firmly, that they might not easily relax into
a frivolous smile. Her chin, which had a
decided cleft in the centre, rested on the
partially folded fingers of one hand, while
the other lay under her recumbent head.
One tiny arched foot was crossed over the

Other, but these, as the nimble thoughts
flew through the busy little bran, changed
place continuously ; in her stillest of moods
there was no motionless rest in Judy. And
as she pondered, light and shade chased each
other over her bright child-like countenance,
the only tell-tales of the active agitation
within. Insensibly the shadows came thicker,
the little feet ceased their motion, the fingers
grasped the cleft chin closer, and the eyelids
wrinkled till the long silken lashes quivered
as in sympathy.

Suddenly the gong boomed out its summons
to dinner, and with a start and a jump Judy
returned to the outer world.

For one minute, no longer, she stood before
the long mirror in her toilet-table, light
stru2"G[linf back on her disturbed visage ;
then turning abruptly on her heel she said
in a sharp self-contemptuous tone, "Bosh!"
and evidently much relieved and quite herself
again, she opened the door and ran
singing downstairs, kissing her hand gaily
to Tubbs, Miss Egbert's maid, in token that
she was too late to be of service.

But that night, before retiring to rest, she
wrote in the seclusion of her bedchamber
a little note to her mother, destined for the
early morning post, and supplementary to the
post card she had despatched by the evening
mail to tell of her safe arrival.
. The note was as follows :

- " My dearest Mammy, 

As I promised to tell you if Xed " 
here she altered the Xed to Mr.  "Mr.
Eawson appeared on the Scene, I send you
a little note to say he has, looking, too, as

stu ," another alteration  " steeped in

nothing as ever." (" That's a happy phrase,"
she said to herself complacently, " but it will
be lost on mamma," and she sighed ; " mamma
is so matter-of-fact.") She then resumed : "He
has not arranged a career yet, he tells me."
(" She'll understand that ; ' arrange ' is a stock
word of mamma's") "He is ' too old' for the
army, fears it is rather late to begin for the
Church, would rather die than be a doctor,
and has no opinion of farming as a paying
industry ; and the provoking part of it is,

there is a ring of true metal in the man " 
another erasure, and " lad " substituted ;  " for
when Major Tyler  I'll tell you about him
directly  sneered and said, ' He must invent
an occupation to suit this young gentleman,'
he replied quite simply, ' Civilization has
anticipated you ; I think of politics.' ' And I
wonder what politics will think of you ? '
answered the major, very impudently I say.
Just what metaphysics and philosophy and
all the rest of it did,' cried I, like a quixotic
idiot. 'Why, he is Bea. of Oxford, an honour-man,
too, and was stroke-oar in the last race
as well.' I knew I had made a eoose of
myself, for sed  Mr. Eawson  looked so
delighted, and there really was no substantial
cause, and Major Tyler so viciously pleased.
Miss Aylmere,' he said to Mabella, whose
side he never leaves  but more of that
hereafter  ' Miss Aylmere would make an
invaluable special pleader. I advise her to
study the law if she, like our young friend
here, wants a career.' Then before I could
even fire up, Ned (Mr. Eawson) turned him
over  metaphorically of course  so neatly.

I have known many a woman who would
have been an ornament to any profession,
he said, ' and I am sure if Miss Aylmere '-
he very nearly said Judy  ' chose such a
Career she would never stop short in the
middle.'

Oh, mammy, it was splendid, though I
don't think Mabella quite took it in ; but
Sybella did, and, I fancy, cousin Egbert too.
As for Mabella and Didcie, they make a
perfect deity of the major, and who he is
beyond his profession, which he has cut short
in the middle, no one seems to know. You
know I am witch about people and believe
in first impressions, so before going down to
dinner I had a good think over this Major
Tyler, and analyzed my feelings about him ;
for, you see, he is not an ordinary man, to be
looked at in an ordinary way and forgotten
or remembered in an ordinary fashion. He is
distinguished handsome and at a very fascinating
age, under forty, and has a manner of
perfect breeding, and a self-assertive dignified
rather than high-bred air ; but that is, I fancy,
because he is too self-conscious to be immobility

indifferent. One can feel the sort
of air ; that is, a sort of tip-toe celestial elevation
in an abstractedly unconscious look from
tip of toe to tip of nose. I should like to
prick one of those Large whipcord veins on
the back of his handsome hand and see if
it really has blue blood. Xed's  that is, Mr.
Eawson's  have, I'm sure ; perhaps if they
hadn't he'd understand about ' getting on '
better, for I do believe, mammy, that it
requires a certain amount of vulgarity to
get on in this pushing, crowded world ; it is
only geniuses that soar, and geniuses, alack-a-day,
don't grow like brambles ; but there's a
dash of genius in Xed, if he only knew it.
Perhaps politics will tell him. I think I'll
study Stewart Mills' and Smith's political
economy, just to see what it's like.

"But here I am, rattling away. I was
telling you my first impressions of this Major
Tyler ; I think he's clever, determined, ambitious
and cold-hearted, and I'm quite sure,
though he has three medals, that he is
very far from brave. I am sure, as a piece
of outside observation, that he is laving

siege to Mabella, and that cousin Egbert
knows it and does not approve. Mabella's
eye when it meets mine is full of portent.
Dulcis is evidently in love through sympathy,
and she is sure to tell me all about it tomorrow
; but Mabella won't, unless she wants
my help. To tell you the truth, the situation
is exciting. I should be sorry to see dear old
Mabella unhappy, and if she is foolish enough
to marry this fortune-hunting major, unhappy
she will be.

Your loving daughter,

Judy.

Pes.  Tim doesn't like him one bit ; he
likes Ned  Mr. Eawson  though. Is it not
odd what good judges of character dogs
are ? "

This letter reached its destination, Eingwood
Terrace, Casterham, a town in Suffolk, some
fourteen hours' journey by rail from Sandycot,
by an early post. Mrs. Aylmere, who was
methodical to tediousness, waited till her
breakfast was over and her simple household
arrangements for the day completed before

she broke the cover. Accustomed as she
was to Judy's confidential and discursive
epistles, this one seemed more difficult to
construe, as she expressed it, than usual,
for Judy's mother was slow of understanding.
But as is the case with persons not quick at
immediate apprehension, once she had taken
in a point, or fully understood a situation, her
judgment was sure to be clear and her action
judicious. Between mother and daughter
perfect affection and trust existed, tempered
on the mother's side with a slight uncertainty
as to the possibilities of youth. Judy had
never had a secret from her mother, and if
the mother had not always been equally open
her reticence arose only from a wise discretion,
which could bear necessary burdens in silence.
But disposition, too, in this particular had its
sway, for while Judy was too apt to wear her
heart on her sleeve, Mrs. Aylmere was by
nature secretive. She was never averse to
a mystery, and rather enjoyed attaining a
coveted end by the exercise of what she
termed "a little diplomacy." She was, too,
at heart not a little worldly, and overvalued,

in a higher degree than her daughter undervalued,
the good things of this Use.

To see Judy well married, the ivell having
no possible limit, and her more than probable
inheritance of Egbert Hall an established fact,
were the two great ambitions of the lone
woman's life. To aid and abet the furtherance
of these ambitions in ever' honest and
feasible manner was the work she had laid
out for her right hand to do when the
necessity should arise and the opportunity
occur. Occasionally during her late husband's
life she had spent a Christmas at
Egbert Hall, but since her widowhood she
had not left her home, which with reduced
means she had made in the small country
town of Casterham. With the Miss Egbertss
Mrs. Aylmere was by no means a favourite.
They had, though they said little about it,
intense pride of birth and a mere civil tolerance
for what they were pleased to regard as
the inferior professions. Mrs. Aylmere had
been the daughter of a country surgeon, a
clever and a good man, but to the Egbertss
of Egbert Hall of no separate individuality,

professionally considered, from a chemist or
small apothecary. This, Judy's mother knew
well, but there was too much at stake for
reprisals or even quiescent resentment ; she
quietly accepted the position of an inferior
for her child's sake, keeping herself as much
in the background as possible, and investing
Judy on every occasion with everything that
could tend to strengthen her connection with
her cousins. For this purpose some old lace
of distinct Egbert origin had proved useful,
some pieces of doubtful Sevres china, but undoubted
Egbert traditions, and some otherwise
valueless trinkets. Pew women with such
slender stock-in-trade had already achieved so
much. These few relics, judiciously employed,
had very materially strengthened the slender
cousinship and helped to bring the far-away
point at which it had begun into present
reality. So an old ring of yellow topaz, encircled
with pearls, and engraved inside with
the initials " M. E.," Judy regarded with the
reverence in which a talisman might be held,
so earnestly had her mother enjoined her to
hold it as a possession and to wear it always.

Its history, as instilled into her by her mother,
she had told Mabella. The M. E. stood for
the Mabella Egbert, wife of the squire's
grand-uncle, whose only daughter had married
an Aylmere and had become the mother of
Judy's father. She had been Mabella's godmother.
It pleased the Miss Egbertss to seethe
reverence in which Judy held the ring,
and disposed them to think approvingly of
her mother. To it they added other relics in
kind, but of a higher value, an earnest, Mrs.
Aylmere believed, of Judy's inheritance in
the future.

Mrs. Aylmere's blood ran cold when Judj's
letter was mastered ; she let it fall in her lap.
She shuddered: "And to think that Judy doesn't
see the consequences ! It's all that Mr. Lawson,
with his ' stroke-oar ' indeed and ' blue
blood,' his empty college honours and pockets;
just the hero for a romantic girl in her teens.
And this Major Tyler  Judy's sure to make
an enemy of him with her sharp tongue, and
of Mabella too. I must go to Sandycot."

This determination, sudden as it was, was
none the less a fixed resolve ; it only remained

to bring it about naturally. In this the
diplomacy Mrs. Aylmere affected served her
well. She resolved to let her house.

It was full summer, and Casterham being
within easy distance by rail of London was
a favourite resort of city toilers, who took
the small houses offered for the vacation
weeks by residents also in need of change,
and paid liberal prices. Eingwood Terrace
was favourably situated for letting : the houses
were semi-detached, each with a pretty conservatory
in front and good-sized garden at
rear. It was also within ten minutes' walk of
the railway station, and an equal distance from
the river, which was much resorted to for boating
purposes. Circumstances favoured Mrs.
Aylmere's wishes. The local agent provided
her with a suitable tenant before the week
was out, and then she indited a well-weighed
though seemingly hasty epistle to Mabel.
The epistle we shall see later.

In the meantime the little drama at Sandy-cot
moved slowly on the boards. The squire
had lost much of his old heartiness, and
now seldom stayed at the Lodge more than

VOL. L 3

two days at a time, the crops, or young stock,
or other farming excuse taking him frequently
to Egbert Hall.

The very next time you go, cousin
Egbert," said Judy on the occasion of his
last somewhat sudden departure, " I go with
you."

*rand so you shall, Judy; mind, it's a
promise," was the hearty answer as he
mounted his dog-cart to drive to the
station.

When the squire was absent the dinner-hour
at the Lodge was two, but at eight there
was always a substantial supper, which practically
was a dinner. To this meal, being
informal, casual guests were often invited.
There was, however, one guest who, though
he had ceased to be invited, yet was never
absent ; this was Major Tyler. Mr. Eawson
was also a frequent addition, but always by
express invitation, given invariably by Mabella
from interested motives. She found that
when that gentleman was present Judy was
subdued both in manner and speech, and
apparently not so keen in observation  conditions

certainly' by no means normal in that
lively young lady.

I do not think you should encourage Mr.
Eawson, Mabella," Sybella had urged; "Judy
seems inclined to Uke him, and he has no
prospects."

Oh, Judy likes to amuse herself, but she's
quite heart-oriole ; that I'm sure of," said
Mabella.

Well, I, for one, set my face against any
man without a calling, and Judy is too good
to be Avast."

"You did not always, Sybella."

Xo, but I learnt wisdom, and I should be
sorry to see Judy taught in the same school."

"You are not so wholly on the shelf,
Sybella, that you need speak of yourself in
that way," said Mabella tartly.

Not wholly learnt wisdom, do you mean?"
was the retort given acridly. " Oh, yes,
Mabella, my days of glamour were all over
before little Judy was born ; I wish I Could
say the same for others."

Mabella flushed.

Mr. Eawson is trying for a secretaryship

3-2

to some statesman or public man," she said,
to turn the edge of the subject aside. " Papa
says he is a born politician."

With opinions on the wrong side, eh ? "

"I don't know that; papa says it is difficult
to know what he is ; he himself says he does
not believe in party, and that great questions
have always been settled from a single point
of view, one master-mind directing."

And so forming party."

"You are captious, Sybella; but of this rest
assured, that Judy will have nothing to say to
a man who has no calling or profession, and
if Mr. Eawson makes politics his profession
he will have no time to fall in love."

He has done so already."

Well, you know it is easy to fall out
again."

And I," said Sybella acidly, " hope you
will find it as easy."

"When I have occasion to try, I shall,"
was the frigid answer.

At that instant a low growl from Tim's
basket in the corner gave warning of a
strange step, and in a few seconds Major

Tyler and Mr. Eawsoii were seen coming up
the garden walk.

Oil, Mabella," cried Judy, coming quickly
into the room, " Grant, the butler, said you
were out, and I have been looking for you
everywhere. Here is a note from Mrs. Horseman
; she wants us all to go to tea to-night.
Frank has got a Catherine wheel which he
wants to let off. We re to banquet on the
lawn, have a turn at lawn-tennis, a Miss
Eber is to recite, and Madame Madoc to sing.
The great beauty, too, Mrs. Beaumorris, is tone
there, and when it is quite dark  there's
no moon this quarter luckily  Frank will let
off his wheel."

"How long has Mrs. Horseman been getting
this up?" asked Sybella curtly ; " I don't like
being an after-thought."

Only since the morning," said Judy
eagerly. "I went with a message from
cousin Egbert to Mr. Horseman and found
her in a state of ferment. It had all happened
at once, she said. Frank arrived last night
with his Catherine wheel and a store of
rockets, and Miss Eber came with him ; then

there was a note from Mrs. Beaumorris,
asking herself to spend the afternoon 
they're old friends, you know  and lastly,
Madame Madoc, who has been in retirement
here, and who is also an old friend of Mrs.
Horseman, came in to say ' Good-bye.' Soon
the spot the party was improvised and I
was sent off with this note, and oh, Mabella,
you are to bring any gentleman friend you
like."

By this time Major Tyler and Mr. Eawson
had been announced, much to Tim's disgust.
Mr. Eawson Tim approved of, if in a good-humour,
obtrusively, but at no time would he
tolerate the least notice from the major, who
had learnt to keep at a respectful distance
from the fiery little animal's quarters.

Tim was, however, too well tutored to do
more than snarl and growl, and even these he
ceased at a warning word from Judy, evincing
his disquietude as he lay curled in his basket
by an occasional shiver, accompanied by a
scarcely audible whine.

At such times neither kind word from Judy
nor dainty from his mistress, Mabella, could

induce him to change his posture or look up.
For Mabella he had a very worldly affection,
only obeying her when it suited his interests.
To the rest of the family he was variably
amiable, and in their cause would show good
fight, but for Judy the little animal would
have laid down his life.

*' The only this I don't like about the
programme," said the major on Glabella
recounting the different items for the evening's
amusement, " is the recitation. Exciting is
like singing without an accompaniment, not
one in a thousand can do it. It is a social
amusement now, and a very freat social
nuisance''

I agree with Major Tyler," said Xed Lawson
; " it is all of the class of stump oratory
and ought to be voted out of society."

I wish ]\Iiss Eber heard you," said Judy.

Miss who ? " said the major with a start ;
but Judy had gone, taking with her a hastily-written
note of acceptance from Miss Egbert.

AVhat was the name Miss Aylmere mentioned
?" asked the major of the company
present ; but none seemed to have heard

distinctly, one saying Heber and another
Eden.

"Mrs. Horseman," said Mabella indifferently,
has some relation named Heber, I daresay it
was Heber."

There is a Miss Eber who recites," observed
Ned Eawson ; " she was at Cowes the
other day. I never heard her, but I was told
she was a stunner. She does it for money
though, so I should fancy she's not the same."

Ned then went to meet Judy on her return,
and Sybella with an angry glance at her
sister, who was pinning a carnation into the
major's button-hole, flung out of the room,
leaving the pair to themselves.

As the door closed the major seized Mabella's
hand and kissed it. A change had
come over him. He was no more the mysteriously
cool and haughty individual suggestive
of a Plantagenet ancestry and a " history,"
as Judy lead expressed it ; no longer either
the languid and somewhat indifferent wooer
who, though making his matrimonial inclination
pretty evident to Mabella when rare Fate
gave him unobserved opportunity, had yet

never taken a lover's licence or whispered a
lover's tale ; now he had thrown off restraint
and was going, as he said to himself, " to
make a dash at it."

Mabella's days for blushing were over, but
maiden modesty evidenced itself in a russet-red
on the plump cheeks.

*' Major Tyler," she said with a nervous
start, " sou know I am not a young girl ; "
and she drew her hand away with a jerk.

Xo, Mabella, you are not ; you are a
sensible woman in the autumn prime of life,
fresh and mellow. I hate bread-and-butter
misses ; all real men do."

Suddenly the major gave a little hop, at
best of times an undignified movement, and
caught at a small pendent hearth-brush as a
weapon of defence.

The brute," he cried, " the little vicious
brute, I believe he has bit me ; " and he ran
his unoccupied hand down the calf of his leg
keeping Tim, whose blood was thoroughly
roused, at bay with the broom. But this
Tim seized with vicious force, and a contest
ensued, more equal than dignified. Tim was

agile and in terrible earnest, primed with
long-nourished hate and jealousy ; the major
was not agile, but his blood also was up, and
he, too, was primed with hate and rage at
the untimely interruption to his dash at
fortune.

Not a sound escaped the dog's throat, but
his eyes literally shot fire, and his back was
bristled like a hog's ; he was not an enemy to
be despised. The major backed by degrees,
somewhat in the manner of a rink-sweeper
with a besom before an approaching curling-stone.
At last he fairly jumped on to a sofa,
which had its place against the wall, and still
grasping the brush with one hand, with the
other levelled down cushions at his enemy's
head. In the meantime Mabella had threatened,
exhorted, and entreated her favourite
to desist. She might as well have spoken to
the stuffed effigy of Tim's predecessor, a
rather mangy-looking poodle under a glass
cover on the top of a high bookcase. Tim
had a long score of sly kicks and pushes aid
grudges of jealousy to pay off, and as it never
occurred to him in his best of humours to

give the least heed to his mistress's orders, he
only treated her shrill commands as an additional
aggression.

But Tim had one vulnerable point, which
had more than once in similar assaults proved
a vantage-ground to the enemy ; it was
jealous and aggressive attachment to his
basket-house. Not even Judy dare have
taken him out against his will, and it was
a bold hand that laid itself on the roof. If
out walking, no matter what the distance
from home, it sufficed to say, ' I'll take your
house," when with head well down, but tail
stiffly erect, home he scudded, deaf to any
voice calling him back. Tim's domestic creed
was fixity of tenure and defiance of ejectment.


Suddenly Mabella recollected the tyrant's
master passion, and seizing the little basket-house
she held it aloft. Only one moment's
hesitation, and major, brush, and degrading
fusilade of cushions all to the winds, Tim
with a fierce growl made one vigorous leap
and gained the inside of his castle. The
suddenness of the jump nearly overbalanced

Mabella, but she recovered herself, and quick
as thought put the basket down with the door
end against the wall. This was effectual. Tim
knew he had been caught in a trap, and,
perhaps not a little ashamed of his discomfiture,
kept perfectly still, as if in contemptuous
silence ; but a peep through the open
basket-work of the roof would have shown
the little belligerent: beast sternly erect on his
hind quarters, his fore legs stiff and straight
before him, his lips curled and displaying his
testli, and his eyes two balls of fire.

Did he bite you ? " asked Mabella with
solicitude ; '* I hope not ; " and she held out
her hand to her ruffles visitor as if asking
pardon. But for his purpose in view that
plump be-ringed hand would have fared
roughly ; as it was, it was rejected, and the
major reached the ground unassisted, but he
had no desire to renew the burden of his tale ;
the steam which had propelled him to his
dash at fortune " had been rudely let off.
Not twice in the same hour could any amount
of moral propulsion generate sufficient for
another attempt. But he felt that he had cut

a poor figure, and though at the moment he
had lost all desire to recommend himself asa
lover to Mabella, he felt almost viciously
eager to vindicate his valour.

*' Xo," he said with a forced laugh, " he has
not bit me, but his intentions were good," and
he exhibited a gap at the bottom of his
trousers. '' I hope cloth does not disagree
with him ; he is probably used to it."

*'0h. Major Tyler, I am so sorry," and
Mabella looked ready to cry. " It's all Judy's
fault ; she spoils the dog. At the Hall he
really is as good as gold, and except at
tramps or bad characters he never even
growls ; it is sheer jealousy. I'll send him
back to the Hall while you  I mean, until we
return."

To this the major had no objection. His
eye had caught in the distance Judy's hat, and
before she reached the hall door he had only
time to say :

I have a mortal horror of a dois's bite.
My only brother died of hydrophobia  a pet
spaniel of my sister bit him. None of us
have owned a dog since."

Then shrinking from hearing his ignominious
affray expatiated on before Judy, he
bade Mabella a hasty good-bye, giving her
hand, however, a fervent squeeze  a palliative,
soothing and magnanimous one. Much comforted,
Mabella forbore to recount Tim's
misdemeanour, which she, unknown to herself,
considered almost justifiable on the ground of
the dog's jealous attachment to herself. That
she did so may be received as indicative that
the major had made only surface way as yet
in her affections  that her vanity rather than
her heart had been touched.

Love gilds the scene, and woman guides the plot."

The pleasantness parties given in Sandycot were
given by Mrs. Horseman, who, tliougli herself
of an old territorial family, had mixed too freely
in continental and metropolitan society to retain
much of the prohibitive element of narrow
county circles. As would naturally happen,
people got "mixed up"' a little at times, and
shoulders rubbed that in other assemblies had
diverged with the cold edge pointed towards
each other. But Sandycot forgave Mrs. Horseman
all infringements of the social code ; she
was the life and soul of the place in vivacity,
good-nature, hospitality and wealth, and being
in herself  that is, in her birth and breeding 
all that the strictest social guild could require,
she was in a manner privileged.

Mr. Horseman had been in parliament and
distinguished by his enthusiasm in agricultural

questions : ill health had driven him to the
Chiltern Hundreds.

There were children of this favoured household,
but in nursery and school durance still.

In a charming demi toilette Mrs. Horseman satin
a basket-chair, sipping an afternoon cup of
tea ; her husband, comfortably ensconced in a
pillows lounge, followed her example, but was
greatly absorbed in the Times, which had just
arrived; and in the window, a little drawn
back from the balcony, sat Mrs. Beaumorris, of
whose advent Judy had apprised her cousins.

The public in general were very familiar
with Mrs. Beau morris's features, and in attitude
she had exhausted every pose consistent with
modesty. Seated as she now was in the decline
of the day's vivid light, the mellow hue of a
golden sunset tinging her somewhat pale cheek,
a fairer woman had never graced this little seaside
retreat of Sandycot. Severe simplicity
characterized her costume, which, however,
was strictly in accordance with the fashion of
the day. Her eyes were large and deer-like,
and she had a trick of opening them suddenly
to their full extent with a startled innocent

look, then, as if quickly reassured, she would
slowly droop the lids and with languishing
softness close them over the now filmy orbs.
Many a quarry had this wingless shaft laid
low. As to her domestic circumstances, she
was happily married  that is, she and her husband
saw as much and as little of each other
as they wished. Neither was over-burdened
with brains ; both loved pleasure, which they
took in different ways ; there were no children,
and Mr. Beaumorris's means were ample. The
love that had brought them together was still
strong enough to keep them in a loose fashion
together, but to the husband the wife had long
ceased to be a beauty, and to the wife the
husband had long been little more than a
convenient and not disagreeable household
appendage.

I don't believe Mrs. Beaumorris has love
or liking? for a human beings," said Mr. Horseman
to his wife on one occasion, " or vitality
enough to conceive iniquity. I hate lukewarm
women ; the virtue that is above temptation
is beneath contempt."

Much you know about it," was his wife's

VOL. I. 4

reply, nodding her comely head knowingly.
Creamy Beaumorris is no fool. If she had
an affair no one would suspect it who did not
know her, and no one does know her as I do,
and I can assure you my friend Creamy can
be vicious. She is jealous of her empire of
beauty, and she hates distraction. She is
clever enough to know she is not clever, and I
know she fears and hates a clever pretty woman
as you hate a Tennessee farmer."

' How ever came it then," asked Mr. Horseman,
laughing, " that she even tolerated you ? ''

*' Because, dear," she replied simply, " I only
cared to be beautiful to you, and any little
talent I have is at everybody's service. Creamy
will want a friend some day, or I mistake, and
you know I am quixotic."

To-day Creamy (the diminutive for Cremona,
the fanciful baptismal name given Mrs. Beau-morris
by her violin-loving father) was more
than usually languid and indifferent.

I suppose you won't dance ? " she said, in
relation to the approaching party.

No," replied Mrs. Horseman, " lawn-tennis
will be attraction enough till dark ; then we

shall have you as centre-piece ; Madame Madoc
will sing ; a Miss Eber will recite ; the sky
will be ablaze with stars. A professional
beauty, singer, and reciter ; I ought to be
proud."

You haven't many here, have you ? "

Oh, yes ; Major Tyler is a host in himself,
and young Mr. Eawson is audaciously amusing.
I hear Major Tyler and Miss Egbert are
enaeed."

What, old Miss Egbert ? Why, she is sixty
if she is a day, and he is certainly under
forty."

Oh, you know Major Tyler ; we are all so
curious about him. But poor Miss Egbert has
not sinned much beyond fifty, and Major Tyler
looks to have lived quite forty."

I only know him, as I know a score of
others, by meeting him in society. He is
very handsome."

Nobody seems to know anything more of
him, and though he is very comme il faut and
agreeable I can't say I feel attracted towards
him."

Alio will Egbert Hall go to ? "asked Mrs.

42

 ttUNOIS

Beaumorris. " I am told there is no male heir
and that the entail expires with the present
squire."

To the daughters of course in the first
place, after them all is conjecture. The
Egbertss are singularly devoid of relations ;
pretty little Judy Aylmere is, I believe, the
nearest. Her great-grandmother was an
Egbert and collaterally related to the present
family. The squire is very fond of her."

"I wonder Major Tyler did not try his
chance with youth first ; he used to be a
worshipper of beauty, and you say the young
lady is pretty."

"Yes, sweetly pretty, but quite a sylvan
flower, brimful of fun, shrewd and outspoken."


Mrs. Beaumorris was naturally reticent ;
she hazarded no further remark.

I'll tell you what," said Mr. Horseman,
looking up from his paper; "the major is wise
in his generation. Mabella Egbert is certain,
if she outlives her father, to hold the place
for the remainder of her natural life, and the
squire is breaking rapidly. The major knows

this, and if one can believe club gossip the
fortune might come too late for his necessities."

The arrival of Miss Eber turned the conversation
into another channel ; Mr. Horseman
took his newspaper into another room.

Miss Eber was small and dark, insignificant
to the casual observer, but an observant eye
that looked once would look twice and not
readily forget what it saw in the sensitive
colourless face, which seemed to shrink from,
rather than court, the notice which the reputation
of her histrionic gift attracted. Only
to the eye of no speculation was Elsie Eber
insignificant. Her dress, never in slavish
conformity to the fashion of the day, was as
individual as herself. It was always black,
flowers only supplying colour.

Mrs. Beaumorris, innately conventional,
relaxed under the influence of Elsie's unobtrusive
but gentle assumption of equality ;
she knew of old that in society self-assertion
was necessary. Behind the " professional,"
and beneath that quiet demeanour, there
might be both birth and connection. There
was refinement enough for the presumption,

SO Mrs. Beaumorris argued mentally ; in any
case there was no end to be served by reserve
or hauteur, and if " dear Mrs. Horseman was a
little Bohemian in lier proclivities she was,
however, indisputably within the very inner
ring of exclusive society, and if she did take a
little latitude in her choice of associates she
was the most unlikely of any one to make a
mistake." That she had taken slightly risky
liberties with society was well known, but.
never one that was not defensible in itself.

Mrs. Beaumorris had what is closely akin
to an intellectual gift, she had tact, and that-tact
led her to avoid allusion on this her first
introduction to Miss Eber to that lady's semi-professional
calling ; she even avoided the
subject of poetry or literature in any form.

"Well, Elsie," said Mrs. Horseman, 'you
have had a long walk ; what do you think of
Sandycot, and was Frank attentive to you . "

Devotedly so," and Elsie smiled. " Frank
is an arrant little flirt in embryo. As for
Sandycot, the one only term that describes it
is ' model.' Sandycot is model from the top of
its cliffs to the level of its sands. Look down

on the white decorous town from the highest
diff, and not a romantic memory will bestirred,
for there are none to stir ; or look up
at the cliffs from, say, this sweet amphibious
eyrie, and not a line of poetry will suggest
itself to you."

That is its charm," said Mrs. Beaumorris
languidly ; ' even aspiration can rest ; it only
wants one thing to make it perfect."

Ah," returned Elsie with what might be
either satire or flattery, and with professional
pose and tone 

'I have no men to govern in this wood,
That makes my only woe.' "

Creamy gave an indifferent shrug of her
lovely shoulders.

Oh, no, not a woe, a charm," she said,
smiling. " My roc's egg is a harbourage for a
yacht ; there is none here, the water is too
shallow at fullest. One can never feel the full
force of solitude on shore."

"I don't know about the full force,
Creamy," said Mrs. Horseman slyly, "but I
do know the full need of solitude at sea ; there

man delights me not, nor woman neither.*
One of the greatest charms of this little seaside
nook to me is the very one thing that fails to
make it perfection to you  its shallow waters.
The very sight of a ship at anchor, rising and
falling with the ceaseless motion of the water,
never still on the stillest day, gives me very
unromantic qualms. Just fix your eye on the
point of a mast in a dead calm, and you will
see it describing swaying gyrations in mid-air
against the blue ethereal. If you are nota
good sailor, as the stock phrase is, that blue
will soon change to green, and you will feel
inclined to lie down."

Elsie laughed. " I love the sea," she said.
I agree with Mrs. Beaumorris, there is no
place like it for abstraction. I can study
best at sea, and, if my piece is suitable, in a
storm."

It is a capricious monster," returned Mrs.
Horseman, "full of invidious favouritism.
Two greater opposites than you and Creamy
could not be, and it loves you both."

Oh, we're not friends in a storm," said
Cream, " we're fair-weather friends. I cultivate

a tranquil spirit ; there is no tumult in
my nature."

The very secret of preserving beauty,
according to Ninon de I'Enclos," laughed
Elsie.

Oh, Creamy," said Mrs. Horseman half in
earnest, " a tranquil spirit is often another
name for a cold heart. But it is nearly seven ;
if you have any finishing touches to put to
your toilette you have only ten minutes."

A heart is like silver plate, dear Mrs.
Horseman," answered Creamy as she swept
from the room, "too risky for a small menage.
Electro is an excellent substitute."

"And you," whispered Elsie to herself as
she flitted after her, " you hall-mark yours."

The table at which was served the heterogeneous
meal known as severe tea was a
perfect parterre of flowers, among which
nestled bonbons and fruit. The more material
needs of the company were supplied by
servants from a bountiful bullet. In the
centre was a magnificent azalea, the winner
of the first prize at an adjacent flower-show
of the previous week. The adjustment

of all the other flowers was low, so as not to
obscure a vis-a-vis.

By some unpremeditated arrangement Judy
was brought m by Major Tyler, and Elsie by
Ned Eawson, who seated his charge at one side
of the table facing the azalea, while Judy in
enthusiastic admiration of the plant placed
herself exactly opposite Elsie, the major
obediently filling the chair by her side.

To Judy, who, never guilty of mauvaise honte,
was yet apt to be affected by disturbing circumstances
which would scarcely be felt, or at
any rate evidenced, by a girl used much to
general society. Major Tyler was an element
of this quality. She shrank from the individual
with yet scarcely pronounced dislike,
but the notice of the man flattered her. Her
heart beat fast when he bent down on her his
eloquent gaze, so vocal with repressed admiration,
but not one throb was love's. He
talked well, and she loved to listen, and somehow
to him she was not averse from letting
her ignorance on the graver subjects of everyday
converse appear ; he seemed to think it
natural, if not actually seemly, that she should

bracket politics with algebra, and ask, as she
once did, if the budget was kept in the woolsack.
He had the art of imparting knowledge
as if he were in some degree receiving it likewise.
Already she knew the different functions
of government and the broad principles of
opposing parties. Hers was no frivolous
nature; this the major early divined, and
whenever opportunity offered he gave her the
instruction she indirectly asked for.

Judy was grateful and perhaps a little overrated
her instructor's gifts. She had begun
by calling and believing him a fortune-hunter ;
now she seemed to find excuses for him, which
in reality were excuses for her own increasing
liking for him.

Men are not always what they seem," he
said one day when, returning from a saunter
in the garden with Mabella, he found Judy
alone in the drawing-room, and he had been
received with a rather contemptuous bow.
Some day I should like to tell you the
history of my life. It is difficult to take back
a false move."

He has compromised himself with Mabella,"

thought Judy. "More's the pity for
both," and then she dismissed him from her
thoughts, not, however, with acerbity.

But her relations with Ned Eawson were
more complicated.

You are not half as clever as Major Tyler,"
she once said petulantly to the young man,
but only once, for at his quiet answer to her
invidious depreciation, and the somewhat
humorous look in his deep grey eyes, a
quick-winged thought crossed her brain, that
perhaps she had mistaken lacquer for gold.

** I should not like to be thought clever,"
he said, " when I have yet so much to learn ;
a clever man is one who knows things intuitively
; Major Tyler does."

I didn't mean that he was a born genius.
I daresay I shouldn't know a genius if I met
one," and she pouted ; " only he always knows
the reason of everything I ask him, and he
never laughs at me."

Perhaps he has a reason for that, too," the
young man replied, whether in earnest or
not Judy could not telli She flushed angrily.

Thank you, Mr. Eawson," she said, " that's

as much as to say that I am ridiculous. But I
tell you what, if I am, he must know it ' intuitively,'
for whatever I may have done to
you, ' most grave and learned seigneur,' I
never made myself ridiculous to him  there
now."

' Oh, Judy, what a rocket you are ; off
you go, without i match even. As if you
could ever be anything to me but the sweetest,

lovely " But Xed was not destined to

hurry on his fate. He was left with his half-finished
avowal, looking not a little foolish,
Judy calling back to him over her shoulder
as she flitted away, laughing merrily, " If I
am the rocket, I wonder who's the stick."

Beneath the luxuriant azalea Judy recognized
her vis-a-vis. To that circumstance
Major Tyler owed the sweet smile she bestowed
on him as she said, loud enough to be
heard across the table, " We can talk better
in the shade."

It is the azalea that is in the shade," he
whispered.

Nothing irritated Judy so much as compliments,
except from a favoured few. She

looked upon them in the light of liberties.
Now remembering Ned's irritating innuendo
she thought, " He is ridiculing me," and
espying Mabella, who had been delayed by
some toilet mishap, coming into the room
escorted by young Horseman, she said quickly
and with latent mischief, " Oh, Major Tyler,
there is Miss Egbert. Is there no seat reserved
for her ? She had better have mine."

But room was made beside the major, who
with much empressement stood back until
Mabella had subsided into her chair. As he
resumed his seat Judy with a mock dispirited
look whispered, " I know who's in the shade
now."

There was no answer. She turned her
eyes on his face inquiringly. It was pale to
ghastliness. Ordinarily there was no colour
to come and go, but a steady bronze, which
told of foreign climes and a fervid sun ; one
does not look on such a visage for varying
hues of every-day manly cheeks. But it was
the sudden pallor only that betrayed the
sudden emotion ; not a nerve quivered, nor
did the eyes quail. He knew by Judy's start

as lie turned to him that her quick eyes
noticed the pallor. " Do not observe me," he
said quietly ; " an old enemy, spasm in the
heart."

Mabella's vinaigrette," she whispered,
turning her face aside. He understood, and
with a spark of real gratitude he bent forward
and lifted unobserved a massive gold vinaigrette,
pungently charged, lying at arabella's
ricrht hand. It had the desired effect.

"I could not resist it," he said as she
looked round inquiringly. " The perfume of
these flowers is overpowering. I was quite
overcome. Incense used to make me faint."

Oil," said Mabella tenderly, " a sensitive
organization."

But on the opposite side of the table, shaded
also by the specious azalea, was another face
over which a death-like pallor had spread.
Those cheeks, too. owned no roseate bloom
to flush and fade ; what colouring there was,
lay veiled beneath the delicate olive of the
transparent skin. Judy, not to embarrass her
companion by even a quiet observance, had
leant her head a little sideways to reconnoitre

her vis-a-vis. Catching Ned's eye she smiled, 
and then looked at his companion. Ned,
noticing her countenance change, followed
the direction of her eyes.

"Did you speak?" said Elsie, meeting his
startled gaze with perfect self-possession, but
her voice had a hollow sound.

Are you ill ? " he asked.

No ; why ? " was the reply as she bent
forward and looked into the mirrored plateau
which ran down the centre of the table. " Ah,
I am pale ; that is it, I suppose," and then
taking the tiny bouquet which had fallen to
her share, she picked out a spray of stephanotis
and threw it to the ground, adding,
"That flower always has a strange effect
on me ; another moment and I should have
fainted. Hush," putting her hand on his
arm, which was stretched towards a tiny
decanter of wine, " please don't make a fuss ;
I shall be myself in a few minutes."

Ned obeyed.

These little scenes on either side of the
table had passed in the space of two minutes,
unobserved by all those around.

The business of the feast went on uninterruptedly.
Jest and badinage, repartee and
gay sail', with low rippling laughter, platitude
and fustian, sentiment and bathos, gossip
and innuendo, flowed from the full vein of the
moment, each in its turn index of individual
cast. But neither flash of wit nor piquant
tale, nor the generous wine and viands of
which both partook, chased from Geoffrey
Tyler's face that night its pallid hue, nor
restored to Elsie Eber's olive cheek its rich
undergo of colour. And Judy Aylmere
had taken notes.

VOL. I.

The leaves of memory seemed to make
A mournful rustling in the dark."

The night was sultry and the stars dim.
Lawn-tennis fell flat, and at Mrs. Horseman's
suggestion a walk to the pier, distant about a
quarter of a mile, was carried with acclaim.
As Judy passed through the hall in search of
a wrap she saw Major Tyler writing hurriedly
on a scrap of paper, which he folded and
placed in his waistcoat pocket.

I am waiting for Mrs. Beaumorris," he
said as Judy approached ; " Mrs. Horseman
has placed her under my care. Will you join
us?"

"Oh, no," cried Judy, not staying one
instant, and looking back to finish her sentence,
"you mustn't be greedy; one beauty at
a time."

Mayn't I choose then ? " he called after
her, but she had disappeared.

He went to the open door, and in a short
space of time Mrs. Beaumorris joined him.

Life is full of surprises," she said, declining
his proffered arm as she languidly moved
towards the pier. "Do you know you gave
me the first supernatural sensation I ever
had ? "

'' I ! " he returned in a tone of indifferent
banter. " I, so matter-of-fact and realistic,
so thoroughly of the earth, earthy ! "

I won't contradict you," she replied carelessly,
" but I approve of worldly people ;
they can look after their own interests, and
generally succeed. They entail as little as
they carry responsibility."

Creamy," he whispered, looking down on
her with warm reproachful eyes, " how
bitter you are ; it was your own fault."

What was my own fault ? " she answered,
meeting his gaze with a wide-eyed look of
wonder, cool and contemptuous.

The major bit his moustache.

"That we parted when we did and as we
did," he replied hotly.

Parted ! " she repeated with a low mocking

laugh. "It is only friends and enemies
who part ; casual acquaintances pass on, and
that, I think, we did."

I understand," he said, his lip curing ;
but, lady fair, remember this : love's golden
chain is strong ; its links, though dropped, are
never lost ; sweet lips pressed, soft hands
clasped, warm looks mingled, and fond words
spoken  these do not pass on."

No," she said significantly, " they remain
stationary."

As she spoke the entrance to the pier was
reached, where they were joined by Judy,
Miss Eber, and Ned Rawson.

"I was just telling Major Tyler," said Mrs.
Beau morris, addressing Elsie, " that he has
given me the only supernatural sensation I
ever experienced. I had heard he had gone
to Africa exploring, and that he had been
murdered, or drowned, or something of the
sort, and here, in this little out-of-the-way
nook, he appears in the flesh. I have had to
pace him through a crucial catechism to establish
his identity. I shall call him Pepper's
ghost, I think."

What an unkind reflections'' said Judy.

They all laughed.

"Shall I introduce you?" whispered Mrs.
Beaumorris to Elsie ; and without waiting for
an answer she did so.

"I think we have met before," said Major
Tyler as he bowed without looking up.

"I did not know that you were in England,"
she replied, drawing her veil down, but only
Judy noticed the white quivering lips.

The party then in straggling order proceeded
up the pier, where Frank Horseman
was preparing to " turn off," as he expressed
it, his Catherine wheel. In the applause that
followed the boy's successful venture, Judy
noticed Major Tyler, inadvertently as it were,
approach Elsie, who was standing apart by
herself, very quiet and abstracted. The only
sign she gave that she even saw the brilliant
'Scintilla was a start at the acclamation that
followed, and a few feeble claps of her hands ;
but a close observer, which Judy was, could
see that the action was mechanical. Quietly
as the major moved, Elsie felt his approach.
She drew her wrap closer round her neck.

sinking the lower part of her face in its
folds, and steadied herself to statue-like
stillness.

You have dropped something," he said
as he stooped down by her side ; then
straightening himself he gave her a piece
of paper, which she received without remark.

Judy, fascinated, fixed her eyes on Elsie's
face, which by the light of the gas lamps she
could see distinctly.

"I wait your answer," he whispered, and
as if constrained Elsie opened the paper and
read it.

Very well," she said in a harsh sharp
voice, " I will."

He did not move.

With an impatient gesture, as one in pain,
she raised her hand and turned the palm
towards him.

Elsie "

 " Silence ! " she said in a low hollow tone,
with an outward motion of her hand.

 Then without a look, but with a dignity
that seemed to Judy's eyes to make her tower
above the, what she read to be, deprecatory

figure before her, she gilded away and slipped
her hand into Mrs. Horseman's arm.

Why, Elsie, you are tired," said Mrs.
Horseman ; " I forgot your journey today."


Madame Madoc had sung her splendid best,
Judy had warbled her sweetest of ballads,
and Mrs. Beaumorris had graciously posed and
languished from various coigns of vantage, to
the utter bewitchment of the Sandycot contingent,
before Mrs. Horseman approached
Elsie, who was seated in a quiet corner talking
at intervals to Mr. Eawson, whose observations
were regulated in their pertinency by
Judy's movements.

Are you rested enough to give us something,
dear ? " she asked, taking her friend's
hand in hers ; " something simple, something
that won't tax you much."

Elsie rose instantly, gently smiling compliance.


That is the great reciter Miss Eber,"
whispered Mr. Green, one of the Sandycot
curates.

What, that little atom ? " returned Miss

Prance, a tall stout female, with a remarkably
curved neck.

"Little!" exclaimed Miss Turner, a slight
spiral girl who affected mind ; " why, she is
great, grand ! Look at her eyes ; they lift
her off the ground. Call her little ! "

"There certainly is something about Miss
Eber," timidly observed Mr. Green, " that
gives one the idea of loftiness."

Maybe so," and Miss Prance sneered ;
but I am afraid I am distressingly matter-of-fact.
I don't mind betting you  in gloves
of course  that she is not one inch over five
foot two."

Measured by vulgar flesh," said the spiral
young lady, twisting round and fixing her
eyes for a moment with vicious point on Miss
Prance's lavish award of that substance, "I
doubt if she is even that ; by her soul she
soars above inches."

Mr. Green had a keen sense, if not of
actual humour, yet of the ridiculous, and he
laughed. Miss Prance arched her neck with
a forward jerk of the chin, and put out her
foot with the action of a horse pawing ; she

evidently meant mischief. But suddenly
attracted by some swift movements at the
upper end of the room, she and her companions
turned round, and in the deep embrasure
of the window, beneath the lace curtain's
snowy arch, they saw the subject of their discussion
standing forward and alone. Some of
the lights in various parts of the room had
been extinguished, others moved forward, and
on either side of the slight figure, whose attitude
and calm upward look told of concentrated
and conscious power, a silver lamp
with painted shade and deep pink fringe
had been placed. Her dress was of some
light material, soft and sheeny, with a partial
train. She stood, her slight hand poised like a
white butterfly on the fragrant flowers on her
breast.

The piece chosen was Tennyson's " Victim."
Her voice, almost tremulous at first, swelled
into fuller volume as she proceeded, till it
seemed to fill the silenced chamber with a
pervading and most musical cadence. There
was little of action in the recital, which owed
its force to the marvellous voice and yet

more marvellous eyes, " which filled with
light the interval of sound."

When she had finished she slipped out to
the balcony and joined Mr. Horseman, who
was indulging in a mild cigarette.

The poet touched a subtle truth, friend
Elsie," he said ; " a woman loves her child
deeper than her husband."

Because she died to save her child," and
Elsie turned her pale face to her companion.
blind of heart and slow to understand all
that woman has shown you, had she had to
choose between husband and son for a victim,
with her own hands she would have offered
the son. A woman may have many sons of
her youth, but only one husband. It was the
sublimity of vicarious love, she never thought
of self."

There are a good many exceptions to your
transcendental rule," returned Mr. Horseman,
not taking the slight cigarette from his lips.

"I always avoid the exceptions," she
answered with a sly smile as she made way
for Mrs. Beau morris.

'' I have been avowing a heresy, according

to Miss Eber," said Mr. Horseman, addressing
the newcomer. " I say that a woman loves
her child above her husband. What say

you?"

I was never good at puzzles"' she answered
languidly ; " the sort of love one sees on the
stage is very exhausting ; life is too short for
anything stronger than affection ; very strong
emotions are vulgar, but I suppose if it ever
did come to a question of choice, which is
not likely in real life, the child would carry
the day."

Ignoring the offensive points of this speech
Elsie said, " We are three presumptuous persons,
answering a question out of our power
to determine. I have no husband, Mrs. Beau-morris
no child, and Mr. Horseman is nota
woman."

My experience as a legislator taught me,"
said that gentleman, " that abstract questions
were always best answered by those who
knew least about the matter in practice. The
finest speech I almost ever listened to was on
patriotism by an Irish member of the government,
whose boast it was that he had not set

foot in this native country for twenty years,
and yet he drew a large income from his
estates there."

Not a case in point," said Elsie ; " the
sister-kingdoms are so nearly allied, a man
simply born in Ireland, but reared in England,
and solely by English people, may be
excused for haziness about his nationality, or,
I should say, for running one into the other,
as it were."

I can forgive an Irishman trying to get rid
of his nationality," observed Mrs. Beaumorris.

An Irishman who does that," said Ned
Eawson, who had joined the little group unnoticed;
" and who claims adventitiously English
habitat and citizenship, is a state foundling."

'* He never can shake off race," said Elsie ;
that is, presuming he is not a mongrel, and
even then the characteristics of his combination
will cleave to him with irradicable
pertinency. It is said that hybrids inherit the
most distinctive evil qualities of their parents."

I hope my parents were not very wicked,"
laughed Ned, " for my mother was Irish."

The House "  Mr. Horseman always called

Parliament " the House "  " would be very
flat without the Irish element," he said.

There have been some grand Irishmen in
Parliament," observed Ned.

Yes, orators, propagandists, and patriots,
too, proud of their nationality ; but," and Mr.
Horseman, as if to give force to his words,
threw away his half-finished cigarette with
a conclusive gesture, " but not one statesman."


Castlereagh ! " exclaimed. Xed.

No statesman, and no Irishman in the
sense of race."

Palmerston," put in Mrs. Beaumorris," was
an Irish peer."

'- Palmerston ! " said Mr. Horseman ; " a
thorough Englishman in blood, in every attribute
a representative Englishman in fact.
The Temples were Saxon earls before the
Conquest."

I think," said Elsie, who had a quiet way
of putting things that suggested knowledge
and authority, " I think Sir Charles Dike in
his ' Greater Britain ' was right, and that the
soil has much to do with race. He says that

the white race who have taken the place of
the aborigines in America are gradually also
taking their physical type, and that he believes
in course of time they will become Need
Indians."

Xow, Miss Eber, " exclaimed Mrs. Beau-morris,
posing so as to display her liberal
charms with anything but oriental reserve,
do you mean to tell me that even cycles of
Cathay could have made me a Chinese ? "

You are a ' celestial ' nevertheless," said
Mr. Horseman with an admiring bow.

They might have made you a Tartar,"
said Judy, who had come on the scene unobserved.
Every one laughed, even the beauty
smiled, but she was not to be so silenced.

And what should cycles of Cathay have
done for you? " she asked of Elsie still.

What cycles of every land but our own
have done," she answered proudly, " left us as
we were."

And that was, what ? "

The words tripped from Mrs. Beau morris's
lips airily, but incisively ; insolently', Judy
thought.

Jews ! " was the answer given in a voice of
proud disdain.

Oh ! " and Mrs. Beaumorris opened her
eyes as if disagreeably surprised, and then,
apparently disgusted with the subject, she
returned to the drawing-room.

Did you notice," whispered Ned to Judy,
she wanted to make Elsie, in accordance with
her own theory, ' a squalid savage ? ' Oh,
Judy, I am so glad you are not a 'real
beauty,' you'd have been so vicious."

I wonder who gave you leave to call me
Judy," she answered. "I've come out now,
and I must say you're not very gallant."

There was a pout in the sweet mouth, but
arch fun in the eyes.

I mean beauty by patent, you know,"
apologized Ned. " I hate beauties, and husbands
get so tired of them."

How odd ! " she said. " Now I dote on
handsome men, particularly when over thirty
and dark. They remind me of the old
Paladins and Crusaders and chevaliers.
Don't you think Major Tyler singularly handsome?
"

She spoke with a little gush ; Ned could
see it was put on.

Singularly so," lie replied gravely ; " but
wives get so tired of handsome husbands."

Then what a faithful wife you'll have,
Ned," she whispered, and tripped ois to Mr.
Horseman's side.

Oh, no, Mr. Horseman," Elsie was saying,
I only adopt Sir Charles's theory in part.
Each is race to the end of time ; but I think
the physical characteristics may undergo some
sort of transmutation in course of generations.
The surroundings, traditions, habit of eye,
atmosphere, food, all must insensibly mould,
as they moulded before, upon a certain model,
how given or conceived, who can tell ? "

Well," said Mr. Horseman, " your theory
would account for the seeming change in the
Saxon characteristics of families who are now
thoroughly Irish  modern Irish  in temperament
as well as physique. In this way Lord
Palmerston received his airy lightness of disposition,
his espihjlerie in fact ; in all else he
was English."

Yes," said Judy, who had always something

to say on every discussion, " and naturally
so, for not so very long ago it was the
custom of the Irish gentry to give out their
children to the peasants to nurse, not taking
them back till they were two or three years
old, just as they do still in France. I remember
uncle John, mamma's uncle  he was a navy
surgeon  telling me that he had been given
out to nurse in that way in Tipperary ; his
father was Irish, and I always used to think
him so like a fine mealy potato, a regular
smiler,' always at hand, happy-go-lucky,
good-natured and homely, and I know he was
very fond of whisky."

That is conclusive," cried both Mr.
Horseman and Elsie, returning to the drawings
the latter adding, " I think Miss
Aylmere not very un-Irish herself in some of
these qualities, barring the whisky of course,"
and the latter smiled at Judy, one of her rare
sweet smiles. Judy's heart was won from
that moment, and for a wonder she had not a
read)' answer.

Whispering a hasty good-night to Mrs.
Horseman on the score of fatigue, Elsie

VOL. I. 6

glided almost unobserved out of the room by
a side door, but, stopping an instant to disengage
her skirt, which had caught in the
legs of an ornamented table, she overheard a
woman's voice, which to her ear sounded a
little querulous, say, " I'm very downright
myself, major, and I like my friends to bethe
same."

Quickly came the reply, and scarcely
knowing she did so Elsie turned her head to
the side from which the voices came, and held
the handle of the door a second before she
turned it. She could see no one, but a lace
curtain shading a window-nook moved.

Well she knew the voice.

"Downright! Free-spoken, you mean," said
the major in a low melancholy tone ; "' that, except
to a chosen few "  a pause  " I cannot be.
I have often wished to tell you the story of my
life ; some day I will, for I know you will not
judge me harshly. Oh, Mabella, oily to find
one faithful trusting breast on which to lay
my weary head."

The door was opened, as if by sudden
impulse ; it closed of itself with a slam, which

startled the occupants of the window-nook and
made the " weary head " turn with a lively
motion and reconnoitre suspiciously. At the
same instant Mabella with a little shame-faced
womanly dignity issued from her retreat,
saying aloud, " We must be going ; I wonder
where Mrs. Horseman is."

There was another sharp slam, of a distant
door, an unusual sound in that refined and
perfectly ordered house, but it reached, or
seemed to reach, only one ear, for the company
where one and all making their adieux with the
usual rustle and flying phrases and preoccupation.


That ear was Major Tyler's.

Then Seapinks hospitable doors closed, and
the inmates retired to rest.

The night was very still and sultry, and the
windows of the sleeping apartments were open
to their utmost. It was the custom of Mrs.
Horseman to steal from this quiet interlude
of her busy life one " precious hour," as she
called it, for solitary reading or study. The
charm of a quiet, unbroken by the sound of
a human voice or foot, or the lazy stir of

62

Sandycot's leisurely traffic, the muffled music
of the rippling tide stealing in on the blank
sands, and the slow chime of the church clock,
quickened thought and fancy, while it filled
the senses with an unutterable calm. To-night
in her little sanctum, as she termed the tiny
boudoir leading out of her bedroom, she sat,
but with neither book nor pen in her hand,
only a small lunar telescope with which she
almost idly swept the heavens, now and again
resting on a star.

There was not a planet whose name and
earth history she did not know, on whose
habitat she could not at once turn her lens.
They were her panacea for the distractions of
the day,

The words of God, the scriptures of the sky."

But to-night her panacea failed her. She
could not feel the sweet influence of the
Pleads ; " she could only see that they were
*' tangled in a silver braid." There was
unrest in her spirit. The friend of all friends
she held dearest, most akin to her deeper
nature, Elsie Eber, vexed and troubled her.

for she divined by lier rare sympathy that Elsie
had a great sorrow, passion, care, or what it
might be, she could not or would not share
with her. For a little that thought pained
her, but her nature was too large for narrow
judgments, the spirit of her friendship too
pure for one unworthy suspicion or even the
shadow of a doubt. It was her keen sensitiveness,
with no taint of jealousy, that suffered;
her friend's hopes and fears she claimed for
her own. Keenly she thought over every
incident connected with Elsie that had come-under
even her passing notice that evening,,
till at last, faintly as the first gleam of a
slow dawn, a light rose on her mental vision
Elsie is standing apart in the gay assemblage,
coldly regardful of strangers, as is her
wont. She turns constrainedly as Major
Tyler addresses her, not before, and takes
with a frigid bow a scrap of paper from his
hand. She does not even look at it till,
apparently obedient to his lowly-uttered request,
she indifferently opens and reads.

Mrs. Horseman remembers how she watched
this incident with a sort of quiescent curiosity,

attaching to it at the time no undue meaning,
scarcely thinking it had a meaning. She remembered,
though, being struck with the
glowing splendour of the girl's ejes and the
more than usual olive clearness of her face.

Then Elsie, to again a whispered request
from her companion, utters some cold words
and turns away, tearing the piece of paper
into atoms.

She called to mind, too, that she had
glanced at Major Tyler's face, and that she
had fancied, smiling at her fancy, that there
was a craven scare in his eyes.

There has been more than mere acquaintance
between these two," she said to herself.
I do not trust that man."

Again and again she passed each point of
this incident before her mind's eye, till once
more it became indistinct and indefinite, in
some such way as a dimly-seen star in the far
offing gleams and fades, and fades and gleams,
till it seems to vanish into nothingness.

The gas-lights were still lit on the pier,
which stretched out in a direct line from Mrs.
Horseman's point of observation, so that by

aid of her telescope she could command it to
its very end. The night, too, was clear if
sultry, for though the newly-risen moon was
yet in her first quarter the heavens were
ablaze With " clear tapers without number."

In disquietude of spirit Mrs. Horseman rose
to retire for the nio-jit. For a minute she
stood gazing at the pier with thoughts far
away.

It was not unusual for smokers, when the
tide was full, to linger till the small hours at
the extreme end, strolling leisurely up and
down, or lounging dreamily over the rails ;
but to-night the tide was still in the far distance,
and at such times the pier was generally
deserted. As if to say good-night to the
placid scene she raised her telescope and
levelled it at the pier. The next minute she
threw herself into her low chair and covered
her face with her hands.

"Oh, Elsie," she said aloud, "you might
have trusted me."

Then, without even a glance outward, she
half closed the window and retired to bed ;
but not one unworthy thought of her friend

entered her leal heart, not a shadow of distrust,
not a jot or tittle of disapproval. Now
that she had discovered what was not meant
for her to know, she would not speculate
again on Elsie's relation to Major Tyler ; to
have done so would have seemed prying, if
not dishonourable, and as she laid her head on
her pillow she whispered to herself, " She will
tell me all in her own good time."

Sleep, though she wooed it, did not come
soon. Unknown to herself her ear waited for
perhaps a light foot on the stair, or in the
room overhead, which was Elsie's, some gentle
movements ; and long before her lids were
lieav} so acute had been her unconscious
watch, she heard a light trailing sound like a
soft breeze on the floor above ; backwards and
forwards it passed.

Poor soul, she is pacing up and down and
suffering," she thought, and then she fell
asleep ; but the stars were dimming in the
faint dawn of day before the soft sweeping
motion of Elsie's honos trailing skirt ceased.

"You pledged me your word when we

parted that you would never judge me unheard.
In the name of that pledge I ask you
to meet me to-night at twelve, when all is
quiet, at the end of the pier.

Geoffrey."

These were the words written on the scrap
of paper which drew Elsie Eber from her
friend's house at dead of night to meet the
man whom only yesterday she would have
sought the furthest quarter of the globe to
avoid.

Sife- <-j4

And the-vvreck'd heart lies cold."

'' Ix the smallest iota I never swerved from a
promise," lie said to herself as lie spoke the
cold words of assent, " and I will redeem this
bitter pledge now."

He was leaning over the rails at the furthest
end of the pier, smoking a cigar ; he did not
hear her light tread till she was close behind
hun, then he turned round, throwing his
cigar away, but paused for a moment, hesitating
how he should greet her.

A laisse black lace shawl was all the covering
she wore over her evening dress, which
she had stripped of the flowers on breast
and arms. A black lace kerchief on her head
was tied under her chin, its peak resting on
her arched brow.

'' I am here to redeem my pledge," she
said clearly and coldly, a world of pent-up
pain and pride in her great lustrous eyes, of
scathing contempt on her curved lip.

A minute before he thought he had his tale
by heart; a moving, tragic, pleading tale, that
could not fail, he deemed, to quicken again
the principle of love, which, once implanted ina
woman's heart  so his rallying belief ran 
could never, but with lier life, be wholly extinguished
; but now not a word of the specious
fable could his lips utter ; in that presence he
did not dare to lie.

Judged, convicted, dumb, he stood before
the woman whose life he had blighted. Self-deception
was at an end, for in her cold
unimpassioned face he read that the love he
had deemed imperishable was as dead as the
drift-wood lying on the barren shore. And
at that moment of such shame as his soul
could know, he vrould have risked something
of the sordid venture he had yet to put to the
hazard could he have seen even a faint tremor
of the scornful lip, or, better still, a flush of
anger, if not of hate itself, in the cold star-like
eyes that looked level into his.

He opened his lips  not a word would
come.

He felt his. hands grow powerless, the

sinews of his neck relax, and this head droop,
struck to the core, not by her just indignation
and upbraiding  whatever there might be in
the bosom of the deep, the surface was cahii
to stagnation  but by his own utter vileness ;
and yet though he quailed before her in
abject silence he could not take his eyes
from hers.

Perhaps," she said in a very matter-of-fact
tone, " perhaps I am not of the chosen few to
whom you can dare to be ' downright and free-spoken,'
to whom you can intrust the ' story
of your life ' ? "

Whatever the craven had left of the man
was stung to life and action by these few
simple words.

Xo need of a mask now ; he could not be
more vile in her eyes.

To the winds with the plausible reason and
lying excuse, the role of vicarious martyr, the
secret enemy, mercenary relatives; all the arch
phantasmagoria of the well-rounded scheme
vanished like the baseless fabric of a dream
before the cold searcliini] i?aze of the fragile
girl they had been conjured up to deceive.

But the wrong lie had done lier in the days
that were gone, its callous treachery and
cruelty, rising in accusation through the vista
of the veiling years, seemed almost a sin to
which with a bold front a man miofht answer
at a man's tribunal, for the pleas that to her
would be lying sophistry would with many
men be justifying pleas.

But he had no sophistry to gloss over, even
to himself, the meanness that could make him
whisper love's sweet vocabulary in the ears of
a vain old woman, and so barter his comely
manhood for a mess of pottage.

His determination was taken, he would tell
her the truth, that is of his relations with
Miss Egbert ; as for the past, why, " let the
dead bury its dead ;" to that, if need came, he
would plead guilty.

With almost a recklessness of resolve he
drew from an inner pocket a small leathern
case, and taking therefrom a letter handed it
to her.

*' Eead," he said ; " I am on my defence,
and those who judge must hear the pleas."

She obeyed him.

The letter was from a lawyer demanding
instant payment for an overdue bill of two
thousand pounds. Its date was eight months
-old.

She gave it back to him, simply observing :

In what is this a plea ? "

Then his tongue was loosed.

Not a plea for my faithlessness to you," he
cried, speaking almost passionately; "for that
I have none to urge. But whether I sinned
from a shallow nature, or from fickleness, it
little matters now, for you, I am glad to see,
have learned to forget ; but I did not know till
to-night that I had that lesson still to learn."

She made a contemptuous gesture.

Forgive me," he continued ; " I am, for a
wonder, speaking truth, and the heart too will
have its word. In the days when you first
knew me I was very reticent, you may remember,
as to my family, and you as to your race,
matters of little moment then. I was reserved
because I did not care that you should know
that I was only a retired tradesman's son,
that I had no patrimony, and that my mother
was at intervals mad. When we parted I

went to Homburg, played heavily and won
largely. I came back to England to find my
father dead, my only brother also, and my
mother insane. There was only a bare
pittance for her support, and my sisters had
to earn their own living. Out of my gains I
settled two thousand pounds on my mother,
and then at once, leaving my address with no
one, went to Africa. I returned alone a few
months ago, all my money gone. My mother
had recovered and lived with one of my
sisters, an invalid, in our old home. The
doctors said that if kept tranquil and free
from any anxiety her malady might never
recur. She is a tender mother, Elsie, and she
loves me better than life. With the hope of
being as fortunate as before, I went monaco,
as the German tables were all closed. I won
largely at first, but luck changed, and  it is a
common tale  I played on recklessly till I had
lost ail. A friend who believed in my star
lent me money to go on, and I rose at last a
ruined man and two thousand pounds in debt.
I gave him a bill ; it became due ; I had no
funds to meet it. A writ was made out as-ain't

me, my mother heard of it, she wrote to the
holder of the bill, and offered to become
security if he would renew it for six months ;
he agreed, and now it is overdue eight months
and I have no funds."

He spoke rapidly, for him recklessly. "I
came here  do not judge me too harshly 
I came in despair, to hide myself ; I could not
face my mother's ruin. I met Miss Egbert,
and like a drowning man catching at a straw
I tried my luck, as I said to myself. It was
soon evident that I could win. I wrote to
the holder of the bill and told him the
position, and, scorn me as you may, he came
down and saw for himself, and agreed to hold
over what was my mother's death-warrant till
I had staked and won. I have not thrown
the die yet. It rests with you to consign my
mother to a pauper asylum, or to be generous
and forgive."

For a few moments after he had ceased
speaking Elsie stood in the same position
without a sin of emotion. Then with a
sudden passionate gesture as of loathing and
repudiation in one, she struck out her hands

to ware! s the abject suppliant before lier and
cried, looking at him with eyes ablaze :

My ! And I have loved that

thing ! "

The major shuddered. " I have lost," he
said to himself ; " she clings to the rags of her
love. Curse her and all women." Then in an
eager deprecatory voice he said aloud :

If she had been a young woman I would
not have asked it of you, Elsie ; you cannot
for a moment suppose that I love her," and he
made a step forward as if to approach her.

Back, Geoffrey Tyler," she cried ; " one
touch of your hand would be the crowning
insult of this night of humiliation. You
mistake me ; but you could not understand if
I told you. But rest assured, so far as I am
concerned, there are no birds in last year's
nest."

He winced. *' Can it be revenge, then ? "
he thought.

Listen ; you have gambled and lost. You
are in a strait, but you are a man of schemes,
and you have one that will free you. In this
scheme you ask my aid. Am I right ? "

VOL. I. 7

"Not your aid," lie said huskily, "your forbearance."


A quibble," lie returned in a tone of
abhorrence and placing herself so that he
could not escape her eyes. " My forbearance,
as you term it, is passive aid. The Egbertss
are strangers to me, but I know they are an old
and honourable family. You shall not befoul
them. Hush, I am not in a mood to pick my
phrases ; there are certain things that only
certain words can express. I do not know
how it is that I believe your story of your
mother ; perhaps I recognize the baseness
that let her risk her all. But as I do accept
it, in part at least, I also accept a responsibility
from which in God's sight I cannot
be absolved. It is  so you have said  
for your mother's sake only that you would
marry this woman fifty years old and
more."

Only, only," was all the answer he could
give. He had the o-race to shrink from even
his own voice.

Then if you pledge me your Avoid to
leave this place tomorrow, never to return, I

will pay this debt and free your mother. If
you refuse  you know the consequences."

"You!" he cried, fairly off his guard,
'' you are only romancing ; but perhaps it is
only a romans revenge," and he turned on
his heel in sullen despair.

Then I understand," she said, " you refuse
my terms and accept the alternative. It is
perhaps as well," and she gathered her shawl,
which had fallen to the ground, about her
shoulders and turned to go.

Stop," he cried fiercely ; " what warrant
have I that you are able to do this ? "

That I have said I am," was her proud
answer as she paused to give him a minute's
grace.

"It will only be a loan, remember." He
spoke as if it were he who conferred the
benefit. " What was the two thousand
pounds," he said to himself, " to Egbert Hall
and its broad acres ? "

She did not deign him an answer, she
merely drew her wrapping closer. " When
you have left Sandycot," she said,  " I
give you till tomorrow afternoon  I will

remit the money to my solicitor with instructions
to take up the bill and release your
mother. You need not give me the address ; the
holder of the bill is a well-known usurer."

"You will keep this secret?" he asked
falteringly.

That I pay the money, yes," and she was
gone.

Curse her," he muttered to himself as he
slowly followed. " She'll warn the old one,
but I'll be before her."

"A fool at forty is a fool indeed."

"Any letters for me?" asked Judy as lie
tripped round the breakfast-table, dispensing
lier good-morning' kisses. " I didn't know it
was so late, but the little Horseman kept me.
I took Tim for a run on the beach, and there
they were playing at Catherine wheels."

Yes, there is one from ]papa, I see ; it's on
your plate," said Mabella. " What can he be
writing to you about ? " and she smiled.

Oh, it will bs about the chestnut mare,"
cried Judy, flying at the letter like a bird ;
he said if she hadn't been unshod and
turned out to grass he would bring her here
and let me ride her."

"I don't think Peters," said Dulsie, naming
the stud-groom, ' will let her out of his care.
He expects great things of her at the show."

Oh, that's not till October," said Judy.

Peters and I are great friends," and she
opened her letter.

Oh, what a bore," she cried, for the moment
ruffled and disappointed. " Just listen ;
this is a note cousin Egbert incloses from
Peters himself :

' Honoured Miss, 

' Seeing as how the mare's not had the
exercise she daughter to 'ave had owing to the
young stock being extra troublesome-like,
she's got aside of herself quite, and takes both
bit and bitten to keep her in, it's not the
oats as the squire thinks, it's the mettlesome
devil in her,  saving your presence, and it's
nothing but a rare mastership handel suit her
tantrums for a bit, and she's not been set to
the sea or sea ways, the sand neath her foot
'ud set her wild, and I'd not answer the consequences
nor be 'possible either, so Honoured
Miss I says to the squire as I can't be spared
at this time noways, the foaling coming on suchlike,
as you'd best come up here a bit, you
see she is a rare beauty, she is, and I knows
you wouldn't for all the sea-breezes and

curled mows in the world go again her
chances at the show. The squire said as you
was so bent on 'having her, I'd best give you my
reasons in written, and begin' pardon for all
mistakes seeing as it's writ to order and
hurried like, I'm honoured.

' Miss your humble servant,

' Ted Peters.
' Stud-groom to Squire Egbert.
'Pes.  She's Glory Hannah now, as your
orders was, we changed her name in running
water for luck. T. P.' "

By the time Judy had come to the postscript
her momentary disappointment had
vanished and she was laughing heartily.

Gloriana, he means," she cried ; " but
what shall I do, Mabella ? Here's cousin
Egbert's letter," and she handed a short note
which accompanied the longer epistle to
Dulsie, seeing Mabella intent on her own correspondence,
which she had laid aside until
she should have poured out the tea.

Well, I suppose one of us must go with
you," and Dulsie handed on the note to

Sybella ; " papa seems to wish it very
much."

I can't," said Sybella ; " I am taking
Turkish baths and I couldn't possibly break
in on the series."

What is this ? " asked Mabella with a start
as she took the note from Sybella's hand. " I
have just had a letter from your mother,
Judy," but she did not offer to give Judy the
letter ; then she read the squire's few lines,
"leant, that's certain," she added; "just
look at these," and she pointed to the mirror
over the chimney-piece, the frame of wbicli
was full of envelopes and cards of invitation.
Dulsie's always glad of an excuse for a peep
at her flowers. What do you say, Dulsie ? Will
you go with Judy ? "

Dulsie assented, and it was arranged that
Judy and she should start next morning for a
week or ten days at Egbert Hall.

What is mamma writing about ? " asked
Judy ; " may I see her letter ? "

Mabella hesitated, and then drew the letter
out of her pocket. " You can read it aloud,"
she said, which Judy did :

' My dear Cousin, 

' You will be a little surprised at the
contents of this letter, which, I hope, will not
be wholly displeasing to your party. I have
not been very strong lately. I wanted change
and could not manage it, as of course Judy
was my first consideration ; but very oddly,
just after Judy had gone to you I got an
offer on very advantageous terms for my
house for two months. The family are very
quiet and ricci and few in number ; so, as I
had to decide at once, I said yes. This kept
me very busy getting ready, so I had no time
to write to Judy, and as before I put my
wishes in force I was anxious to know how
far they would meet those of your party, I
thought it best, instead of making her the
medium of communication between us, to
write to you direct myself. I purpose then
to come to Sandycot for a part of my holiday,
and if agreeable I should be glad if sou
would look, or let your maid help Judy to
look out for two quiet rooms for me somewhere
near you. I wish to be quiet, and
prefer lodgings to an hotel, as, living so long

alone, I may say I prefer my own hours and
humdrum ways. After a week or two of

Sandycot air I shall go into shire, where

I have some relations, one a retired naval
officer.

' With kind regards to your circle,

' Believe me yours sincerely,

' Mary Aylmere.

' Pes.  I have written hastily, or should
have said how much I appreciate your goodness
to Judy. I never feel uneasy when she is
with you, or I should he just now, as I heard
from some one who was in Sandycot lately
that the notorious rambler Major Tyler was
there. I fear he is a mauvais sujet and has
ruined many.' "

I am sure," commented Mabella when
Judy had finished, " I am quite sure that
that is slander. I know Major Tyler plays
whist well, and to your mother and her puritanical
circle at Casterham a game of 
would be gambling."

"That's the major's game, according to
mamma," laughed Judy.

They all laughed.

Well," continued Mabella, " the mauvais
sujet is going away. I have a civil note of
adieux and regrets. Here i is ; a servant
brought it early this morning ; ' a sudden summons
to a sick relation,' he says, that is all."

And that was all the note which now went
round the table stated, but a small inclosure,
not intended for that anticipated " round,"
had been read by the only eyes for which
it had been indited, and destroyed. Even
Dulsie looked at Mabella's beaming and a
little conscious face with surprise, but only
Sybella with suspicion.

For the moment Judy was conscious of
a fleeting feeling of disappointment, if not
regret. She had laughingly called the major
her " improver ; " she had enjoyed her little,
sly, " grown-up " flirtations, as she dubbed
her short tete-astute with the handsome
soldier, which he had imbued with the
charm, to a romantically inclined nature, of
a slight mystery, and on which he had left
the flattering impression that she had been a
little more than pleasant to his world-weary

soul. For the man himself she had not even
the shadow of a regret, perhaps, had she
known it, an indefinite sense of relief. Only
Dulsie made lament.

Oil, dear, I am so sorry," she said ; "just
as we had got to like him so much, the life
and soul of the place, and so attentive here.
It Alas only last nio'ht he told me that he
didn't know what he should do at the end of
the sea-bathing season, for that it was only
since he had known us that he had ceased
to regret the army."

Mabella sighed, a restful sympathetic sigh,
and smiled a bland and altogether inner
satisfied smile, and Sybella's keen eyes translated
their dumb language aright. But Judy,
always keenly alive to bathos, laughed outright.

From arms of steel to arms of flesh," she
cried, and then with exquisite mimicry of
Elsie Eber's still, impassioned manner, her
hand airily and flutteringly alight on the
sweet-scented bunch of flowers stuck carelessly
in her bosom, she said :

' Oil, for a falconers voice,

To lure this tassel-gentle back again.' "

Even Sybella laughed. Judy's 21ay was
demoralizing, lie was used to say ; and then,
to make amends for her frivolity, she added,
not a little viciously :

Xot a very complimentary quotation,
Judy : a hawk is a bird of prey."

I said a tassel-gentle, Sybella."

"Which stands for hawk if you want a
falconer's voice to lure. Oh Judy, Judy,

' Many a shaft at random sent,

Finds mark the archer never meant.'

But test it dear, whistle from Egbert Hall."

Mabella, inured to Sybella"s gibes, took not
the least notice, and Dulsie, naturally slow of
comprehension, did not quite understand, she
only knew that Sybella was at her " cuts "
again. Judy's heart was tender, and she
loved Mabella.

Sandycot will miss him," she said kindly ;
"it's not well off in tassel gentles. But there's
somebody who won't," and she laughed a
merry peal of laughter. "Indeed, now I
think of it, he has something to do with his
sudden departure." Another peal.

Who are you talking of, Judy ? " asked
Mabella.

"Ned," said Sybella. "I thought he was
jealous."

"Ned, indeed," and Judy tossed her head.
"I should Hke to know what right Ned woukl
have to be jealous of me with anybody."

"Then who? Mr. Green?" This from
Dulsie.

Judy rang another peal, and Tim, who was
discussing a chicken bone, thinking it a challenge
for a romp, rushed out of his house and
seized her skirt with his teeth, barking and
worrying.

That's right, Tim, speak for yourself," and
she lifted the little animal up by the shoulders
and turned his small defiant muzzle towards
his mistress.

Oh, Tim, you are the ingrate," said
Mabella; "after all the sweet biscuits he
brought you, too."

"And which he took with a snarl and ate
with his back to him," said Sybella.

"It was jealousy," and Mabella took a piece
of sugar and held it up to her pet. Judy had

to put him down in sharp haste, sugar was
one of Tim's weaknesses ; then lifting the
envelope of Major Tyler's note from the
table, she passed it across her face, saying :

How fond he was of cedar ; " and with a
sudden impulse she added, " I wonder if Tim
would know it."

Tim ran to her call, expectant of some
delicacy.

Whose is that, Tim ? " and she put the
envelope down before him. One swift", and
the next instant it was in shreds. The hair on
his back stood up like a hog's bristles, and
his breathing was smothered by rage.

Ah, Timothy, better have you for a friend
than a foe," said Judy, resuming her breakfast.
" Now go to your house," which
Timothy did with a rush, where, bringing
himself up on his hind quarters, his forelegs
stiff and straight before him, he sat on the
offensive letter and growled.

It was arranged that Mabella should look
for rooms for Mrs. Aylmere, and that Judy
and Dulsie should go to Egbert Hall in the
morning for a short stay.

At twelve o'clock, their letters written,
each went her separate way, to meet again at
two for luncheon ; Sybella to her Turkish
bath, Dulsie to her room to give packing
directions to her maid, Mabella on a lodf]inof
quest ostensibly, Judy to Seapinks by appointment.


Unless within their own domicile, the door
shut and the Venetians down, Sandxot had
the happy knack of making every one feel en
evidence. Trees, which in far more exposed
places by the sea grow with care and nursing
into gratefully shaded fulness, at Sandycot never
attained the proportions of even a moderate
pollard. So unrelieved by arboreous amenities,
the stiff terraces stared at each other ;
the four sides of a solitary square, with their
pretentious porticoed mansions, looked scornfully
over the head of the meagre shrubbery
in the centre at their monotonous replicas
opposite, and the somewhat narrow streets,
with their bay windows, seemed part of an
idle community for ever agape for news.
But it was the boast of Sandycot that there
was not a house within its precincts that

from some given quarter could not command
a view of the sea. " It is the only summer
resort," said Miss Turner, the spiral young
lady, " that does not boast a lover's lane."

Yet the " old, old story " managed ever and
again to make itself heard by the ears for
which it was meant, and many an hour fled
on wings too swift for happy hearts, beating
under the lee of a derelict coble, or better far
wandering by the long, long stretch of golden
sand rounding to the base of distant battlements
of cliffs, their silence broken only by
the murmuring music of the sea, their solitude
by " gleams of curlews ; " better, fitter
place than even woodside covert or woodbine
lane for that mutual transmutation of self
which the world calls delusion, religion idolatry,
and heaven love.

The favourite lodinojs for the itinerant
were in Shore Street, which, some feet above,
faced the sea. In this street were Sandy cot's
principal shops, its club, and its chief hotel.
Here, over the circulating library, Mrs. Beau-morris
had her pleasant rooms.

The tide would not be at the full till two

VOL. L 8

o'clock, but the streets were at this hour, a
little after twelve, emptied of strollers, who
were either in the shade of their habitations or
under improvised tents on the shore.

Mabella with a three volume novel in her
hand entered the library. There she found
Mrs. Beaumorris, turning over the leaves of a
book of poems, and opposite her, his back
against a centre stand of photographs, and
making: idle pictures on the ground with his
stick, Major Tyler. A rapid glance told lier
he was a prisoner against his will. Mabella,
who was singularly void of tact, and to-day
not a little flustered, only acknowledged Mrs.
Beaumorris's presence with the stiffest of
bows, but shook hands warmly with her
companion.

I'm a little late," she whispered, or in what
she believed to be a whisper, which reached
Creamy 's ear. A gleam of mischief and spite
combined contracted her sleepy eyes.

An assignation evidently," she said to herself.


"What have you been reading, Miss Egbert?"
she asked, taking up one of the volumes Mabella

had laid down ; then anticipating the reply,
Oh ! ' Not Wisely, but Too Well.' Don't you
think that titles of novels are often very
suggestive texts ? A world of romance, reality,
and warning' she emphasized the last word,
lie in these simple words. Ah, major ! " she
turned her eyes convincingly on that gentleman,
who was anything but at his ease, 'i'm
afraid it is the reverse with men, they generally
love wisely, but not too well."

The major was not in a mood to be trifled
with. The rebuff the beauty had given him
the previous night was not forgotten  it had
been scored against her. His desradincc
position to the woman he had despised and
wronged, his enforced and humiliating departure,
now at hand, the imminent risk he
was now running of losing his last chance of a
few words with Mabella, words on which, if
only spoken to-day, his very fate depended,
all working together roused the savage, perhaps
never very latent in him. He turned quickly
so as to again face his enemy, and sneering ashe
took off his hat in adieu, at the same time
holding back a chair to let her pass out, he

said, " It was from philanthropy I used to make
love, belle Creamy, for you know the best
thing to keep a woman from playing the devil
is to encourage her in playing the fool."

He had spoken between his teeth, and only
to the ear for which the words were intended.
Just for a second, as if stunned, Mrs. Beau-morris
stayed her exit, then the blood left her
face  Creamy never flushed  and with a
supercilious astonished look, as if the man,
hat in hand before her, was some presumptuous
lacquey, some inferior social creature, she went
slowly and composedly out of the shop, slightly
bowing to Mabella.

Just then the librarian brought the exchange
books for which the latter had asked, and
Major Tyler taking them, said he would carry
them so far as their roads laid together.

When they got into the street he said, preserving
an indifferent manner with cautious
regard for the points of observation in the
upper windows opposite :

I have something of vital importance to
say to you ; is there any place where I can see
you alone ? "

They are all out at the Lodge," she said,
'* and luncheon is not till two."

My train leaves at two," he said ; *' I'll
desire a fly to call for me at the Lodge ; my
luggage will go with the hotel omnibus."

This he did. Tim had accompanied Judy,
the coast was clear. Just for one moment,
when the door closed and Glabella stood in expectant
attitude before him, Major Tyler felt
his confidence fail him. He had drawn a rough
mental outline of his intended statement ; was.
clear as to the absolute fiction and the more-deceiving
half truths, had weighed well the
exact amount of fervour and passion that would-be
fittingly necessary to press his suit, and had
sorted out for ready use his repertory of moral-platitude,
chivalric fustian, and religious-patter
; but though thus cap-a-pie he was at
fault  he did not know where to besoin, whether
to put the vital question at once and leave
the awkward explanations till the prize was
secured, or to tell the "story of his life,"
judicious edited, and trust to pity and love
for the rest.

The musical clock on the chimney-piece

struck up its horary tune, and told the hour
of one. He had only twenty minutes to dare
and do.

"You are in trouble, Major Tyler," said
Mabella ; " I hope your sick friend is not a
very near relative." She had given the cue ;
Geoffrey Tyler was himself again.

His story is best told in his own words 
words of rapid utterance, now his tongue was
unloosed, but each duly proportioned and
harmoniously coloured, making a narrative of
perfect mosaic, artfully designed.

We have been something more than
friends, Mabella," he said. ' /, at any rate,
have found, I fondly believe, rest for my soul
in your sympathy and womanly tenderness, so
unlike the selfish absorption and exacting exclusiveness
of raw girls. Even in my reckless
days, when I was ready to vow away my very
life at the foot of beauty, I knew that my
heart could never be reached but by a ' perfect
woman, nobly planned, to warn, to comfort
and command,' a woman Avhom time and
perhaps trial had mellowed and elevated, who
could in short understand a love apart from

passion, and give in return a generous, believing,
and forbearing love. The Cupid in
me was never blind, Mabella, and so it came
that when I saw too clearly, and sickly passion
palled me, when I turned aside in very weariness
of soul, that my lovers became my
enemies. You know

' Heav'n has no rage like love to hatred tarred,
Nor hell a fury like a woman scorn'd.'

And such relentless hatred has followed me
for ten long years. To free myself from its
consequences I left my profession, for she had
sworn my disgrace, and she had a tongue of a
syren and the cunning of a serpent. I was
helpless in her hands. Then to escape the
range of her power I expatriated myself, and
buried myself in Africa. It was only a
few months since I returned, trusting, like a
fool, that time had softened her rancour. I
did not hide myself in my own country ; I
went to my club, showed myself in my
old haunts, and at last came here, an idle
wanderer in quest of bracing air  and,
Mabella, last night we, that woman and /, met''

Mrs. Beaumorris ? " said Mabella.

"No, no, though I sighed at her feet too,
not her ; Creamy has not vitality enough to
nourish a stronger than passive and spiteful
hate ; she discourages emotions, they leave
wrinkles, she says, but she will do her vicious
best to injure me if it comes in her way."

Then who ? " asked Mabella throwing: off
her bonnet, her face flushed and her eyes
moist.

Miss Eber ! "

Oh, that mysterious, colourless, cold,
abstracted girl. Oh Geoffrey, I could believe
anything of that woman. Did she love you ? "'

Yes, with a savage love. Oh, how I
sickened of her, but I had trusted her in the
first warmth of my delusion with every secret
of my life, and when I broke from lier she
vowed to use her poAver to blast me. She believes
she has supernatural power. It looks
like it."

But what can she do to you ? "

I am coming to that, but I wished you to
understand something of my youthful nature.
I am forty-four now ; that my one bitterly

repented misdeed might not seem so heinous
in your sight, it was at any rate not sinned
against you. My first regiment was the 6th
Dragoons ; it was quartered in Ireland. I was
barely twenty. I could not hunt like the others,
for I was not rich ; I would not gamble, for
I had no money to lose; there was nothing
but shooting for leisure  shooting and my
lady's bower. I chose the latter. The
colonel's wife was a handsome woman ; she
rushed from one intrigue into another. The
colonel was a bully, and detested by men and
officers, but he was not master at home. He
was a little wizened martinet, mean of soul,
but a good barrack soldier. men who admired
her pitied her, but she had plenty of
consolation. I was green ; I did not pull up intime.
The colonel discovered our intimacy, and
we ran off: to be more accurate, she ran off
with me. Well, the usual course of things
happened. She was divorced and I married
her. I exchange-ed into another regiment and
went to India. Of course there was no love
between us, but I was chivalrous in those
days, and I bore a great deal ; bore till my

honour was compromised, and then I came
home and sued for a divorce. Before the
case came on I received a letter telling me. she
was dead  had been killed by a fall from
her horse. Oh, Mabella, the awful feeling of
relief that came over me when I realized that
I was free ! It was then that I met Elsie Eber
there is no time to say where or how. She
was very lovely. There was something soothing
to me in the thought that she was only a
simple maiden ; that her name had never been
before the world, that no one knew of our
relations to each other. I told her everything
in the reckless trustfulness of my nature. I
even gave her letters that ought to have been
sacred : I hid nothing of mv life from her.
I was deeply in debt and in the hands of the
Jews, for the divorce and all that had followed
had involved me deeply. I told Elsie I could
not take her to a home of shameful shifts and
privations, that any day might see me in a
debtors' prison. Then her brother  I do not
believe now that he was her brother  offered
to lend me two thousand pounds, to be repaid
when I sold out of the service. He did so, I

giving him simply my I.O.U., and at the same
time a pledge to marry his sister, who was to
know nothing of the contract. This promise
I mvQ in writings. When I came to think
over my bargain coolly I saw the trap into
which I had fallen. I discovered too that
she was a Jewess, a race which I abhorred.
The fancy I had called love had been worn
out by her vehemence, and my heart was
as dead to her as to a stone. But there was
no f.'oinor back."

' Did she not see you had ceased to care
for her?" asked Glabella tremblingly. She
was naturally keen of perception, and dimly
she felt the weak points of her wooer's
specious narrative, but she was as yet too
much under the glamour he had thrown over
her to do more than meekly indicate that her
faculties were only dormant.

' She was too self-absorbed in her own
fierce passion," he replied ; " she believed in
herself  outside herself she had no rancfe.
The day was fixed for our marriage, when
I received a letter that my ivife was still living
and in London. She had caused the report of

her death to be sent home to stay the divorce
proceedings. It was a terrible position, and
yet I was sensible at the moment of a feeling
of relief, for I knew that she who was still my
wife would never claim me, and she who would
be my wife could not. 1 left the place where
we were and wrote to Elsie, sending her the
letter stating the fact of my wife's existence.
I have only a dim remembrance of what
followed ; I know she followed me to London
and that she reproached me with wild rage.
I was over-wrought, a brain fever ensued.
When I recovered I was a wreck, but Elsie's
persecutions had begun. She refused to believe
that I did not know that my wife was
living when I met her first, and accused me
of getting money from her brother fraudulently.
In despair I sold out and repaid
her brother the two thousand pounds. A
week after I had done so he died. I had
omitted to get back my I.O.U., and this Elsie
row held and refused to give up. I went
to Africa, but before I went I stood by my
wife's dead body in her sister's house, and
obtained a le]fal certificate of her death from

the doctor. Then, free at last, I rushed into
savage life. If I had then been forced to marry
Elsie Eber, I would have put a pistol to my
head. Last night we met on the pier by appointment.
She gave me twelve hours to
leave Sandycot, and swore that if I refused she
would sue me for the two thousand pounds ;
not, she said, for the sake of the money, but to
blast me in the eyes of every friend I possessed,
and she can do so. Few would believe,
even on proof, that I was misled as to
my wife's death, and except the letter stating
the fact, which I had received from a friend
and on which I stopped the divorce proceedings,
I had no proof. Then who would believe
my version of the two thousand pounds ? No,
Mabella, there is no mistake, she has me
hemmed in. Many names would be compromised,
dishonourably, for she kept letters I had
shown her. You see I tell you everything,
not palliating one jot or tittle of my folly, and
you know yourself the world will condemn
me because I did not redeem my promise to
marry the girl when I found I could."

Mabella had wept copiously during the

major's recital. Her tears lead encouraged
him. There was a pause.

It is nearly half past one," she sobbed ;
' what are you going to do ? "

The wheels of the fly were heard in the
avenue.

I am going away, like a hunted deer,
a hopeless outcast, but if you would only say
that when this indignation is overcast a'ou
will see me once more, I shall not despair."

Mabella looked up ; her nose was very red,
her eyes also ; tears always made Mabella 's
features swell.

Geoffrey," she said, " come back when you
like, you shall be welcome ;" and she held out
her hand, shading her weeping eyes with the
other, which held a handkerchief.

He seized the offered hand, kneeling on one
knee, and kissed it.

One moment, Mabella"  the door bell rang
loudly  "give me your word that you will not
let Elsie poison your mind against me. I have
told you all without reserve, but she has
powerful influence ; I dread her."

Geoffrey, she shall not tell her story tome

; I believe you, that suffices. I am a true
woman," and bending down she kissed his brow.

And promise me," he spoke in a fervid
whisper, " that you will be my wife, my
beloved, trusting, adored wife."

And Mabella, fairly overcome, her full
motherly bosom heaving with sympathy, lier
heart soft with pity and her senses glamoured
and blinded by vanity and a spurious emotion
she mistook for love, gave her promise.

The servant to announce the fly was heard
approaching the door. The major, collected
and unruffled, took his hat, and as the door
opened held out his hand in formal adieu.
I shall be there in a minute," he said, and
the man disappeared.

Mabella, to hide her tear-stained face, had
turned her back. When the door closed, she
turned round and smiled through her tears.

"We are one now, Geoffrey," she whispered,
a little shamed ; " this is my first privilege,"
and she handed him a cheque for a
hundred pounds.

With almost nervous eagerness his fingers
closed on the flimsy piece of paper. Cheques

had grown in these later precarious years unfamiliar
to him. The crisp touch reanimated
hope  it was as a dram to a worn man.

For love's sake," was his sole answer ; and
as if from an uncontrollable impulse, he suddenly
wound his arms round Mabella's portly
form, and kissed her full round cheeks.

My wife, my rest, my love, my salvation,"
he cried ; then with another farewell kiss he
hastened away.

As the Hy issued from the Lodge gate, Elsie
Eber and Judy, who had stood aside to let it
pass, entered. The major, well back in the
corner, his hat over his brow, with his usual
' cursed luck," he said to himself, caught a recognizing
glance from Elsie's eyes and received
a valedictory snarl from Tim, who struck by
some sudden thought set up his bristles and
scampered home, not once drawing breath till
he found on inspection that his own particular
residence had not been invaded by the
enemy. Elsie, whom Judy had brought to
luncheon, met with a repulsively cold reception
from Mabella, and so the words of warning
remained unuttered, the story untold.

He has been before me," she said to
herself, " but he cannot hurt me. When
pressing need comes then I will speak," and
strolling in the garden with Judy, she wove a
little plan, to be dependent on the progress of
the scatter, to take Judy into her confidence,
but not yet.

[5)

VOL.

Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure,
Thrill the deepest notes of woe."

To him that in love of nature holds communion with her
visible forms, she speaks a various language."

It would be liard to say to wliicli this impromptu
visit to the country brought the
greatest pleasure, to Dulsie or to Judy ; to
Judy, perhaps. Youth has a capacity, a brain
and physical power of enjoyment, that when
years have run over the third, in rare cases
the fourth, decade, fail in intensity. Euhng
passions, strong proclivities, are seldom subdued
by time ; but in ordinary natures, with
no pronounced extremes, when the daughters
of music are low and the windows darkened,
desire fails, and the cup of pleasure is as wine
from which the spirit has gone. But there is
a placid enjoyment known only to that period
when the brook and river meet, when the
hair is a little more than gray and the eye

a little less than bright, when the step is firm
as ever, but with no elastic spring, when the
voice, strong and sweet as of old, never
wakes love's echo. Then the pulses beat with
rhythmical tranquillity, sensible of no depression
in Autumn's dull sorrowing season, or
quickening in Summer's golden prime. Not
insensible, not cold, we take the goods the
gods provide, with serene unruffled enjoyment,
vibrating to, but no longer sounding
notes of rapture's diapason.

There was not a haunt of bird or flower
in the wood and coppices and the outlying
lands of the Egbert domain that Judy did not
know. The shepherd, old Giles, an honoured
servitor of fifty years' standing, and Judy,
were firm friends. From him she had learnt
wonderful secrets of outdoor life, secrets
which he never wearied in the telling
and she never wearied in the hearing.
While the slow sheep browsed from point
to point, sometimes in the hollow, sometimes
in the turf of the slope, Giles had to sit still,
keeping them always in view, leaning on his
crook or reclining against a friendly tree.

92

There he would ponder, reading curiously in
Nature's book. In Scotland, on the bleak
hill-sides, the shepherd, moving or standing,
plies his knitting-pins, but in the sheltered
south there is more to distract his mind in
the herbaceous coppices. Green lanes and
bridle tracks, Giles knew them all for miles
round, short cuts to evade the turnpike tolls
and springs that in drought were never dry.
He was a herbalist, too, in a narrow way,
knowing chiefly those of medicinal properties.
He knew the wild flowers, too, calling them
by quaint old names. To some were attached
strange tales tingled with witchcraft  not the
wild romantic legends of the north, but weird
evil stories, the outcome probably of some
slight incident, that breaking in on the dull
monotony of old pastoral life had made
a stir in the district and so gradually, from
tongue to tongue, had gathered and grown
till they stood forth in all the proportions of
a rural tradition, and by the curious were
added to the ingeniously gleaned records of
folk-lore.

He knew the hiding-places of the pink

pimpernel, just on the verge of the ripening
corn : the moist drives of the mead, where
show the pale lilac cuckoo flower and maw-thorn,
and where the wind anemone blows
in the copse. Spots, too, were known to him
where gay groups of double buttercups grew,
and loamy ditch shores rich with the lovely
blue crane's bill and the herb " Robert,"
with its changing foliage, lying " like crimson
lace" on the coarse herbage of the bank.
The foxglove, crimson and white, was there,
red clover in patches, the claus (marsh ranunculus)
and blue bell. Bright gleams, too, of
the white violet, and in places where the
water rose to a certain height, a stately flag-lily
could be found. And like a gay vesture
over the thick-set hedge on the far side were
flung the woodbine and briar-rose, intermingled
with the silent bells of the white
and striped wind-bind (convolvulus). Giles
knew, too, mossy glades where rare ferns
lurked, and stubbly ridges where tall grasses,
many hued, clustered in sheaves. He would
gather them for the "little Miss," the term
by which he was wont to designate Judy in

her earlier girlhood, and to which he always
held. Gorgeous bouquets Judy reared from
these wild spoils of covert and open, dashing
in, in brilliant effects, the scarlet poppy, the
blue-bottle," and time old " eggs and butter"
bow she loved the archaic names. Many a
strange flower talk she and Giles had together
in terms that would have puzzled the learned
botanist.

Of the world and the world's ways old Giles
knew little. He had never been taught to
read, and the stories of foreign battles, kings
overthrown, famines, and earthquakes, presented
no more reality to his mind than the
chapters from Revelations to which on occasion
he listened in the dreary old parish
church. The outer world Alas as dim a world
to Giles as that to us where are leviathan and
creeping things innumerable. Of doctrinal
or dogmatic religion he knew as little as the
untaught heathen, but somehow, from the
unlearned cottage preacher, perhaps, Giles
had got, as the Methodists phrase it, the
real things " into his heart, and as much of
it as was necessary into his head. It needed

but very simple words to express old Giles'
simple creed, that all men were sinners 
how, he could not quite " tackle," but he believed
they were, for God said so, and he
knew he was one ; and as they were born
sinners, sin came so natural-like to them that
they never could shift themselves of it, so God
sent his own Son to wash them clean by His
blood and to tell them how to keep clean.
That was about all.

He liked the cottage preaching, which were
full of rural images and vivid illustrations
from cottage life, but he had a great respect
for the gentry and a duty to the squire, so he
bared his head every Sunday morning on his
wooden seat in the dim, dusty, high-sewed
church and repeated the responses to prayers,
made, he supposed, for the gentlefolks, they
were " so grand like." The religion of his
every day life was uprightness in word and
deed, and a watchful independence that made
him " owe no man anything." This was his
rendering of what he supposed his relations
to God required of him. What God was to
him ten thousand voiced nature alone could

have told. Giles saw Him in the meanest
weed that grew and heard Him in the voiceless
stars. He knew Him in the teeming life
of the animal world, that living evidence of
mysterious creative power and tender fatherly
care.

They were red-letter days to Giles when
the little miss was at the Hall, the one bond
of sympathy being Judy's preference for the
simple wild flowers of the field over the gorgeous
and perfume-laden exotics of the greenhouse,
and her great love for the wild denizens
of the trees and fields.

They arrived at Egbert Hall by an early
train, and after luncheon her first visit was
to the stables to see Gloriana. She was
accompanied by the squire.

*' Isn't she a born beauty, miss," said
the proud Peters, as scarcely held in by
the light bridle he had thrown over her
head, the mare came prancing out of her box
stall.

' And isn't she well named ? " cried the
delighted girl ; "her skin is like cloth of gold.
Can I ride her to-day ? "

She be's uncommon fresh, miss ; but I
knows you're a tight one, and she knows it
too, and if you'll be content with the ring for
the first try, I think, if the squire's agreeable,
it'll be safe enough."

By this Judy had quietly sidled up to the
proud-looking, splendid animal, now pawing
the ground with impatient hoof. Her gentle
strokes, like mesmeric passes, calmed the fire
and fret, and Gloriana bent her lofty head to
the young girl's face, held fearlessly up, and
smelt her hair, which her hat tipping off had
left uncovered.

Give me the bridle," said Judy, which, a
little fearing, Peters did. Then she kissed the
still drooped head between the eyes and spoke
sweet nonsense, words of cheer and endearment,
and lastly she slipped out of her pocket
a piece of sugar, which Gloriana ate as peacefully
and with as much enjoyment as a two-year-old
babe. The sugar finished, the
mare whinnied, and just holding the reins
lightly in her left hand, her right entwined
in the glossy mane and her cheek pressed up
against her favourite's arched neck, Judy led

the way to the ring, Gloriana deporting herself
Hke a limb.

She remembers miss," said Peters, following
with the squire in rapt admiration of the
pair. " She's martel fond of me, too, in her
way, but 'cause she knows she can't play her
tantrums with me she's fond o' showing off a
bit, an' if I got aback o' her now she'd mebbe
up with her head and try 'delusions (conclusions)
with me. But she ain't got a bounce
o' vice ; it's just with horse-flesh same ways
as women-flesh ; it's the sprack ones as is
easiest managed, and safest, too, in the long
run."

Peters, though a cockney born and bred,
had yet lived so much in the provinces that
he had made his own many a quaint word of
dialect and old form of speech.

Arrived at the ring  a large inclosed field
so called, with turfy bordering  a groom
brought Judy the trainer's skirt, an impromptu
substitute for her habit, and thus
simply accoutred she sprang from Peters'
hand like a bird into the saddle.

Judy could ride. She had had a few initiatory

lessons by lier mother's desire, who believed
only in things according to pattern ;
but Judy's riding had nothing of conventional
riding about it ; she was as much at her ease
in her saddle  or without it, as Peters could
tell had he been given to tell tales out of
school  as on the hioh swino-bouo-h of the
old elm, on which she always declared she
had got her best lessons. She was, as the
common phrase is, a piece of her horse.

To-day, Gloriana had only" a snaffle, but to
every touch of the slight hand that held therein
she answered with the precision of a
lio:ht skiff to the helm. At the first 2:0 ofl
Judy's rebellious hat slipped backwards, but
she caught it deftly and secured it by the
string to her crutch. Her hair was tied, as
usual when she was, as she phrased it, on the
loose, in a bunch behind, or, as Peters harshly
termed it, in a bang tail. This floated and
feathered and streamed at will of the light
breeze and swift motion. At starting, just
to remind Gloriana of something: she knew a
little of before  her strength of will  she kept
the reins firmly in hand and made the first

round of the ring in a slashing trot ; then
with a whisper of commendation and an encouraging
pat she relaxed her tension very
slightly and made the second in a wanton
canter, the splendid animal beneath her
bounding and curvetim?, starting in affected
timidity at a familiar blackbird, and switching
her tail in " show off," Peters said, " again
miss." Not a movement of Judy could be
detected apart from her horse ; it was a
perfect harmony of motion, and the mare's
frolic, fun, and pranks, her gay revelry of
freedom, were to the lookers-on the sporting
of two happy beings in exquisite unison each
with the other.

So when, at the third round, Judy gave the
reins a jubilant shake and drew her lithe
figure in closer form, the mare with fiery
response dashed off in an abandoned gallop
that sent the turf beneath her feet flying
over her head and Judy's blood coursing
with wild fervour through every vein of her
body.

Two such rounds the pair took, and then
with a firm decisive check Judy drew up

sharp to a stand beside the proud Peters and
just a little nervous squire.

You've no fears now, Peters," she said as
she alighted on the ground, "just for all the
world," he afterwards told his wife, " like a
bit o' thistledown."

I only wish," was his reply as he touched
his cap, " I only wish, miss, as it could be
mannerly-like for you to ride in the ring at
the show, an' she'd fetch a price as 'ud make
the countryside's mouth water."

Oh, cousin Egbert," cried Judy in real
distress, "you promised me never to sell
Gloriana."

And I never shall, Judy," he replied.
"Peters must be content with her taking a
prize, and Pm sure she'll do that."

A prize, the prize, you mean ; nothing
short of the medal will satisfy either Peters orme,
will it, Peters ? "

"There's narra onely touch her, miss; an'
it's known too, it is, don't you be feared," and
he led the mare away, not a hair turned, ashe
pointed out, but whinnying with backward-glances
at Judy.

*' Now, cousin Egbert," she said, her eyes
dancing in the sunshine, " my scamper has
put me in such very high feather I'll be off to
old Giles and the birds. I'm bound to go to
him sharp, for he's sure to find out I'm hereby
hook or by crook' and she was off.

The squire stood, as she flitted across the
fields like a gay butterfly, watching with
loving eyes till she was lost in a copse, at the
far end of which he had told her she would
find the old shepherd.

The weather had been exceptionally dry,
and the meadows were in parts parched and
brown, but outside the copse, on the rise of
the hill, there was a little streamlet that,
according to tradition, had never, even in
seasons of severest drought, been known to
dry up. The grass on the hill, too, overshadowed
in parts by the copse, was green
and luxuriant.

Here Giles had his trusty dogs Sam and
Beck at his side.

From this point of observation he could
command the movements of his fleecy treasures
further than the eye could see. They

were some four hundred in number, not more
than two hundred of which lay within his line
of vision.

But Giles knew that any disturbance of
those beyond his ken would be immediately
communicated to the rest of the frock, and a
word to Sam and Beck would send succour
on wings.

The quiet streamlet mile by mile widened,
till issuing from the boundary of the Egbert
estates it became a broad river.

Here it was the ever fresh sparkling stream
babbling over tiny flints ; but the sheep,
grazing at will, cropped the herbage too
closely to admit of flowers except under
some boulder, or in the cleft of a decaying
tree-root.

An osier bed was near. Here was the first
of many hundreds of pollards, that sparsely at
first, and thickly afterwards, clothed the banks
of the broadening stream for miles down the
valley.

Not far from the osier bed was a pool of
clear limpid water, to wdiicli in the meridian
heat of the day the cattle from the uplands

came to slake their thirst, and not a stone's
throw from the pool stood Giles' cottage.

"Did you know I had come?" asked Judy
after a friendly greeting of her humble
friend.

"A was back the stable-yard first thing
tha day," replied Giles, " an' a seed Mr.
Peters rubbing' down the chestnut mare. He
zed nar a word but the time o' day, buta'
says to myzen as tha little miss wud be o'
cummin', an' I vor on the watch. There's a
rare lot o' nests about an' a lot o' 3oung 'uns
on the wing."

Then Judy patted the grave Sam and
indifferent Beck in cfreetinf, too, which attention
they acknowledged by the scarcely perceptible
movement of the feathery termination
of their tails ; ordinarily they recognized
acquaintance with nothing living outside the
shepherd and their charge.

Well," she said, " they're as dry and
crusty as any old bachelors ; they're not like
Tim."

Ackerdish times vor the ship if they twos
like that varmint," said Giles dryly. " No

further nor thick lambing, when Miss Egbert
vor thin tha house there with tha missus,"
he indicated the cottage by a side nod, " he
sinks alert uncensured like, on a' happens to
zee hin, an' in a yap he had a ridden lamb as
vor in tha gain by the drew. Miss, she
comes running out, an' Sam here vor on unlike
a flash. It would ha' gone hard with the
varmint only a' chokes hyn off, an' then there
vor a shindy, but I'm born' to say as Sam got
the worst on it."

And the lamb ? " asked Judy.

A' did noa good ; the missus kept it a bit
by the fire, an' worked with it, but a' died.
And just to zee Miss Egbert carrying' thistle
doovel away in hern arms. Ye haven't
brought Tim, miss, lev sees ? "

Judy' reassured her friend on that point,
and then asked had he fulfilled an old promise
and found her a cuckoo's egg. This Giles had
done.

And then followed what Judy called her
bird-chatter. Giles had to give an account of
mutual friends ; if the old swallows had come
back to the cottage porch, the starlings to the

VOL. 1. 10

chimney. Had he seen a kingfisher on t.lie
stream, and how many pah's of water wagtails
had he counted ?

He had to tell, too, of the nest of the redbreast
he had found at the root of the old
elm near the sheepcote, and how he tended it
on Sundays when lads got into the park, and
at last saw the fledglings safe on the wing and
able to take care of themselves.

Many a story of the blue-tit and the cole-tit,
of the yuckills in the sallywithy he had to
tell, of the white blackbird that found a mate
and built in the laurels, and which the gamekeeper
killed (Judy echoed Giles' still warm
indignation at the senseless deed), and of the
venerable pair of ravens, great intimates of
the shepherd and his little miss, who this
year, as before, had reared their small family
undisturbed on the centre of the great cedar's
topmost branch in the deer park. He had
taken the old pair a dead rabbit now and
again ; they never now, he said, moved a
feather when he came on them.

When Judy had exhausted her questions,
Giles rose with an air of mystery, and desiring

Sam and Beck to lie close lie bade her follow
him cautiously.

It bees late for them," he said, " but
they've bin more than like disturbed at some
other bit. They're dogged cute rustics, too,
but there's no been' up to ' varmint,' " a term
applied by Giles to all dogs outside collies.
"Tha gamekeeper he vor after a stoat he'd
started fran the elder (hedge), and I vos
watching him dodging it, when I seed some
o' the rubble  dead leaves and the like  move.
A kep' still as Sam there, an' then a sees income
out, it vor sunset, and up he flies on
thick branch."

They had reached a hedge beside an old
elm with a sweeping branch drooping over,
and to this Giles pointed.

And themmiii he basins an' zinos till the
copse is as still as death from nought but
jealousy."

Oh, Giles, is it a nightingale ? "

"That's about it, little miss," he replied,
his keen sunken eyes gleaming with pleasure
at his companion's delight. " Sees guessed
it ; it bist the faintest like nest a' ever seed,

102

an' there vor five eggs, a green-brown. A'
kep' one, but alia hen her laid another. Tha
joung 'uns lev bin out 'em two weeks, an'
I've my eye on one I'll take and middle for
sees."

Just one peep, taken on tiptoe, Judy
allowed herself. The parent birds were absent,
and she could see the fledglings huddled
together in terror, and almost outgrown their
nest. Giles, with tender, careful hand, scattered
dry leaves and grasses to hide any
marks of disturbance, and then the pair
returned to the stream-side and stood awhile
by the shady pond to watch the moor-hens
and dab-chicks skim and dive. After a
little Judy drew from her pocket a goodly-sized
parcel, the aroma of which instantly
attracted Giles' notice.

"It's the best I could get at Sandycot,
Giles. The showman did declare he'd had it
through some one who had got into trouble
about it, so he said. He wanted me to
believe it was extra good because it was
smuggled. I suppose you see it is labelled
pure Virginia ? "

And zo it bees, little miss," and Giles
applied this nose to it with the gusto of a connoisseur
; " it's bist prime Virgin," and he
took off his hat With grateful courtesy to the
smiling girL

Judy had a word for the shepherd's wife,
querulous and feeble with age and rheumatism,
but the cottage was clean and snug, and
Giles was " used to her laddie." He was outmost
of the day, he said. She was a tidy
woman still, and, the Lord be praised, he was
growing deaf.

Judy threaded her way home by herself,
keeping, as a change, close by the brook.
Its downward course was checked at intervals
by hatches, which forced the water out into
the meadows and into small ponds. These
hatches were movable. One Judy knew
well. It was moss-grown and in a quiet
shady corner ; there the kingfishers resorted
for food, which they find readier in brooks
and in such like small watercourses than in
the mere and broader expanse of waters.
Over the brook, beside this mossy hatch,
were overhanging branches, where they could

perch and watch for their prey. Without
this wary survey they do nothing. The day
was nearing to evening ; it was clear and still.
Judy stood apart, for perched on a slender
twig arching over the water was a halcyon,
as she loved to call the kingfisher. There it
sat in kingly guise. Seen from the distance it
looked like a gay water-flower. Judy kept
the utter stillness the bird loves ; there was a
movement in the clear depths below, and like
a rainbow-flash the bird descended, and then,
darting upwards with a small trout in its
beak, flew swiftly to the distant pond, where
its nest lay hid among the rushes, the red
and azure of its plumage glancing in the sunshine.


All things lovely and at peace Judy had
seen that day, and with her innocent heart
full of love and praise she wended her way
on, singing now and again snatches of songs
and erratic bars of church minstrelsy. Suddenly,
as she put her hand on a turnstile
which led her out of the last field of her
progress, she heard a sharp shrill note of
terror, and right at her foot, as if for

shelter, fell, rather than alighted, a green
linnet. Its head was turned upwards and its
beak open, not in defence, but paralyzed fear.
She stooped to pick it up, but before her
hand could touch it a shrike, or butcher bird,
swooped down and carried the quarry off in
triumph. Judy reached the door of Egbert
Hall pale and silent, the voice of music hushed
in her heart and her sweet eyes still moist
from the April shower that gushed forth at
the fate of the hapless linnet.

But it was strange," she said to herself as
she mounted the broad flight of steps to the
house, " I was not a bit sorry for the trout
the kingfisher caught, and that was a life, too.
Oh, it is all a tangle and a puzzle. It's a
cruel world, it is."

The towers in different ages rose,
Their various architecture shows
The builders' various hands."

DuLCiBELLA Egbert's vocation in life was
exotics ; not that lies was an exotic existence,
for Dulsie loved the open air, and wet or dry,
took a constitutional walk in the breezes
parts of the demesne. She believed in the
invigorating qualities of the wind, and in a
waterproof ulster she defied the rain. That
she was not a little rheumatic she laid at the
door of the hereditary Egbert gout, and it was
generally understood in the family that it was
no manner of use cautioning Dulsie against
damp or chill ; she would observe her own
regime as long as she could hobble.

The numerous greenhouses and the great
conservatory, which the late Mrs. Egbert had
added to the old hall, were Dulsie's especial
care and pride ; care from Jove for the fragile

existences of ardent climes, and pride from
enchanted admiration of their regal growths
and sun-dyed colours.

But there was no innate love of flowers for
the flowers' selves in Dulsie's nature of limited
sympathies. A daisy was .only a pretty weed
to her, and the so-called common garden
flowers, hardy roses, sturdy hollyhocks and
dahlias, little more. Their coarse beauty, she
said, was suitable to our vigorous climate, and
their proper place was the homely garden.
For her own preserves, as the squire called the
greenhouses, Dulsie had her particular gardener,
who, like his charges, was a very fine
piece of high culture. Between this functionary
and the head-gardener there was constant
war. But there was no denying the fact
of the rare beauty of the greenhouse plants
and flowers of Egbert Hall ; yet it was but
seldom that any were sent to compete for horticultural
prizes. Dulsie could scarcely be
tempted to risk a change of atmosphere for
her favourites. It was pretty well accepted
as a foregone conclusion by the country for a
vast horticultural area round, that when Miss

Dulcibella Egbert's name appeared as an 
it was also as a victor.

But she was not churlish in oivina. It
pleased lier to give seeds or cuttings ; whole
plants she rarely parted with. She had reared
and loved them, she said, and old friends ought
to be fixtures.

Her vocation suited Dulsie's temperament,
which was of the dolce far nienle type, and
except in her believing love and trust in
Mabella, and her ancestral creed of Egbert
intimacy, colourless. She loved her father
placidly, and in the same way endured Sybella,
whose gibes never even ruffled her serenity, and
whose deeper nature was a hidden mine to
her intelligence.

Live and let live " was Dulsie's motto, and
so fully did she adapt her life to that maxim
that the records of her past sears told of
neither a love nor a friendship that had left a
sorrow or a joy behind.

'" I think," said Sybella once, enraged at her
failure in an attempt to rouse Dulsie's anger
against the misdeed of a friend, "I think it
liicfh time the Egbert race should come to

an end when its stock shows evidence of
lymph."

Better lymph than virus, sister mine," was
Dulsie's smiling answer.

Dulsie's a good woman," said Mabella,
defending her, though she herself had resented
that particular misdeed ; " she loves her neighbour
as herself."

"A poor compliment to self when that
neighbour has broken nine-tenths of the
Decalogue, eh ? "

A fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind,"
and Sybella spoke as if her mouth was dry.

Dulsie's guards to her assailant's arrows
were generally bags of sand, but she was not
wanting in a sort of quiet aggression when
fairly put to it, and more than once Sybella
had been rather neatly, as the squire would
say, turned over.

To-day she was just a trifle roused. This
misdeed of this especial friend of the family
had been flagrant  of that there was no question,
but Dulsie had argued, " Why let us cast
stones ? She passes from our circle naturally ;
let her be."

Not SO Sybella ; she had made her own
protest loudly, so had Mabella, and she was
indignant, yet perhaps a little conscience-touched
at Dulsie's forbearance, and so, too
angry to weigh her words, uttered the venomous
and sisterly insinuation.

"My dear," said Dulsie with just sufficient
spirit to give point, "better that than to
compound for sins you are inclined to, by
damning those you have no mind to."

But usually the sisters lived in tolerant
amity, and Sybella did not often lay herself
open to be so worsted by her own weapons.
Departed youth had left in Sybella seeds of
bitter regrets for misused matrimonial opportunities,
and slowly creeping-in age presented
only a jaundiced vista of the future. She did
not know it herself, poor woman, but gradually
even love of kin was chilliness in her embittered

o

heart.

There was, however, one affection, if so it
could be termed, which had become a ruling
passion, and that was family pride. She liked
the gay pretty Judy, and acquiesced in the
arrangement the squire had made, that, failing

direct heirs, the place and name should pass to
lier.

But it was a grief nevertheless that no male
Egbert should be left of the once many-branched
family tree. She dimly conceived ita
blot on the escutcheon.

It had, however, been a comfort to feel, as
she and her sisters settled down in resigned
spinsterhood, that only an Egbert would rule
during their time in the old place ; that if she
and her sisters had missed the crowning joy of
a woman's life, or, as some might think, had not
fulfilled the object of their creation, they had
over them no lord to call himself master of
Egbert Hall.

She was not naturally keener of perception
than Mabella, but she laid herself more out to
observe, till as a natural corollary supposition
and assumption became ingrained habits.

But though her perceptive capability was
sharpened, her power of acumen was not
broadened. A complex character was far
beyond her ken ; its weaknesses or salient
proclivities she might grasp, but nothing
more. From one narrow standpoint she made

her deductions, and by these she judged a
whole.

Little weaknesses had no chance of escape
from Sybella's notice. Naturally small of
soul she was gradually becoming mean of
spirit and an influence of insensible irritation
in her family circle.

Had Major Tyler selected Sybella instead
of Mabella as his quarry, it is more than
probable that her perceptive powers would
not, in his case, have made adverse deductions.
She was six years younger than
Mabella, and in the colour of her hair and
lightness of figure had still distinct remains of
a personable youth ; but Mabella was what
the Scotch call " sonsie," that is comely and
good-humoured, and, too, in a bargain of this
kind, the major contemplated her additional
years as a score in her favour  he looked
forward with equanimity to an early widower-hood.
Sybella's nose was long and tipped
with red, she was spare of person, and she
was not sympathetic. A " Tartar," he called
her to himself.

But he was grievously mistaken in his estimation

of Glabella. At present lie was
glamoured by his influence. She had always
been susceptible to the tender passion, but in
her youth not over constant. Xow that so
suddenly she had again succumbed to the
soft impeachment, with the usual contrariety
of human nature she gave evidence of a
dogged constancy, which promised effectually
to blind her acute intuition. Her family
pride, however, with which in even a greater
degree than Sybella she was imbued, retained
its normal conditions  a pure unreasoning
superstition, fierce almost in its nature  outside
and above every other consideration ot
life in her heart.

In the nature of events she knew that she
should succeed her father in the life-tenancy
of Egbert Hall ; he had told her so, and it
pleased her in thought to anticipate the
generous things she would have it in her
power to heap on the man of her choice ; but
that he should ever be master of the old hall
never entered into her speculations. A
doubt of his worthiness to stand by her side
as partner in her greatness  more than a

partnership she never in her tenderest imaginings
awarded him  not once crossed her
heart. It would be an hapless day for the
arch designer when the " foolish old woman,"
as he called her in his silent communing,
should know him as he was. Courteous and
kindly as the three Miss Egbertss were in their
manner, well dressed too, and refined in their
occupations, they had lived such an utterly
rural life, had mixed so little in the gay
world, that they were what that gay world
called old-fashioned. Their manner had not
the habit of society. The repressive conventionality
of modern society inhibits nature in
speech and emotion, degrades movement to
an art and attitude to a trick. Like the
outer heathen, its votaries carry their symbol
of caste on their faces, but not in peaceable
pigments ; their distinguishing marks are a
certain vacuity of expression and conformity
of line, as if in indication that they are a
peculiar people and not, like the vulgar herd,
made after God's image. This dumb shibboleth
was not written on the homely visages of
the Miss E-berts. Of louis descent and exalted

traditions, few within the aristocratic
ofuild had more definite claims to the distinction
of blue blood, few less to the significant
terms " high-bred and comme il faut' But
it sufficed for the bliss Egbertss that they were
Egbertss, and for their county, too.

Egbert Hall did not stand on a commanding
gf height ; it was situate in a hollow, where
it had once been surrounded by a moat, the
necessity for which means of defence in
troublous times had probably determined the
choice of site, as it was the only place on
the demesne where sufficient water could be
found to supply a moat. But the conduit
from which the water had come had long ago
been filled up and the water diverted into
another channel, thou:]i its boundary was still
marked by the stone arch which had at a
later period replaced the drawbridge, and by
the gate-houses, whose date, as cut over the
arched stone doorway, was 1380. The hall
was a large castellated structure of a quadrangular
form, erected in the reign of Edward
the Second, so that for more than five hundred
and fifty years it had braved time and tempest,

VOL. T. 11

and had been the silent witness of the fortunes
and misfortunes of the Egbertss. The exterior
had been little altered, but some of the
windows had been modernized and additional
doorways in the walls opened.

The height was generally two storeys, and
the whole structure was built of limestone.
The original windows had pointed arches, and
a battlement ran round and nearly concealed
the roof. A winding stair led from the basement
into many of the rooms, and also to the
outside of the roof, where it terminated at the
base of a very graceful turret. The west
front commanded the finest view of the
country and was flanked by four tall buttresses
extending up to the battlement. This
front was three storeys in height, except where
the chapel was situate, and there it was only
two. Various additions in intervening centuries
had been made to the house, but the
original style had been pretty closely observed,
though not the same solidity. The
roof was many gabled, slated, and with wide
leaded gutters. The view from the battlements
was extensive and over a fair and

fertile country, full of historic associations.


The interior retained many of its ancient
features, and the kitchen, vhich was spacious
but not lofty, had still the original arch of the
wide fireplace. The rooms on the same basement
also retained their original va ultima.
Above these was the great banqueting-hall,
a noble room, lighted on each side by two
large windows. It had been the pride of
successive Egbertss to preserve this hall with
no more than requisite change. The flooring
was recent, and the glass in the windows had
been replaced by other with the armorial
bearings and q quarterings of the family in rich
colouring. It was furnished with black oak
furniture and tapestry hangings ; with old
firearms, matchlocks, arquebuses and crossbows
; with spears, swords, sabres, pleases,
daggers, truncheons and shields, relics of
many a doughty warrior whose first breath
had been drawn within the venerable walls.
There were spoils of the chase, too, from
distant lands, rich furs, shining ivories and
fierce heads of beasts and fish. Here, too, hung

112

the family portraits of ancient date, grim
valour and gentle beauty, stern justice and
courtly grace. When the full sunshine
streamed in through the superb windows the
old hall showed with a stately grandeur,
worthy of the brave antecedents of the race
it had nursed ; but when it knew no light save
that of the pale moon and chilly stars, it was
a gruesome place, ghostly to the superstitious
and portentous to the timorous.

There was a projecting wing on the north
side of the great hall in which were now the
living rooms of the family These had been
partially modernized by late generations,
but the ceilings were low and in all the reception
rooms, save one bright little boudoir, the
walls were oak-panelled. The windows commanded
a wide prospect of undulating lands,
melting into the distant hills ; a great wood
belted the house in on the east, giving shelter
from the spring winds, and far away to the
south could be seen the broad river of Pell,
the outcome of the silvery stream by whose
banks Giles fed his flock.

The chapel, though carefully preserved

almost ill its entirety, was now seldom used,
but there, in the old crumbling font  so said
family traditions  every Egbert born under
the roof of the Hall had been christened, and
every Egbert who within its precincts had
shuffled off their mortal coil had laid in state in
its narrow chancel. There the sentinel tapers
kept watch and ward until the prescribed five
days had run, and the velvet palled coffin took
its place in the great vault outside the parish
church. The entrance door to the chapel from
the outside was under a pointed arch. It had
long since been closed up. It was only opened
on the occasion of a funeral of one of the
family, but since that of the present squire's
wife, an event now thirty years old, its rusty
locks and bars had remained undisturbed. A
broad path, though, which led round to the
front avenue from its very postern was kept
carefully trimmed and gravelled, for there
was an old superstition attached to the country
round that should a corpse be ever carried
through any path, that path could not be done
away with. Since the Reformation the Egbertss
had professed the Protestant faith, and the

family annals told of more than one brave
scion that had given his life for conscience
sake. That they had become Protestants from
conviction and not expediency was one reason
perhaps why the old chapel had fallen into
disuse, why also it had no relics to tell of its
once Popish habitude. In all the subsequent
mutations of the reformed church, of ecclesiastical
'isms and canonical doxies, of zeal and
lethargy, the head of the family had preserved
an even tenour, his simple creed that of its
unadorned ritual. And though on occasion
it would happen  notably on the presentments
of certain advowson in the gift of the
family  that a biblical bishop or sacerdotal
prelate would denounce him as heterodox,
none were ever found to accuse him of lukewarmness
: the Squire Egbert of the period
was ever a staunch, if a moderate. Churchman.
As yet, her possible heirship had been only
indirectly intimated to Judy, but when it definitely
presented itself to her mind, it seemed
such a far off and painful contingency that
she dismissed it once for all from her thoughts.
It had almost frightened her, in some such

way as a child would be frightened were a
cumbersome and dazzling bauble placed in
its hands. The place had been to her a playground
of infinite variety, the old Hall an
enchanted castle of Otranto. She loved the
inmates dearly, each in a different way. The
squire she reverenced, yet did not fear, and
year by year the little Egbert off-shoot, as he
called her, rooted herself deeper into his heart.
He had regarded her at the first as of necessity
his heir ; then her charm, her gaiety, her pretty
manners and delicate beauty, touched his pride ;
and her genuine commonsense seemed to the old
man almost a touch of genius, and her shrewd
remarks as the wisdom of Solomon. Full of
fun and frolic as she was, she could be grave
and sympathetic in his sad moods, to which he
was much inclined. At these times she would
walk quietly by his side and lead him insensibly
to talk of his dear dead wife ; of his son
he seldom spoke, his death had been too
sudden and tragic for the wound ever to heal
even enough to allow of the gentle touch of a
pitying hand. But not so with his wife. She
had gradually faded under his eyes, and when

her chair was vacant it seemed as if only a
shadow had risen from it to follow the bright
existence that had vanished so longs astound
as the years wore on and the time drew
nearer when he, too, should turn his face
heavenward, this loving retrospection became
to him as the converse about some one from
whom he had parted but yesterday, and so
gradually grew to be less a pain. \ya3 it
because in the tale of time his earthly vista
had shortened to a span, and he knew that
his lonely journey was near its close, or that
perhaps beyond that narrowed vista his longing
eyes had caught the " gleam of a Avhite
pinion spreading " in the faint glimmer of the
coming dawn ? Who can tell ? As earth
crumbles from us, things that are not appear
nearer than things that are, and life measured
by limited existences seems longer, for its very
weariness, than eternity.

Whene'er ye feel your honour grip,
Let that be aye your border."

The next morning at breakfast the squire
asked Judy if she were inclined for a very-long
ride. He wanted, he said, to see some
young stock at Marlby Grange, Lord Albany's,
distant about twelve miles, and he proposed
that they should start immediately after
luncheon and return in time for the seven
o'clock dinner.

Dulsie," he added, " has her hands full, I
know, and she will be glad to be left to
herself."

Judy agreed to the arrangement with
delight. She had never been to Marlby
Grange, but she had often heard of its
beauties and grandeur from her cousins, who
at the same time were always careful to add
that the house eras only two hundred years

old and the title a creation of the second
George's reign.

'' It is quite a made place, I may say,"
Mabella would add, "it grew with the fortunes
of the Albany, who were small gentry at
first."

Dulsie affirmed her father's statement that
her hands were full, and congratulated herself
that she had come to the Hall at this particular
juncture, when a flower-show was coming
off at Nettlethorp.

For you see, dear," addressing Jud} " it
would never have done if weaver had put
Parton in the shade ; I'd never have heard the
end of it."

Weaver was the squire's head gardener
and Parton was Dulsie's special functionary,
and as before mentioned the two were constantly
on the verge of open war, The
chance of Weaver putting his rival to the
blush had happened in this wise. As Dulsie
rejected from her conservatory common plants,
or plants she called common, it seemed almost
impossible that the two gardeners should
clash, but it appeared that Weaver, fired

by ambition, had cultivated in an ordinary
forcing house some cuttings of choice pears
given him by a friend. The season
was favourable, and the plants were this year
in great and vigorous beauty. There was to
be a flower-show at Net tie thorp, and Weaver
had obtained leave of the squire to exhibit
his treasures. Xow Parton had in the conservatory,
just moved from a greenhouse,
also some rare and exquisite pelargoniums,
against which he felt convinced nothing could
stand. He had no objection that Weaver
should exhibit flowers in his own line, such
flowers as owed their nurture to the open
air, but that he should dare to represent
Egbert Hall with greenhouse growths was
just a thing he would not stand, and if Miss
Dulsie didn't assert her proper position, which
in reality meant his, " he should transfer his
services to some one who could uphold, in a
proper manner, .proper floral dignity." This,
uttered respectfully, but resentfully, was the
pith of his appeal made on the previous
evening to Dulsie, and to which Dulsie had
yielded, induced by the favourable aspect of

the weather, but more by the fear of losing
a person who so thoroughly " understood the
constitution" of his charges.

She had therefore before her a good day's
work in writing notices, as she was all but
too late in entering, and in arranging the
modes of conveyance. It was so rarely that
Dulsie did exhibit, that the fuss of preparation
was always out of proportion to the
occasion.

There is a young Albany, Judy," and
Dulsie nodded and smiled.

"Yes," said the squire thoughtfully, "and
there's money wanted there, too." He spoke
with an arrive pense in his tone, and as if in
some way the subject was familiar to his
mind.

The old story, I suppose," observed
Dulsie ; " every succeeding generation of
Albany s has to ba set on its legs by an
heiress. A vast absorbing element in that
family."

Ah, you see," said Judy gravely, " heiresses
have peculiar privileges. I'm very glad I'm
not. an heiress."

Why?" asked the squire sharply.

Because no one who wants setting on his
leges will trouble me. I have rather a leaning
to sound constitutions."

Young Le Pole is a very sensible fellow,
and quite sound," said the squire, a little
inconsequently.

He has been thrush three London
seasons," added Dulsie, " without securing a
dol.' I am told he puts a high figure on
himself."

Seasoned goods, you see," laughed Judy,
he ought to try the States ; he'd get some
big offers there. Lords are at a high premium
with Brother Jonathan. They're the only
manufacture in which he can't compete with
us, so he sends us some of the raw material
for weft

And Sybella declares," said Dulsie, " that
in the interests of heraldry alone this invasion
of Yankee brides is serious ; they bring no
quarterings."

Ah, cousin Dulsie," Judy spoke sententiously,
"history repeats itself; it's not the
first time we got no quarter from the Yankees."

"Judy," cried the squire, laughing heartily
as he rose, and placing his hand on the young
girl's head, " come up to the battlements and
exhaust yourself. The lights and shades
to-day are marvellous, and there's not a sheaf
cut yet."

In a few minutes Judy returned with her
hat on.

We'll go up by the staircase here,"
she cried, " and come down by the great
hall," and she slung a small telescope she had
brought from the outer hall, where also she
had got her hat, round her neck.

"With a great sigh of rest and enchantment,
Judy brought up beside the squire on the
summit of the turret, disdaining the partial
view afforded by the embrasures in the battlements.


For some minutes neither spoke. The old
man's gaze wandered far away to the hills,
traveling along their ridges, till the highest
point reached he ceased to look on earth and
fixed his eyes on the light beyond.

Judy, a little subdued and more than a
shade graver, had turned her telescope in

search of her friend Giles. There in the
narrow hollow the sheep were feeding, dotted
hither and thither near ridges of security over
the surface of the rising round, down the side
of which the silvery stream ran dancing to
the placid river. Upon a distant down her
eyes lit on another flock packed close, rising
towards the ridge like a soft fleecy cloud
fallen from mid-heaven, slowly toiling back to
its place. Xow and then a little quiver of the
fleecy mass told her that Sam and Beck were
on duty and that Giles was not far off*. In a
little she caught a glimpse of a shadow-like
figure folio wins: the flock in the distance.
She could see him with his crook climbing
the ascent.

He's getting feeble," she thought; "even
the sheep are too fast for him now."

Slowly she brought her telescope round to
a commanding down, which the powerful lens
laid almost at her feet. She could see the
bees sail heavily-laden over the wild thyme,
and the bennet and the dry leaves shiver at
the rush of a fresh wave of the wind. Then
she followed with childish eagerness the whirling?

flioiit of two butterflies, till in their
gambols they fell foul of each other and
tumbled to the ground. Anon she traced the
sweep of a descending lark to see if she could
determine the spot where it would alight, but
it obliged with outstretched winsfs, shot forward,
and was lost to sight. At that momenta
flock, it seemed to her, of larks, sprung into
the air, paused to gather impetus, and in one
loud chorus, unheard bv her, burst into sono
and were lost in the blue dome.

Her telescope travelled downwards and
dwelt on others of less ambitious flight rising
but some eight or nine yards from the earth,
and floating forward on wide-spread wings,
but the low sweet note they uttered in this
gentle play could not reach her ear.

On a hifrh down were the remains of an
ancient earthwork, a grassy mound and earthworks,
and within its inclosure were withered
tufts of grass left untouched by the sheep. Judy
knew the place well. She swept her glass over
it to find, if she could, some of her sylvan
friends at home within their forms. The arched
grasses moved, and in and out she watched

the hares pass secure from alarms. Xow and
again one, as if struck by a sudden thought,
would rise on its hind legs and listen for a
second, then leisurely leap on its way. She
followed their tracks across the green till her
attention was arrested by two, weirdly erect,
indulging in a boxing-match. It was a merry
game. Found and round they went as if
waltzing  advancing and retreating, striking
with their fore legs with rapid action. At
last, struck by the absurdity of the combat,
Judv burst into a riuCTino- laugh, which had
the effect of rousing the squire from his
reverie.

Look, cousin Egbert," she cried, giving
him the telescope and adjusting the focus.

The squire laughed also. "I have often
stood," he said, " and watched them at their
gambols ; the rabbits, too  just a lower world
of children, without a thought of tomorrow.
The mere sense of living is to animals an
intense enjoyment, the intense perhaps because
their very existences are so fragile and
their enemies so many. But now, Judy, I
want you to follow me to another world, and

VOL. L 12

to give me all your attention. I brought you
up here for a purpose. Take the telescope
and put the focus right again."

She did so.

Now follow the line of wood beginning at
your left and curving gradually round the
hills. You have come to the Pell now."

Judy said she had.

Then bring up sharp by the pollards,
and follow me to the hollow where you seethe
sheep."

Giles is over the ridse of the down " she
said, " but most of the sheep are in the
hollow. I see them."

Leave them," he went on, " to your left
and trace the boundary wall  you know it 
at the far side of the cornfields till you come
to the cottages."

The obedient telescope stood still at the spot
indicated.

"You are at the conduit now, are you
not ? "

"Yes, cousin Egbert, or rather what was
the conduit."

Well, track the course of the sedges and

the green fosse  you know it by the ' novelty '
grass and herbage, the sure signs of underlying
water ; track till you come to the first
trees of the wood again, then you can see
without the glass."

What next ? " she asked.

"Put down the telescope and listen to me.
You have followed acre by acre the boundary
of what was once the Egbert demesne, a
sweep of twelve miles ; five now incloses all
that is left to our name. You know, Judy, I
am the last male of our line, and that when I
die women must succeed me, the first time a
woman has hired an Egbert."

Judy silently assented.

"I'm very near the top of the hill now,
Judy, and I want my mind to be at ease
about the old place. I used to be very proud
of it once ; I suppose I am still, or I should
not be disturbed about its future. Often and
often I've come up here alone and traced
and retraced the old boundary with vain
longings to call all within its magic ring ours
once more. And it might have been, child ; I
might have had my wish if I had chosen to

122

give my dead wife's seat to another, but I
could not. I think it would have been a sin,
Judy, for marriage was not instituted to
further mercenary contracts. I'm not a
sentimental man. Sybeha says I am. She,
and the others too, wanted me to marry
Harriet Le Pole, that is Miss Le Pole of the
Manor House, Lord Albany's aunt. She
owns all the lands within the boundary I
have shown you, all that is not ours still.
She inherited them from her mother, whose
family acquired them two centuries ago. It
is too long a story to tell you now, but it was
a Commonwealth job and the first time in
the history of the Egbertss that the property
had been divided. Miss Le Pole has never
married, and her natural heir is of course her
nephew the earl. He got the earldom from
the present administration  it was only a
barony before."

Judy faintly surmised her cousin's drift.

Now," he continued, " what passes between
us to-day is in confidence."

Judy nodded gravely. The squire was undemonstrative,
and she knew bis moods.

*' At my death the place will pass in succession
to my three daughters. At their death
it goes to you without any restriction whatever,
except that you and all who come after
you bear the name of Egbert."

Oh, cousin Egbert," that was all Judy
could say ; she felt frightened, grieved, and
shy. A delicate sense told her thanks would
be out of place, for thanks expressed gladness
in a manner, and how could she feel glad at
the prospect of a gift that entailed the death
of those she loved ? It did not occur to her
to depreciate herself, her nature was too open
for finesse ; neither did her usually ready tongue
prompt her to expressions of extravagant
appreciation of the honour intended her, or
florid pledges for the future. But the tone of
her " Oh, cousin Egbert," spoke to the squire's
heart all that that heart wanted. They understood
each other ; she had held out her hand
and he kept it close in his grasp as he went
on :

I have not given out that you are to bethe
eventual heiress, child, because I would not
have you a mark for fortune-hunters, and so I

4#

have not spoken to your mother either, for
she is ambitious, and you, dear, might suffer."

The little palm in his fluttered. The tenderness
of the old man gave to Judy's heart a
sense of pain.

"But if it should so chance, Judy  only
of chance now, not by my bringing about or
Sybella's managing  that you and young Le
Pole should like each other, will you promise
me that you will not throw any impediment
in the way to his choosing you for yourself,
for your own self, Judy, not for the few acres
of this old earth's crumbling crust your cousin
Egbert willed you to have ? "

Judy's tears were falling like pitiful rain,
but she did not speak, only once again she
said, " Oh, cousin Egbert."

The squire looked curiously into her downcast
face. This time the tone of the simple
words did not speak to his heart all that that
heart wanted. Struck by a sudden fear he
recoiled.

Judy," he said, dropping her hand, " Judy,
child, it's not Mabella's major ? "

For the third time Judv uttered the same

words, " Oh, cousin Egbert," and once more
the tone spoke to the squire's heart what that
heart desired. Then she burst into a ringing
laugh, stopping on the highest note to exclaim
with derisive merriment :

"Major Tyler!"

The next instant, as if in penitence, the
ready tears burst forth, and she Hung her
arms round the squire's neck and buried her
face in his breast.

' I didn't mean to hurt you, Judy, darling,"
he said simply. " You see, I know the world
so well, and these handsome militaires, particularly
when not too young, a year off forty
or so, are very insinuating. Indeed, dear, I
was afraid poor Mabella was going to be
foolish about him, she used to be always
falling in love loner ago."

Judy unwound her arms and dried her eyes.
Usually she had great command over her
emotions, but to-day she had been taken by
surprise in a very unfamiliar fashion.

He has gone away," she said, " and Mabella
does not seem to care much."

'* And I hope he'll stay away," added the

squire. There was a pause, and then he returned
to the charge. " I have your promise
? '' he said with an infliction of doubt in
his voice. "You won't put any impediment
in the way of young Le Pole if he should come
wooing ? " and he smiled almost coaxingly.

"Dear cousin Egbert, what impediment
could I put ? " she began.

Oh, I mean you won't be too sharp with
him ; he's not as clever with his tongue as you
are. And  and you won't flirt  you know
what I mean  with any one else ; you'll give
him a chance, won't you ? "

There was something inexpressibly touching
in the old man's deprecatory manner, in his
almost pleading tone. Judy's heart filled with
sympathetic pity and yearning. Only a little
word and a few kisses, that was all that was
wanted, and the squire would go gladly on his
way down the darkening vale. He would not
ask for pledges, she knew that ; her faintly,
whispered " yes " would be as a solemn vow
to him, for his faith in her utter truth was as
that of a little child in its mother.

And after all, why should she not let him

have the simple assurance he sought ? It was
only to give this as yet unknown youth a
chance, if he so minded to seek that chance ;
and  and she must not forget this, not to flirt
with any one else ; that meant not to listen to,
not to give any one else a chance, just to keep
herself passively open for the advances of this
young noble, whose great recommendation in
the squire's eyes was his imminent heirship of
the old Egbert lands.

She would wait until she had seen the youth,
and then she would answer her cousin. That
was a happy thought ; it gave her time. He
might take a sudden dislike to her, that would
spare her the onus of refusing the squire's
request ; or she might to him, and then she
would find it less difficult to disappoint cousin

Robert.



In any case she would have time to think
over the matter, and somehow, if you did not
fuss and worry  so Dulsie always said  things
righted themselves, and the result would be
just the same. She had almost forgotten that
the squire was beside her, patiently waiting
her answer.

Her little hands were clasped before lier,
and Iter eyes looked wistfully out on the
sunlit hills, almost as if expectant of aid in her
strait. Her soft mouth had a line of care, and
the smooth brow showed more than one
wrinkle. Then, prompted by an undefined
impulse, with absent action she raised the
telescope and once more levelled it at the fair
lands beneath, at the meadows green with
aftermath, at the fields of golden grain, over
which went " waves of shadow," at the wood
on the east with its undulating line of treetops
quivering beneath the rays of the sun
rising to its meridian, at the silvery Pell, and
so on to the peaceful hollow and the quiet
sheep.

Judy," whispered the squire, " it may all
be yours."

Down fell the telescope, and again in
an impulsive significant tone she uttered
for the fourth time the words, " Oh, cousin
Egbert ! " then, before he could add a word,
she seized his hand with both of hers and
said, stopping now and again, when she
feared she gave pain, to lay on it a kiss

of penitence, '' Oh, cousin Egbert, you can't
think so meanly of me as to imagine that
I was appraising the promised land "  she
smiled through the fast-oratherinor tears 
that I was weighing it in the balance
against the promise you would have of me ?
I thought you knew me ; but you know, dear,
don't you, that I never told you a lie ? "

Judy used honest words when greatly in
earnest. It was the squire's turn to kiss the
small firm hand.

I thought so ; but I want you now, darling,
to understand that I would not even trifle with
the direct truth. Cousin Egbert, just for a
flash it seemed possible to me to speak the
truth and yet give you the pledge you asked.
I thought I could easily promise not to
flirt ; ' you mean that I am not to let anyone
else woo me  that's a good, old, plain-meaning
word, and so it suits me  that I am
to keep myself in every way free for Lord Le
Pole only ; that is what you want of me ? Xo,
dear"  another kiss on the brown hand 
*' don't please explain away. We're in a very
solemn place, above earth as it were, with only

the blue sky overhead, and the great eyeless
sun-watchings us. We're standing under the
Egbert flag."

She posted upward to the top of the tall
staff from which the gay pennant flaunted m
the lioht breeze.

I think if I played you false it would curl
itself round the pole and never wave again.
I cannot give sou this promise."

The eloquent blood rushed to her face as,
to veil her eyes, she bent lower than before
and leant her brow on her clasped hands.
There was a painful pause, broken at last by
the squire. He spoke in a constrained voice,
with a tremor, but gently and lovingly
withal.

Xever mind, child, it was but an old man's
whim. It was only while you were fancy free
I asked it of you ; " and then he withdrew his
hand from her keeping and laid it gently on
her head, saying, " God bless you, Judy dear ;
the old name is safe in your keeping, and when
the time comes that you are no longer fancy
free, may God give you the desire of your
heart, for I know you will not choose unworthily.

But, child, do not let idle dreams
possess your soul ; the waking will be rough,
and pain you. I shall never come up here
again, never look on that wide boundary
more. God's best gifts are often denials."

Life might never have for Judy a more
anguished moment, or subject her brave true
spirit to a more crucial test.

Each word of the old squire stabbed her to
the quick, for she was young and tender, andover
her vital emotions time's crust was yet
thin.

A weaker nature would have yielded ta
its affections ; the request in itself seemed
such a very little thing, sophistry whispered,
and did not entail any binding pledge in the
future.

But Judy's nature was not weak, or she had
not felt so keenly. She wept though, what
stern souls would have called, weak tears, they
fell so plentifully, and in her turmoil of soul
she felt that there was yet one word she must
speak ; she had hoped the squire would have
understood that unspoken word. Even in
her dumb pain she wondered at his blindness.

But she must give it voice now, or  so
clearly she reasoned  in a little while, when
the first sharpness of his disappointment had
softened, he might begin to hope again and
say to himself that while she was fancy free
there was a chance for him still. So she did
not falter or temporize.

She raised her sweet eyes, lustrous with
tears, in which in the sunlight stars seemed
to come and go, and with a vain effort to
steady her voice said :

But, cousin Egbert, I am not fancy
free."

Her confession made, as if in very shame
her head again dropped. So often it is that
the victory won, the brave spirit quails before
its own deed.

But somehow, although unknown to himself
a latent hope may have lurked in the
squire's heart, the bitterness of disappointment
had passed.

And now, though the simple words were
a revelation and made him start, they
brought no added pain, only a consciousness
that suddenly in the place of his little gay

friend Judy, a noble woman stood, the same
and not the same.

He took her hands and kissed her downcast
face with a quiet reverence.

Is it so ? " he said ; " you will tell me all
about it in your own good time, dear ; to
doubt you, would be to doubt goodness itself.
And Judy," he went on, for the tears still
fell, " don't fret about disappointing cousin
Egbert; not to sweep the Egbert boundary
round the whole county would I have had
you cross the boundary-line of honour. Do
you remember the summer nio'ht last year in
the old banqueting-hall when we all amused
ourselves by choosing chivalric mottoes, and
you chose for yours the words of the Scotch
poet Burns :

' V'here'er you feel your honour grip,
Let that be aye your border ? ' "

Judy smiled remembrance, as her weeping
ceased.

And, Judy, just as you looked then in
your white frock, standing in the moonlight
so grave and earnest when we all laughed,
you look now, when, true to your chosen

motto, you toppled over the old man's castle
in the air."

She looked up still ruefully, but there was
no pain in the squire's eyes, only a great love
and peace. They then kissed each other in
silence and turned homewards.

As they issued from the banqueting-hall to
reach the dining-room bv the honos corridor,
Judy said, smiling, the squire thought, sadly :

Cousin Egbert, do you think the day of
real chivalry will ever come, when to be simply
natural will only be to be simply true ? "

"Yes, dear," he replied, " but not here."

Soft words, with something in them, make a song."

The confidences on the turret had left such
a disturbing element in Judy's mind, that
but for the seductive attraction of a gallop on
Gloriana she would have evaded the visit to
Marlby Grange.

With Gloriana, however, as a decoy, the
visit gradually resolved itself into a duty
to her cousin and her delicate scruples into
self-conscious prudery; so faultlessly turned
out in a short dark blue habit, well-poised
top-hat, under which her hair appeared ina
shining coil, and a very fiction of a whip,
she tripped down the broad stone stairs and
mounted her impatient horse.

By the advice of Peters the squire had
elected to ride on this occasion his brown cob,
well known for its splendid trotting powers
and steady stay.

VOL. I. 13

He can take care of himself, can Bob,"
Peters had urged ; " and you'll want to keep
close to miss, and have your eyes sharp, 30 u
will ;" hints the squire appreciated thoroughly

It was a ride long to be remembered by
the gay Judy and grave squire. Gloriana
deported herself, as his mistress afterwards
assured Peters, " like an angel ; " as the
squire said, " like St. Vitus himself." Her
light canter was a succession of playful jumps
and surveying, Which seemed like arch
raillery of the sober Bob's short swift trot.

There had been rain recently, and the turfy
side of the liifrh road was cool and soft to the
horses' feet ; the arching branches of the trees,
too, gave shade from the sun, which shone
prone from a cloudless sky.

Only once they drew rein, and that was
perforce at a toll.

Then Judy had the grace to ask her cousin
if he where tired and would like a slower pace
for a while.

He looked at his watch and said smilingly,
Not so bad for Bob, seven miles in fifty-five
minutes."

Just half way," replied Judy. '' We'd
better walk the next mile, Bob's too fat."

With a little coaxing and gentle manipulation,
Gloriana reduced her airy prancing to
airy trappings, and Bob, nothing loth, brought
his sharp trot to a quick determined step,
which kept ]pace with his ambitious companion's
lighter movement.

The squire sat loosely, his reins slack and
his head bent. He was thinking. Judy eyed
him uneasily and a little remorsefully, but
Gloriana kept her on the alert.

There was no room for sentiment; there
was, however, for discursive chat, and Judy
loved erratic converse.

To urge the squire out of himself, as she
mentally intended, she said, taking advantage
of a meek mood of Gloriana :

Cousin Egbert, did I tell you that Mrs.
Beaumorris has a rival at Sandycot ? "

Neo, Judy, you did not," answered the
squire smiling ; " tell me all about it ; you're
the queen of gossips."

You know the Trelawneys, don't you ? "
she asked.

132

I know one family of that name, but
there are Trelawneys and Trelawneys. The
name is widely represented now."

This is an Admiral James Trelawney, an
old man of seventy at least."

*' Cornish?"

No, Sybella asked him, and he said he belonged
to a distant branch of the ' old stock,'
and that he was born at sea. That was all
the account of himself he vouchsafed. However,
his wife's pedigree is distinct enough.
She was a Fitzmure of Fitzmureland, but she
hadn't a penny, and her father hadn't an acre.
The old property was gambled away a century
ago, but the head of the family always kept the
old designation up. Sybella says the people
who have the property now gave it their own
name, and it is now Fitzmytheland  an ingenious
way of accounting for the patronymic
of Smith."

As how? " The squire looked mystified.

Oh, you see their name was Smith. They

owned by purchase a farm and some land

besides. They built a fine house and called

the place Sutherland. Wasn't it a stroke of

genius dropping the ' i ' ? And so when they
got Fitzmureland the transposition was easy.
I admire ingenuity."

So do I," said the squire, and he laughed.
Jud} laughed also then.

"Well, it's Sybella's ingenuity, not mine,"
she said. " In any case the name of the
place now is Fitzmureland ; not inappropriate,
is it ? It will be in ' Burke's Landed Gentry '
some day."

Did the family drop the ' S ' from their
name too ? "

Yes ; they're Myths now. Some of them
have made good marriages. When the family
tree is enough grown to exhibit, that little
transaction will read something like this :
'Mortimer Smith, son of Grosvenor Smith,
eminent ship-owner '  there's an ancestry in
ships  'and descendant through a collateral
branch of the ancient family of Smith-smythe,
obtained a patent for incorporating
the ancient lands of Fitzmureland and Smith-land
into one entire barony, to be designated
by the name of Fitzmytheland.' That's be
about it." And Judy laughed such a merry

peal, to which the squire added a hearty-bass,
that Gloriana flung up her head and
swung out in a dashing trot. They were within
two miles of their destination before the
mettlesome animal condescended to return to
the only approximation to a walk she vouchsafed
when Judy was at the helm  a light
tripping step.

Judy," said the squire, taking up the
thread the mare's impetuosity had snapped,
you are a little Eadical, I fear. I wonder
who your Gamaliel is."

Judy blushed. In the sunlight, on her
slightly averted face 

. the lily and the rose
For mastership did strive."

And the rose had the best of it, but she gave
her head a little toss and answered :

I have my own opinions, cousin Egbert.
I sit at no one's feet. I am not a bit of
a Eadical in a levelling sense, but I do hate
shams, and half the pedigrees in that great
tome of gentry are shams."

Sweeping, rather," said the squire archly.

but youth is sweeping and comprehensive ;
young folks hate details. They are magnificent
generalizers and gallant jumpers to conclusions."


I was telling you," said Judy, to lead her
cousin back to their starting point, "about
Mrs. Beaumorris's rival, Mrs. Trelawney. She
is so handsome, not a bit like Creamy, as
Mrs. Horseman calls her ; a fine tall, dashing
woman, very fair, full of fun and what you
would call devilment  just a Gloriana in fact."

"I don't care for very tall women," observed
the squire, " unless they are soft and
gentle. A tall fine woman sounds bold."

Oh, she's not a bit bold. She's half Irish,
you know, and can't help her spirits ; but I'm
afraid she is a born flirt. The poor little
admiral knows it too, but I've no pity for
him ; he must have married her from pure
]pride, just to show her off and make younger
men envy him. Poor old goose ! I suspecta
great many are very much obliged to him ;
they like flirtations that don't compromise  I
mean where no climax is expected in the way
of matrimony  and then you see women of the

-world like Mrs. Trelawney know low far to
go. They're the very material, Xed says,
'poiir passer le temps with."

"I'm afraid Xed, as you call him, is a
Eadical," said the squire slyly.

Judy looked round sharply, a little abashed.
"I should have said Mr. Eawson," she half
whispered. Then in her natural voice of light
gaiety, " Don't you think horse-flesh catching
? I always feel just a little fast in the
saddle. But oh, cousin Egbert, if you only
saw the beauties together ! They each put on
a spurt. Creamy languishes and poses and
does oriental sunrise and sunset, as Xed  Mr.
Eawson  says, ' to bewilderment.' That is,"
answering the squire's look of inquiry, " she
opens her eyes with a flash, and just when her
victim is dazzled to giddiness she lets down
her lids and he's all in the dark. The ' admiral's
craft,' as Xed calls her " (Judy was off
the rails now), " sees it all, and doesn't she
take the wind out of Creamy's sails ? I was
standing beside them on the pier one night ;
there was quite a little group, and somehow
the conversation drifted into marrying for

love. Mrs. Beaumorris sighed with her lids
down, and then suddenly flashing them open
she said, ' A true woman could never marry
for anything else.' The admiral was standing
close to his wife, a poor weather-beaten little
fellow, pompous and acid ; it was plain no
one could ever have married him for love.
Every one felt uncomfortable, every one but
the one whom the shaft was aimed at, and
she laughed  you should have heard her,"
and Judy stopped to laugh in sympathy.
We all laughed, too ; we couldn't help it,
though we hardly knew at what, and then,
putting her hand on the admiral's shoulder 
he only comes up to hers  she said, ' Jonas,
dear, didn't I marry you for love ? ' Oh,
cousin Egbert, if you could have heard her
voice, all of a sudden as soft and beguiling as
Creamy's ! She was mimicking her, I know.
You said you did,' he answered with a spit
like a toad. ' And don't I get what I married
for ? ' looking at the gentlemen from under
the corner of her eyes, which were brimful of
fun. They all took off their hats, and Ned
added, ' I should think you did ; good measure.

running over.' Then the admiral fired off a
feeble joke. 'She gave me double measure, I
know,' he said, ' for she only got a tar in me,
and I a Tartar in her.' "

Again the squire laughed. " Now, Judy,
pull up," he said. " Keep a little fizz for old
Albany."

Then, the gates sighted, the groom trotted
briskly up and rang the postern bell, and ina
few minutes the cob and Gloriana trotted
gaily up the great avenue, arched over by
interlacing elms and bordered by high embankments
of mossy turf.

The approach was nearly a mile in length,
as it wound with the tortuous river. Seen at
intervals through the lace work of green foliage
the house was pretentious and imposing,
but though it bore date of two centuries
back it had no look of the antique. The
facade had richly ornamented Corinthian
pillars, and on each side a handsome flight of
stone steps led to the entrance door, which
opened into an outer hall or vestibule, richly
dim with stained oflass windows bearing the
Albany arms and quarterings. There were

no turrets or battlements as at Egbert Hall,
but the architecture was altogether more distinctly
of a period, and regular.

It might have been evident to a professional
eye that the idea had been to impart an
appearance of the antique, which had not
been successful. As a dwelling it was much
more conveniently commodious than the
venerable pile of the Egbertss. The ceilings
of the living rooms, too, were lofty and the
banquet-hall a pleasant and lifelike chamber.
The walls of this gay hall were hung with
the family portraits, but though there were
ermine-robed peers, many medalled heroes,
and fat and well-looking lawn-sleeved church
dignitaries, cavaliers also with rakish lovelocks,
and more than one counts-palatine,
there were none of the crusaders of the grand
days of chivalry, of Plant agents and Tutors,
that graced the venerable walls of the great
banqueting-chamber of Egbert Hall. The
site of the house was on rising ground, sunny
and open, and if with no historic memories to
boast of, a pleasant, luxurious home withal,
fitting housing for a peer or a millionaire.

Judy was a neophyte in the great world.
She had seen grander places than Egbert Hall,
for she had been used to accompany her
cousins on their formal visits in the county,
but on these occasions she had remained in
the carriage and had sighted the grandeur
and circumstance from the outside only. She
was to-day not a little subdued and serious
as she followed the squire up the stairs and
stood before the massive door which gave
entrance to the many-hued vestibule. There
were only the old lord and a married daughter
at home, besides his elder son, Lord Le Pole.
The rest of the pretty numerous family were
in London. Lord Albany was in expectation
of the squire, but Judy was a pleasing surprise.


We are keeping house together." said
the squire, as he introduced the blushing girl
to the somewhat stiff nobleman, who however
relaxed graciously, if not with empressement, to
his pretty, graceful visitor, who returned his
kind greeting with a shy look and a timid
curtsey. There might have been a faint
deprecatory glance in Judy's eyes, shot from

her consciousness, an imperceptible evidence
of self-reproach in her slight obeisance, as the
remembrance of the morning's occurrence
momentarily recurred to her. Judy shrank
from giving pain, and disappointment she knew
was pain. She thought too that the stately old
nobleman's face showed lines of care, and asher
tender heart was touched with pity, she
was conscious of a strange feeling of impatience
at the unsought for responsibilities which had
been so suddenly, as it were, thrust upon her.
A fretful shade slightly clouded her brow, and
a grave look gave just a tinge of questioning
thought, rather than of sadness, to her usually
mirthful eyes.

My daughter. Lady Margaret Dredger,"
said Lord Albany, as a small and rather
common-looking woman entered from a side
door. By her side was a little boy, clinging
to her skirts  a little chubby-faced, curly-headed
urchin of about four summers, attired
in a sailor costume of white duck bordered
with blue.

*' Miss Aylmere, of Egbert Hall," he added,
with a slight tone of reminder in his voice.

Lady Margaret with a start came up to Judy
and shook hands with her, with, that young
lady thought, not a little unnecessary cordiality.
Judy detested gush.

Ormsby, dear," said Lady Margaret to the
child, "give this pretty lady a kiss," which
after a minute's scrutiny of Judy's face Master
Ormsby did.

What is or name ? My popper name is
Cricket," he said ; immediately adding, as he
put out his hand with a confiding action for
his new friend to take, " Me like oo."

Judy stuck her fairy whip in a button-hole
and lifted the child from the ground.

M} name is Judy," she said, accompanying
the information with a perfect shower of
kisses.

Oh stop, please, what prodigal waste 
there'll be none for any one else," cried a
strange voice.

Judy set the little fellow, who was slight of
make, on her arm, and looked in the direction
of the open door, whence the words seemed to
issue.

My son," said Lord Albany, who with the

squire was in the act of leaving the room for
the purpose of inspecting some stock on the
home farm, the ostensible object in fact of the
latter's visit, and turning back he introduced
the individual in question with considerable
significance to Judy.

<TMri

A proper man as we shall see in a summer's day."

With her rather demonstrative burden, whose
arms were round her neck, Judy could only
give a slight inclination of the head to the
new arrival. Her cheeks glowed, and she was
conscious of feeling utterly missis and rustic.
A glance had given her keen perceptibility a
pretty accurate rendering of the outer and
inner man of the heir to Marlby Grange, as
on the surface he presented himself.

A dawdling dandy," she thought, " walking
as yet with aimless feet, handsome though,
and with the air of a thorough-bred." She
felt at once a little drawn to him, but her
very shyness compelled her to assert her
composure, and the inkling she had gathered
of the latent designs on her as a well-endowed
heiress prompted her to impress them with
her perfect indifference and independence.

So after her bow, converted into a nod by a
hug from Master Ormsby, or the Cricket ashe
was generally called, she returned to the
child and called him an arch little flirt.

"I wish I could be Ormsby for just five
minutes," said Lord Le Pole softly.

Judy took no notice. She had sat down,
and the child, apparently fascinated with his
new acquaintance, was stroking her face with
his little dimpled hands.

Have 00 a little boy, too ? " he asked,
staring intently into her starlike eyes.

She shook her head laughing.

Cause I see 'little boys in oose eyes," he
added gravely.

Ormsby sees himself," she said ; " eyes are
like looking-glasses sometimes."

o o

May I see if I am there, too ?" asked Lord
Le Pole, " or is it a question of privilege ? "

Judy laughed. The sound of her voice in
its natural element of mirth restored her self-possession,
and she looked quickly round in
the direction of Lady Margaret, who was
presiding at a little tea-table with a dainty
service of exquisite china, and said :

VOL. I. 14

I should like to run off with him for the
week. I am at Egbert Hall. Cousin Dulsie
is very fond of children."

Lady Margaret shook her head.

*' He's not very strong for all his rosy
cheeks," she said, " and he is a precious littk
pickle."

Will you try a substitute," again put in
Lord Le Pole. This time his sister laughed.

Will you give Miss Aylmere some tea,
Le Pole ? " she said, holding out a cup full of
the fragrant beverage. " Tea and Cricket

D O

won't do together, Miss Aylmere," she added ;
put him down, he mustn't be troublesome."

But Cricket had been foraCTino. He had
got his hand into the small pocket where
Judy kept her handkerchief and had found a
lump of sugar.

Look ! " he cried, as he held it up in
triumph to his uncle, who had put the cup
down and was evidently bent on dethroning
the small usurper, an intention which was
frustrated by the sudden abdication of the
minute individual himself. "Look!" he repeated,
and then popped the lump into his

mouth, scrambled down, and placed himself in
ambush under his mother's skirts.

I suppose sugar is your natural food,"
drawled Lord Le Pole as he brought Judy
her tea. " I wish I were a iollypop. Don't
you think I would make a nice one ? "

Judy's eyes turned as they slowly traversed
the young man's person with an appraising
look.

No," she said at last, ' only syllabub."

Perfectly unruffled, but with evident amusement,
he gave the retort courteous in the same
languid voice.

And you ? "

Oh, something candied," she answered, as
if to atone for her sharp wit by turning it on
herself.

No, manna," he whispered. " It is
heavenly ! "

Compliments in any guise ruffled Judy, and
perhaps the insouciant young man might have
fared a little roughly at her hands had not
the small child, Ormsby, suddenly presented
himself and tendered a miniature sugar-basin
for her to make good his petty larceny.

142

Take a big one," lie said magnanimously.
Judy obeyed his bidding and paid him with
a kiss.

Then Lady Margaret proposed a stroll in
the grounds, to which Judy gladly assented.

"Ah  h  not a bad move," said Lord Le
Pole ; " haven't been out to-day ; too hot for
anything so vigorous as walking," and he led
the way to a door which opened direct on the
hall.

No, this way, Je Pole," cried his sister ;
we'll go out through the billiard-room ; Miss
Aylmere would like to see the flowers, I'm
sure."

Lady Margaret was a good strategist. The
route she indicated led through the entire
superb suite of rooms which occupied the
front and two sides of the house  a bewildering
progress to the simple Judy. Even the
Cricket was oppressed by their magnificence
and kept close to his mother's side. The
principal drawing-rooms were encased in
brown holland, so was also the vaulted
music-room, and in part the banquet-chamber.
The orildinss were somewhat

faded, and Judy could see that the designs
of the furniture were of the formal period,
now superseded by the grotesque, the fantastic,
the aesthetic, and what affections of
the archaic are pleased to term the Renaissance,
but of what, they do not always
condescend to define. The chairs were insets,
so also were the lounges and tables.
The carpets had not been rolled up as yet,
and these were rich crimson velvet pile, with
gay bordering, but in the line of traffic and in
the middle slightly worn and faded. On state
occasions fancy rugs of oriental fabric covered
the ravages of time. The painted panelling
of the walls  groups of flowers and sylvan
deities  had a look of yesterday's bouquet,
the bloom gone and the colours fading.

"You see us en papillote'' Lady Margaret
said ; " the little room you found us in is the
afternoon tea-room, and the one papa uses
when he is here en gascon'

A little room ! " thought Judy. " Why it
is nearly as large as the great drawing-room
at Egbert Hall ; no wonder they want a succession
of heiresses."

I think," she said aloud, feeling called
upon to make some observation, but too well
bred to either remark aloud or ask questions
in the manner of one going through a show
place attended by a cicerone, " I think
Ormsby is wise to keep close to us ; if he
were lost here lie would not be easily found
again."

Ah  h  I see we are kindred souls,"
drawled Lord Le Pole, " vastness wearies me,
too. You must see my retreat. Just room
for two and quite up to date  as Dredger
would say  which he declares this labyrinth
of immensity is not." Mr. Dredger was Lady
Margaret's husband, a retired and wealthy
stock-broker, with a mania for bric-d-brac
and an authority on art furniture.

"Xever mind," retorted Lady Margaret
good-humouredly ; she was proof against
shafts at her " city partner," as her husband
was called in the family. " When your time
comes and you set about refurnishing, you'll
be very glad of Adam's help. He has ideas."

Eight, Mary, but it's only Dredgers can
afibrd ideas. They can cultivate Morasses,

and ridicule nature with impunity. Fortunately
for the family purse I prefer time-hallowed
"  drawling out his words 
*' fashions."

At the far end of the great drawing-room
which closed the reception suite, double glass
folding doors opened into the conservatory.
This formed one side of the house and faced
south. The shading blinds had been drawn
up, and the rays of the sun, mellowed from
the west, lit up the windows with ruddy
sheen. A perfect bewilderment of colour
burst on Judy's sight, arched in by swaying
festoons of rare jasmine and fragrant stephanotis
and trailing branches of the white and
the crimson passion flowers, with here and
there, in light flakes, deep blue and snow-white
convolvuli.

How beautiful ! " was all she could utter.

Perpetual Renaissance here," whispered
Lord Le Pole.

The best pelargoniums have been set
aside for the show," observed Lady Margaret
; " Miss Egbert seldom exhibits now, I
suppose ? "

She is sending some pelargoniums this
time," answered Judy.

" Do you hear that, Dicks ? " cried Le Pole
to the gardener, "Miss Egbert is going to
exhibit too."

Then I maun be content with second, my
lord," was the reply, " but I think this will
rin her close," and Dicks lifted forward a low-sized
but splendidly-blossomed plant, as yet
not in full flower.

Only one of the blooms was perfect, and
showed a rare tint of golden-red, shaded to a
pale hue of gold at the edge, which was heavily
fringed and curled outwards. Judy clasped
her hands in ecstasy, and Lord Le Pole was
roused to honest and ardent admiration.
Lady Margaret exclaimed with surprise, and
the Cricket demanded to be held up that he
might " mell de rose "  all flowers were roses
to Ormsby as yet.

I haven't hit on a name, my lady," was
Dicks' reply to Lady Margaret. "There's a
Sunrise and a Sunset already ; what do ye
think of Phoebus ? "

"Oh, call it Gloriana," cried Judy; "it's

the same colour shaded off to golden sunlight."



Judy had to explain who Gloriana was,
which she did, a little abashed at her own
boldness, adding :

She's going to the show, and Peters says
she is sure of the medal, so she will bring you
luck."

What will Miss Egbert say ? " asked Lord
Le Pole.

Oh, she would be the first to place it first
if she thought it deserved it," she answered ;
cousin Dulsie is not small."

"I like the name real well, Miss," said
Dicks, " it sounds grand-like."

Dicks was a Scotchman. And Gloriana the
geranium was named.

Judy had to take a hasty survey with Dicks
of a few of his special prides. She felt, she
told the squire afterwards, as if she had woke
in the garden of Eden and was gliding on a
rainbow. Then into the fernery and so through
a side door embowered in Cape jasmine and
clematis into a small ante-room devoted to
hardy green plants, with a fountain playing

in the centre and gold-fish gleaming beneath ;
a cool and restful retreat for the eye dazzled
by the garish brilliance of culture's triumph
over nature. Double doors, kept open in the
summer, gave entrance to the aviary, stocked
with home and foreign birds of sweet song
and rich plumage.

Fain would Judy have lingered and chattered
her bird language to the pretty inmates,
who, accustomed to the human form divine,
scarce moved a feather as she passed from
one wired division to the other. It was their
bedtime. The bright wings were folded, and
among chirrup and twitter they were settling
down to rest.

'what are your favourite bird and flower?"
asked Lord Le Pole in a tone of inviting
confidence.

Judy turned a quizzical look on him. She
was always ready to tilt at sentiment, which
she called sham.

My affections are far too impartial for a
confession album," she said ; " I'm a very
commonplace young person. I love wildflowers
and wild birds best."

He looked at her with an amused expression,
as one might look at a saucy child.

"Not without art, but yet to nature true ;"
and he smiled, Judy thought, a smile of
condescending approval.

There are few things more irritating to the
person at whom it is levelled than an apt
quotation  a truth Judy experienced. She
was in part aware of an aggressive feeling
from their first encounter towards this languid
iiLSOuciant young man, a feeling born of her
cousin's revelations of the morning ; and yet
she could not tell why, so subtle are the
workings of the heart, she felt impelled
towards him, and her ready retorts at fault.
Only in a blind way she was cognizant of
those internal monitions, but she was painfully
conscious of a suspicion that she had
given warrant to be set down as a social
failure. It was on her tongue to tell her
disquieting companion that she only loved
things with which she was familiar, and that
she knew wild birds and flowers best, but she
checked her utterance with prideful dignity.

I am not going to explain myself," she

said in lier heart ; " anything natural is a
curios to him." And then she wondered what
the room he called the Retreat was like ;
luxurious and artificial," she supposed, " the
ideal of a young man of the period."

Returning to the fernery they issued by
double doors of glass, corresponding to those
that gave entrance to the conservatory, into
the library, a conventional room in red
leather, with an orthodox and voluminous
collection of literature in the usual bookcases
; busts, and appropriate conveniences for
study in science and art. A pretentious, unfamiliar
room, Judy thought, the very books
looking as if they could never be more than
stiff acquaintances. Silently she traversed its
length, feehnof relieved when she found herself
in a cheerful room, next in order, known
as the old hall. There were two handsome
pillars in the centre ; the furniture, partially
draped, was oriental in its character
and the walls were covered with china. This
finished up the lengthy communicating suite,
a massive door facing the pillars giving egress
without to a lawn-tennis ground. Lady

Margaret opened the door, but her brother
said :

"We'll go through the billiard-room,
Mary ; I want to show Miss Aylmere my
retreat."

Judy was not a little curious.

Do you play ? " Lord Le Pole asked as he
took up a cue and made a cannon.

xi little with cousin Egbert."

He offered her a cue.

I could not trust myself," she said as she
passed on. "It is a very enticing game."

Just one stroke."

She retraced her steps laughing, and entering
into the spirit of the moment took the
offered cue, and with the firm pose of an
accustomed player bent to her aim and made
with easy effort a double cannon.

Not another stroke," she cried, " that was
a fluke."

The light grace of the girl as she bent to
the table, and the careless skill of her stroke,
drew from the young man a hearty " Bravo ! "
and a warm look of admiration.

It is getting late," said his sister, who had

marked with inner satisfaction the deepening
impression made by the heiress on her usually
indifferent and supercilious brother.

We'll have a battle royal some day," he
said, as he took out a small golden key and
opened a door in the wall that had all the
appearance of a panel.

Judy had been prepared for an array of
meerschaums if not clays, of sporting paraphernalia,
trophies of field and mere, and
racing literature.

What was her surprise to see a small well-proportioned
chamber, plainly but comfortably
fitted up with camp furniture, and in an
alcove, a hammock. The light was subdued
by crimson blinds and shading curtains of
muslin. The walls were fitted with shelves,
with here and there a space filled in by a
picture, and literally crowded with books.
On a table in one window was a microscope,
and in another, which looked north, an easel
and an unfinished painting. A small deal-cased
pianoforte stood well out from the wall,
and at the other end a harmonium, near
which was a stand laden with music. In one

corner of the room was a rifle, in another
a fishing-rod and creel.

A minute or so Judy stood in the window
beside the easel, a tumult of strange thoughts
in her brain.

"And this is the man I judged," she said
to herself. " This is the careless dandy on
the look-out for a well-dowered bride to
rehabilitate his pretentious home ! "

There was a touch of deference in her
manner as she asked him if he painted from
nature; she hardly knew she had spoken.

He replied he did, and then he said :

What do you think of the wild beast's
lair ? "

Her eyes were scanning the book-shelves.

All my own favourites," she half whispered,
so intent on her scrutiny she did not
notice that the young man's head looked over
her shoulder. Down the rows her eyes
travelled till they came to works on art,
tomes on science, and stately classics with
marks of honourable usage.

With a great sigh she turned fairly round
and said, just a little warmly :

"A lair, indeed! It's just the snuggest
little beehive I ever saw."

I call it the Hermitage," added Lady
Margaret; " it spoils him for society."

Do you think so ? " he asked in a confidential
whisper.

She blushed, and then as if angry at her
mauvaise honte, and not a little brusquely,
she said as she walked towards the pianoforte :

"I've only begun to come out, so I'm no
judge, but if this sort of thing," casting a
warm appreciating glance round, " unfits
people for society, I think I'll go in again."

Who ever loved that loved not at first sight ? "

Lady Margaret laughed and opened the
outer door on to the lawn-tennis ground, but
again, and this time at the instance of the
Cricket, her egress was delayed. That enterprising
juvenile had reached the pianoforte
before Judy, and with some loose and flying
leaves of music in his clutch was perched on
the music-stool.

Trew (screw) me up," was the imperious
order. Judy obediently brought him by that
giddy process to the level of the key-board,
when he got on his knees and fluttered the
leaves on to the ground.

Now Uncle Leppo, ting," he cried.

You young Philistine," cried his relative,
as he stooped to pick up some of the pages
which had fallen ; " why, it's my ' Israel in
Egypt.' "

VOL. I. 15

Not the first time the Philistines have
scattered Israel," cried Judy, her wit irresistibly
provoked by the opportunity.

A bright smile lit up Lord Le Pole's
languid visage' banishing for the moment
what seemed its chronically languid expression.
His eyes, dark and deep-set, glowed
as they sought hers with such a commanding
force she could not help but meet their
gaze, but only for a second, and then her
long lashes swept down on the tell-tale
blushes.

The gods are prodigal," he said ; " beauty
and wit in one."

Ting," repeated the Cricket imperiously.

Ormsby, sir, come away ; you know Uncle
Leppo never sings before people," cried his
mother.

Then I suppose I needn't ask," said Judy
shyly and evidently speaking to assist her
composure.

For answer he took the child on his knee
and struck some preluding chords.

Lady Margaret sat down on the stone steps
of the door.

Do you sing ? " he said to Judy, '' but of
course you do."

Only ballads," she replied, " but I love old-fashioned
songs  classic, I suppose, is the
correct term ; will you sing one ? "

"I never sing but in the mood, and I own
to a dislike of silly words," and then while she
stood before him, her shyness for the moment
ozone, he saner in a rich tenor :

The fountains mingle with the river

And the rivers with the ocean,
 The winds of heaven mix for ever
AVith a sweet emotion.
Nothing in the world is single,

All things by a law divine
In one another's being mingle  
Why not I with thine ? "

When he had reached the last line Judy
had moved aside, he could no longer see her
face. He rose and set the child down.

Turn about is fair play," he said, " just
one verse too ; I love ballads  old-fashioned
ballads."

She had no will to resist. Her heart was
still vibrating with the searching melody, she
felt spell-bound. She could sing anything she

152

had once heard without the aid of the printed
notes, so the young lady's excuse that she had
not her music never occurred to her.

I see papa and Mr. Egbert," cried Lady
Margaret.

But obedient to the expectant eyes, in which
she fancied the ardent question of Shelley's
song craved answer, Judy sat down.

A ballad is too long," she said, " and I
haven't time to choose, so I'll sing whatever
comes first ; " and that was " Allan-a-dale."

Only the first and third verses she sang 
sang like a young thrush, clear and full, with
a trill that in the feathered songster's melody
tells that its mate is nicrh.

Allan-a-dale has no faggot for burning,
Allan-a-dale has no furrow for turning,
Allan-a-dale has no fleece for the spinning,
Yet Allan-a-dale has red gold for the winning.
Come read me my riddle, come hearken my tale,
And tell me the craft of bold Allan-a-dale.

Allan-a-dale to his wooing has come,
His mother she asked of his household and home :

Though the castle of Richmond stands fair on the hill,
My hall,' quoth bold Allan, ' shows gallant still ;
'Tis the blue vault of heaven with its crescent so pale
And with all its bright spangles,' said Allan-a-dale."

The sound of her voice gave her confidence
and the stirring air fired her spirit. As she
finished she Tufted her eyes, now full of fun,
and met her companion's admiring gaze with,
he thought, a mischievous sparkle. She did
not wait for compliments, but snatching up
her gloves joined Lady Margaret, who had
gone on a few yards in advance to meet her
father and the squire. Lord Le Pole followed
leisurely. He was once more the listless, apathetic
exquisite, whose sole desire seemed to
be to convince the world that man delighted
him not nor woman either.

There was no time for the proposed stroll
in the grounds ; that was reserved. Lady
Margaret hoped, for another not far distant
day. The horses were already at the door,
and after an interchange of kisses with the
Cricket and frank adieux to the rest of the
party, Gloriana received her light burden and
pranced with impatience for the road.

Perfect, absolutely perfect," drawled Lord
Le Pole, as he took off his hat.

Isn't she ? " cried Judy with a backward
glance of delight.

A combination of perfection," he replied ;
a compliment which returned Judy's head to
its frontal condition with a toss of disdain and
brought down on Gloriana's shoulder an airy
tap from the feathery wand she was pleased to
call a whip.

A start, a quiver, and the fiery animal
bounded from the ground with an impetuosity
that would have tried a veteran in the saddle ;
but Judy kept her seat without apparently
the slightest effort.

Softly, my beauty softly," she cried coaxingly.
Then relaxing the repressive rein she
gave the mare her head and was off, the
squire doing his noble best to pick her up.

I wonder Egbert trusts her on such explosive
material," said Lord Albany.

Trust her ; " exclaimed his son, " I never
saw anything finer, the mare gave to her hand
like a supple bough. Her seat is magnificent."

Then turning? to a oroom who had brought
round the cob and who was standing agape
with delight and admiration at the young
lady's horsemanship, he asked would the mare
be for sale when exhibited.

No, my lord," the man answered. " Mr.
Peters, the squire's stud groom, ses as the
mare is the miss's, she's only to be showed ; "
and then he added confidentially, " they do say
as she rides better wanting the saddle."

With a slow step and abstracted mien the
young lord turned silently away and strolled
towards the wood at the north end of the
mansion.

It took the best part of an hour to reduce
Gloriana's response to the unintentional tap
on her shoulder to a sober pace. Then the
lengthening shadows pointed to the sunset
hour. The long, broad, dusty road had lost
its white glare, and the scent from the
gaily-ventured hedge-rows of hawthorn and
honeysuckle, and from the fields beyond, of
meadow-sweet and fragrant grasses, filled
the air with a dreamy perfume. In the
meadows the grass rose strong and thick
and richly green, or gleamed with refreshing
coolness amid the massed buttercups like
cloth of gold. In parts most exposed to the
sun the crop had been cut, and the young
aftermath showed a sickly yellow fainting

for a shower ; in others the brown tints and
the ripening seed, with here and there a tinge
of dull red, where the sorrel rose high, marked
the course of the scythe for the morrow. Up
from the hollow meads the rising slopes were
clothed with the young wheat, each stalk
tipped like a sceptre. It was nearing seven,
and but a few stragglers were seen on the
road. Here and there a weary horse cropped
the succulent herbage by a ditch, or a donkey
stood in the middle of the road patiently
flapping his ears and tail at vain issue with
the flies. The very cottages behind the
hedges had an air of idleness, and over the
snug farmsteads a spirit of peace and repose
seemed brooding. Great ein - trees overshadowed
the old thatched cattle-sheds and
rick-yards, and by one homely cluster of
venerable buildings a stream from a descending
slope broadened into a wide deep brook,
thickly fringed with green flags bearing
erratically great yellow leaves. Beside the
cattle-shed under the elms a dam crossed the
water, forcing it into a pond for the cattle
and harbourage for the ducks. Now and

then a dog would trot leisurely out of the
thatched gate at the sound of the horses'
feet, make silent scouting, and trot leisurely
back ; the passers-by, he saw, were not within
the range of his duty, which was to keep
tramps at bay.

At turn of a rising hill the show vicarage
of the county, as Judy irreverently called it,
came into view. A quaint, profusely-gabled
old house, literally covered with ivy except on
the frontage, which was one gorgeous sheet
of Gloire de Dijon, the pride of the vicar's
wife.

The circling wood divided the vicarage
from the Egbertss' parish church, a venerable
structure, whether of Anglo-saxon or early
Norman architecture archaeological could not
determine. Before the parsonage, on which
the sun smiled all day long when smile he
did, a time-old garden, centred by a velvet
lawn, sloped down to a little river, across
whose still breast beeches arched their topmost
branches, and whose banks were clothed
with a thick vesture of blue forget-me-nots.

Nearing the peaceful home of the living

and the dead, Judy said softly, the calm evening
influence on her spirit :

I do not know any spot where life and
death seem so beautifully blended'*

To the outward eye, Judy."

One would like to sleep there," and she
pointed to a mound under two yew-trees,
whose interlacing branches had been cut into
a shrouding arch.

No one is ever buried there now," said
the squire, halting for a second. " Fifty years
ago there was a murder in the village. It
couldn't be brought home to the suspected
person, a woman. She died in her bed and
was laid there. A year or so after a paper
was found in an old desk she had left to her
grandson, which he had sold. It contained
the confession of the murder, so her family
took away the headstone and broke it up,
and her grave has remained undisturbed by
stranger or kin ever since. But you see,
Judy, the sunset's glow lights up the dark
arch, and the daisies and coltswort are as
bright and fresh on the turf beneath as on
that mound beside the east window where

the saintly Mary Marlwood, the vicar's mother,
lies."

"He maketh His sun to shine on the evil
and on the good," whispered Judy.

They pursued their homeward way without
further speech, but each intent on the day's
dying splendours. To the young spirit they
spoke of life and hope, filling it with a glad
worship and yearning for some great thing
to do. To the worn and weary spirit they
seemed an earnest of that land so full of rest,
which eye hath not seen, nor whose deep
songs of joy ear hath not heard.

When the grey old walls of Egbert Hall
came close in sight a trembling star stood out
refulgent, and sunset glow bathed the upper
windows and tipped the still tender green of
the wood.

As they trotted up the drive the squire
said a little meekly, " How did you like your
visit, Judy ? "

 " I don't think I ever enjoyed a ride more,"
she answered, blushing ; and the squire was
satisfied.

A chief's among us takin' notes."

By the middle of the week on which Judy had
gone with Dulsie to Egbert Hall, Mrs. Aylmere
was pleasantly lodged in the same house
where Mrs. Beaumorris had apartments. She
had come from quiet respectable Casterham
fully prepared to make or mar a plot, and one
of the principal dramatis per since had vanished.
But Mrs. Aylmere was of an inquiring mind,
and she set herself to work to collect materials
in the event of fresh opportunities occurring
for her interposition. To do this it was
necessary to become mistress of the situation.
She was of rather a timid nature, though
persistent, a quality by no means inconsistent
with that temperament. She therefore preferred
reaching a desired end by a circuitous
route, taking care with a kind of feline
instinct to mark points of vantage for escape,

and to keep the way clear for retreat if occasion
called.

The evening of her arrival she spent at the
Lodfe, and there bv an inadvertent remark of
Sybella she gathered that the major's departure
had been sudden, if not mysterious.
Mabella's aspect was, however, so serene,
her answer to the widow's purposely inadvertent
question, " If he would return this
season," so indifferent in its negative, that a
less experienced inquisitor would have been
misled.

If," she said to herself, " if their acquaintanceship
had not been a little more
than ordinary Mabella would not have come
out so pat with that ' no ;' neither would
Sybella have watched her face when I asked
the question."

Then she thought that Sybella turned a
slightly inquisitorial eye on herself, and
anxious to ward off observation from her concealed
purpose she, like the lapwing when
her nest is threatened, trailed a wounded wing,
slowly circling away to lure the intruder from
her treasure.

I heard he was very fascinating," she
said, " and I feared for Judy. You see, she
is a little impressionable, and has made me
uneasy in another quarter."

The rase succeeded.

Mr. Eawson," exclaimed Sybella in a tone
of a foregone conclusion.

My dear Mary," this from Mabella, " it is
only calf-love. Calf-love is a species of vaccination;
it guards you from the vital disease,
or if you do take it, you take it mildly. I
never saw a gayer girl than Judy ; she's just
as heart whole as I am."

"I think that kind of vaccination very
risky," said Sybella, " and very far from
effectual. You are very liable, when you
are well up in years, to have an attack of
the real thing, and then it is all up with you,
for your elasticity is gone and you succumb
without a struggle."

"What a picture," cried jars. Aylmere,
perfectly understanding the covert allusions ;
but prevention is better than cure, you
know. Judy may not be fancy free, but I
aijree with Mabella she is heart whole, and

I want her to r imam so. Is Mr. Eawson still
here?"

Yes, but lie leaves next week," said
Mabella. " He called to-day to tell us of a
tempting offer he has had. Some uncle  a
London merchant, I believe  has written to
propose he should stand for Oxminster ; the
seat is vacant by death."

Why, he hasn't two hundred a year,"
exclaimed Mrs. Aylmere, " and no profession."


"And no creed," added Sybella. "But youth
is omniscient ; it surmounts the impossible
by the impossible. Mr. Eawson will charge
the windmill without even the traditionary
sword."

His uncle," said Mabella, " offers him an
allowance of five hundred a year, but he
makes one proviso, his politics must be ultra-liberal."


I know who his uncle is," observed Mrs.
Aylmere ; " he is a city knight. Sir Janitor
Tomlinson, a very pretentious man, immensely
rich and extremely mean ; a widower
with no family, an entirely self-made man.

Mr. Eawson is fortunate. Of course he
accepts."

No ' of course ' about it," said Mabella.
The young man is no time-server. He has
written to say that he should wish to take
advantage of his uncle's liberality, but that
he must stand on perfectly independent principles,
pledged to no party."

I suppose," observed Sybella carelessly,
"Mr. Eawson, like his uncle, has no pretension
to good blood."

His mother's name was Tomlinson, but
I believe his father comes of a good though
decayed family," returned Mrs. Aylmere.

Then take my advice and keep Judy out
of the way until you see how he gets on.
Don't lose sight of him though ; these are
degenerate days, and a city fortune is not
to be despised. In this case it may have a
high mission," but what that mission might
be Sybella did not say.

Ah, yes," sighed Mabella, letting in a
little light on her sister's train of thought,
nothing like building up an ancient house
for taking the alloy out of money made by

trade. But I can't say the name of Eawson
strikes me as having the true ring in it."

Mrs. Ayhnere did not pursue the subject.
Whatever the name of Eawson might sound
to the Miss Egbertss, to her it had now, and
for the first time, a true metallic ring.

"I hear," she said, "that the famous beauty
Mrs. Beaumorris has rooms next to mine. Is
she a pleasant person ? "

'sto gentlemen, very," said both sisters.

She is an income to Cook the photographer
in Winsome Street," said Mrs. Ayl-
mere.

A mutual benefit," remarked Sybella ; " he
pays her a royalty. If nature were not so
artfully assisted and so liberally adorned, she
would hardly pass so well. Her chief beauty
is her grace, and that, you know, is the secret
of her effective poses. I wonder what keeps
her here ; the London season is just in its
height."

I heard," said Mabella, " that she had no
house in town this year, that she would
not go into rooms, and that she could not
afford a hotel. Mr. Beaumorris hired a yacht

VOL. I. 1 6

instead. I heard her say something about
making up a party for a cruise."

A party, Mabella ! Men and a good chef,
you should say. She openly declares her preference
for the society of men. Miss Prance
says she never goes near a woman unless she
wants a blind or a foil. But she has a rival
here who is running her close, Mrs. Trelaw-
ney, a dashing Irish belle, witty and good-humoured
; Miss Eber, too, is much admired.
So the London beauty hasn't it all her own
way in out-of-the-way little Sandycot."

M miss Eber ! Why, you wouldn't name her
in the same breath with either Mrs. Beaumorris
or Mrs. Trelawney?" cried Mabella warmly.
"In the first place she is insignificant, then
she lias no style, and she is an adventuress."

She is lovely, I think," returned Sybella ;
and as for the rest, one can't be hypercritical
in Sandycot. She is a great friend of Mrs.
Horseman, and that suffices for her respectability,
I think."

Or her notoriety ; " Mabella spoke viciously
for her.

Judy took a great fancy to her. She is

quite young, and yet she has no look of inner
south ; I should say she had come through
some great trial."

People with histories are to be avoided."
Mabella looked acrimoniously exclusive.
"Mrs. Horseman may take what liberties she
chooses with London society, that can take
care of itself, but with small communities like
this, where every one knows every one and
intimacies are so easily formed, she ought to
be very careful who she is responsible for.
There is quite enough latitude already. Weare
constantly meeting people, pleasant
enough and very well in their way, but who
would be inadmissible into county society ;
there we make a point of knowing who's who.
I know what you are going to say, Sybella ;
that Miss Eber is a Jewess and beyond a
pedigree in our sense of the word ; but Jews
as yet have no independent social status ;
they force their way into society adventitiously
by wealth or genius. As a proof of
the truth of what I say, name me one family
who, like ourselves or even the Brownie 
and they can only go back a hundred years 

162

take their place anywhere in society as a
matter of course and apart from individual
qualifications. My dear, it takes three generations
to make a gentleman and the Jews'
Disabilities Act has not covered one yet."

Sybella named several eminent Jewish
names.

Cases in point, my dear ; adventitious
adventurers, every one."

Oh, Mabella, that is going too far ; you
can't call the Wrathsbairns adventurers, or
the Duke of Tancred. Why, these people areas
much above society as society is above a
retired greengrocer."

Sybella, an adventurer does not cease to
be an adventurer because he is successful,
any more than a usurper ceases to be a
usurper because he reigns. The Wrathsbairns
are a dynasty now, I grant you, but who
knows anything of the family apart from the
heads and the heiresses who have married
well? Then as for the Duke of Tancred,
though I reverence his very name, for he is
the bulwark of our old institutions, yet I am
sure, had he been in the purple he would not

have lead that over-appreciation of rank and
circumstance lie shows so palpably."

Mrs. Aylmere smiled to herself. " Over-appreciation
of rank," she thought to herself;
sitting in judgment on that as an evidence
of alienship. And these women look down
on every one as pariahs who cannot claim
descent from some old Norman robber or
Saxon boor," but in a mild tone of reconciliation,
intended for both sisters, she said
aloud, " I never knew a Jewish family."

You would not be likely," Mabella remarked
obtusely, though with no intention of
giving pain. " Jews, as I have been trying to
prove, have only place among the very upper
circles and the artist and city classes ; they are
never met with among the middle-class gentry,
small professionals and people of that kind."

A distinction," retorted Mrs. Aylmere
blandly, " that ought to commend itself to
the small professionals ; they escape both
successful adventurers and old clo' men "

You see," said Sybella in a bantering
tone, " respectability has its advantages, and
extremes are to be avoided."

As Mrs. Aylmere, atteiidsd by a page,
walked lions to lier lodgings in Shore Street
she felt grateful to the calm mooiiUght, it
soothed her ruffled susceptibilities. " It is
always the same," she said to herself ; " I am
never half-an-hour in their company but they
manage to remind me that I am not of their
order ; to keep me in my proper place, T
suppose. If it weren't for Judy"  at that
name the widow's irritation passed away, and
fair in the soft still air of nio[lit there rose
soon a stately castle, whereof a bright-haired,
bright-eyed, and, to the builder's sight, peerless
maiden reissued chatelaine. The smile that
accompanied the coin with which she feed
the page on reaching home compensated that
usually mercenary youth for the smallness of
its value.

I never thought the old 'un like Miss Judy
before," he said as he whistled himself across
the sands back to the Lodge.

o

The next morning Mrs. Aylmere entered
her name as a subscriber to the library over
which she had her habitation. The bookseller,
Mr. Tims, who was her landlord, she

found taciturn, but his wife a gossip of the
first water.

Mrs. Aylmere's voucher having been Miss
Egbert, she was treated with deference.

The major's attention to Miss Egbert had
been the talk of the place. Many a discussion
concerning his intentions and his probable
success had been held in that little shop and
eagerly caught in by Mrs. Tims' quick ears.
She was sharp, and she saw that her new
lodger was inclined to be " conversable," as
she phrased it, and as she herself was at all
times ready to be communicative a good deal
of small talk was interchanged between the
two. Both had a certain latent object in their
affability. Mrs. Aylmere wished to hear if
her cousin's flirtation had attracted public
notice, also in what estimation Major Tyler
was held. Mrs. Tims, on her part, was
curious to know how far the matter had
really progressed, and above all what had
caused the handsome major's sudden departure.
The fencing was admirable. Commonplaces
about Sandycot were exchanged, a few
of the principal visitors named by Mrs. Tims

discussed, and a photograph of Mrs. Beau-morris,
"By the sad sea-waves," bought by
Mrs. Ayhiiere.

"You ought to get Miss Ayhnere done,
ma'am," Mrs. Tims said. " Major Tyler  you
have heard of the handsome major, I suppose,
he was a great friend of the squire ? "

Mrs. Aylmere gave a significant nod.

"Major Tyler wanted her to be taken as a
mermaid, so Miss Dulsie told me, sitting on a
rock and combing her beautiful hair. She is
quite the belle of Sandycot, ma'am, if I'm not
too bold in saying it."

Mrs. Aylmere smiled as if gratified.

An only daughter is a great anxiety," she
said. " I think young girls ought to be kept
in the background. This public sale of
private gentlewomen's photographs jars on
my old-fashioned notions. Have you one of
Major Tyler ? "

Mrs. Tims searched her collection.

"I'm afraid," she said, "Miss Osbert iot
the last."

"Miss Egbert?" and Mrs. Aylmere shook
her head gravely.

Yes, ma'am. People do say  but Sandy-cot
is such a place for gossip  that the major
was very sweet on her. It doesn't seem
likely, does it, ma'am? No one seemed to
know much about him. Mrs. Beaumorris
knew him, for I heard her say she had danced
with him."

Is there any gambling at the club here ? "
Mrs. Aylmere asked with apparent inconsequence,
but a meaning glance,

Mrs. Tims was quick ; she nodded confidently.


A deal," she answered ; " well now, how
strange things do turn up. I always said he
wasn't a man to be trusted, and I know,"
another nod, " he was sometimes very flush of
cash ; yet from all I've heard he never once
cashed a cheque while he was here. But I'm
bound to say he was always very punctual
paying everybody, and he didn't look like a
sporting gent. It must have been cards, and
cards is the ruination of hundreds. Well,
I've known the old family at the Hall since I
wasn't the height of that counter, and I'd be
main sorry to see any harm come to it. But

he'll be a great miss at the Lodge, though as
for Miss Egbert ever thinking of him, it's just
clack."

Mrs. Tims looked confidently and inquiringly
at her customer, but with no satisfactory
result. Mrs. Aylmere had got more than the
worth of the photograph she had bought, but
the vendor not one fraction over its value,
beyond an ambiguous question, a portentous
shake of the head, and a significant nod, out
of which, however, she managed to make
some not insignificant capital. And now, her
end accomplished, Mrs. Tims' customer allowed
herself to become suddenly conscious that she
was compromising her dignity, if nothing else,
by encouraging idle talk. She noticed, too,
the gradually familiar tone into which her landlady
was lapsing, and drew up, she hoped
in time, taking care to keep, as she mentally
expressed it, her instrument well in hand for
future use if needed. So with a look of stiff
surprise and the slightest knit of the brows,
suggestive of distaste, but in a conciliatory
voice, she said :

'you are interested in the old family, I

know, or you would not have named such an
absurd report to me, and I am sure you will
take every opportunity to contradict it."

She then asked her way to the baths, and
left with a friendly good morning.

Chapter I.

A word spoken is an arrow let fly."

Mrs. Tims' eyes followed her amiable looser

D

with a puzzled look, such a look as the crow
in the fable might have had when it saw the
fox disappear with the piece of cheese in its
mouth. It was past eleven when Mrs. Aylmere
reached the baths, which were situated under
a sandy knoll on the shore. She had only
intended to reconnoitre, and perhaps invest in
half-a-dozen tickets for tepid shower-baths ;
but tempted by a notice that a *' professor of
hydropathy, with a trained staff, administered
Turkish baths in the graduated order of the
system as observed in the East," she determined
to submit her travel-tired body to the
process.

VOL. n. 17

On entering the sweating-room, to use its
technical appellation, clad solely in a voluminous
and loose-flowing robe of unadorned
chintz, she found two of the pallets occupied.
Isle chose for hers one on the opposite side,
and lying down closed her eyes.

In a little she heard a rich sweet voice
from one of the pallets say :

'' How long have you been here, dear Mrs.
Beaumorris ? "

Fully half-an-hour," was the drowsy
reply.

Half-an-hour ! Good patience, I have
only been five minutes and I'm thinking of
ringing."

Mrs. Aylmere could see the speakers without
turning her head.

The beauty hardly appeared to advantage.
Her robe was a yellow-green, and she was
deadly pale ; art is impossible in the preliminary
chamber of a Turkish bath. Her
hair had been gathered up by the attendant
into an uncompromising knot on the top of
the head, and the long, full, shrouding garment
hid the contour of her supple figure. She lay

in the regulation attitude, prone on her back,
an attitude prohibitive of pose, even had there
been a provocative opportunity for her favourite
artifice, which, in the absence of the
male element, there was not. Her eyes were
closed, and the face, whose attraction lay in
the varying play of its features and its seductive
and ever-changing expressiveness, showed
angular and disillusionizing.

Mrs. Aylmere could scarcely credit that she
looked on the celebrated beauty Creamy
Beaumorris. With natural partiality she pictured
her pretty Judy in a similar situation,
but wondered at the same time, with a dumb
questioning of lier own power to discriminate,
how Judy could claim a title to even prettiness,
if that pallid, heavy-howled, and by no
means fine-featured face was considered a
model of beauty.

*' Don't," said Creamy in answer to her
impatient companion.

"Why?"

It is not time."

I don't think they understand the thing.
Do you know any one who has tried it here ? "

172

Oh, yes ; Miss Sybella Egbert renews her
youth here daily, and Major Tyler tried to call
back Europe to his visage three times a week
couldn't afford more."

"Results neither you nor I require," and
the lately impatient speaker raised herself on
her elbow and turned her head half round in
the direction of the beauty, ready for a good
gossip.

The rival beauties," said Mrs. Aylmere to
herself. " Why, Judy wrote me they were
always ' sparring,' as she called it ; they seem
very good friends. Perhaps, as Judy would
say, it is because they are au nature She
then managed to get an unobserved look at
Mrs. Trelawney. " I can understand her being a
beauty," she thought, " but still she can't hold
a candle to Judy ; it's all the make-up ; but
there really is something to make up o
there."

And she was right. It was a magnificent
form that in its impulsive twists and
turns set at naught the regulation attitude
so rigorously observed by its rival, and like
a voluptuous cat only half - pleased with

its lair, yet too lazy to seek another, trying
in every posture of abandon to find
the luxurious ease its lithe form and sybarite
nature craved. Her hair had rebelled from
the knot, and as if in sheer wilfulness
streamed in feathery flakes over the head
of the pallet on to Creamy's feet, down
the pink chintz robe which had fallen to
her share, and curled in tangles round the
chiselled arm, which had thrust itself in all its
naked splendour from out the flimsy covering.
Youth and blooming health lit up the large
blue Irish eyes, full of sparkle and tenderness,
and tinged the delicate face with the exquisite
pink of a sea-shell. The lips looked as if they
never closed of themselves, but were always
on the alert for a merry rejoinder or sly word
of blarney. There was perhaps an indication of
bone about the cheeks which might, Ashen the
fulness of youth had waned, assert itself a
little prominently. The mouth, too, owed its
comeliness to the mobile lips, with their cherry
freshness ; it was too large for strict beauty,
but the teeth were faultless. The nose also
might some day curve too sharply. These

were, however, the unkind possibilities of the
future ; the present was Catty's, a present of
rich and magnificent loveliness.

o

I think I'll send the admiral," she said.

"I wouldn't," replied Creamy, not moving
a muscle.

Why ? "

"It might do him good."

Only Catty laughed. " Wherever did Major
Tyler get his bronzing?" she asked. "You
knew him, didn't you ? "

Tons of years ago. He was fair enough
then."

Mrs. Trelawney's quick ear detected a sigh.
He looks to me like a man with a secret.
They say he gambles."

He's throwing for a high stake just now."

Miss Egbert ? "

Yes."

Will he win ? "

If Elsie Eber lets him."

I said he had a secret."

A secret ceases to be a secret when known
to two."

I wonder he didn't go in for that pretty

little Judy Aylmere. She is heiress presumptive,
isn't she, to the Egbert principality ?
But maybe the old ladies are keeping her for
royalty."

"It's a case of now or never. Old ladies
are tough. Besides, the pretty Judy's provided
for ; young Eawson's quite gone."

And you here? I fear you've been off duty.
I suppose you threw the major over ? "

As Catty said this she looked keenly for an
answer, although she could not see all her
companion's face.

"Beau," her husband, "can't bear him," was
the evasive answer. " He says he is a compromising
person to know, and if one does
touch the border sometimes, one likes to wear
good colours."

"How could Miss Eber interfere with
him?"

Creamy rang the bell ; she was ready for
the second process.

Listen, you're a woman of the world and
can hold your tongue ; you'll be here perhaps
when I've left ; watch things closely. If
Miss Eber goes, he'll come back."

 " Do you really think she'll take him ? "
No fools like old ones."
Well," said the magnificent Catty, resuming
her horizontal position, and speaking
with a light temerity that had in it the
naivete of the ingenue and the haut gout of the
coquette, " well, if there's one thing that I've
always set my face against, it is sentiment,
and, for the matter of that, love, too  intoxicates
both and destructive to a career. The
chemical mixture muddles the brain and the
pure vintage the heart ; I vowed myself from
the first to total abstinence, and so I married
the admiral."

Creamy laughed as she took the attendant's
hand and rose lazily to her feet.

I fear you have broken the pledge pretty
often," she said. " I was wiser ; / made my
head young''

And your heart old. Ah ! " she lay at
her full length, her heavily-fringed eyes closed?
and her hands crossed on her breast like a
saint in effigy, "ah, belle Creamy, beware of
renaissance''

Mrs. Aylmere watched from under her lids

the belle Creamy glide languidly to the douche-room,
her long vapoury vesture gathered just
closely enough to her fissure to define the
grace of her movements.

The very poetry of motion," was her involuntary
tribute of admiration.

Neither Creamy nor her lively companion
had caught more than a mere glimpse of Mrs.
Aylmere's face. That lady at her best had
little about her to attract attention, and in
her shrouding garment, her scanty locks
pinned in a knot on the top of her head, she
looked merely a middle-aged insignificant
female, with nothing to draw more than a
passing regard.

"Nobody one knows," had been Creamy's
inner comment.

"Nobody that knows us," Catty's, and
then both forgot her very existence, nor did
occasion occur to remind them of it, as they
were not called on to pass her pallet on their
exit to the douche-room.

Oculi hon for somebody."

Honour and shame from no condition rise ;
Act well jour part, there all the honour lies."

When Lord Le Pole left his sister and sought
the sombre wood in which to muse, he was
experiencing  what had seemed to him buta
brief hour since an impossibility  a new
sensation. He could not understand it.

Under the lee of the broad belt of dense
growth he stood listening to the faint and
fainter sounds of Gloriana's springy canter 
he could distinguish it from the cob's decisive
trot  conscious of a strange depression, akin
to the reaction sometimes experienced after
an unwonted ebullition of high spirits.

"A pretty little rustic," he said to himself,
not at all averse to a flirtation ; " but his
heart smote him. 'too natural as yet
perhaps to know how to go about it ; she'll

soon learn." The amendment struck him as
ungenerous.

Well, what did she choose that song for?
Little coquette, playing off her " AUan-a-
Dale." What a fool he had been ; what
could a light nature know of, of  pshaw, the
words were idiotic  beings mingling like water ;
he was sure she laughed  jokes and kisses
were what she understood. Once more and
to intolerable irritation his heart reproached
him. Across his vision came that shy soft
glance that had met his at the last line of the
exquisite song :

Why not I with thine ? "

Came, too, the rich colour that in the
fading light seemed part of the dying splendour
of the day. It had bathed her fair
young face, had tinged the graceful neck
closed in by the jealous collar, nature's telltale
of the modesty and purity within. Why
should she not be gay?  she was but a child.
The world had jaundiced him. Yes, she incas
simple and true as she was lovely.

The dark mood was passing away. He
strolled on, but beside, not into the wood.

She was but eighteen, this father told him
so, a little schoolroom fledgling ; heiress, so
his father had said, of that fine old Egbert
property.

It was expected of hin by his family, they
spoke of it as a necessity, to marry money ;
and here was money and family too, in a very
agreeable form, he must own.

How her eyes had sparkled at the sight of
the books ; refined tastes evidently. A year of
society, London society, and a good dressmaker,
and there would be few like her. That
shy gentle look, so different to the assured
ease, the hackneyed coquetries of the patent
beauties of the day.

He would train her in needful mannerisms
utter naturalness would be a solecism  but
she would be plastic and learn of him.

He had rather liked Lady lima Froome ; a
little more than liked, perhaps.

So had he, at various periods of his nonage,
fancied other golden goddesses, only to find
them with feet of clay. This little wild wood
fay though, he knew it now, had looked herself
into his heart.

It was a quaint term ; he had heard it from
poor Brace, his valet, who died of consumption,
the doctors said, but of a broken heart,
he knew, jilted by his humble love, who had,
he told his master, '* looked herself into his
heart."

Then he remembered the child's question
as he peered into her eyes, and he smiled,
repeating to himself her answer, " Eyes are
like looking-glasses sometimes ; " he wished
that hearts were, too.

Suddenly up from the path beneath, hid
somewhat by a low holly, came the air,
whistled soft and flute-like, of " Allan-a-dale."
With a startled look he turned in the direction
of the silvery sound, and saw Dicks, the
Scotch gardener, whose handsome geranium
had but an hour since received its name from
the " pretty little rustic," the unwitting disturber
of the blase exquisite's thoughts. Her
song had awakened memories in the Scotchman's
heart, and plodding homewards he sent
out the old tune, clear and true, in the quiet
twilight

look half ' contempt, half of chagrin,

settled on the young man's slightly heavy
brow as he walked back to the house, quickening
his steps to get beyond the sound of the
obnoxious air. It seemed, so he thought, a
mocking answer to his rash wish " that one
little heart he knew of could b3 like a lookin
fr-class."

The last words of the sons came back to
him ; he knew them well :

And she fled to the forest to hear a love-tale,
And the youth it was told by was Allan-a-dale."

'' Little coquette," he said to himself, " she
has begun early ; " and then he wondered
what manner of man this Allan-a-dale was.

There was a stranger at dinner that evening,
Mr. Eaymont, Lord Albany's solicitor. His
presence was unexpected by Lord Le Pole.
Had he been informed of his arrival he would
probably have absented himself, not from any
personal objection to Mr. Eaymont  he rather
liked him than otherwise  but from inherent
distaste of business details, and these, he knew,
would be discussed ad nauseam when Lady
]\Iarcraret had withdrawn.

Le Pole," said his father as the door
closed on his daughter's receding skirts, " Mr.
Eaymont's visit has to do with you exclusively
this time. Sir Oscar Pierce is dead."

Le Pole paused a decorous moment, slightly
elevating his eyebrows as in mild and indifferent
surprise, and said :

Sudden, I suppose. I saw him at Ascot
on the Cup day."

"Yes, he had a fit of apoplexy while
dining at the House, and died before they
could take him home."

Ah ! Then Oxminster is vacant ? "

Yes, an unexceptionable opportunity, Mr.
Raymond says ; if we manage well you may
walk the course."

"My dear father, if I am to enter public
life I prefer my credentials from a county, my
own if feasible. Only imagine canvassing a
borough ! "

Lord Le Pole's refined features looked, as
far as their natural impassiveness permitted,
unutterable disgust.

I should prefer it, too," replied his father,
but even if chance offered we could not

avail ourselves of it. A county election is a
costly affair."

And I think," said Mr. Eaymont, " that
we can secure Oxminster for five hundred
pounds. Beyond a few speeches you will
really have no personal work in the matter ;
where there is no contest an election is a very
commonplace piece of business. Sir Oscar
was returned without opposition."

That was because of his local influence.
Why, in the first place, he made the borough,
you may say, by his enterprise. He was a
genius in his way, nor was his genius barren ;
what it conceived it brought forth. He saw
the advantages the town offered for factories
and trades  a fine river and a railway junction
and he bought up every acre of land he
could o'er hold of. Then he built his factories,
and now his soap washes and his patent huckaback
dries millions. After a while he built
streets of model cottages for his labourers,
and squares, terraces and villas for the rising
community. But for Sir Oscar Pierce Ox-minster
would never have been important
enouoii for a borough. And the wonder of it

all was the man was a conservative and a
gentleman. Are you sure, Mr. Eaymont, that
the place is conservative ? It was not on a
political basis that it returned Sir Oscar. It
has a very radical newspaper."

My lord' answered the man of business,
if you are in Oxminster the day after tomorrow
 tomorrow is the funeral  and
pledge yourself to hold fast by the colours
that have fallen from the dead man's hand,
and to make it your pride and earnest endeavour
to be always at the front in the
cause of civil and religious liberty and the
rights of man, and to drag effete and venal
monopolies at the chariot-wheels of progress,
I pledge you my word you will carry the da}-
without a demurrer. The only man you need
have feared is Sir Janitor Tomlinson, and he
is too old  he is eighty if he is a day. He is
an uncompromising radical, but very crafty.
He was an Oxminster boy and made his own
way. He is very mean, and yet he gave the
town its park, its working men's college,
its hospital, a conventicle and a church. It
would have taken a constituency with sound
VOL. n. 18

conservative convictions to have rejected such
a benefactor, and political convictions of any
kind I do not claim for Axminster. But Sir
Janitor is shunted and the line is clear. You
have only to strike the iron while it is hot,
and the day is your own. You stand pledged
to absolutely no creed, and can follow your
bent. So that you have a seat in Parliament,
it is little matter whether it is for an obscure
borough or a great county ; your eventual
place is the Upper House, and with that in
posse you require no adventitious accompaniment
for the Commons. If you were a large-estate
squire's son, or the squire himself, it
would be very different. Then it might be
infra dig. to represent any constituency but
that of your own county, unless you were
going in for a political career, and then of
course it would be a seat at any price."

Lord Le Pole had listened attentively. His
face wore a slightly contemptuous look, expressive
of distaste for not only the proposition
itself, but the arguments used to render
it acceptable.

I am afraid I must disappoint 3'ou, father,"

he said, turning to Lord Albany. " I could
not sneak into Parliament. If I canvass a
constituency it must be on a creed. Generalities
are specious lies ; I would not pledge
myself to any man's colours  clap-trap as the
phrase may sound; ' measures, not men,' is my
motto alone."

What can the herd know of politics ? "
said the earl disdainfully. " He is the honest
man, the true humanitarian, who, pledged
to general principles of civil and religious
liberty, draws his OAvn convictions from these
principles, and does for the people what he
thinks best, not what they think best."

The people, my lord," returned the young
man quietly, " are no longer sheep to be
driven ; they must be led, they must know
their leader's voice, and a stranger will they
not follow."

Leading and driving with a clever shepherd
are the same thing. Autocracy and
democracy are convertible terms," said Isle.
Eaymont. " You are really making a mountain
out of the ghost of a mole-hill. But you
are a conservative, I presume ? "

182

That is just what I am not sure of''

All the more reason for you to hold by
broad principles then, and that is all that is
demanded of you ; but in any case you are
not opposed to the present government ? "

No, decidedly not."

Lord Albany, who had turned a stern
look on his son, gave a sigh of infinite relief.

Because I believe that all reform to be
sound must be slow. Everything that is not
ephemeral is slow. Those laws that have
helped the development of civilization, that
are actually bound up in the constitution of
the country, cannot be changed in a day
without shaking society to its centre. I
believe that the present government represents
true liberality. Conservatism pure and
simple is a thing of the past."

"I do not think the Oxminster electors
would quarrel with you," persisted Mr.
Eaymont. " And, as I said, it is an exceptional
opportunity. There is certain to
be a general election in a year, or at
most eighteen months, and once you have
taken root it will be difficult to find an

opponent. Men are holding back for the
big tussle. A man does not care to throw
away five or six thousand, which a contest
would cost, with the certainty of another in
so short a time."

The young lord said nothing. He sat
rolling his wine-olass about backwards and
forwards, not as if he was of doubtful mind,
but simply indifferent.

You would please me, Le Pole," at last
said his father stiffly, " if you give the matter
your careful consideration, and let me know
your decision in the morning. I am not
without influence in the Cabinet, though I
have never bid for office, and I think if you
were housed you might be hoped. You have
aims, and not ignoble ones, I know ; do not let
your youth slip by in dreams."

Mr. Eaymont helped himself to some claret
and then followed his noble client into the
smoking-room. For some minutes the two
men sat together in the deep window, which
was open, smoking in silence.

Mr. Eaymont was a little more than a
respectable and trustworthy solicitor and

land agent ; lie was a gentleman by birth and
culture, but, in what he was wont to term
the '' abstract relations of life," a man with
no pronounced convictions. Mr. Eaymont
was socially ambitious, not for himself, but
his children, his eldest son in especial ; therefore
his chief end in life was to make money.
He had ready for replanting in its native soil
a good old name, a name which the changes
of fortune and time had rooted out from the
time-honoured growths of a pleasant southern
county and dibbled in amono- the vulgar and
indigenous increments of city commerce.
Centuries before a Le Pole had become even
a possibility of the future, the Payments had
won their spurs. The quiet, steady-going,
unobtrusive attorney of Lincoln's Inn knew
and held fast the traditions, but he never
spoke of them, not, at least, outside his home-circle.
He had found it though, astute ashe
was, a very difficult matter to observe a
middle course. There were clients who on
the subject of politics demanded of their legal
adviser something more than honest service ;
they looked for sympathy, if not a perfect concordance

with particular views. The difficulties
in which this unreasonableness, as he
deemed it, was continually placing him came
to a head on the occasion of two parliamentary
candidates for indifferent boroughs of
opposing politics simultaneously seeking to
engage him as their electioneering agent. He
had then to do a things against which his
nature rebelled  to turn away money; and
as the conservatives were in power he took
over the tory letters of marque. This decided
him on an act repugnant to his personal
feelings ; he determined to take a partner,
and one with liberal tendencies. The necessity
for this had often pressed itself upon
him, so extensive had his practice grown to
be ; but with the hope, as indicated, of recovering
for his son the old family status
among the landed gentry, he had been averse
to found a firm with which the honoured
patronymic would be irretrievably associated.
Such a partner was found in the person of
Mr. Abram Eout, who under two aliases
owned two country papers of very advanced
views. These views, however, were not incorporated

in the deed of partnership. The
conjunction carried on the business on the
same political basis of no politics at all. But
democratic cents found their needs fully
satisfied in the sympathetic fustian of Mr.
Abram Eout, a fustian which prolonged interviews
set to the advantage, on the side of the
firm, of the bill of costs. It soon became
apparent that a balancing power was wanted
in the conjunction, or, to put it more accurately,
that, to preserve in the senior representative's
hand that power of balance, a third
partner, and of conservative principles, would
be necessary. This want was also supplied
with facility, and the name of Aaron Early
made the firm a trilogy. So while Abram
Eout was ever ready at the instance of a
reformer for a gyration in mid-air unimpeded
by prohibitive matter, Mr. Aaron Early
was always at hand in the advent of a fossil
squire to unfurl the flag of faded blue and
hoist it over a breach in the ancient landmarks.


Mr. Easement was thus enabled to preserve
in his own person the happy mean, and was

not again obliged "to turn money away." In
course of time lie came to he particularized as
the middle man," a term of happy appropriateness.
And so in the mixing of things
it had come to pass more than once that the
respectable and much-esteemed firm of Payment,
Eout, and Eally had carried to victory
on simultaneous occasions, though in different
places, a staunch liberal and a rabid conservative.


The junior partner had a facile pen and
what is known in journalism as a good connection,
and it was equally at the service of
Whig and Tory. Gradually the firm was
acquiring the reputation of clever and successful
electioneering accents, and if sometimes
a defeated candidate would sneer at the " unscrupulous
Jew partners," Mr. Eaymont himself
was so far above suspicion of anything
but a simple straightforward line of conduct
that the sneer was set down to disappointment,
and the reputation of the firm for
sharpness and generalship went up in the
scale.

"We shall have a little difficulty with Le

Pole," at last said Lord Albany, breaking
silence.

And there is no time to be lost," returned
his companion. "However, it seems to me
that if Ave can manage an address that will
enunciate some special doctrines acceptable
to either side, his scruples will be satisfied.
There is one cause of thankfulness  he has no
notions, he has no ' mission ; ' in fact there is
nothing to undo. lie has evidently been a
mere looker-on at the game political, and I
doubt if he knows anything of the licensing
question ; there might have been a difficulty.
There are a few small bills before the House,
of little general interest, but which happen to
bear locally upon Oxminster  something about
municipal rating is one, I know  and if these
have prominent place the local politician will
be carried, and then it will be plain sailing ;
of foreign policy or even the large measures
of home legislation, Oxminster knows little
and cares less. It has had enough to do to
make itself to mind, what it looks on as its
neighbour's business. Eally does say it is
waking up, but we are in time."

Mr. Eaymont did not add that the Weedy
Sin, a violent radical organ and the one
paper as yet of Oxminster, had for its proprietor
Mr. Abram Eout. Neither did he say that
the leading article for the current week and
the obituary notice of the town's respected and
lamented benefactor, its late member, was
from the facile pen of Mr. Aaron Eally, and
that the tone was mild and magnanimous 
but then men of business are naturally reticent.

I tell you candidly, Eaymont,'' said Lord
Albany, relaxing his stiffness as he was used
when enjoying a post prandial cigar with his
confidential man of business, " I tell 3'ou
candidly, that if the thing was not to be so
hurried, as far as Le Pole is concerned it
would fall through. He is icaJcing up. He
will not go very far astray, however, while
Tancred is at the helm ; he believes in him."

Ah," the solicitor took his cio-ar between
his fingers and knocked off some ashes, " I
don't know which are most misleading, creeds
or men," and he replaced the fragrant weed
in his mouth.

It was past eleven before Lord Albany and

this guest left the smoking-room ; ugly-looking
deeds and papers were gone into, and much
anxious converse ensued, converse in which
the names of Aylmere and Egbert recurred
not unfrequently. As they parted for the
night the earl said, looking anxious and worn,
I could have wished this election had occurred
a month hence. They are not likely
to meet now for another month at best ; that
is if he agrees to stand."

Strange," thought the attorney as he followed
his host to the door, " very strange that
in this hitherto aimless life two such possibilities
should have occurred in one day, a love
and a career."

-*->-:

iie->

Where more is meant than meets the eye."

Mr. ExVYMONT before returning to town the
foUowino- morning had a short interview with
the young lord, in which the latter definitely
declined to offer himself for Oxminster, unless
on the understanding that he was to be allowed
to enunciate his own political creed. This,
Mr. Eaymont shrewdly suspected, would be
simply suicidal.

My lord," he said, " cannot sou make
it a matter of faith, and trust sour sponsors
? "

Xo," was the reply ; " if I promise and vow,
it shall be in my own person. I have no objection
to undertake any matter not affecting the
public benefit, but locally important to the
borough. I am aware new constituents are
essentially important ; they are like Mrs.
Poyser's cock, who thought the sun rose on

purpose to hear him crow ; but I will not let
the mass of the electors fancy me a prophet
of Baal when I am on the side of Elijah.
I will not halt between two opinions."

But I understood you to say last night
that you did not know if you were a conservative
or not. You are not required to
hesitate, any more than you are called on to
decide. A middle course is often the soundest
policy, and if honestly followed leads to the
safest results."

Lord Le Pole thought of Messrs. Eout
and Eally, and his lip curled.

I said I was not sure if I was a conservative
because I am not sure what the term carries.
If it means tory, then I am certainly not one ;
not because I have no tory convictions  every
man who has a stake in the country such as
I have must hold some tory tenets  but
because the present head of the government
diverges widely from the real principles the
name is supposed to represent. Tancred is
no tory."

And you still aver that measures, not
men, is the motto."

And SO it is. I would not enter the
House pledged to any party, led even by the
Duke of Tancred ; I must be independent."

"If you are asked crucial questions you
cannot give evasive answers' said Mr. Payment
a little warmly, " and Oxminster is strong
on Bible if it is not on beer."

I am for liberty of conscience."

'V/hat of disestablishment? If the rumbling
increases in the body of the crater they
might pull you up on that."

Volcanic eruptions gave us mountains,"
was the young man's slightly ambiguous
reply.

"We are not prepared for more excrescences,"
said the lawyer, just a little sardonically.


Mr. Eaymont," Lord Le Pole spoke calmly,
if not kindly, " I am aware that is a question
we must face soon. At present my answer
would be that I am ready to go with the
times, and that when I see the sense of the
country calls for that measure I will vote
for it."

"And you would! "

My good sir, there is no standing still in
nature, and society is but nature in action."

'' You forget that there is goincr back. A
garden may become a wilderness."

Mr. Eaymont spoke in a warning voice.

"iSTot if order accompanies change."

My lord," he said, speaking earnestly, "the
people are only waking up to their power.
A young constituency can be trained if they
come to have faith in their leader. You have
faith in the nation's leader, and yet by your
own showing he carries his goods into port
under false colours ; with every rallying cry
of in statu quo he makes a step forward. But
the true weal of the country is in his heart.
He knows what is best for it, and that is often
just what it does not want, and he lets results
speak for him. If you stand for this little
borough a ' needy knife-grinder ' may be
prompted to ask your sentiments on the Licensing
Bill ; all that he and his instigators care for
is more beer ; or some wretched mill-worker
with a remunerative family may challenge
sou on compulsory education ; all he wants is
his hapless children's earnings ; so if you are

determined on a creed you need not stand ;
the place will be swept into the slough of utter
radicalism, and an opportunity, which does
not come too often in a man's life, of a distinct
public good, will be lost to you for ever.
However, if you should see your way to fight,
telegraph to me in town ; it may not be too
late between this and Friday. A certainty
would be secured if we struck at once. Only
for the reverence in which the late Sir Oscar
was held, placards would have been over the
place by this ; but with black bunting flying,
the ' Dead ]\Iarch in Saul ' for the church and
improve-the-occasion services in the conventicles,
a red or blue bill-sticker would get
small quarter till the funeral is over."

There must be something sound in Ox-minster,"
thought the 3oung man to himself
as he strolled towards the stables, leaving a
message with ]mr. Eaymont for his father to
the effect that he would think the matter well
over and see him in the evening. " They were
grateful to their real benefactor, and gratitude
nowadays is a rare virtue. It would be something
to keep them in the right way. Old
VOL. n. 19

LOVE AND LIKING.

Eaymont is foxy though, but he is right ; the
moi have no creed, and what their rights are
they neither understand nor care for."

Rises from a cloud of smoke to light."

Judy paid another visit with the squire,
but as she had ione with intent to lunch she
returned in time for Dulsie's afternoon tea,
which she usually dispensed in the only room
guiltless of oak panelling, the bright little
boudoir already mentioned. This room opened
into the conservatory. It had been the late
Mrs. Egbert's favourite chamber, and one into
which only intimates had admission. The
squire loved it. The chintz had been renewed
many a time since the lamented lady's
death, but the pattern of the cloth was the
same, and the adjustment of the furniture and
pictures as she had arranged them. Nothing
had been added, nothing taken away. Violets,
her favourite flower, still bloomed under the
window the year round, and between the lace
curtains the crested and gilded care still

192

swung, in wliicli a bullfinch, which on death
had always a successor, still piped the same
soft German tune. No outer chase was here.
Could the thirty years that had, to the squire,
crept so haggardly by since the day when he
had with his own hands closed the dimmed
eyes for ever, could these weary years have
rolled back but for one day, and she have
glided in as was her wont in fragile gentleness
and sunk back once more in the low easy-chair
by the bright window, she would but
have given life to the shadowy embodiment of
her loving husband's faithful memory, which
often seemed to fill acain the familiar seat.
Nay, so vivid at times seemed her presence
the squire would ask himself if it were not still
the morbid dread of loins her, wliicii during
her years of fading had haunted him, that still
filled his heart and gave to her reality the
exclusiveness of a vision. But was it all a
vision ? Is there never springtime a rent in
the veil between the spirit-life here and that
beyond, through which they that would come
to us may pass, or we, for one dreamful hour,
go to them ? Death's power is ultimate. One

link in the golden chain of life is not broken,
for death is but the " Crown of Life," and all
the trophy the victorious grave can claim is
earth's poor vesture. Soul may still thrill to
soul, and voices hushed to our mortal ear
whisper in our hearts. Then, fled by the
sense of the loved presence, on the yearning
eyes the spirit form may gleam for a transitory
moment, and merging back into liodit leave the
darkness all bereft of its gloom and loneliness
of its despair. Time, on love such as
theirs was, could never lay an effacing finger ;
in its purity and holiness it Alas divine, and so
itself part of that great Divinity to whom a
thousand sears are but as a watch in the
night.

On Judy the intensity and faithfulness ot
this great love had left their impress. Even
now she never thought lightly of love, and
young as she was she had come to speculate on
the quality that had bound two souls in such an
indissoluble tie for ever. Then in fear her heart
would fail her, and she would send up a silent
prayer, which was more of a reverent breathing
than an utterance, that she might never

bring to that great sacrament a sordid motive
or an ignoble aspiration, nor there join hands
with one a whit below her lofty ideal. Nothing
that was halt or maimed or bUnd would she
bring to the altar hallowed by that divine fire.
Ah, how often yearnings such as these are
but the emanations of a poetic nature, which,
for use m the work-a-day world, are never
clothed upon." But not so with Judy. Her
longings were the outcome of a pure spirit
shrinking from things false and mean, the
stretching' out of feeble hands for strength to
carry through high resolves, which yet, when
the good time should come, might receive, to
outward seeming, a very commonplace embodiment.


Judy, on returning from her visit, had
retired to her room at once to make her light
and simple evening toilet. The day had
been warm to exhaustion, and she was glad to
put on a cool gown. This evening she chose a
pale blue muslin with a slight train, and sleeves
reaching only to the elbow. Soft white
mechlin lace was filled in on her bosom. Her
hair was coiled low on her head, but little

feathery flakes and curls rested airily on her
brow. They were simply rebels, who asserted
their liberty persistently, setting at defiance
every contrivance to reduce them to order.
To keep them in countenance Judy had dotted
in through the thick close-lying masses of hair
little wilful sprigs of forget-me-nots, a slightly
eccentric but altogether enchanting coiffure ;
a large bunch of the same flowers nestled in
her breast. It was, take it all in all, a careless
toilet, made in a spirit of lazy gaiety.

When she entered the boudoir Dulsie was
seated at the tea-table, her old garden-hat on
her head, and company garden-gloves beside
her. She was not alone, and she was doing her
successful best to be agreeable to her companion.
Lord Le Pole  a very successful best,
seeing her chief subject of converse had been
Judy, a text to which her visitor had kept
her pretty close. Judy stopped in the open
door with a start of surprise.

"You did not expect to see me so soon
again ? " said the young man. " I came with a
message to Mr. Egbert from my father, and I
was beginning to fear I should lose the reward

of my trouble," and lie smiled as lie looked
earnestly at her, so earnestly that the roses on
her cheek deepened and her lids fell, but she
gave him her hand, frankly answering :

"The unexpected always surprises," then
turning to Dulsie she asked where the squire
had gone, saying lie would go for him. Judy
was not at her ease, and she knew it.

My absurd head," she thought ; " I know
I am a guy."

Dulsie said the squire would return directly,
adding that Lord Le Pole had already seen
him.

Then Judy with a cup of tea subsided into
a chair in the open window. The lace curtains
partially shaded her from notice, and she
rapidly recovered her self-possession. Lord
Le Pole brought her some bread and
butter.

"Are you going to the flower-show next
week ? " he asked.

I am afraid not," she replied ; " we are all
at Sandycot, and Nettlethorp is not very
come-at able from there."

Do you like Sandycot ? "

Oil, yes, it is such a gj little place ; no
stiffness about it and no excursion trains."

A disadvantage it will never be troubled
with, I should say."

'"I don't know that. Some one was suggesting
races on the sands. Sandycot beach
is unrivalled for extent and smoothness."

Faces at Sandycot, Judy," cried Dulsie.
That is Mr. Eawson, I am sure ; he will ruin
the place."

Judy's tell-tale face flushed as she answered,
just a little tartly, " I am sure Ned  that is,
Mr. Eawson, I mean  would be the last person
to "

"To what. Judy ? " cried the squire, entering
the room with some letters in his hand.
What would your Gamaliel be the last
person to do ? "

Cousin Egbert, I wish you wouldn't be
so absurd ; besides, Mr. Eawson is not a
radical."

Only the squire understood this little cranky
speech, and he laughed a low chuckling laugh
at his success in what he termed '' springing
Judy," a sly amusement he much affected.

Judy was telling us that there is to be a
racecourse on Sandycot beach, so I supposed
that Mr. Eawson was the promoter, that is
all," explained Dulsie.

It was hard on Judy. She felt Lord Le
Pole's eyes covertly watching her, and biting
her lips she held her peace.

"Never mind, Judy," cried the squire,
there will be no races if they depend on Ned
Eawson. He has other fish to fry. His
uncle. Sir Janitor Tomlinson, wants him to
stand for Oxminster."

Oh," cried Judy, fairly off her guard, " I
am so glad, he will have a career at last," and
she came from her retreat animated and
expressive.

Lord Le Pole slipped into her vacant place
and gazed on the undulating hills, a vexed
look in his eyes, but a quickening resoluteness
in his firm-set mouth. The conversation
at the tea-table was brisk ; letters were opened
and discussed. One was from Mrs. Aylmere to
her daughter. For the moment the presence
of a stranger seemed forgotten ; for the
moment the stranger seemed to forget the

presence of others. Out on the sloping
downs and on to the towering hills his regards
strayed. The lights and shadows of coming
evening were fitting? and oiidinsr from hede to
green sward, the rookery which was nigh was
vocal with din, and from the distance came
the whistle of the cow-boy, the sheep-bells'
erratic tingle, and a faint echo of village bells.
But Lord Le Pole heard none of these peaceful
sounds ; his ears, his heart, nay, his whole
senses vibrated to but one rinoino voice, which
rang triumphantly, he thought, in the latter
notes of the old song of '* Allan a-Dale."

It was only for a few minutes, not five by
clock measured time, that he thus stood, but
into those fleeting seconds had been crowded
a life's retrospect and a life's resolve, by which
to stand or fall.

When he turned at the sound of his name
uttered by the squire, the languor, the insouciance
had gone, and in their place was an
eager resoluteness  the waking up had come.
In his eyes, too, was a strange expression, as if
they had recognized a desired object in the far
distance, which he must reach or die.

' May I ring for my horse ? " he asked.

The very tone of his voice was changed, jet
only Judy of those present felt or noted a
difference. She looked at him almost questioningly.
As to Dulsie's expressed wish that
he should stay to dinner, he stumbled over
excuses relating to his father, stock, and late
hours  nothing very consequent.

Lord Albany can command votes for
Oxminster," said the squire, " but I fear our
young friend is an out-and-out radical."

Judy said not a word, though in her hand
she held a letter from her mother, which she
had perused, stating that Mr. Rawson's
millionaire uncle had sent for him to contest
Oxminster, but that she feared his independent
scruples would prevent him from pledging
himself to the Liberal party, in which case
he would not only lose his chance of a political
career, but, what was of far more moment in
Mrs. Aylmere's eyes, his uncle's favour.

My father," said the young man with justa
little hauteur, " my father is for utter
freedom of voting ; but, strange to say, I am
offering myself as a candidate for Oxminster.

Mr. Eaymont, our solicitor, came to the
Grange about the matter last night."

What ? " cried the squire ; " that is sudden.
On conservative principles of course ? "

Jud} whose roses had paled from mental
excitement and bewilderment, fixed her eyes
on Lord Le Pole's impassive face.

On a creed at any rate," he answered ;
and not radical, you may be sure."

Then Judy spoke a little proudly and vindicating,
" Mamma says that Mr. Eawson
declines a creed ; he wishes to be independent."


And I," returned the young nobleman
quickly; with animus, Judy thought, '' and
I prefer to show my colours," and then his
eyes softened as they met hers. " I am sorry
my opponent is a friend of yours, but we enter
the lists on equal terms."

Of course," she said, " of course ; " and
then blushing violently under his earnest gaze,
I do hope though that one of you will win."

The moment she had spoken, the absurdity
of her words struck her, and she laughed till
the tears came.

Thank you for both," he returned. " Will
you give me a forget-me-not? It shall be my
colour for the contest."

She shook her head, and a sprig fell at his
feet.

Your head, if not your heart, consents," he
whispered as he lifted it and fastened it in a
waistcoat button-hole.

A servant announced the visitor's horse, and
before Judy could remonstrate his adieux
were made, and carrying his trophy on his
heart he was soon en route for home. On his
way he stopped at Nettlethorp and telegraphed
to Mr. Eaymont the following words :

You can put me up as a Liberal-conservative.
Will be at Oxminster tomorrow.
Opposition probable."

"5<$'tzSa'!S*5

But-who shall act the honest lawyer ?
'Tis a hard part that."

Mr. Eaymoxt, holding an open telegram in his
hand, was giving audience to his two partners,
Messrs. Eout and Eally.

Then, sir," said Mr. Eout to his chief,
you decide in favour of Lord Le Pole ? "

"I cannot help myself," was the answer,
given a little petulantly. " Lord Albany is
too old a client to throw over ; besides, though
1 own the money will be difficult, there are
future possibilities that will square my present
loss."

''I am not exaggerating," persisted Mr.
Eout, " when I say we are refusing, actually
refusing, thousands. I know Sir Janitor welland
the length of his purse, too. His vanity
is greater than even his means, as Oxminster's
pretentious charities testify, and to carry his
nephew through against a ' full-blown Nob,'

as he calls a man with a title, he is good
for unlimited cheques. Besides, he is proud
of the young man. Could you not say we
had compromised you, that we had already
pledged the firm to Mr. Rawson's interests ? "

Impossible. The most we can do is to be
first in the field and make what capital we
can out of the dead man's reputation. I hear
the place is like a city of the dead, black
bunting flying and shops closed."

Perhaps, sir," said Mr. Rout hesitatingly,
perhaps it would be as well if I called on Sir
Janitor when I go to Oxminster to-night, as
I suppose I must ; he is a very big fish to
throw back into the sea."

'' Xo," returned Mr. Raymond decisively ;.
he is a sharp business man and appreciates
things only on a business basis. Write him
a short but civil business letter, and express
regret that we are pledged to the conservative
candidate. If you call with any palaver, and
our man won, we should make an enemy ;
but if we do our best for our man he will
respect us, and if we win he will regret he
was late in securing our service."

Mr. Eaymoiit stopped as if he meant to goon,
which, after a minute's uncertainty, he did :
"And YOU may add  it can do no harm
under the circumstances, it will only be civil 
that apart from all business considerations we
hope that Oxminster will not fail in gratitude
to its benefactor, but whether the dead or the
living one we are not called on to specify"'
and the firm relaxed into a olim smile.

Mr. Eally had received instructions to draw
up an electioneering address with strongly-worded
general pledges on all as yet undefined
measures of social reform, avoiding any special
questions.

Be undefined," concluded Mr. Eaymont,.
but by no means vague. Use the word
progress ' frequently, and have it set inlarge
capitals. It must be left for Lord
Le Pole to declare his lead himself, and that
as yet seems to be Tancred and variations,
though he fancies it is ' measures, not men.'
You may say, too, that Toryism is dead  large
capitals there, too, the Earl is an uncompromising
Tory  and that the true principles of

Conservatism are to be found only in a well-vol.
II. 20

weighed and lofty Liberalism  large capitals 
for Conservatism  when rightly understood
and honestly controlled  put controlled in
italics  is simply a religious and resolute
maintenance of Law, Order, and Eight."

I think I am equal to the occasion," said
Mr. Eally demurely ; " the strategy of 
is becoming second nature to me."

And this campaign," added Mr. Eaymont,
ignoring his partner's innuendo, " will be a
difficult one ; our credentials are not full."

Mr. Eout had been turning over a
Bradshaw's guide.

I see," he said, " that Casterham is quite
close to Axminster. Do you not think,"
addressing himself to Mr. Eaymont, '' that it
would be as well if I made some inquiry
about this Mrs. Tiler, whose bill Miss Eber
instructs us to redeem? I happen to know
something about her, and quite lately she was
very ill. It is just possible she may be
dead."

"That would only confine the obligation to
the drawer, Major Tyler, I think. Is he any
relation to her ? "

A son, in all but the name, which he
adopted to conceal his identity with his
father's son," Mr. Eout laughed. " Old Tiler
was a very respectable ironmonger ; he sold
his vote for the commission of his son."

"Very respectable?" repeated Mr. Eaymont.

Political morality has a code cf its own.
For my part I am of opinion that it raises a
poor man's self-respect to know that he has a
right which can be appraised at a money
value, the only value he understands."

"Well, Eout, you can do so "  Mr. Eaymont
waived an argument on political ethics  " but
as the bill must be redeemed in any case, it
seems a little out of our line to interest ourselves
in the signees."

I am an old friend of Miss Eber," was
Mr. Eout's answer, ' and I gather from her
letter that she takes up this bill solely in the
interests of the widow Tiler. I have every
reason to believe from facts that have come
to my knowledge  not in a business way at
all  that if the obligation rested solely with
Major Tyler he would have to meet it unassisted
by Miss Eber. The man is a scorns



UBRAWf

 HlfflOW

drew. I have written to the holder to see if
he will reduce, but I am certain, he will not ;
it gives us a day, however."

It is getting late gentlemen," said Mr.
Eaymont ; " seven o'clock is an unusual hour
for our shutters to be down," and he rose in
token that the consultation was over ; but at
that moment a card was brought to him
which he handed silently to his partners,
smiling.

"Mr. Eawson!" exclaimed Eally, 'how
opportune. We must find out if he is as
extreme as his uncle."

The firm received their visitor cordially,
Mr. Eaymont expressing his regret, very
sincerely felt, that Sir Janitor's proposal had
been made too late for their acceptance, their
services having been retained on behalf of
their distinguished client, the Earl of Albany.

What, Lord Le Pole ? " said Ned, adding,
on receiving affirming nod, " I knew him
at Oxford, but only a little. He posed asa
grand seignior there, belonged to no set,
kept even the dons at arm's length, went in
tremendously for bric-a-brac, and was popularly

credited with a new suit of clothes everyday.
He was called the Double X, which
stood for Exclusive Exquisite. But he won't
have a chance. His father is the most
fossilized of all fossil Tories, and anything
ultra is in the minority while king Tancred
reigns."

Sir Janitor is ultra'" observed Mr. Eally.

' But it does not follow that I am also," returned
the young man attentively, " and that
is just the point I wished to discuss ; however,
I am taking up your time for no use now. I
only hope my uncle will fall into good hands.
Could you not name a safe, I mean a moderate,
firm to him ? "

' We could not do that under the circumstances,"
said ]mr. Eaymont-but as a rule
recommendations of any kind or degree I
never give ; they are opposed to my line of
conduct because they entail outside responsibilities."


The senior partner was always careful, when
occasion offered, to particularize his principles
in evidence of his line of conduct, which, as
has been said, had the reputation of being

without curves. These he left to his able
coadjutors, becoming, when an exigency called
for such divergences, a sleeping partner.

"I do not fancy," said Mr. Eally, "that any
influence would moderate Sir Janitor's views ;
they are very extreme, but he has a long
purse."

The young man flushed haughtily He
opened his lips as if on the point to disclaim,
but suddenly remembering that he was in the
presence of his opponent's agents, he drew
himself in.

Well, gentlemen," he said, " I regret I
have lost you as advisers, but I wish you to
understand, and I shall make the electors
understand, that I am no sordid tool. What
I have to say you will hear when the proper
time comes. And remember this, that personally
I don't despise my opponent : he has
good stuff in him. He only spoke once at the
Union, it was on disestablishment, and he
began like his father's son and ended like 
well, like what his son's father will be, but
not yet awhile," and laughing merrily he
bowed himself out of the presence chamber.

]\[r. Eout followed close, accompanying the
light-hearted candidate for Oxminster to his
cab, which was in waiting.

Did you happen to meet a Major Tyler at
Sandycot ? " he asked.

Oh yes, often, he left suddenly ; a mysterious
sort of a fellow; a desperate lady-killer.
Do YOU know anvthinix of him ? ' And as
if struck by the sudden thought he brought
up at the end of the passage and looked at his
companion.

Nothing good," was the reply.

' Then," said hastily the other, '' Squire
Ef]fbert oua'ht to be told. The fellow made
up to the eldest Miss Egbert. She is sixty,
I believe, and I fear it will be a match.
You ought to forbid the banns, if you
can."

"Til try," was the cautious answer. " But
did no one know him at Sandycot ? The place
is full, is it not ? "

"Not a soul. But he made his way: brass
is better than tin sometimes, and he hasn't
much of the latter. He was lucky at ecarte,
and that kept him going."

Mr. Eout lead got the information he
wanted. If Elsie and the major had met, it
had been as strangers.

Oh, by-the-by," he said, stopping Ned ashe
entered the cab, "just a word; Dibbs and
Tips are a good house. They not only got
the renegade Owl through by the skin of his
teeth, but gained the day in the petition
against him. A very safe house is Dibbs and
Tips, and  a word to the wise  I know Sir
Janitor well," here Mr. Eout winked, which
might mean jest or earnest ; " your best card
is the Nob ; play him against your uncle. So
you beat a ' full blown nob,' you may sail
very close to a Tory wind."

With a look of disgust, cast on the obtuse
Eout, Ned jumped into his cab, nodding
a hasty good-bye.

"I'll run him close," he said to himself,
but I'll do it on the square, I won't touch
pitch ; " in pursuance of which determination
the cab did not stop at the door of Messrs.
Dibbs' office, but landed its fare at the Charing
Cross Hotel, from which establishment it soon
after conveyed a note to No. 200, Simple

Street, the private rooms of Mr. Alexander
Charles, of Messrs. Charles and Patch, a
highly respectable, if old-fashioned, firm of
solicitors, whose business habitat was in Essex
Street, Strand.

The immediate result of the note was that
after an hour's consultation with their client
an address to the electors of Oxminster was
sent to a printing house. A certain notice,
comprehensive in its contents, was successfully
placed in the night matter of two of the leading
dailies, which notice in the morning not a
little astonished the wide awake trilogy of Lincoln's
Inn, one of whom had the pleasure of
reading it while taking his ease at his inn in
the recently bereft borough of Oxminster.
Seized with a panic, Mr. Eout left his toast
and bacon and sought the principal thoroughfare.
There he was confronted by huge
yellow posters, in which were conspicuous the
names of Sir Janitor Tomlinson and Edward
Eawson, Mea., with their mutual relations set
prominently forth. On the head of the posters
was a black medallion containing a regretful
tribute to the manes of the late member, who

was described as the city knight's 'lifelong
and greatly esteemed friend."

Mr. Eout returned to his limp toast and
now coagulated bacon fat, experiencing what
was to him a very new sensation  an eye
opener. He was the victim of a stolen march :
not a bill sticker was to be had in Axminster,
they had all gone over to the enemy.

-<j t >-

Tia

His mother looks from her lattice high,
Why comes he not ? "

Pass ou, weak hearty and leave me where I lie ;
Go by, go by."

Mrs. Tiler's habitation was Xo. 3, Poplar
Villas, a humble enough home for the mother
of such a dashing .<ahreur as the ex-major of
the Dragoons had been, of such a very
comme-il-faui member of exclusive circles ashe
now, in his retirement from service,
affected to be. Dingy and forlorn as the
normal aspect of the house was, to-day it
seemed to have received an accession of
melancholy, a melancholy which, as he approached
it, took the spring out of Mr. Eout's
active step but quickened the keenness of
his little restless black eyes. A sad and
solitary' laburnum drooped in the centre of
the six-feet square garden in front, which
was covered with rank arras and weeds. The

blinds of the windows were down to within
an inch or two of the sills, and the windows
themselves were open from the top to about
the same extent, as if giving entrance to fresh
air on protest. The small knocker was tied
up in an old black glove. By continuous
gentle taps Mr. Eout made his presence
known, and the door was cautiously opened
by a stern-visaged, poverty-battered female,
whose age might have been charitably set
down at fifty. She had only lately reached
thirty.

Mr. Eout ! " she exclaimed, turning a paler
shade of her natural yellow, and then, with
a backward look, placing her finger on her
lips.

It is about her illness I have come," he
said ; " can I speak to you ? "

And without further parley of greeting or
questioning, she ushered him in with a warning
" Hush ! "

But softly as they moved, the strange step
struck on the senses of the sick woman, lying
on the threshold of death in the meagre
chamber overhead. She was listening for a

loved foot, whose tardiness fanned the feverish
fire in her blood and chased peace from her
faihncr heart. How often dnrin the weary
years that were gone had she so listened ?
How often, desire satisfied, had that coming
been but Dead Sea fruit ?

Then came the impatient tinkle of a hand-bel.


She has heard your step," said Mr. Eout's
companion ; " she is on the watch for my
brother ; " she uttered the last word with
bitter irony. " He telegraphed he was
coming yesterday, and she has never closed
her eyes. I knew he would not be here till
late to-day  the Barton races are going
on."

She then disappeared for a moment to
soothe the dying woman with words of hope.
She lied to her.

It is Mr. Burton," naming a neighbour,
to ask for you ; he says he is sure the telegraph
people have made a mistake, that
Geoffrey meant to come to-day, that there
was a levee yesterday and he would have to
be present, so mother, darling, try and sleep.

YOU will be fresher when he comes and better
able to talk to him."

This was the fiction the pitiful tongue
poured into the yearning ear. She was not
grim-visaged as she smoothed the pillow and
then bent and kissed the wasted face.

You'll be sure to call me, Nelly," asked
the feeble voice, with a quiver of the lip ; " it
seems so long waiting."

Nelly gave the promise, and had the satisfaction
to see the tear-stained weary eyes
close in sleep.

There is no hope, I suppose ? " said Mr.
Pious to Nelly, when the door of the little
sitting-room was again closed.

None. It is only a question of hours now.
The doctor does not think she'll last till sundown."


"Poor woman, a happy release."
Commonplace as the words were, the voice
and intent were kind.

It is about that acceptance I've come," he
went on ; " I had understood from you that
it had been arranged, and that Mrs. Tiler's
liability had ceased."

Nellie's lips grew white.

What acceptance ? " she asked. " Not
another bill ? "

I know of only one bill," he returned,
the one for two thousand pounds you
wrote to me about before Christmas, and
which you said was arranged. Davis
holds it, has kept it over, I fancy by collusion,
and threatens to come down on your
mother."

Why, it was paid." Nelly spoke as if in
physical pain. " We made up, that is, we
sisters did, one thousand of our savings, and
raised the other thousand on my mother's
pittance  she, as you know, had just two
thousand pounds left her by my father. Then
Mary got ill and lost her situation, and had to
come home and be nursed. It was too much
for mother ; she broke down suddenly, and I
had to give up my place and come to look
after both. But Mary didn't get better, she
died ; all this brought us very down, as you
see. The others have done what they could,
that is, the girls, I mean, but there is no such
thief in the house as sickness ; and all this, Mr.

Eout, all this for the poor vanity of having a
grand gentleman in the family."

For a moment Nelly had lost sight of her
visitor's announcement  her present troubles
and sense of injury had perhaps a little
deadened apprehension of the future. Eout
brought her back.

To whom did you pay the money ? " he
asked, "and did you, or who did, get up the
bill ? "

I do not know what you mean by getting
up the bill," she answered querulously. " It
was the money-lender did that, I suppose ;
but we paid the money, two thousand pounds
blood-money, I call it   into Geoffrey's
hands."

Did you get an acknowledgment ? "

No ; he said the cheque was receipt
enough." And then the truth burst on her.
I see ! " she cried. " I understand what
you mean ; he, Geoffrey, took the money for
his own use and they're coming down on
mother again."

Mr. Eout bowed his head.

I fear it," he said.

I

It does not matter," she cried fiercely.
She will be beyond their reach, but thank
the good God  " and she clasped her hands
together in a very ecstasy of vengeance 
"thank the good God he will not." Then
turning to the startled attorney she said,
speaking stoically but determinedly, " Mr.
Eout, the law shall take its course."

The two thousand left by your father,"
he asked, " was in settlement on your mother
first, and then on you, his four daughters ? "

"Yes; we joined together to raise the
thousand ; they will get nothing''

Then Mr. Eout told her of Elsie's letter.
The name was strange to her. He saw that,
and he did not enlighten her to the extent of

his own knowledge.

<

An eccentric woman," he explained ; " a
professional reciter, probably some engagement,
he could not tell."

She was not curious, only loathing ; a
desire for retribution possessed her at the
moment.

''We were as dust beneath his feet," she
cried, bitterness and rage in her heart. " We
VOL. n. 21

were not even dust to lier when lie was present.
I think, sir, had he in his state and
grandeur bid her come and be his menial,
she would have iron, and hid from every one
that she was his mother. Do you know, sir,
she only once saw him in his fine regimentals,
and that was not here? He never came
here with his lacquey's livery on him ; he
came like Nicodemus, at night, in what he
called his ' mufti.' She thought it royal
purple because it clad him, the unnatural
dastard. We all went with her  it was in
London, in Hyde Park, and he rode past the
Queen's carriage on his prancing horse, with
his naked sabre in his hand. Oh, how brave
he looked ! I heard some one say he was
the handsomest, and the gallants, and the
noblest of them all. He saw us, but he made
no sign, so we ate our sandwiches, and sucked
our oranges, and drank our ginger-beer, like
the low plebeians we were, thinking it, perhaps,
a rather questionable honour to have such
a very magnificent relation. We didn't know
he had left the army ; we hadn't much time
for newspaper reading, for you see we had

our bread to win, and when lie wrote flora
Africa, and sent lier a lion skin, she thought
he had crone to %ht the Hottentots, as she

CO '

called them, and nioit and morning she
wearied Heaven "  her voice grew softer
here  '* ' to deliver her darling from the jaws
of the lion and from the sword of the deceitful
and bloody man.' He had told her to
speak very Httle to the neighbours about him.
The Queen oughtn't like,' he said, ' to hear
his father was a tradesman, and if it got about
it would prevent him making a grand marriage.'
So she kept pretty quiet, poor woman,
for his word was God's law to her. But
before daybreak she will stand in the courts
of Heaven, and if she can feel shame there, it
will not be for the honest trader who called
her wife, but for the despicable thing she
called son''

There was something grand about the
poverty-battered woman, something that told
of intellectual power obscured by the sordid
exigencies of a dreary life, of a keen sense of
moral obligations, if not of a higher law. It
was this something, with which was welded a

212

pitiful protecting love for the weak, gentle
mother, that roused her passionate invective
against the cruelty and injury from the hands
of an " own familiar friend." So lie glanced
aside from Elsie Eber's name, for what were
Geoffrey Tyler's friends to her ?

Abram Eout, accustomed as he was to
anguished cries of human souls in straits,
shrank within himself at the fierce denunciation
of this indigent daughter of toil, and the
iniquity of the unprincipled son, which from
a business point of view had seemed to him
but genteel sharping, took a deeper dye 
the dye of sacrilege. It was not exactly pity
he felt for the feeble existence passing through
the dread valley. To die was in the ordinary
course of things, and well for her, he said to
himself ; but it was the better, tenderer
nature within that had been stirred by a
weak woman's bitter revolt against wrong
and cruelty. He determined that not only
should the law take its course, but that he
would himself make it as hot as he could for
the unnatural miscreant. Mr. Eout's heart
was hot within him, and he used words not

the current coin of the dignified firm of
Eaymont and Co.

After a minute's pause, he said quietly:

"Then you agree with me that ]viator
Tyler must be left to meet this demand unassisted
? "

Yes ; as I said before, let the law take its
course. She will be safe."

He rose to leave.

I am at Oxminster for a day or two ; if
you want anything, telegraph," and he wrote
his address on a card, which she received
with a grateful acknowledgment.

"We are not without friends here," she
said, " but as you were an old acquaintance
of my father, perhaps you would, if it should
be convenient, not object to pay her the last
mark of respect ? "

This Mr. Eout promised to do, adding some
everyday phrases of condolence, for the
language of sympathy was an unknown tongue
to him, and he could only repeat, like a
parrot, the words of others ; but his voice
was kind, and the much-burdened woman
thanked him from her heart.

The hot weary day at last wore on to
evening, but still the sick woman slept.

Nelly had written the daily letters to her
absent sisters, had spoken to one or two
kindly inquirers through the half-opened
window  one of whom carried the letters
to the post for her  had made herself a
cup of tea, and before she sat down to rest
and think had paid some little attention to
her attire. Then the doctor came in for a
minute, promising to call later. As lie let him
out the bell of the sick room faintly tinkled.
She called him back, and he followed her to
his patient's side. The wasted hand was on
the hand-bell, as if it had lacked strength to
lift itself back to the bed, and the head had
sunk on the pillow.

Only a few minutes now," he whispered to
Nelly as he laid his fingers on the fluttering
pulse.

"Nelly," said the dying woman, "I have
had a sound sleep ; I will be stronger when he
comes, but I want to say a word to you. I'm
so sleepy I can hardly keep awake." Her
words were scarcely audible. " You and

John Parks must make it up between you
when I am gone ; he is a good man and be
loves you. It won't matter so much, you see,
because you will change your name, and as
my name will only be on a tomb-stone it can't
hurt Geoffrey." She spoke with difficulty, as
if she could not express what she wished to say.

Nelly made no answer. She held wine to
the white lips and then kissed the clammy
brow.

The doctor, who knew the best part
and guessed more of the story coming to
an end now, whispered, " Poor woman, the
master passion to the last."

She has fallen asleep again," said Nelly,
after a few minutes' silent watching. "I
think she was dreaming ; John Parks has
been married ten years."

He looked pitifully at her. " Tuo late," he
thought, " ten years too late."

They stood still yet another minute and
then Nelly moved to the window and looked
out. She turned away with a sigh. The
doctor beckoned to her ; she obeyed, stepping
softly.

JSTothiriGf will hurt her now," he said ;
it is all over."

Nelly was schooled to suffering; only a
short, quick gasp, and she stood still. It did
not need to close the dead eyes, or to compose
the hands. She had passed away in her
broken slumber, with her palms joined in the
attitude of prayer.

Two hours passed. A neighbour helped
Nelly to perform the necessary offices for the
poor clay'. It lay now covered with a white
sheet, sprigs of rosemary and rue strewed
here and there.

There was nothing more to do, and promising
to return later in the night, the assistant
left. Nelly was not afraid of the dead ; she
was glad to be left alone. She sat down in
the sitting-room and gave way to bitter weeping
 how long she sat she did not know.
She was called to outer life by a knock at the
door. As she rose to open it the town hall
clock struck nine.

"I was afraid you had all gone to
bed," said the newcomer, as he followed
her to the sitting-room. " Is she asleep ?

Perhaps I had better come in the morris



o

I think not," was the curt answer, " but
you can go up now," and she lighted a candle
which she placed in his hands.

They were brother and sister, but for long
years no greeting had passed between the
twain.

He went. She listened to his step, slow and
hushed, mounting the narrow stairs. She
heard him open the door of the death-chamber,
and her eyes glittered. A minute
later and he stood before her again, ghastly
white and trembling. Not a word could
escape his ashy lips.

Perfectly calm, she took the candle, which
was falling from his clutch, and set it on the
table. Then she drew back the door to its
limit, and pointed to it. He opened his lips
to speak in vain. He looked into her face as
if for mercy. What he saw there made his
craven eyes quail, and without even a whisper
of remonstrance, only with a moan, as if of
pity for himself more than of grief for her, he
rank away.

The independent commoner
Shall be the man for a' that."

'' But och mankind are unco' weak, and little to be trusted,
If self the wavering balance shake, it's rarely right adjusted."

Towards the evening of this eventful day the
little town of Oxminster was in a state of
active fermentation. The blue posters, with
which the sharp London bill-sticks had
covered every hoarding not already monopolized
by the enemy, had spread the news of
the pending contest to the very confines of the
borough. Delivery carts bore on their flanks,
with as yet impartial patronage, the rival
colours, inspiring blue and stimulating yellow.
The harlequin combination was everywhere,
on trunks of trees, genteel gate pillars, lamp
posts, and even the marble pedestal of Sir
Janitor's latest gift, the drinking fountain. Two
opposing files of sandwich-men traversed the
streets and suburbs, and handbills of the contending

colours were distributed sitll emulating
lavishness by keen-eyed girls and nimble-footed
boys. The energy Mr. Eout brought
to bear in overtaking the enemy, supplanting
and superseding, soon nullified the advantage
of his adversary's stolen march, and they
started fair. These preparations for the
coming contest in active operation, Mr. Eout
accompanied his noble client, Lord Le Pole, on
a preliminary canvass. It was nearing six
o'clock when, as an initiatory experiment,
they entered the office of the Weedy Sun.

' The enemy's stronghold," said Lord Le
Pole in surprise.

"Yes, 'the bull by the horns,' you know,"
was Mr. Stout's answer.

But the enemy had been before them. On
the threshold of the door they encountered
Mr. Eawson, conspicuous with a yellow rose
in his button-hole. Mr. Eout greeted the
young man cordially, and with much deference
introduced the rivals. Lord Le Pole bowed
stiffly, hesitated a moment, and then, as if
ashamed of some inward monition, took Ned's
proffered hand, saying, " I had almost forgotten

we had met before. We were at
Christ Church together, I think?"

Yes," replied Used with just a little
hauteur, chilled by his opponent's unresponsive,
if not repellent, manner ; " and I fancy,
from what I remember of your speech at the
Union on establishment, that though our
colours are antagonistic to-day, ours will be a
difficult battle to fight ; we are likely to tell
the people the same story."

With a slightly affected manner Lord Le
Pole brought a sprig of forget-me-nots fastened
to his waistcoat more forward, and said with
a decided drawl :

All  h, I try to go with the times, but I
fear I am slow. We have so much to dorset,
you see."

To teach the people to forget, you mean,"
was the sharp answer.

That is not a safe lesson to teach till they
have been driven something; better to remember.
Sir Janitor, I fear, is like all master-minds,
in advance of his age."

There was slight but not intentional offensive
sarcasm in this speech, the worthy knight

in question having a master-mind in but one
particular, the aptitude of making money.

An angry flush came to Ned's cheeks. " I
am my own conscience-keeper," lie said, '' but
I've no doubt that between us ve'U achieve
the golden mean."

Ah, that I must leave to you. I regret
that we are rivals ; " and very slightly raising
his hat the young lord followed Mr. Eout, who
had impatiently moved on, into the inner
office.

Ned joined his agent, Mr. Patch, outside the
door, and swung down the street, twirling his
stick in the air, his ears tingling with the significant
tone more than the words of his opponent,
and his heart turning within him at
what he felt to be the de haul en bas air of a
conscious superior.

"Ill run him close," he said to himself,
uttering in strangle coincidence the same
words his opponent had used on the previous
day.

But the stimulus to this sudden rivalship of
these two men differed widely in its source.
Ned had been ready to fight the battle

amicably, so far as it was practicable. He was
prepared to admire his adversary, and to give
him credit for honesty of motive, bnt he had
found him, so he thought, supercilious, haughty
and contemptuous, and he would, lie was determined
on that, do his best to throw him,
even to modifying his own independent ro/:
but he little guessed that on one side, at any
rate, the contest would owe its bitterness not to
difference in political creed, or even the stake
at issue, but to his supposed favour at the
hands of his gay little friend Judy. But could
Sir Janitor have peeped into the heart of the
conservative candidate, he would have found
his jibbing  so he termed him  relative somewhat
easier in hand.

Ah, how often a little knowledge of that
subtle undercurrent, motive, would change
the course of events  here whetting the sword
to keener conflict, there turning it aside forever.


Mr. Eout, it seemed to Lord Le Pole, was
received with extraordinary deference within
that sacred sanctum, the editorial den. With
a good deal of circumlocution Mr. Posse

acquainted his lordship with the fact that,
being pledged to " irreconcilable opposition
to any principles involving the conservation of
existing things," he had promised his personal
vote to the great liberal, Sir Janitor Tom 11 n-
son's nephew.

Is he prepared to go as far as his uncle ? "
said Mr. Eout.

In essentials, yes."

And these are ? " asked Lord Le Pole.

Comprised in one phrase," was the rcplj
en avait'"

In leaps and bounds. Well," and the
young noble's face wore a smile of security
"Mr. ah Mr. "

Posserr," said Mr. Eout.

Mr. Posserr, I sincerely trust the best man
will win ; but, you know, the race is not always
to the swift."

"No, my lord," replied Mr Posserr, bowing
with a very undemocratic servility, or perhaps,
to be more accurate, with extreme democratic
servility, " no, my lord, nor is the battle
always to the strong."

The canvassers proceeded upstairs to the

private office of the publisher and general
printer of the town, Mr. Ciirte, but with no
better success. He, too, was pledged to the
enemy. Mr. Curte's politics were those of
many a better man  they were evolved from
one particular point of view  personal interest.
Liberalism, Radicalism, Democracy,
Communism, mark the ascending scale ; all
meant agitation, movement, speculation,
general upheaval m fact, and so pamphleteers,
thirst of news, journalistic enterprise,
accession to the ignoble army of
irresponsible scribblers, and therefore grist to
his mill, which, unlike that of the proverb,
did not grind slow.

Mr. Curte believed himself to be a typical
John Bull, blunt in speech and honest in aim,
an honesty which made integrity in detail
unnecessary. His palliative for any flagrant
lapses in the rule of meiim and term was
always the one word " business," a free rendering
of the ethics of commerce. He knew
a little about the personal affairs of the Earl of
Albany, and that money was tight in that
quarter. The place was a growing place, it

needed money ; therefore it was for the public
benefit that the man with the most money got
in. His men, however, were at liberty, so he
assured his suitors, to vote as their principles
prompted them. " Liberty and Equality" was
his motto  his aim the welfare of the people
only. With this flourish of trumpets he
ushered his visitors into the compositors'
room, and with a specious show of magnanimity
withdrew.

Here they were more successful. The foreman,
who seemed to know Mr. Eout, spoke
for the rest. They were not pledged, he said,
neither did they wish to pledge themselves to
either candidate until the day of election.
They wanted to hear what both sides had to
say for themselves in public, and to turn the
matter over in their minds and so understand
things better. For his part, so far as he
could see at present, he had nothing to find
fault with in the politics of the late Sir Oscar
Pierce, and he had been a conservative, he
believed. Whatever he was, it seemed to him
he had been the true benefactor of their town,
for he had given the people work, which was
VOL. n. 22

independent bread. Charities were very well
in their way, but they were own cousins to
workhouses. So the man who was prepared todo
the most for the industries of the place was
most sure to be the man for him and his mates.

Lord Le Pole thanked the speaker with
frank warmth for his '' manly speech," and
with great tact, forbearing any expression of
his own creed at present, raised his hat
slightly in courteous adieu all round.

1 will show my colours when the day
comes," he said. " I flatter myself you will
rally under them."

"You hold us safe, sir," whispered the
foreman in Mr. Rout's ear as he followed
his client out.

Certainly ; I have told Curte so."

Well, Bill," said a compositor to his
mate, both hard at work in big type for the
enemy, " there's summit, let folks say as they
like about a nob, that takes the shine out of a
commoner. That young Eawson is a hearty
chap enough, a real gent too, but somehow I
didn't just feel like shaking hands with the
t'other and I did with him."

** Ben, man, " replied this mate, " the nob's
the kind o' chap a fellow could follow if he
was a soldier like. I could black his'ns boots,
I could, an' it wouldn't seem so much out of
the ordinary ways of things, if lie was put toit,
for t'other to black mine."

"What do you think of it all, Sandy?"
asked the man, addressed as Ben, of a middle-aged
Scotchman, at the moment intent on
fastening his filled-in galley in its form.

Fist what any other sensible body wad
think," was the slow answer. " There's
degrees in everything, faith under an' ayant
the sun, an' it's just rank presumption on anyone's
part to even one again the other. Eh, it
wad be queer reading wanting' the capitals.
But it's a question o' adjustment, for there
wad be nae use for capitals ava if there was
nae sma' type ; it's to serve that they're set
apart, no' that to serve them. It's a' havers
this cry o' equality ; it's just the sma' type
craven' to be capitals themselves. What did
Sir Janitor, the great liberal as he sets foot to
be, what did he let himself be stirred for ?
Eh, lads, he's nae mair nor a muckle sham."

22  2

Ye'll be for the lord then," said Bill.

I'm no' gain to say alia I'm for till I
hear chat they're for. What they say in
public they maun hang tae ; when they're
on the road it's a' praising' and flaitherin'.
We hae lost a gude man i' Sir Oscar
Pierce. He's a cantle lad tho', that young
Eawson."

Mr. Eout said to himself at the close of his
afternoon canvass that his client's success was
doubtful beyond his own fears. Money, too,
was tight, but on the enemy's side it was easy
so easy that he determined to observe extra
caution in his own outlay, that should he lose
he misht have something more than a chance
of recovering the day on petition. Unexpectedly
to himself, judging from Mr. Payment's
initiatory account of his client, he had
found the latter not only more amenable on
the score of creed than he had anticipated,
but much more eager for success ; indeed it
seemed to his acute probing instinct that,
apart from every other consideration, his
client was actuated by a personal rivalry, the
outcome, he felt convinced, of some powerful

incentive in the background. This lie would
be on the watch to discover.

After dinner, which he had taken in the
commercial room, his noble client in his
private quarters, he lit a cigar and strolled
forth to reconnoitre the field of the approaching
contest. At the door of the hotel a porter
handed him a note which was marked "private"
inside. It was from Sir Janitor
Tomlinson.

It was not usual for Mr. Eout to destroy such
documents. The future to him had always
unlimited possibilities. But in this instance
he immediately after reading it tore the note
into shreds. He then sauntered down the
street a few yards, turned back lazily, and
re-entered the hotel.

The evening is so tempting," he said to
the landlord, who happened to be crossing
the hall, " I think I shall take a ride. Have
you a quiet old roadster ? "

This, mine host assured him, he had.

So in the space of a very few minutes Mr.
Eout was trotting leisurely towards the highroad
to London, in the opposite direction to

Sir Janitor's magnificent mansion. When
fairly out of observation of the town, he
made a sharp detour and after a half-hour's
brisk trot pulled up at the knight's door.

Sir Janitor expects me ; I come on business,"
he said to the servant in answer to that
individual's request for his name, who a little
dubiously led the way to his master's study.

Sir Janitor was at his favourite occupation,
totting up columns in a ledger, an occupation
which satisfactory results had made pleasant,
but no longer necessary. Habit, however,
had made it indispensable to his enjoyment ;
it was now, in fact, his recreation.

Mr. Eout, sir," said the city knight with
burlesqued dignity and hauteur mechanically
placing his pen at the back of his ear as he
jerked out this arms to bring down his coat-sleeves,
an old office habit, and threw himself
back in his chair, "Mr. Eout, sir, be seated,"
and lie pointed to a chair conveniently close,
into which his visitor subsided.
 " I regret, sir," continued the knight, puffing
with importance, " that I was late in
securing your services for my nephew, and I

may add I was surprised. I hardly expected
to find the proprietor of the Sun advancing
tory interests."

Pardon me, Sir Janitor," was the suave
answer, " my client repudiates effete toryism ;
but allow me to say I regret, and very deeply,
too, that my partner, ]mr. EaTOiont, should
have pledged the firm to Lord Le Pole without
first consulting* me. The fact is the earl
is one of his oldest clients, and he could not
refuse to do his best for his son. I assure you
we  that is, the firm  had a very earnest consultation
on the possibility of getting out of
the engagement, but ]mr. Eaymont said that
he was sure you would have no confidence in
us from a business point of view if we ratted,.
for he doesn't think our client has a ghost of
a chance. He said you were too keen-sighted
and too honourable to trust any one who
swerved from straight business lines. We were
the more bound to our noble client"  Sir
Janitor grew red and puffed  " because, you
see"  here Mr. Pout's voice fell to a whisper
" there is not too much money, and I need
hardly say "  his voice rose to its normal key

" that Eaymont, Eout and Eally are not
merely mercenary agents."

Sir Janitor bowed graciously, holding
tightly by the arms of his chair. The
obeisance so performed was rather a tax on
the worthy knight's respiratory organs, which
were apt, under sudden pressure, to produce
symptoms of apoplexy. On this occasion his
very impressive affability brought his red
dab " chin almost into contact with his aldermanic
development, and sent up his little
careless legs in a balancing protest.

Taking a moment for panting, he recovered,
and then, as if about some congenial and
familiar action, he opened a secret drawer,
drew out a roll of bank-notes, and slowly,
temptingly spread them before his visitor.

"Ten hundred," he said; "that is right,
just one thousand."

He then placed a small letter-weight on the
appetizing heap, and again turned to his companion.


I have the highest opinion of your firm,"
he said, " but it was my knowledge of your
special qualifications that determined me to

offer it this job. It couldn't avail itself of my
offer, and there, in a business sense, the matter
ends. But, sir, you and I have had a good
many little transactions together, which, I
think, were mutually satisfactory."

Mr. Eout bowed in grave assent.

"My agent, Mr. Davis, writes me that you
wish the Tyler bill, held by  by us, reduced
when you are prepared to take it up."

Mr. Eout again bowed, keeping his eyes,
which he felt might betray him, so keen and
restless they felt, firmly fixed on the point of
his boot.

Now, sir, have you a personal interest in
this bill ? We know each other, so you need
have no reservation."

No, Sir Janitor, none. Indeed, as things
connected with this bill have turned out, I am
not now prepared to take it up at all. Mrs.
Tiler, the acceptor, is dead. Major Tyler,
the drawer, is at this present moment in
Caster ham. I'm afraid it will prove a bad
debt."

"The Egbert till is full enough," replied
the knight, forgetting his role of dignity for

the present, and winking as he put his little
pudgy forefinger along the side of his nose.

"Many a slip," said Mr. Eout with an
upward glance.

"Ah, say so, 'obliged to you. 'A wink's as
good as a nod,' you know, &c."

Sir Janitor had made a serious lapse to
primeval days. Mr. Eout smiled with infirmary
significance.

"Ah, Eout, Eout, you're a sly dog." This
was accompanied by a sharp dig in the ribs,
which transformed the smile into an apprehending
lausfh.

Well, never mind, we'll tell him. No
good a roof without a till. Ha, ha, ha ! Not
bad, is it ? "

Mr. Eout said it was better than " not
bad," it was splendid ; " true wit, in fact."

But now to business," resumed the knight,
casting a side look at the weighted pile by his
side. " I have said, Eout, that you and I
know each other. We have more than once "
and the little man dove-tailed his fingers 
"you know. Well, of course you are too
old a bird to be caught by chafe'; golden

grain for such as you, and me, too. Every
man has his price. You believe that ? "

I know it."

That's sensible. Now we understand
each other. I always have my price, always
have had, or shouldn't be here to-day.
Money, sir, money is the only real power in
the world, in proper hands. Now we all have
our weaknesses  best infirmity of noble minds,
you know  love of fame, &c. Mine is to see
my sister's son  my nephew, sir  the member
for Oxminster. The place owes it to me, sir.
Two hundred thousand pounds hard cash I
have laid out on the moral elevation of the
people, and I think I deserve the return I
seek. Ned is a clever lad. Takes after me,
they say, but he is inclined to jib. He has
some love affair, I hear  a Miss Judy Aylmere
not a penny, of course, but a divinity, &c.,
some cousin, by the way, to this old Miss
Egbert that scoundrelly major is after. There
is a rumour, too, that she will have the
Egbert estates some day, but I don't mind
vain jabber. I know about the family in a
business way, and the present squire can

leave the property as he likes. He is in
his second prime too, hale and hearty, not
touched eighty ; good for matrimony yet.
The youngest Miss Egbert, too, who is only
forty-five, may marry. ' Hope springs eternal
in the human breast,' &c. Ned must have a
career, and a poor wife would drag him
down. I'll play him soft, though. Young
things must be mouthed easy, and I'll let
him think he may win her some day. So
now, Eout, you see, my carte de pays is ready
for war," and he nearly choked.

Mr. Eout afain nodded with significance ;
but had Sir Janitor not been so absorbed in
himself, he must have noticed a sudden accession
of interest in his auditor at the mention
of Miss Judy Aylmere's name.

They are idle rumours, Sir Janitor," he
said with the air of a person secretly informed.
I happen to know that my noble client "  
the knight relapsed into incipient apoplexy 
"has intentions in that quarter."

Sir Janitor had again seized the arms of his
chair, and was panting himself into speaking
tune :

Then, by , sir," he roared, " Xed

shall have her, and Oxminster too, or I'm a
red herring  a  &c. Albany sir! a rotten
earldom, not a penny of ready cash, as you
know ; why, his paper is everywhere. Oh,
yes, the property's entailed, I know that,
but not all, and it's heavily mortgaged for life.
Only yesterday we discounted two bills for
him. Money, sir, money's the only aristocracy,
and I'm blessed if my money shan't
floor this nob."

Mr. Eout wisely held his peace ; the wind
was blowing as he wished it.

Sir Janitor gradually puffed into quietude.

"To return to our muttons, &c.," he said

in a conciliatory tone. " We're old pals,

Eout." He held out his hand, which his

visitor took, returning the reassuring squeeze.

Done some good turns together. Capital

property that Sims'' and he laughed. "Name

your price, and here's a thousand over." He

touched the heap at his side. " You know

what's what, no need to waste words ; there

it is for the lifting," and he pushed the

pile towards the conservative candidate's

agent. " Patch will settle the rest on the
square''

There was a silence of at least a minute.

Mr. Eout had become very white ; a
struggle, not very deadly, was trying his
.strength, but the only fear he was thus inwardly
combating was the fear of being found
out. Dare he close on the thousand ? Le
Pole had not a chance. Well, if he did close,
he would not waste the young fellow's money ;
no corruption, no bribery. Le Pole was high-minded.
His fingers relaxed ; and his hand
insensibly wore towards the pile with a wary,
spider-like movement. At last he spoke :

I should like it in gold. Sir Janitor," he
said.

That was all.

The gold was heavy in his breast-pocket as
lie trotted sharply back to his inn ; but if
imponderable forces could have had material
influence, his heart would have outweighed it.

An habitation, giddy and unsure,
Hath he that builder on the vulgar heart."

Young Eawson's life had hitherto been a
singularly homeless life.

His father, an old Indian general, had
severed a not very creditable career in an
out-of-the-way little town in Brittany in hiding
from his creditors, leaving his widow and only
child " respectably," as he termed it, provided
for by the Indian Fund.

He had married, late in life, the elderly
sister of Sir Janitor Tomlinson, to whom her
brother had given a very considerable dower.
She had kept Sir Janitor's house ably, and
to his satisfaction, and being a clever, apt
woman had used such opportunities as had
come within her reach to improve her extremely
rudimentary education.

Like her brother, she was hard of brain,

though quick and retentive, and valued knowledge
simply for the social advantages it
carried with it. She was of a retiring disposition,
but of rather a showy exterior. A
belle in her very young days, with no lack of
admirers.

But as her brother gradually rose above
the state of life into which he had been born,
a state into which even a humbler cottage
home had not entered, she vowed to herself to
rise with him. This was not difficult to achieve.

His sister was Janitor Tomlinson's only link
to his lowly past, and to elevate her, was to
leave no compromising evidence of his origin.
There were twenty years between the brother
and sister.

Their father had dropped off the scene, how,
they hardly knew ; had gone on the tramp
and been lost, his widow said. She, however,
died peacefully on her pallet bed in her poor
one-room lodging.

Janitor was then twenty-five and battling
with fortune in great London. He did not,
till nearly a year had elapsed, hear of his
mother's death. He was too busy with that

then dubious contest to trouble much about
responsibilities.

When the news did reach hero, inadvertently,
he St OiF for his native place with a
dim perception of what was required of him
in the eyes of humanity, to provide for the
maintenance and partial education of his
sister, a mere child of five years.

He then returned to his energetic, toiling,
grasping life, almost forgetting that in his
little despised birthplace he had such a
tangible link to another life. Money-making
and money-saving were his only instincts. No
thought of matrimony for himself ever crossed
his thoughts. To have considered the possibility
of such a thing would have taken
time, and time to Janitor meant money.

At sixty he had acquired very considerable
wealth, and then some latent instinct of a
home-feeling, roused him to buy land in his
native town and rear a mansion. This done,
he took his sister as his housekeeper.

She did not disgrace his rising position.
She had pursued the occupation of a lace-worker,
so eking out her brother's allowance.

VOL. IL 23

She had lived greatly to herself, and had
read everything on which she could lay her
hands.

As his wealth expanded, his pride kept pace
with it, an ignoble pride, which yet found
what outside charity would term " noble
expression," in which way Oxminster benefited,
as we have shown.

To establish a social position in the neighbourhood
he gave heavy entertainments, at
which his sister presided with a certain
dignity and simplicity, that won the respect
of those who sneered at the "presumptuous
little knight."

When quite forty-five she met General
Eawson at Sir Oscar Pierce's house, and, with
her brother's approval, married him.

It had been understood that she should still
remain mistress of the knight's establishment.
"My sister, Mrs. General Eawson," was the
card he had counted on playing ; but this
arrangement was brought to a speedy termination.


Mrs. Eawson found it impossible to serve
two masters, and cleaving to the one given

her by the law, left  deserted, he said  the
one she had voluntarily served so well.

After a year or two of quietly borne ill-usage
and indignity, the general considerately
relieved her by making her his widow. She
did not enjoy her regained freedom long, but
died without having become reconciled to
her brother, leaving her little son perfectly
homeless.

Sir Janitor, after he had placed the boy at
school, almost forgot his existence. The occasions
on which that fact was brought to his;
memory were not conducive to the generation
of the natural affection his heart lacked.
These were the terms when the school-bills
became due, and he was called upon to supplement
the slender provision of the Indian
Fund, and the times, not unfrequently, when
his domestic machinery got out of gear. At
such junctures his heart was sore within him,
and the iniquities of the deceased general and
the ingratitude of his sister were vicariously
embodied in their son.

But as the years crept on the El Dorado of
his youthful vision seemed to his dimmed 



mentions, in all that could fill the insatiable
craving of a sordid ambition, but as a Fata
Morgana. The gold he had won was no
longer gold to him, if it failed to procure him
the outside consideration his pride demanded.
This his benefactions to his native town
obtained for him in a degree, but inasmuch
as he had looked for his own again his
reward was not that full measure, pressed
down and running over, which, poured into
the breast, fills the heart. It mortified him
to think that his lavish charities should be
gauged by their spirit and not by their
money value, and be regarded not as monuments
of philanthropy, but of vain glory.
And any pride his native town might have
in the name of Tomlinson, as now represented
in the guild of knighthood, was reflected on
the hopeless Arab, to whom by dubious right
it had appertained. It was proud of the
thrift and courage that had achieved so much.
Sir Janitor Tomlinson only of that much.
So it fell out that little Edward Eawson

grew to manhood, knowing notions; of docs
 ZD cH:

mystic affection or human love of any degree.

For his holidays he was boarded out, either
at a farmhouse or a needy parsonage. He
had not even the chance of forming school
friendships, as the caprice of his guardian
seldom allowed of his remaining beyond a
year at a time at any school. Once, and only
once, he had spent a vacation in a companion's
family, and what he saw on that
occasion of domestic life made an impression
destined to influence in the future his own
relations in that direction. There the women
of the family were treated as pretty dolls,
social puppets, amusing and loving pets, to
be cared for, admired, played with, and
humoured, but in no degree approached from
a standpoint of " equality." The creed of
that house was male supremacy, in a very
broad rendering of the Turkish doctrine of
female inferiority. And as if to show to what
base uses we may return, there was neither
protest in this circle nor crying out of any
spirit in bondage. It all seemed so natural.
Ned supposed it was natural, and that woman
was not even " lesser man." So, with respect
to women. Sir Janitor did not find in his

nephew an uncongenial temperament when,
awake to the fact that the " beggar's brat," as
in his raoe at the mendacious general he had
called his son, was one likely to bring the
honour to his house he himself had so signally
failed in bringing, he opened to the lad the
princely gates of Janitor Hall. There the
best Ned heard of the one woman in whom
at that time he felt even a tepid interest, his
mother, was that she had been an admirable
housekeeper, possessed of a handsome person,
and with a womanly virtue of subserviency
which had leant to frailty's side, " but in all,"
the knight said, a little softened by Ned's
good looks and modesty, '' a very rare
specimen of what a woman should be."

From this time, but with no lavish hand,
Sir Janitor undertook to give his nephew a
career, and as an initiative placed him at
Oxford, where, as has been seen, he made his
mark. But on all occasions, to the young
man himself, and to those to whom the subject
might be relevant. Sir Janitor was assiduous
in proclaiming that, beyond a fair
start in life, he was to look for absolutely

nothing from his wealthy relative. He had
other claims," he said ambiguously, and he
was a "just man." So it came to be known
that there was no question of eventual heirship
between the ricci old knight and his
clever, handsome nephew ; yet so variously
do facts operate on different intelligences,
this certainty, while with some it deprived
Ned of a certain prestige, with others it
appealed to a chivalric feeling and secured
him friendly countenance and sympathy. Of
these latter not a few were among the lowly
electors of Oxminster. To these the knight
was an " unnatural old curmudgeon," and his
charities only " bribes to Heaven."

It was in the last year of his scholastic
probation, the year before he was to enter on
his university career, that Ned had spent that
memorable vacation at his school-fellow Jack
Cleveland's home. There he met Judy Ayl-
mere, then a girl of thirteen, he being five
clears the elder. It was the first year of Mrs.
Aylmere's widowhood. She had just moved
to her new home at Casterham, and was dejected
and averse to seeing strangers, but

at the same time anxious to give her child
such recreation as was consistent with their
deep mourning. An invitation to pass a fortnight
with the Clevelandss offered, and was
accepted by Mrs. Aylmere for her daughter.

The Clevelandss were old friends of the
Egbertss ; their place was near Casterham. A
very merry ' friendship had been struck up
between the lively young people, a friendship
which was renewed from time to time on the occasion
of sundry short visits Ned was in the
habit of paying the Clevelandss. Mrs. Ayl-
mere, always on the qui vive for possible
eligibles for Judy, had taken considerable
pains to ascertain all particulars respecting
the handsome Xed Eawson. She prided herself
upon keen insight into intentions and
foresight of likely actions, and knowing something
of the vanity and meanness of Sir
Janitor she became convinced that his intentions
were to leave the bulk of his great
wealth to some charity which would give his
name place among the Towards and Peabody
of modern history. Ned was clearly not an
eligible. She was, however, too imaginary

by half, and by endeavouring to place a
barrier of reserve between the young people
she in fact was fanning what, on Judy's side
at any rate, was but a nascent flame. She
did not know, so blind is over diplomacy,
that careless familiarity and commonplace
intercourse seldom conduce to a gr ancle passion,
which must ever have some romantic halo
over its surroundings, some mystery of doubt
or fear in its commencement.

All these Ned's story, as told to Judy by her
mother, supplied.

From that time, insensibly to herself, she
felt a growing interest in all that concerned
the young' man, often uroino- on him the necessity
of determining his future course of life.
It seemed to her that he had noble aspirations,
and yet not decision enough to make his
choice of a career and keep to it. Very eloquent
she would wax on the elevating principle
of earnest work, would sketch out plans of
great things to do, waving in advance, withall
the enthusiasm of an ardent spirit, triumphal
banners over her imaginary hero. At
such times she would be brought to earth

with a (lull thud, by a light jest or matter-of-fact
observation from the very object of her
inspiration ; then when she would pout, or
mayhap drop a tear of mortification, Ned
would laugh merrily, would kiss her hand
perhaps, and say, " Little Judy, what do
women know about these things ? "

And so the little Judy, under the expanding
influence of the specious major, set herself to
learn something of " these things," rebelling
against the monopoly of wisdom by the
sterner sex. But the major only threw open
to her inquiring spirit the bare outposts of
knowledge, and perhaps no one would have
been more surprised than himself could he
have followed her eager steps into the wider
realm beyond.

She was an omnivorous reader, and so had
become possessed of much discursive, if not
very definite, information. Now she planned
a particular routine of study, by which she
hoped to become able not only to understand,
but discuss with intelligence the social and

o

political problems of the day. In pursuance
of this object she brought together from

various sources  Smith's library, for wliicli
she took an eight volume subscription, and
friends' bookshelves  political historical works
of ambitious calibre, social essays, and biographical
studies. Over these she wasted the
midnight oil, and though her intelligence was
of too high an order, not in some degree to lay
in stores of golden grain for thought to
justify, yet, she owned it to herself, the task
was dull with no encouraging word in her ear,
or wise eyes to let in full light on her wondering
vision. There was literally no one to
ask. The squire's learning, she knew, was
limited, and his opinions, such as he had
received them, with some slight modern modifications,
from his father. He would only tell
her not to try her pretty teeth with nuts she
would never have to crack. Sybella she
found a little informing, but she keenly perceived
that in matters of opinion Sybella was
as narrow as her father. Mabella thought
there were wise enough heads at the helm to
guide the bark in her time  and after her, the
deluge ; and Dulsie, dear old Dulsie, cared for
none of these things.

"For we sometimes gently wrangled,
Very gently, be it said,
Since our thoughts were disentangled
By no breaking of the thread."

It was at this juncture of bewilderment that
happy fate threw in Judy's way Elsie Eber,
one of the most cultivated and original women
of her day. Judy had been from the first
insensibly drawn to the mysterious-looking
and gifted girl ; circumstances threw them
much together, and Elsie reciprocating her
young friend's growing liking, an intimacy
was soon formed. It was not, however, for
some time  not till Judy's return from
her week's stay at Egbert Hall  that she
summoned courage to ask of Elsie direction
in her search after knowledge  the knowledge
of things as they were. Especially did she
ask for counsel how best to understand the
points of view, from which, it seemed to her,

equal intellects arrived at such opposite conclusions.


Never lead mistress an apter pupil, never
pupil a more luminous teacher. Each day,
as the contest at Oxminster dragged its long
preliminary length, the friends would retire
with books, pamphlets and newspapers to Elsie's
pretty chamber at Seapinks, and, after an
hour's steady reading of political biography,
discuss knotty points of some social question,
or, in higher flight, the intricate subject of
England's position in balancing power. Each
day, too, they followed the course of existing
policy, both home and foreign, making themselves
thoroughly acquainted with both sides
of any very prominent topic, till often the
pretty little boudoir-bedroom was transformed
into a miniature parliament, the different
articles of furniture and ornament doing duty
for listening senators.

It soon became evident to Elsie, that docile
as her pupil was, her keen intelligence was of
too individual a character to accept opinions
on a moulded form. Judy thought for herself.
She had her own point of view, arguing

from that, with original force and subtle wit.
And as her knowledge increased, fainter and
fainter grew her reverence for names, which, in
her nonce of ignorance, she had been used to
utter with bated breath.

Elsie," she said one day with a pretty
assumption of didactic sagacity, " Elsie, there
are more quacks in politics than in medicine.
Charlatanism, I suppose, pays."

"Yes," said Elsie with a sigh. "Pure
patriotism is a losing game."

"Elsie," she cried in a rallying tone, "I
fear, like that devious young gentleman who
used to take a constitutional at peep of dawn,
melancholy has marked you for its own.'
Come out with me now and take a ' sniff of
the briny ; ' to the winds with the abstruse
questions of moralities that have no existence
but in the brains of dreamers ; away with
the histories of old unworthiness who are maybe
standing beside us in this resurrectionizing
rostrum with their heads under their arms in
orthodox fashion a sort of penance for going
so far ahead in the flesh ; the room's full of
them, Elsie. I'm sure of it, I'm so witcliy to-lay.

Shall I lay them? You'll be the helle ;
here's a blue book, the very thing for the blue
devils, and this lucifer," she held up a match,
will do for a candle. Proceed ! "

Judy, you are beside yourself," said Elsie,
laughing at the young girl's abandon cf
merriment. " You had better exhaust yourself
before you come out. Here is Mr.
Eawson's speech of yesterday, it will' quiet
you, and you can finish with Lord Le Pole's ;
they're both in the Electric''

Eead them both in bed this morning,"
said Judy, with not a little accession of
conscious colouring in her cheeks. " They're
a pair of duffers."
'' Judy ! "

A vulgar pinch of snuff clears the brain,
my dear. Pm better already", and I deliberately
repeat that Eawson and Le Pole are
duffers."

Order," cried Elsie.

Judy took the floor with a spring, her
piquant face aglow with defiant mischief, and
her eyes sparkling with a spirit of arch
raillery.

Mr. Speaker "  she looked towards a toy
automaton on the mantel-piece  " I am not
out of order, I am too sadly in order. When
two honourable members go at each other
hammer and tongs, for no other purpose but
to prove themselves the best man "

Judy, dear, remember Sir Boyle Roche."

If the learned member for Fustianshire
knows what I mean he needn't mind what I
say," retorted Judy.

Then he won't," laughed Elsie.

Each to prove himself the best man," she
went on, " and rig themselves out in the
cast-off garments  be these blue or buff 
of an effete aristocracy, what, Mr. Speaker,
are they but duffers ? The people, sir,
Avant definiteness in principles and inaction.
Each section of the great human
community has its own special interest at
stake, and that, too, is its Alpha and Omega
of politics. Topsy-survey with its 20,000
electors wants a free tap as well as a free
breakfast-table. Give them a man who ' hops '
with them and the Queen may present Gibraltar
as a Christmas-box to her trusty cousin, the

Czar of all the Russia, for aught it cares.
It is the tendency of modern constituencies,
the crime, sir, of most, to be venal. The
learned member for Bathos," she indicated
the whereabouts of a sitz-bath, " agrees with
my honourable friend the member for Fustian-shire
that patriotism is a losing game ; but,
Mr. Speaker, how can a game be ' losing '
that is never played ? Agitation is not
patriotism, and nations are getting too mixed
up to be individual. It is a very shaky world,
Mr. Speaker. It is the fashion to say we must
look for truth in poetry only not in history.
If that be so, then the poet's dream, ' the
federation of the world,' draws near. Bosh,
sir. Bosh! A conglomeration of impossibilities.
I hold a cosmopolitan a traitor to
humanity."

Question," laughed Elsie.

Sir, the question runs through my argument.
But I deny that patriotism is a losing
game ; it is a virtue, and as ' virtue alone is
happiness below,' so the poet sings, is not
happiness worth playing for ? No, sir, don't
tell me that patriotism is ofi the boards. It
VOL. II. 24

is its counterfeit, transcendentalism, hissed
off by the irresponsible apostles of idiotic
common sense."

The luncheon gong sounded. Judy came
down from her Pegasus and seized her hat.

I had no idea it was so late," she said.
*' I must be off ; cousin Egbert is at the Lodge
to-day. I don't want to be late for luncheon."

She bent down and kissed Elsie.

Child," whispered the latter, detaining
her hand, " you never said who you are Ravishing
for at Oxminster, the lord or the commoner."


That's just what I don't know myself," was
the answer, given gravely, if not fretfully.

Elsie looked at her searchingly.

She tossed her head impatiently, a sure sign
with Judy that she was at war with herself ;
then with an affectation of indifference she
added lightly :

By the time Oxminster has made up its
mind I shall understand things better, but I
should like them both to win."

Judy, dear, you can tell me one thing ;
whose speeches do you like best ? "

Judy knitted her brows, writhed her prisoned
hand without trying to draw it from the
firm retaining grasp, and at last, as in sheer
desperation, said :

Just the one I read last," and she was off.

A mischievous impulse brought her back.
She put her head in at the door and cried :

Yliich do you ? '

I think both's best," was the answer, given
with laughing malice prepense.

Judy was very quiet at luncheon. She was
preoccupied.

Lady Margaret Dredger and the Cricket had,
on two occasions, since her memorable visit to
Marlby Grange, driven over and spent the day
at Egbert Lodge. The last time Lord Albany
accompanied them ; he was very sanguine as
to the success of his son.

Mr. Eout understands the people," he said,
and can pull the wires cleverly. He knows
to a man those in my interest, and Sir Oscar
was a very old friend of mine."

The squire hinted that the liberal papers

seemed equally sure of their man.

I never read a radical paper "  liberal

242

and radical were synonymous terms to the
earl. "The Standard yesterday said Le
Pole's policy is the natural corollary of that
of the late member, and that at a great meeting
in the town hall the show of hands was in
his favour."

'' The Times'' said the squire, " had a very
severe article on the indecent haste with which
the Weekly Sin, a low democratic organ, the
one paper of Oxminster, repudiates for the
town the entire political catechism of Sir
Oscar, ' a man,' said the article, ' who raised it
from a rustic obscurity to a respectable position
in trade, and endowed it with a political
existence.' "

Eout said he had influence with the local
press," returned the earl, " so Le Pole assured
me. Le Pole doesn't like him. He thinks
him shifty."

It is a first-class firm, is it not P " said the
squire.

Oh yes, undeniably, Mr. Eaymont is my
confidential business agent."

Le Pole goes further than I had expected.
I could not quite gather what he meant by his

definition of democracy. Eater a touchy
subject to handle nowadays. I wonder he
didn't steer clear of quick sands and keep
well out to sea."

Just my advice, Egbert, but in a letter I
had this morning he says he has been tormented
by what the Scotch call ' reckless,'
a set of dogged dunderheads primed with
compromising questions ; for when he gives as
lucid, and to the point answer, as he can, some
fellow, sharp and unscrupulous, jumps up and
pulls his reply to pieces. But he goes further
than I do. However, if he gets in he'll settle
down. There are very few demagogues within
the walls of St. Stephen."

What does he say on democracy ? " asked
Judy modestly.

Much pleased, the earl addressed himself to
her :

He said that it did not necessarily mean any
violent political change, that it was simply a
government for and by the people, with no
tendency to affect the monarchy or trench
on the balancing influence of the hereditary
house. He quoted the observation of a

member of that chamber  that if the lords
threw themselves into aggressive opposition to
the collective sense of the people, and so came
into violent contact with democracy, it  the
upper chamber  would probably meet democracy
as Stephenson's ' cow did the locomotive.'
He then went on to speak of American
institutions, which seem to have bit him. A
tour in the States would soon cure him."

I read that bit," said Judy timidly. " He
said that persons who elected by free choice
a moderate intellect to represent them, were
better off than those who had a leviathan
intellect placed over them against their will,
and this free choice the United States had."

Well done, little Judy," cried the squire,
there's a future for you when women get the
suffrage."

"Goodness forbid!" piously ejaculated the
earl.

I am not a strong-minded female," snapped
Sybella, " and I would almost rather hear a
woman swear than talk politics."

Ah, Judy," said Dulsie obtusely, " it was
that clever man the major who turned your

head. You've been reading books ever since
he went away ; I heard him tell you that you
had a very uncommon mind."

He told us all that," put in Sybella ; " it
was only the fools that believed it, though."

No one knew better than Judy how best to
sooth irritated susceptibilities and to turn aside
a casus belli, so now she turned to her rather
spiteful cousin and said, smiling with a sweetness
even she could never withstand :

Oh no, Sybella darling, oh no, he only
said I had a quick apprehension ; and you
know, for I have often heard you say so, that
quick-witted people are very seldom clever.
I was not a bit complimented, I can assure
you, for I always think Tim so quick-witted.
But I'll tell you what he did say"  just for a
moment her bright eyes scintillated mischievously
 " he said you had a master-mind."

With a look of almost innocent fatuity she
met Sybella's suspicious gaze. Mabella, who
always held her tongue when the major came
on the tapis, now glancing aside from the
tempting subject, shook her head at Judy,
saying :

It's just the old story. ' Satan finds some
mischief still for idle hands to do.' You must
practise more, child, and I'll teach you to
make wax flowers ; they're coming in again."

The earl, who had been amused at Judy's
fencing, came to the rescue. He said :

"Modern society demands that women
should know most things. The Duke of
Tancred says he owes his own marvellous
success to a woman's influence. But, Miss
Aylmere," he turned to Judy, smiling, "you
must not attach too much importance to the
enunciations from a hustings. It is wonderful
the cooing-down power of St. Stephen's."

Young Rawson," said the squire as they
all left the luncheon-table, " has made a great
bid to the extremists. He began by declaring
himself an independent liberal  radical, I
suppose he means  and I see he is pledged
against the Licensing Bill. Le Pole stops
there, however. Up to that point it seems tome
that his rivalry has been so keen that
where his adversary has compelled him to go
one mile, he has gone twain."

Never mind, Egbert, he will take his seat

to the right of the Speaker, and then he will
be all right."

Eawson will run him close, Albany."
I think not," the earl spoke stiffly, and
then added confidently, " Eaymont says Eout
keeps the expenses considerably under, and
he couldn't do that if ILr. Eawson had a
chance. You can't believe the radical press."

Know not what you know, and see not what you see."
'' A dog of parts."

Since the day of the squire's confidences to
his little friend on the turret of his old Hall, a
great tenderness had crept into the intercourse
between the twain. His spirit seemed to have
entered into a certain rest, and outside things
to trouble him less. A less ambitious steed
than Gloriana had been brought from the Hall
for Judy's use, and every morning, when the
tide was at low ebb, she took her racy gallop
on the splendid stretch of level sand. One
morning, it was the day after the earl's visit,
the tide being full in, she diverged from her
usual route and bore off to a distant village,
Preene by name, the squire's groom on the
cob in her wake.

The locomotive arrangements at the Lodge
consisted of, besides Judy's horse and the

squire's cob, a waggonette and a pair of sober
bays, a small low phaeton and a pair of
grey ponies. This last was looked upon
as Mabella's special allotment. She usually
drove it herself, unless Judy made a second,
when she naturally, as it were, delivered up
the reins to her. On the seat behind, the
small Buttons  a great favourite with Judy 
surveyed the passing scene with crossed arms
contemptuously.

The last few days Mabella had taken to
driving out before breakfast. This had not
been an unusual practice of hers in earlier
years, but Mabella had increased in girth and
decreased in activity. She had become in
fact, like Dulsie, not a little lazy. She was
developing symptoms of gout, and her doctor
had often urged her to earlier hours and more
frequent exercise ; so as she had been fretful
and ailing the last fortnight, it did not appear
strange that she should break in on her indulgent
routine and rouse herself to try the
restoring effects of the early morning air.
She had gone through the ceremony of
inviting her sisters to accompany her, but

Dulsie shuddered at the thought, and Sybella
said her Turkish baths tried her strength
enough. Judy proposed that they should
'* do " the sands in company, but Mabella
declared that she got enough of the sea
during the day, so it fell out that each
morning she and her smart little greys took
their matutinal alone.

It was a misty morning, and Judy indulged
in a free gallop. The village towards which
her face was set was a mere hamlet, distant
some eight miles from Sandycot. There was
a quaint old church on its border, very plainly
Saxon in its form. Service was held here
once every Sunday, there being no resident
pastor, and not above thirty worshippers in
all. When occasions called, baptisms, burials,
and marriages were performed by the rector
of the parish, whose fine old Norman church
and modern rectory lay some six miles
distant.

There was a farmhouse of humble pretensions
on the outskirts of the few houses that
formed the hamlet. It was the breakfast-hour,
and but few stragglers were visible.

Judy rode leisurely past, the reins loose on
her horse's neck. The groom had met an
acquaintance and was lingering in the distance.
She was virtually alone.

Suddenly she smelt a cigar, discriminating
at once between it and the exhalation of
common tobacco, and immediately following-she
saw a man issue from a side wicket.
The figure seemed strangely familiar, but she
could not discern the features. These were
obscured by a broad slouch hat, from under
which rose the fragrant wreaths of smoke.
He evidently did not perceive her approach.
Her horse was moving sluggishly, not in the
centre of the road, but close beside the turfy
ditch-shore overshadowed by sweeping elms.
He crossed the road before her very eyes,
opened a gate leading into a hay-field, and
was shutting it behind him when the quick
trot of the cob overtaking its convoy broke
on his ear. He looked up, and Judy recognized,
almost with a thrill of fear, Major
Tyler. The unwitting jerk she gave her
reis made her horse start. The major
turned quickly round, and Judy saw that the

recognition was mutual. She thought she
heard an exclamation, but she had hardly
time to even think of what she should do 
make an advance or pass on  when he turned
on his heel, drawing his hat down over his
brow, and strode off, keeping, she could see,
close under the lee of the hedge. There was
nothing for her to do but to pass on.

The neighbourhood of Preene was almost
destitute of human life and the roads shady
and narrow. There was no gentleman's
dwelling for miles round, but about half-a-mile
further on was a large farm, the proprietor
of which, a substantial yeoman, owned
or rented the principal portion of the houses
in Preene. A more out-of-the-way little nest
could hardly be found. The yeoman grazed
and tilled his lands, oblivious of the outer
world, and his labourers had not an aspiration
beyond their daily needs. The rustic
simplicity of the small community might,
from a poet's point of view, be primeval
innocence ; from a vulgar philosophy it was
but the crass ignorance of a portion of the inconsiderable
debris of civilization Xo better

place could have been chosen in which to
chew the cud of sweet and bitter memory un-regarded
and in the utter loneliness of a
being apart. The place was healthy, and more
than once a convalescent had sought its reviving
breezes and soothing stillness, to dream
himself back into vigorous life.

With this ostensible purpose the robust
major had sought its shades. He " had just
got well," he said, of a " foreign fever," a
malady whose unknown quality accounted to
the gaping Hodge for the singular bronze ol
his visage and European lateness of his
aspect.

Therein fevers," said Mrs. Farmer
Hodge as she discussed her new lodger
casually with more interesting topics of
farmyard " laddie " at the evening supper,
therein fevers, 'ave erred say, 'as to do only
with tha inserts ; they chucks 'im off mortal
sudden, an' turns 'im skin to a copper skilly.
Think 'im 'as bin a dowager arm thinking'. Sees
to drink rum an' new milk, an' sees to walk
by himself at cow-malkin' night an' morning'.
Wall, sees get nobody here always to giv' 'im

the time o' day, an' sees can do az 'o pleases ; "
which the major did.

The breakfast-hour of the district was
eight o'clock, and until nine not a human
form stirred in the roads, not even a tramp 
but a tramp was a specimen of mortality unknown
to Preene.

Judy rode slowly along, following with her
eye the line of the hedgerow which concealed,
she felt sure, the mysterious major. Her way
home lay round by the rear of the church,
which was closed in by thick-set yews, and
divided from the main road, which lay some
feet below its level, by a low, rough wall. A
wicket gate and some uneven stone steps
gave outlet to the road, which the hedgerow
of the farm joined on to the churchyard wall.
The road below curved suddenly round, when
it narrowed, becoming little more than a lane,
overarched by elms of heavy foliage, the prevailing
tree of the district. As Judy turned
the curve, scarcely to her surprise, though
none the less a shock  for surmise had
been active in her acute brain  she saw
Mabella's ponies quietly cropping the herbage

at the roadside. The phaeton was empty,
and Tubbs, the page, in his seat behind, intent
on the Illustrated Police News.

Obeying a sudden impulse Judy asked the
lad where his mistress was, and was told that
she was " a drawings of effigies in the churchyard,
an' a copying' of the hipituffs."

There was no latent consciousness of further
knowledge in Tubbs' round eyes, and Judy
without further question set her horse's head
homeward. A thought struck her ; she
turned back and said to the lad :

You needn't say to Miss Egbert that I
have passed, Tubbs. I ought to have been
back by this," thus leaving the boy to suppose
that she might incur Miss Egbert's censure for
her long ride.

Tubbs was Judy's humble but devoted
knight, and "lied nobly" when a few minutes
later, very much flustered, hot, and cross,
Mabella descended the risky steps from her
supposed archaeological studies, and plumping
down in her seat asked him if Miss Judy had
passed that way.

Judy contrived to be very late for breakfast
VOL. u. 25

that morning, that she might bring upon herself,
as a distraction, a severe lecture from
Sj'-bella, the mentor of ways and morals of the
family. She was successful. She did not heed,
scarcely heard Sybella's diatribe. She felt
Mabella's eyes watching her with an almost
appealing look.

Just as if I'd say a word," she said to herself,
contemptuous of the assumed imputation
of '' blabbingr." She was debating within herself
if she should say to Mabella after breakfast,
in a careless way, that she had had a
start, for while passing a farmhouse in a
lonely road she had seen a man very like the
major, but of course it couldn't be him. This
would ease Isabella's mind, and she couldn't
bear to be thought a spy. But Judy could
not give the deception words. Her soul
abhorred not only that gross thing a direct lie
most of us do, respectability abjures compromising
sins  but its able substitute, a fabrication
based on truth. Judy could not " lie
nobly." She said nothing.

This is the last day of the poll," said the
squire. " We shall know to-night which wins,

blue or buff. Albany's too confident, I'm
afraid If young Eawson stands by all he
promises he will out-radical the radicals. Le
Pole goes too far, I think. Sir Janitor's
money seems a golden river. He'd better
take care of a scrutiny."

Mr. Eawson wouldn't lend himself to
bribery, of that I am sure."

Not directly," replied the squire.

The young fellow is fairly square, I think,
but he is so busy talking he is not minding
what is doing. To me the contest seems
primed with personal animosity. Did the
young men know each other before, I
wonder ? "

Yes," said Dulsie, " Mary was saying yesterday
that they were at Oxford together."

Judy took into the garden some delicate
fish for Tim's breakfast.

And Miss Prance told me," said Sybella  
she knows Sir Janitor very well  that a
friend wrote her from Janitor Hall only yesterday
a great account of the canvassing.
She  the friend  said that Sir Janitor was

working himself into a fever, and that it was

252

all over the town that Lord Le Pole wants
to marry our Judy for the sake of what she
may have, but that Mr. Rawson is in love with
her, and so the young fools hate each other.
She says that Lord Le Pole hasn't a chance."

What vulgar gossip," said Mabella. " I
wonder you let Miss Prance tell you such
things, Sybella. Judy has only met Lord Le
Pole twice. I think it is very indecent of
people to speculate on her prospects. Don't
you, sir ? " appealing to the squire.

"Most mysterious," was his reply, a reply
more to his own train of thought than his
daughter's challenge. " Le Pole, though, is no
fortune-hunter. I wonder if Albany's solicitors,
Eaymont, Eout and Eally, are trustworthy,"
and he rose with an air of abstraction
and sauntered out on the sands by himself.

Judy doesn't know her own mind," observed
Mabella with apparent inconsequence
She doesn't really like Mr. Eawson. It is
all Mary's absurd fancy"

She is very well inclined to like him,"
said Sybella, " but I can see his nature is
not sympathetic enough for hers. He has

something of this uncle in him, a hard determination
in carrying out an aim. That will
give him a reserve which will repel Judy. I
suspect, too, he looks down on woman as a
whole ; but he's in love, there's no doubt of
that  too much in love to understand Judy's
idiosyncrasies, and, take my word for it, he'll
never, never win her heart, though he thinks
he will, and she fancies he has. Mary is a great
bungler, with all her managing : she doesn't
take in little Judy. It is only since this election
that she has woke to Mr. Eawson's merits,
but if she caught a whisper of Le Pole's liking
her, I rather suspect she would go to sleep on
them again."

I wish papa wouldn't go out in the sun,"
said Dulsie. " Don't you think "  addressing
both sisters  " that he has been looking ill
lately ? "

They answered together in the affirmative.

"I wish he would stay more here," said
Mabella, " but he frets all the time he is away
from the Hall. He is a hale man yet for his
years, eighty next birthday," and she sighed.

Dr. Clarke said he ought to be kept free

of worry," said Sybella. " The action of the
heart is feebler than it should be in a man of
his constitution."

"The place is too much for him now,"
said Mabella irritably. "Ah, if he had only
had a son; only a man could help him in
managing such a property."

"More than one man has thought that, to
his disappointment," said Sybella aggressively.

Neither of you ]has had the grace to ask
who took the prize for pelargoniums and cacti
at the flower-show," put in Dulsie, with a
peace-making coax in her voice.

Judy came in opportunely, followed by
Tim, dio, having demolished his breakfast,
was now intent upon a snooze. As he trotted
past Mabella he seized a little woolen shawl
which had fallen at her feet, and carried it ofl
to his house, dragging it after him piece-meal
as he entered, and adjusting it to his liking
with his nose.

Oh, Tim, my shawl," cried Mabella as she
hastened to the rescue, but only to retreat
ignominiously.

The little svbarite, with an end of the abducted

garment between his teeth, his forelegs
fixed like pegs on the remainder, set her at
defiance with a cannonade of growls and
smothered yelps. On guard, and giving his
lair a few finishing pokes, he curled himself
up, his aggressive nose at attention towards
the door of his castle, and subsided into a
lumbering slumber of snores and grunts.

Well, Time"' said ]arabella in an aggrieved
voice, " you might have kept to the mats.
As it is, you haven't left a decent middle in one
of them, you little luxurious Turk you."

He doesn't like middling' things," laughed
Judy, " so he has taken the shawl to make up
their deficiencies, for to my certain knowledge
he has two inside his house at this moment.
There's a touch of east in the wind this
morning, and he knows it. He's afraid of the
Egbert gout. You see, he's a very precautionary
dog is Tim."

And a very presumptuous one, too, like
some bipeds," snapped Sybella, restraining the
inclination to laugh Judy's absurdities always
evoked.
/' You were savins: something about the

flower-show, Dulsie," put in Judy hastily, to
avert the retort she saw primed on Mabella's
lips. " Did you take any prizes ? "

You little traitor," replied Dulsie smiling.
Marlby Grange's Gloriana took the first
prize m pelargoniums."

*' Oh, Dulsie, T only named it, I could not
help their sending it."

Judy spoke on her defence, yet penitently.

Of course not, child, the plant deserved it
by all accounts. I must get a cutting. Parton
is divided between vexation at his first defeat
and admiration of the plant ; but I only got
third prize, for Weaver took the second. I
have had nice work with Parton ; he says
Weaver has outstepped his prerogative. I
fancy he thinks ' prerogative ' means a degree
in horticulture. Nothing touched our cacti,
however."

Mabella had gone into the garden, and was
walking up and down on the lawn in front of
the open windows of the breakfast-room.

Judy usually went through the garden by
a back gate to Seapinks. To avoid Mabella,
who, she felt intuitively, was watching for her,

she slipped out by the front door and took
her way to her friend. Since the day Mabella
had given Elsie the repulsive reception consequent
on the major's meretricious narrative,
the latter had not visited at the Lodge, and
when by chance they met, as if by tacit agreement
they ignored each other's presence.

This, of course, had been observed by Judy.
She, to herself, always connected the major's
sudden departure with Elsie, but as he had
gone, and Mabella appeared in no way regretful,
she was beginning to dismiss the matter
from her mind, thinking that perhaps Elsie
had given Mabella a timely warning, which,
though she had acted on it, she still resented.
Mabella's manner puzzled her. At times gay
to absolute merriment, at others distrait and
irritable, and not unfrequently morose and
repellent. Very seldom now was she her
natural self.

Poor Mabella," Judy would say to herself,
she has had a great disappointment ; I do
hope she will never fall in love again."

Dulsie only was sympathetic, but beyond
some buoyant words of cheer during the first

blank days of desertion, lie, too, avoided any
mention of the gay cavalier and this mysterious
disappearance.

It was by no means the first time that
Dulsie's sympathy had been drawn out by
mischance in Mabella's love affairs. That
these should end in vapour seemed natural to
Dulsie. Mabella was "so difficult to please."

Sybella was by no means assured that
this particular amour had come to the
usual untimely end of its predecessors, but
skilled as she was in piecing suspicious incidents
together, in this instance she was completely
thrown off her guard. The letters
came by the post in the same open manner as
usual, Mabella showing no undue interest in
their arrival ; and but for her irritability,
which she also set down to disappointment, her
sister saw nothing to lead her to suppose that
the handsome sahreur was anything to the
impressionable Mabella but a memory. He
was not the first cavalier who had " loved and
ridden away " from Egbert Hall. She saw
nothing to keep her suspicions alive, but they
were alive, and tinder for the first spark.

The three sisters were aware of their father's
wishes for Judy in the direction of Lord Le
Pole, and each in her own way had their
fulfilment much at heart ; but they were sensible
women and knew better than to attempt
to forward the matter by any overt act. They
wisely kept silence, and they did not admit
Mrs. Aylmere into their confidence.

It would turn her head," said Sybella ;
the Eawson possibility is even too much for
her under its present aspect."

To this Mabella and Dulsie assented. There
were one or two subjects upon which the
sisters were at one. First and foremost, family
pride, then love for their father, and lastly,
affection for Judy. That they evidenced their
feelings in different fashions was in the nature of
their temperaments, Sybella less tenderly than
the others in Judy's case. She had an ever
present rankling regret for her own vanished
youth, and so found it difficult to forgive
youth a possession she could not only never
recover, but never simulate, for Sybella's long
nose  it had passed for aquiline in her plump
youth  had an ingrained roseate hue at the tip

and her once delicate bloom had given place
to a shade of faint yellow, relieved by manifold
freckles. She did not deceive herself, she
knew her youth had gone, and time had
brought no equivalent in the comely attractions
of middle age. But some evidences still
lingered. Her hair was soft and plentiful, not
tinged with grey, only the sheen gone ; her teeth
were good, if rather long, and not so white as
once ; and her eyes, if they had lost their
brightness and their lashes had become stubby,
were still expressive. All else, face, person,
manner, were angular.

=>fC3t

Break, break, break,
At the foot of thy crags, sea,
But the tender grace of a day that is dead
Will never come back to me."

'' Enemies carry about slander, not in the form in which it took
its rise."

"No, Elsie dear, no politics or antics either
to-day," was Judy's greeting to lier friend,
who, as usual, awaited her in her little
sanctum.

I have that ver' uncanny thing, a secret,
and I don't know what to do with it. Dear,
hush," as Elsie, a Httle deprecatingly, put up
her hand. " Do not fear, I am not going to
turn this into a confession-box, but I sadly
want your counsel."

I was only warning you not to speak so
loudly, the balcony is beneath. I hear the
mellifluous prattle of La Belle Catty, and scent
the mille fleur of La Divine Creamy," and Elsie
returned Judv's good-morning kiss.

 She was never a woman of many Avoids. A
look, a touch, a gesture, were often her only
vocabulary, and vocal with sympathetic meaning.
She kept Judy's hand and drew her onto
a stool at her feet. But Judy's ready speech
seemed to fail her. She did not look up.

Which is it, Judy, buff or blue ? " Elsie
whispered.

I don't know," said Judy, " the ballot is
not over yet ; but it's not Ned Rawson and it's
not Le Pole," she spoke as if half in banter ;
"it's just that fascinating, horrid, mysterious
man, the major."

Elsie withdrew her hand with a jerk, and
Judy heard a little gasp like a sob. With
exquisite tact she did not look up. She
stooped and picked up a stray thread, which
she twirled round her finger. She continued
in a pettish tone :

They say that he was making love, as the
housemaids have it, to cousin Mabella, and I
just didn't like to believe it. She is so kind
and good. I don't like speaking about it even
now, it seems like treachery, but it's not, for
I love her dearly''

Lie again stopped, broke the thread and
threw it away. Elsie still kept silence, but
she was pale.

Oh, it's all so horrid, it is," she cried at
last, the pent-up tears breaking forth like
summer rain. " I am just like their own child,
and they all trust me so, and here I have come
upon a secret, and. I must tell it for their
sakes, and I don't know who to tell it to.
Mamma  well, they are not very fond of dear
mother, and she doesn't understand out-of-the-way
things. Then cousin Egbert, he is just
the one I don't want to tell it to, it would
grieve him so, and yet it may all be a bottle
of smoke, and dear old Mabella may only be 
well, she is so good-hearted. Oh, Elsie, can't you
see it all, don't you understand what I have to
tell ? And indeed I would not have told you 
though I know I can trust you quite, for
family secrets ought to be family secrets  but
I have no one else I can trust, and  and "

Judy dried her eyes, and with a sudden
resolve she looked her companion suddenly
full in the face.

And you are just the one that ought to be

told, for you alone know all about him  the
major, I mean."

Judy," said Elsie in a cold whisper.

Don't speak like that, Elsie, or I shall break
my heart. I am no spy, though I did see you
nearly faint the first day you met him here ; he
gave you a piece of paper to read, too. I saw
it all. I couldn't help it, for, you see, I am
so unfortunately sharp ; but I never breathed
it to mortal, and  Elsie, I know you'll believe
me  I tried to forget all about it."

Elsie pressed her cold lips on the agitated
girl's brow.

But to-day, this very morning, I saw him 
Major Tyler  at Preene. He saw me, too, and
a minute after there was Mabella's phaeton
and she not in it ; it was waiting for her outside
the churchyard."

Judy, dear, what can I do ? ''

Elsie's voice sounded hollow. She did not
deny Judy's impeachment ; for the moment she
hardly seemed to know what she should say.

Oh, Elsie, won't you tell Mabella all you
know about him ? You won't let him marry
her ? It would kill cousin Osbert."

'' Xo, Judy," she spoke in a whisper, " not
if I can prevent it. He shall not bring the
dishonour of his name into your cousin's family.
Listen to me, darling ; I am not going to take
you into my confidence, because you are too
young and innocent. I cannot tell you now
all the story of that man's vileness, but do not
fear. You did well to come to me. Xo other
could help you as I can. You are right, I do
know him."

She paused in thought.

It is due to you to tell you something, if
only to show you I trust you even as you
have trusted me," she resumed painfully.

The words seemed wrung from her.

I loved that man, darling, loved him as
women love who for their love stake honour,
life, and all their slavish passion leaves of self.
I knew that I had talents ; it was not these
drew him to me and kept him by me. He
did not value them, seemed impatient of them,
as of something he thought unwomanly ; and,
Judy, I was ashamed of the gifts God had
given me, for, child, I only felt with his
senses, even things holy, and thought nothing
VOL. n. 26

.Food that was not so in his eyes. I was no
longer Elsie Eber, I was only a lower Geoffrey
Tyler. Self had passed, not ' in music,' butin
bitter wailing, out of sight. Was that the
love that was meant to bind two souls in a
perfect union, the love which God meant to
form a perfect whole? It was not, it was not.
The awaking told me it was not."

o

She covered her face with her hands as if
in perfect self-abasement.

Judy looked up at her, pale and still, in her
large innocent eyes tear-drops welling.

It was a hot simoon, Judy, scorching
blossoms of better things, blighting every
form of good. The learned scientists of the
day, Judy, tell us of the new forces evidenced
in nature ; they will lay bare their secrets to
you ; they will chain the lightning and tell
you how mountains are moved ; they will
change the currents of rivers and fling back
the encroaching tide ; but "  in an uncontrollable
agony of memory Elsie rose to her
feet and, flinorinof her head back, raised her
clasped hands on high  " but will they tell
sou from whence comes the fire that, entering

a woman's breast, not all nature's mysterious
forces, not all man's God-like power, can ever
extinguish ? Whence comes it ? "  her eyes
were closed  "from heaven or from hell? "

Her hands fell prone at her side, her head
drooped forward, then in piteous request fora
something long sought in vain, a something
not of earth, she opened wide her great eyes
and with a sob of anguish cried :

Not from hell, for God is merciful, and
will not suffer even the evil to be tormented
before their time. Not from heaven, or
heaven would be no heaven to me, hut from
earthy

Again she raised her hands and hid her face
as in very shame.

"From earth, low grovelling earth, a fact
the great scientists can only know to bow to
before which they are dumb."

There were no tears in the dry burning
eves that once ao;ain sought the awe-stricken
girl at her feet ; only an anguish of pain
unutterable.

Yes, child, God is merciful, earth  fire, is
not eternal, it will finish its work here

262

She put Judy's liaiid on lier heart, fluttering
beneath her breast.

And then, dear, rest''

Judy drew the tempest-tossed woman back
to her seat and laid her head in her lap. She
did not ask any questions, she did not utter
one sympathizing word, but her arms were
clasped round Elsie as if they would shield
her from the stormy blast and tempest and
never let her go.

It was Elsie who first broke the silence.

Child," she said, a thrilling tremor in her
low voice, *' my little child friend, your feet
are on the same threshold on which I stood
just ten years ago. I had no one to guide my
impetuous steps, no one to whisper a warning
word in my entranced ear. I rushed in where
angels fear to tread, and I fell."

Judy looked up with a sudden scare in her
eyes.

Oh, no, little Judy," she continued in
mournful scorn at what the girl's look implied,
" I kept the letter of the law ; in man's
eyes I am clean every whit, only in my own I
am vile. But it is not of myself T would

speak now, it is of you. I, too, dear, am
unfortunately sharp," she tried to smile, " and
I have gathered together the bright threads
that are weaving the romance of your young
life. You do not know your heart yet, but
you will be put to the test soon. How will
you stand it ? "

Her words were almost stern. Under an
influence she could not resist Judy looked up
and whispered :

I know what you mean, Elsie ; I will ask
God."

That was all she said.

"And He only will not return a serpent."

The words were bitter, but very tenderly
came the next :

The world laughs, dear, at a young girl's
romance, and men sneer at her heroes ; they
can discern the face of the sky, but not its
inner significance. They do not know, for
they are blind, that only pure hearts have
high aspirations, that only noble minds have
lofty ideals. Do not swerve one hair's breadth
from yours, Judy ; from Him came your power
to love, and from Him will come your power

to do. I had no lofty ideal, so I did not ask
God."

You have now, Elsie, have you not ? "
whispered Judy pityingly.

Yes, child ; but should it ever be embodied,
it will not be for me. Like to like,
little Judy," again the bitterness returned.

"You are less merciful to yourself than
God, Elsie," said Judy a little resentfully;
"what He has cleansed that call not thou
common or unclean. He can make you as
pure as Himself. Do you set man above Him ? "

Judy, darling, you cannot understand ;
you will never understand. Mine is a stronger
spirit than yours, but if you can never soar
to the height I fain would reach now, you will
never touch the depth 1 have touched in
those sad days that are gone. Passion stained
and passion-wrecked, let the healing earth
take my body ; the spirit will then get its
wedding garment and stand in the courts of
God to go out no more''

A long silence fell on the twain, and for
long minutes the "beating of their own hearts
was the only sound they heard."

Then Elsie rose gently and poured water
into a basin, to which she added rose-water.

Bathe your face, Judy," she said ; " I
envy your tears."

It was characteristic of Judy when she
gave her confidence to give it without reserve,
so now she asked no question of Elsie
as to the means she would use to save her
cousin. She had said she would, and that
.sufficed for Judy. As she passed slowly
downstairs to take her way home she was
met by Mrs. Horseman, who carried her off
to the dining-room, where she found her
mother holding confidential converse with
Miss Prance on a vis-a-vis. Mrs. Trelawney
was there also, flirting, faute de mieux, with
Mr. Green the curate ; and the divine Creamy,
posed to admiration in the deep window, was
languidly fanning? herself, every movement of
her lovely form an action of grace. Mrs.
Horseman was at her escritoire, scrutinizing a
long list of names.

Judy dear," she cried, without turning
round, "come here, I want to confide in you,"
and she smiled.

Judy was grave and a little pale. She made
her acknowledgments to the company with
unwonted quietness, and then knelt on a low
seat at Mrs. Horseman's side.

You know Lady Albany, do you not ? "
asked the latter.

"Ko," said Judy, *' only Lord Albany."

"But your cousins do ? "

Oh, yes."

We want her as one of our lady-patronesses
for this ball."

"What, the Sandycot ball? "

Mrs. Horseman nodded her head.

Judy, in return, shook hers.

Oh, yes, it's quite feasible ; electioneering
makes people come down a condescending
step. If we strike while the iron is hot, we
may manage it."

"The election will be over to-day," said
Judy.

"My dear child, to be a candidate for a
borough is to bid for popularity. If Lord Le
Pole wins, his mother will think it her duty to
patronize the ' middle classes,' for, you know,
Sandycot is a mixture ; and if he loses, she

will hope for better luck next time. I have
no fear on her score ; it's only how to do it
simply and yet with proper dignity. I don't
know any of the family, but I thought
Miss Egbert would, perhaps, make the request."


'* Well, I'll ask her, and if she agrees and
is successful, perhaps she will let me go to
the ball."

You, Judy I Of course you would come
at any rate."

I should like to, but, you see, my cousins
are just a little ex  no, old-fashioned in their
notions, and wanted my first ball to be the
county one, which will be at Nettlethorp in
the winter. They all came out there, and
then they each went to an Alack's, and
they want me to do the same, excepting the
Alack's of course."

Well, you will take this note for me to
Miss Egbert, and we'll see. I hope Lord Le
Pole will win, don't you ? "

There was just a bit of curiosity in Mrs.
Horseman's frank eyes as she closed her note
and gave it to Judy.

"I," she returned simply, "suppose the
people will know best. I am not sure which
I wish for. Who are to be the other patronesses
? " she asked abruptly.

"1, for one, and Mrs. Beaumorris for another.
Creamy," she said softly, " I really think we
must ask Lady Rose Depart."

She is so ugly," replied the beauty,
shutting her languid eyes, as if from something
unpleasant.

I have been trying to convince Depart
of that ever since I came here," said Catty
with a soft purring voice, in imperceptible
mimicry of her rival's tone and manner,
but in vain. He can't take in two things at
once, and he hasn't got over the one fact yet
that she is ' a ladyship,' as he always calls
her. But yes, Mrs. Beaumorris is right, she is
ugly," and Catty, too, closed her mischievous
orbs.

Every one laughed but Miss Prance, who
was obtuse.

*' She has good diamonds," said Creamy ;
we might do worse."

Agreed to, then ? " said Mrs. Horseman

appealing to the company, who unanimously
replied in the affirmative.

Some men," said Catty, " where beauty
is concerned, are born colour-blind."

I have not found that an incurable
disease ; there is beauty, and beauty."

Creamy spoke with a smile of conscious
power.

Poor Mr. Depart," laughed Mr. Horseman,
who always derived keen enjoyment
from the delicate word-tilting of the rival
beauties, "poor Mr. Depart, I fear you
dazzle him, superb Trelawney."

Catty rose to leave, warned by a timepiece
on a console that the admiral's luncheon-hour
had come.

Ah, I never thought of that," she cried
with the most charming mixture of archness
and naivete. " I shall leave him then," looking
at Creamy, " to a milder light," and with
a valedictory kiss of the hand all round she
was off.

Miss Prance, who was what the Sandycot
people called one of the " leading ladies of
the town "  a status attained through her

father, the chief doctor of the place  with
a colour not a little heightened now strode
across the room and sat down by Mrs. Beau-morris
on a conspicuous seat placed in the
centre of the deep window.

The admiral had better keep a sharp lookout,"
she said with what was intended for a
facetious smile, but which was only a spiteful
grin, " or his high-flyer, as Mr. Eawson calls
her, will heave anchor and be off."

"Shade of Sir Boyle Roche!" cried Mrs.
Horseman, while Jud} laughed till the tears
came.

Miss Prance, who affected metaphor, thought
she had made a hit.

Mr. Green had worked his way, being
naturally deprecatory in distinguished company,
to the attractive quarter of the room
which held Judy, and Mrs. Horseman was
putting some finishing touches to the ball-list.

Mrs. Aylmere was drawing on her gloves
preparatory to her departure, and Judy, in
obedience to her nod, had risen in readiness
to take her leave, too.

Sandycot has been very fortunate hitherto''

continued Miss Prance, addressing the
room, "and I must say it has never had occasion
to assert itself. If, however, it has any
hope of retaining the distinguished reputation
it has gained as a recherche tip-top fashionable
summer resort, it must be more careful
whom it admits into its exclusive circles.
There was that Major Tyler, why, he was
everywhere and now he is nowhere; we
really ought to ask who's who before we give
them the shibboleth, don't you think so, Mrs.
Beaumorris ? "

I think whatever Miss Prance thinks,"
was the sleepy reply.

No one knows who Mrs. Trelawney was,"
continued Miss Prance obtusely. She did not
notice the angry glow on Judy's cheek, the
look of utter disgust on Creamy 's face, the
gathering satire in Mr. Horseman's eyes, or
the awakening attention of her hostess. She
floundered on, " I believe she is Irish, scarcely
a warrant for respectability in the present state
of the country. She has a Fenian look about
her, I think."

I am Irish," said Mr. Green.

"Exceptions prove the rule," lie said,
pawing with her substantial foot ; '' but
wherever she comes from, and whoever she
is, she is a boil-faced flirt, and some one
ouorht to warn the admiral. He is fiettinor
suspicious, for only yesterday I met him
walking by himself, and we had a long talk.
He said his wife had gone to lawn tennis at
the club, but I had seen her going towards
the sands and not alone. So I got him to
walk in that direction, and there, sure enough,
we met her and that roue-looking Colonel
Vere, whose wife hasn't been dead two months.
The admiral could hardly believe his eyes.
Is this where the club plays lawn tennis ? ' he
said, and with that he pushed the colonel
aside and made her take his arm and walked
her off home. I walked back with the colonel,
and warned him well about her."

Poor Catty! The keen wit she had
turned on the " select lady of Sandycot," as
she called her, was being avenged now.

Mrs. Horseman had returned to the outer
world at the beginning of Miss Prance's
vulgar tirade, but the indignant reproof

hovering on her tongue had been stayed by
a sign from her husband, which she interpreted
to mean " give her her head," and this,
chafing she did.

When she ceased Mr. Horseman " sneaked,"
as his wife expressed it, out of the room.
Ee knew the punishment Miss Prance had
earned, and he " meanly," as she declared,
left her to inflict it alone. This she did on
the instant.

Miss Prance," she said, standing up, the
list in her hand, " this is the first time I have
ever had the pain of listening, in my own
house, to slander, and I feel more ashamed
than I can express, or you, I fear, can understand.
I have tried to be kind to my neighbours,
and have set aside some usually restrictive
social differences, for especially in small
communities one feels a neighbour's claim.
But I have made one mistake "  she curtseyed
to Miss Prance  " and .1 beg to apologize in
the most humble manner to my friends'*
She turned to the rest of the visitors, emphasizing
the last word. " It is a mistake
however, I shall not repeat. I can forgive a

solecism, but not a gross violation of the law
of Christian charity, if not of truth."

Then with excessive hauteur she bowed to
Miss Prance, who had reared up and now
looked ready to strike out.

No one uttered a word. Mr. Green had
sidled to the door, and as if inspired with
the chivalrous idea of freeing a captive he
flung the door open with a swing. The action
brought the rampant babbler to her senses.
A hasty glance at the faces round quickened
her step to the significant opening, where she
stopped and veered round with an evident
valedictory intent, but meeting Mrs. Horseman's
eyes she thought better of it. She
dropped her glove ; Mr. Green picked it up.
Then her tongue was loosed.

You a minister of the gospel," she
screamed, " and let a Sunday-school teacher
in your church and secretary to the Maternity
Bags Club and the Society for Free Bibles to
the Unconverted be martyred at the stake for
witnessing to truth ! " She did not know
what she said. " You a faithful shepherd of
your flock, and let your sheep be worried by

wolves ! All, I shake off the dust of my feet
at this door, and at you, too, you smooth-faced
sneak, for if you do this in the green
tree, what will you not do in the dry 1 " Her
hit " restored her composure, and with an
air of triumph she pranced off.

The absurdity of the woman's rage and
speech was too much for Judy. As the hall-door
banged after her, she sat down to laugh
in utter helplessness of mirth.

That night sleep did not visit Elsie Eber's
aching eyes, nor did Mrs. Horseman close hers
till the dawn had begun to break on the still,
sad sea. Then her sleep was dreamful and
uneasy, for heart and brain were full of the
sweet fair Jewess's life history.

.m.,/
w

VOL. II.

' Or thistles bloomed sae fresh and fair,
An' bonnie were or roses,
The Whigs came o'er us like a blight
An' withered a' or Exposes.

Wa', Whigs, away."

Mk. Possess was earnest over a proof which,
by its appearance, would cost the compositor
in re-setting not a little extra work. There
was a network of telegraph-lines over its face,
and the martins were filled in with manuscript
notes. Still he did not seem satisfied.
The editorial timepiece pointed to 2 a.m.,
and the Weedy Sun was due for delivery only
four hours later. The little den was cloudy
with tobacco-smoke ; utter quiet reigned.
With an impatient oath Mr. Posserr put his
hand on the ear-tube lying by his side  it
communicated with the printers' room in the
heights above  but before he could lay his
lips to its mouth the door cautiously opened
and Mr. Pout crept quietly in.

"All alone, Posserr?"

Yes, sir," was the reply, given in a tone of
relief; "I was just wishing I could have
word of you," and he drew a chair forward,
into which Mr. Eout subsided.

' Eead this," said Posserr, handing the disfigured
proof to the "governor," as technically
he described the proprietor of the organ
he represented.

Have you a clean one ? " asked the latter
after a cursory glance at the contents.

Yes, but not a revise, of course."

Mr. Eout read the one now handed to him
more carefully.

You saw it this morning: ? " observed Mr.
Posserr in a questioning tone.

I know, I know ; you have my note objecting,
I hope?"

Posserr nodded.

Take care of it," and then Mr. Posserr's
visitor tore the corrected proof into shreds.

Posserr stared.

This can go up as it is," said Mr. Eout,
giving Posserr back the clean proof ; " as you
say, we must be either fish or flesh. I have

272

parted with my interest in the paper, so you
can have it your own way. You will receive
a communication from my successor in the
morning. At present, I may tell you, as you
are going to press, that he is not on my
client's side. I have thought over the whole
matter, and, whatever my own particular
bias may be, I cannot in honour hold the
anomalous position of proprietor of a radical
paper and be election agent to a conservative
candidate. I was not aware his lordship was
so ultra-tory."

Tory ! " exclaimed the puzzled Posserr ;
there's not a hair to choose between him and
Eawson ; if there was, it would be on his lordship's
side. He is not so practical as Eawson,
and one can never tell the length metaphysics
will lead a young fellow to. I can't understand
it. It seems to me you had the best
hand. Sir Oscar was a moderate, and as Le
Pole flies his colours he ought to have carried
the factories to a man ; they don't analyze a
fellow's divergences."

I have to look at every side," said Mr.
Eout, repressing his impatience. " I am neither

a keen politician nor a philanthropist, and I
cannot afford, for either a client or a principle,
to damage my property. You spoke truly
when you said we ought to stick to our own
colours  ultra-radicalism ; that's toning
down ; aut Caesar aut nullus ; so as I re-received
a sudden offer for the concern I have
closed. Mr. Patch, Mr. Eawson's agent, has
just left me. I fancy you will receive a visit
from him soon. All things considered, I am
lucky, r could not do my client justice with
this round my neck," and he put his hand on
a stray number of the Weekly Sun.

There was nothing more to say for the
present. The printers were calling for
corrected proofs, and Mr. Posserr, feeling the
necessity of concentration of thought, shunted
the train of bewildering conjecture and suspicion.
For the present the line was clear ;
he had things his own way, and Oxminster
should have an eye-opener at cockcrow.

Mr. Eout got back to his hotel unobserved
and a few minutes afterwards Mr. Patch
occupied his vacated seat at the editorial
office.

"By Jingo," exclaimed Mr. Butts, of the
Spotted Dog public-louse, a radical of too
extreme views to admit the necessity of any
boundary at all, " by Jingo, the Sun has
opened its eyes at last," and he flourished the
damp sheets of that emancipated organ above
his head.

It was breakfast-hour and the bar was full.
Mr. Butts was glib of tongue, and with appropriate
gesture and emphasis he gave his
audience Mr. Posserr's " eye-opener," which
was received with acclaim.

That tells a fellow things plain," said
one.

Posts a man up in his rights," said
another.

Dont it xiv' it to the nobs," cried a
third.

"A alius said as Sir Oscar 'ad made his own
out o' Oxminster," said a fourth.

"What is it as Sir Janitor ses about
capital?" asked a big-browed, keen-eyed
mechanic, draining his third pint.

That he's not a going' to spend his'n's
capital a lay in' a field to field, like the

prodigal son in the Bible," answered Mr. Butts
in free rendering of some recorded saluting of
the town's benefactor ; " that it's there to turnover
for 'em as wants it, an' we all wants
it, dont we ? I puts it to the vote, gentlemen.
The working' man 'as a right to capital ;
who ses no, let 'im up with 'is 'and."

Not a finger stirred.

Then I'll stand sees all round."

Every mug was filled.

Here's to Sir Janitor Tomlinson, the man
as knows the rights o' capital, an' as doesn't
keep a score again it like Sir Oscar did."

The mugs were drained, and the freeborn
electors of Oxminster felt elevated in more
senses than one. As they filed out Mr. Butts
called after them :

An' we're to have a daily every day, weare.
It's to be called the People s Spokesman,
an' it's only to be a 'halfpenny. Be blest if
they ain't a posting' of it over the Blues."

'' Hoorrooge, my boys ! " and in an answering
chorus the electors echoed, " Hoorrooge ! "

Mr. Curte printed and published the Peoples
Spokesman which, disowning any connection

with the Weekly Sun, left that organ so far in
the shade it seemed a matter of doubt if it
had not undergone a partial eclipse.

I have nothing to do with such principles,
Mr. Patch," remonstrated his client in indignant
accents. " This is unmitigated revolution."


Mr. Patch laughed.

Only an escape of sewer gas," he said.
*' It requires something very strong to rouse a
respectable constituency. Get them in smelting
order, and Eout may send in his Httle bill
with ' regret.' "

I reserve the right," said the young man,
by no means satisfied, " to disown any connection
with such gutter filth," and he tore
the offending sheet of the Peoples Spokesman
in two and trod on it.

Certainly, and it will be absolutely necessary
for you to do so, my dear sir," Mr. Patch
spoke confidently, " but not yet awhile. The
last day of polling will do."

And I shall take very good care," continued
Xed, " to urge Sir Janitor to take the
Spokesman from Mr. Curte. No respectable

publisher would put his name to such a production
as this. For my part, I am sorry he
touched the press at all."

He'll soon get tired of it," and Mr. Patch
winked. "Just take things a little easy till
the fight is over ; the least thing now might
turn the tide against us. Things have gone
smoother the last two days ; Eout's not so
sharp as he was. Whoever got this up,
though, has his wits about him. It is a errand
idea, a People's Spokesman. Did you read the
programme ? "

Ned made a gesture of dissent and disgust.

"Well, the working man is called on to
express his opinions openly and without
reserve in its columns. Just picture to yourself
the delight of Mr. Butts to see himself in
print."

The day after Mr. Eout's interview with Sir
Janitor he sent to London for another "hand,"
as he expressed it, in the person of a particular
scrivener known to him personally, a man of
undoubted respectability and decided conservative
principles. This individual, Klear byname,
he told off to accompany Lord Le Pole

in his personal canvass, and to attend him at
all times during the contest. " If we divide,'
he said to his client, "we shall have more
influence and do double work. Klear is a
townsman : he knows the people."

Each night Mr. Klear went over his day's
progress to his principal, giving him a list
of persons called on, with particulars of the
interviews, and each succeeding day Mr. Eout
went over the same ground in person with a
result that would rather have astonished his
noble and confiding client.

Both candidates spoke well, and both
pledged themselves pretty liberally on general
questions for the future. On direct points
Lord Le Pole's fencing was perhaps more
subtle.

He do use such a lot o' learned words, he
do, a dont know where to lev 'im," said a
puzzled healer ; but his bearing was so conciliatory,
his patience and gentleness with
even the roughest rough so invariable, and
his pleasant face and smile so irresistible, that
his platform utterances and those from the
balcony of the hotel were generally received

with unanimous cheering. Xed's oratory was
of a different flavour ; it was incisive, and he
was not gifted with patience. He had a good
sound " No '' when occasion called, but, measured
man to man, he went further than his
opponent, and though he was made the aim
more than once of some eo-ors that were not
wholesome, and cats that were not pleasant 
practical expressions that somehow were never
directed against his opponent  on the whole
it might be said that he was the popular candidate.


The new paper, although it out-herded
Herod, proclaimed itself in favour of Sir
Janitor's nephew, giving his speeches a flavour
scarcely recognizable by the owner's palate,
nor to its taste. With equal impartiality it
travestied those of the adversary with demolishing
effect. But the London reporters,
giving the outside of matters, spoke big
things of the chance of the conservative
candidate.

The London season was on the wane. Ina
few days the opera would be closed, and
then the gay-plumaged migrants would begin

to fly south. Lady Albany and her daughter,
giving up a royal garden-party, came down
to Marlby Grange to welcome back the successful
candidate  the possibility of defeat
never even occurred to them. Their dail"
food had been the reassuring Morning Post
and conciliatory Times.

I think," said Lord Albany to his wife on
the night of her arrival, " that we will defer
any arrangements for a dinner to the people
till Le Pole comes down. It miorht indeed
be well to give it at the harvest-home."

Why, papa," cried Lady Olivia, the
youngest and liveliest of the daughters of
the house of Albany, "that would be a day
after the fair. There's not a girl about the
place, I am told, but has got a blue something
ready. Dicks "  the head gardener  " told me
that his wife had bought a blue gown, and
we brought down a whole web of orthodox
cotton."

Lord Albany looked harassed.

Let us make quite sure, Olivia, my pet,"
he said kindly. " These are revolutionary
times. We shall know tomorrow for certain."

The morrow care. The earl was seated
with his family in the tea-room and was enjoying
his reviving cup. The Cricket with a
blue flag was crying " Leppo for ever ! " at the
top of his childish treble, and Garth, a white
deerhound belonging to Le Pole, lying full
length across the rug, had his nose pointed to
the door as in expectancy of some one. An
air of anticipation pervaded the lady part of
those present. ]Movements in that well-ordered
aristocratic mansion were ghost-like
in their imperceptibility, so a side door had
opened, and a footman with a silver salver, on
which lay a yellow missive, stood before the
earl before a sound notified his coming. The
door closed noiselessly behind the automaton,
who neither by look nor sign showed the least
consciousness of the importance of the document
of which he had been the bearer, but he
was perfectly aware that it contained a telegram
giving the result of his young master's
candidature for Oxminster. A glance at the
earl's visage would, he knew, give him the
information he, with his fellow-servants, desired,
but for this he would have to wait.

One thousand ! " was the earl's answer
as the telegram fluttered to the ground.

The tone in which these words were spoken
made Lady Albany look up sharply.

You are ill, Albany," she cried, rising.
*' You should take things quieter. Of course
it is a very gratifying majority. Olivia, ring
for some wine."

No," said the earl, recovering himself,
'' time enough for the servants to know our
disgrace."

Lady Albany looked frightened. She
thought her husband was wandering ; that
the goodly success had been too much for
his mind, harassed as she knew it had been
of late by business worries. She laid her
hand kindly on his arm. He looked up at
her with hollow eyes.

You don't understand, my love," he said ;
' the majority is Mr. Eawson's."

A silence, painful in its intensity, fell on
the room, and Garth, rising majestically, came
to the earl's side, thrust his " piteous nose "
into the nerveless hand from which had fallen
the ill-omened missive, and fixed his eyes,

full of dumb sympathy, on the haggard face.
There was a mournful pride in the dog's attitude.
His ears were well back, and his long[
gaunt body, so expressive of tradition and
canine aristocracy, harmonized with the noble
figure drooping dejectedly forward like a tall
tree weakened at the roots. Then the Cricket,
who had been the last few minutes trying to
mend his flag, which he had torn, suddenly
started up and resumed his scamper round
the room, crying " Leppo for ever ! "

Dinner was over at Egbert Lodcje, but the
quiet party still lingered over fruit and wine.
Mabella was more than usually attentive to
the squire and conciliatory in her manner
to Sybella. She looked ill and jaded.
Dulsie complained of rheumatic pains ; the
squire was inattentive and abstracted ; even
Judy added to the general depression by a
kind of preoccupied melancholy, so unlike
her usual mood that Sybella's sharp eyes
observed her furtively. It was a sultry evenings,
and the windows, which were down to

the ground, were wide open. Suddenly Tim
came out of this house, and barked as if at a
familiar step. Judy looked across the lawn.

It is mamma," she said. " She has a telegram
in her hand ; the election, I suppose,"
and in a moment she was at Mrs. Aylmere's
side. She hardly knew what answer she expected
as she called to her mother, " Who's
won, mammy ? " neither did she at the moment
know what she wished. When, however,
Mrs. Aylmere replied in a voice of excitement
" Mr. Eawson," she was keenly sensible
of a sudden depression, which might have
been only sympathy for defeat  for Judy's
heart was tender and always went out to the
vanquished.

"Whom did you get the telegram from,
mamma? " she asked.

Oh, Miss Prance ; she got it from her
friend who is staying at Janitor Hall, and she
ran over with it to me at once."

I wish you would not be so intimate with
Miss Prance, mamma. They don't like her
here, and you heard what Mr. Horseman said
to-day."

Oh, I'm only neighbourly, my love," was
the reply. " She is useful. But just imagine;
why, young Eawson is a public man now, and
will be one of our wealthiest commoners."

Miss Prance is a bird of ill-omen," said
Mabella querulously as she passed on the
telegram to her sisters.

"I can't understand it," said the squire; "I
did think the contest would be closer than
Albany seemed to expect, but I certainly did
not anticipate this crushing defeat  a thousand
majority ! If I were Albany I should
demand a scrutiny."

Mrs. Aylmere was sharp. She saw how
the land lay, and she held her tongue.

You don't seem much elated, Judy," said
Sybella ; " 1 thought you and Mr. Eawson
were great friends."

And so we are, and I am very glad for
his sake that he has such noble work before
him, but I can't help feeling sorry for Lord
Albany. He is such a proud man, and he had
his son's success much at heart."

At this juncture a note was brought to the
squire from the secretary of the Sandycot
VOL. n. 28

club, confirming the intelligence received at
secondhand from Miss Prance.

It is quite true," he said, passing the note
down the table. " Gun promised to let me
know the last poll ; they were pretty even the
first part of the day. I can't understand it."

Lord Le Pole is sure of his seat in the
Upper House some day," said Mrs. Aylmere
in a consolatory tone. " A career is not of
such vital importance to him as to Mr.
Eawson."

Lord Albany's interest in the Cabinet is
good," the squire said, just a little haughtily ;
but he knows that it is in the Commons a
young man can best make his mark. He expected
good things of him."

Le Pole is intellectual, I know," said Isabella
; " but I doubt if lie is clever in the
pushing, driving sense of the word. He is
hardly practical enough."

"There are few men of Le Pole's years,"
returned the squire, " his equal in knowledge
and accomplishments. Once thoroughly roused
he will do good work, and I very much doubt
his taking this defeat quietly. I am just a

little afraid he was too high-toned for the
kind of canvass he is sure to have had. Eout
wasn't though. I can't understand it."

And that was what every one said  no one
could understand it.

282

Married past redemption."

Memory the warder of the brain."

The village of Preene was very seldom
honoured by the presence of Sandycot
visitors. It had no internal attractions or
picturesque surroundings, and no traditions
save of a narrow local character. There was
a species of stagnant melancholy about the
place that repelled the casual passers through.
Indeed the entire hamlet might some morning
have been levelled to the ground and the
inhabitants have made tracks for a distant
colony and no blank would have been felt in
the larger communities in the neighbourhood,
nor would any one's wants have been left un-supplied.
Preene lived into itself and, to all
practical purposes, upon itself. And the utter
indifference with which it was regarded by a
larger life without was more than equalled

by the supreme unimportance it attached to
any world but the little world it called its
own.

One evening, however, long after the last
urchin had been tucked into his crib, the
village shop closed, and the mugs at the
little public-house ranged over the bar for
the night, Mrs. Horseman's smart basket-chaise
drew up at the church door. There
were in it that lady herself and Elsie Eber.
There was no servant. Mrs. Horseman washer
own charioteer. A labourer smokini]
his last pipe under the centre elm of the
fifteen before soingf home to his "missus"
undertook to watch that the pony did not
stray, and then the ladies took a discursive
saunter round the place. The reconnoitring
tyke from farmer Hodge's inclosure gave
tongue, and as Mrs. Horseman and her companion
stopped at the little wicket from which
- Judy had seen the major issue, Mrs. Hodge
came gaping out, " Most sure," as she said,
tliirk Simon Beale had lowed his donkey
among the turnips over the way."

Mrs. Horseman accosted the woman gently.

"You have a lodger," she said; "is hein?"


Noa, I ain't, an' un bent thin, un gone
away," was the uncouth answer.

When did he go ? " asked Elsie.

Three days a groan, noa two. It vor tha
day as tha red cow kicked op tha pail and
spilt tha whole malkin', it nowhere

has he gone ? "

"A dont know, un never zed narrator,
and a never axed. Lunnon, mayhap."

Mrs. Horseman then asked her way to the
parsonage. Mrs. Hodge did not understand
what a parsonage was, but " noa, there vor
noa parson or vicars, narra un, at Preene. A
chap as vor a porter parson  a curate vols
call un, she believed  doomed Sundays, and
then tha church doors vor open ; but noa, she
had never noa time, not she, to yor herself
for church, but sent tha children, it kep' 'em
from saddling, an' her master, un vor
whoame, un vor Sundays, an' alter (cross."

He must have left the very day Judy saw
him," said Elsie ; " there is no use inquiring
further. I suppose if he had sought England

round he could not have found a more
secluded spot, and yet by a very ordinary
chance he was discovered."

The friends walked silently on. When
they turned a corner, which took them out of
sight, Mrs. Hodge ceased gaping and re-entered
her house.

They then turned up a narrow lane which
by a side path led to the back of the church,
where were the wicket gate and rough steps
giving entrance to the graveyard. In this
lane were two or three cotta-es. At the
door of one, facing direct on the road, were
some tools of the kind used by grave-diggers.

"Mrs. Horseman," said Elsie, suddenly
stopping, " I think it would be well if we
could get inside the church ; this is evidently
the sexton's cottage."

For a moment Mrs. Horseman was at
fault. She looked with keen questioning
into her companion's eyes, then in a flash
she understood.

The register ? " she said.

Elsie nodded.

'impossible. With all her folly she is as

proud as Lucifer, and only foolish where
romance is concerned."

Dear, it is infatuation, and what can you
know of infatuation in the utter happiness of
a perfect union ? It is a species of intoxication
 only it cures itself''

Her father, Elsie ; she would try every
means first."

He would not let her. Who can tell the
specious lies he has made her believe? She
believes in him as she believes in her Maker.
She sees her Maker only through him. Dear
friend, goodness and truth have very commonplace
shapes on earth ; it is only Satan that is
transformed into an Angel of Light."

And Elsie, making some steps in advance,
knocked at the door of the little cottage. It
was opened by an old man, who, to her conciliatory
questioning, said his name was Jan
Cockle, and that he was the sexton and beadle
too, had been for a score of years and more.
He was garrulous, and, late though the hour
was, willingly led the way up the rough-hewn
steps to the church, and showed his visitors
inside. At the sight of a promised sovereign

this mild scruples about the sanctity of the
vestry and the integrity of the register were
overcome. The latter was produced from a
secret receptacle, one or two being formed
in the wall, which at that part was six feet in
thickness. It was a large book, one half filled
with entries. Jan did not let it out of his hands.
He placed it on " tha parson's desk," as he
called a huge, old, black oak box, elevated on
trestles in a corner. As he slowly turned
over the leaves to find the last page, the one
asked for by Elsie, he recounted the names
of various parties married within the twelvemonth,
checking ofF as he proceeded the
different fees he had received with a grumble
at each. " He had no luck," he said, " he
hadn't ; his son had had fever, and he had
to go to him and was away a fortnight
and more. Mr. Thomas, he had kept tha
keys. He vor deaf and night blind,
he vor, and grumpy, too. There vor a
marriage just the week after he had gone, a
promiscuous one like. Nobody seemed to
know the parties, porter gentle vols they vor.
Only Thomas vor present and Mrs. Lions represent

; and Mrs. Thorns, who vor no scholar,
she put therein cross in the register. Miss
would zee it there, and a putty cross it vor,
just a splash and a scratch. But he foremost
sure old Thorns gotten a big fee,
although he wouldn't tell, not he. He vor
dogged cute, he vor. But he'd got two pigs
i' tha sty, and tha missus she'd bought a rare
lot o' spank things vor the house. He
should ha gone snacks, he should ; but it
didn't matter, he'd lev tha berlin' o' them
both, an' he'd not dig extra deep, he'd not,
nor mind how tha molly vor schooled in on
'em, he wouldn't."

They let the old man prate on till, the last
page arrived at, he slapped his hand on its
face aud then stood aside to let Elsie
look.

There's hern sloppy splatter," he said ; " it
vor tha curate az married 'em, an' he ain't
much out. riagg is un name, a marsh way
kind o' a critter, who alius zed amen as if he
were catching' flies."

And in the dim twilight Elsie read above
the offending cross, which a blot had transformed

into a blur, the names of Geoffrey
Tyler and Mabella Egbert.

They had been man and wife a week.

There was little speech between the friends
as they drove back to Sandy cot. As if by
tacit consent further deliberation was put
off for the morrow.

Elsie, my poor darling," said Mrs. Horseman
as they quietly bade each other goodnight,
" nothing he could do should hurt you
now ; he is not more base in your eyes than
he was."

No, no," she cried, vainly trying to check
a sob which brought with it no tear, "it is
not that, it is memory. Oh, the pain of it,
the pain of it ! "

To have the power to forgive
Is surprise and prerogative,
And 'tis in crowns a nobler gem
To grant a pardon than condemn.

After some slight hesitancy Mabella consented
to ask Lady Albany to be one of the
patronesses of the Sandycot ball, which, if all
went well, was to come off in ten days. A
gracious answer was returned, and Sandycot
was in a flutter of expectancy. It was understood
that " the countess " would bring her
daughters, and that her son, Lord Le Pole,
would also accompany her.

It was the first time in its annals that
Sandycot could boast of the patronage of a
peeress on a public occasion, and this particular
magnate was. in her own orbit, so to speak,
the great lady of her own county. It could
hold its own with Nettlethorp now. There
was pulling of caps and ducking of heads

there was pulling of wires, too, and moving
occultly of heaven and earth for tickets for
self and self's followings. Seapinks was besieged,
the beautiful Creamy waylaid, and
Robert Lodsfe inundated. There was a como

o

mitted, of course, who had rather a bad time
of it, but at length the last card was sent out,
and impossible was the reiterated negative with
which further applications were met. The
number agreed on was filled up, and Sandycot's
ball-room was not elastic. Necessarily there
were disappointments and heart-burnings, and
necessarily also there were mistakes ; some
omissions had been made, and some admissions
which would have been better left out?
but

The best-laid plans of mice and men
Gang aft alley,"

and Sandxot was so cosmopolitan  so said
Miss Prance, who had utterly failed in obtaining
tickets for some very recherche she assured
the secretary, friends at a distance.

The new member for Oxminster had accepted
an invitation. There had been a little
doubt as to the propriety of sending him one.

as Lady Albany's name headed the programme,
but Mr. Horseman having given his dictum
that politics had nothing whatever to do with
society, the discussion ended and Ned got his
card.

As usual in the country;, men were not over
plentiful at Sandycot, and a ball without a full
complement of the nobler sex was sure, from
a woman s point of view, to be wanting in its
chief element of success ; preponderance of
pretty girls and agreeable young married
women being the desiderata from a man's. The
gentlemen whose credentials were approved
of were urged to beat up recruits, and
responded hopefully to the appeal. Curates
were at a premium, and college youths were
quoted at fancy prices. Mr. Green added the
name of his whilom friend Mr. Flaggg to the
list, and the cathedral town of Barchester
promised a contingent of half-blown ecclesiastics
and scholastic dignitaries. The shire

militia were in training, and the general
invitation sent to the regiment having been
accepted, all fears as to a coming short in
male guests were at an end.

When all was in train, Judy carried the list
of names home to show her cousins. Mrs.
Horseman had asked her to do so. The
squire had acceded to Judy's request to be
present, but only for her sake, he said, and
his daughters', who, carried away by the
novelty of the occasion, had each ordered a
new dress from London. They had also sent
for one for Judy, but this was to be a secret
for the nonce. Mrs. Aylmere, who had ceased
to talk about joining friends further south,
furbished up a pretty gray satin and wrote to
Jay's for a cap of mitigated affliction. Judy
said she would wear the dress she had intended
for the Nettlethorp ball, as her cousins had
given her their permission to make her partial
debut at Sandycot. The scrutiny of the ball-list
called out much cavil and exclusive
exception, but Mabella took scarcely any part
in the discussion. She listened abstractedly
to the tale of names called over by Sybella.

"The Eev. Mr. Flaggg," said the latter,
putting a stress on the name. " I wonder who
he is. I see he is vouched for by Mr. Green.
Some college intimate, I daresay. Well, a

man's a man in Sandycot. However, one can
always keep to one's own party ; and remember
this, Judy, no promiscuous partners ; you're
not to consider yourself really out till you've
been at the county ball."

But Judy did not hear. She had seen
Mabella turn suddenly pale and look much
frightened. She was on the watch, to go to
her assistance if needed. Judy never gave
way to sudden alarms. With a great sigh
Mabella recovered herself, and then went
quietly out of the room. Judy did not follow.
The squire came in with the Times.

Papa," asked Dulsie, " who is Mr. Flaggg ?
He is a clergyman. I fancy I have heard the
name."

Likely enough," he replied ; " he's Mr.
Burley's curate, does duty at Preene, I believe ;
a great noodle, I am told."

Judy's heart beat hard and fast as she carried
the list back to Seapinks. Mrs. Horseman
was out, only Elsie was in the drawing-room.

Elsie," she said, a little resentfully, " I
have not asked what you were doing about
cousin Mabella, for I felt sure you would do

what would, be right, but I want to know now.
Mabella lias something on her mind ; she is so
changed, do tell me what is going to happen''
Then Elsie told her.

We thought it best, dear," she said, " to
keep you in ignorance. It would not do to
compromise your position with your cousin,
you see ; but as you have asked you have a
right to know."

Oh," said Judy, " that is why she nearly
fainted when she heard Mr. Flaggg was to beat
the ball," and then Judy sat down and
indulged in a good cry.

She will not go," said Elsie, soothing the
weeping girl.

I know Mabella well," replied Judy, drying
her tears ; " she won't keep up this deception
long. I am confident she will tell Dulsie,
or me, perhaps. Oh, how I dread cousin
Egbert knowing. It will be his death."

Xo, Judy dear, it will be a severe shock
to his pride, and his tender nature will be
hurt, but sorrow does not often kill very old
people, especially good people. You see,
worldly things become every day less real to

VOL. IT. 29

them, their hold on earth less firm. Their
heart becomes dead to the world, and more
full of thoughts, and hopes, and joys, into
which their very dearest cannot enter. It
will pain him, darling, but not kill him. He
is a fine old man, of a noble, simple nature, and,
you will see, he will act a grand part. It is for
her I grieve. Oh, Judy, how she will suffer ! "

Judy looked very miserable.

Oh, this dreadful ball, I would rather it
were a funeral, I would."

Then Elsie comforted her friend.

Let things take their course now," she
said ; " they are working round to a denouement;
meddling would only do mischief."

Elsie was right ; his daughter's unworthy
conduct did not kill the squire, but it cut him
to the quick.

That nicrht she soult him in his little
study, and told him all her folly, already half
repented of, throwing herself with bitter self-accusation
on his mercy. It was long past
midnight before they separated, and then even
in her turmoil Mabella noted that her father's
head was bent on his breast, and that he

walked as if he wanted support ; but he put
aside her offered arm, not unkindly, and crept
away by himself.

There was a painful ordeal to go through in
the morning, painful for the squire and his three
daughters. He summoned them into his little
study, and in a few simple words, deprecating
any resentment or reproaches, announced
the foolish step that Mabella had taken. It
was some minutes before Sybella could be persuaded
to listen to what her father had to
say further ; it seemed as if she was the only
injured person. Dulsie only wept.

When silence was obtained the squire said,
speaking in a shaky voice, but trying bravely
to stand upright and firm :

I have determined what I mean to do.
Of course Mabella has done a very foolish
thing, but we should be worse than foolish,
even selfishly speaking, not to stand by her.
I shall show my reverence for the old name,
and my dignity demands it of me. She
will need protection, too, and even the partial
countenance of her family is the best protection
a woman can have. I therefore wish

292

her to go to Egbert Hall and there receive
Major Tyler. She must go at once. They
can remain there until our time here is up,
and then they can have the Lodge for their
future residence, or until Major Tyler has
provided another. I myself will announce the
fact that he is my son-in-law. No one need
know that she married him without my sanction,
though all must be aware that she could
not have done so with my approval: for of
course what is his motive is plain enough,
and I am quite prepared to find that he is as
destitute of fortune as he has proved himself
of honour. I have not asked Mabella any
questions as to his birth ; that, I am convinced,
from what I saw of him, will hardly add lustre
to the Egbert shield, and it is better so. The
world naturally is not curious about the antecedents
of obscurity. It is also a consolation
to know that the blot Mabella has put upon
our escutcheon cannot spread. The name
she has taken will end with her."

Vainly trying to keep back the bitter tears
of mortification and disappointment, Mabella
said brokenly :

When you come to know him, sir, you
will judge him differently. He might be so
useful to you in managing the property.
But you are mistaken on one point. He
comes of a very ancient French family."

I think," said the squire, " we will not
discuss the matter further at present ; only let
there be no misunderstanding as to the future
relations between me and Major Tyler, for,
except as my guest for a short and specified
period, he never enters Egbert Hall. That he
must be made to understand. And now,
dears," said the old man, trying to speak in
his usual tone of affectionate friendliness, but
the effort was evident and pitiful, the blow
had gone home, " let there be peace among
us. I cannot be with you very long now.
Do not embitter my few remaining days with
dissensions. Sybella and Dulsie, for your
father's sake forgive Mabella and stand by
her : and you, Glabella, be forbearing, for you
have done the wrong."

Then he kissed his daughters and went out
of the room, saying he would tell '' little
Judy " himself.

There was silence among: the sisters till the
squire's footsteps lead died away in the distance,
and then Dulsie rose and kissed Mabella,
saying with a sob :

But you might have trusted me. You
know I always liked him."

This was more than Sybella's mortal flesh
could bear.

Dulsie," she cried, taking off the edge of
her fell wrath on her sympathetic sister,
Dulsie, you are a fool  you always were ;
but that is why you like him perhaps. Fools
and rogues have a natural affinity."

Sybella," said Mabella, not without
dignity, " sou may say what you choose
of me, but in my presence you shall not
slander my husband. If you cannot show
the same consideration my father has shown,
you can at least keep silence."

Sybella laughed, and her laugh was not
pleasant.

"Pardon, madame," she said. " ' They do
these things better in France' is a common
phrase, so probably the rogue's march the
gallant major has stolen on an honourable

family is the distinguished manner in which
his illustrious house takes to itself brides.
Bride, forsooth ! "  her spite and jealousy-boiling
over. "Ancient French family, indeed
! So ancient that chaos gave them their
motto in cypher and Adam their arms. You
have got a man of metal, however, in your
spouse. His father was an ironmonger."

Mabella trembled with the effort she made
to keep her naturally hot temper within
bounds.

It is false," she cried in a husky voice ;
the De Tilly hers were old noblesse. My
husband's grandfather was a refugee. All the
family papers were destroyed at the Revolution,
and as they could not get back the old
property they changed their name to Tyler.
It was for his grandfather's political services
that my husband got his commission. You
are beside yourself with jealousy, Sybella,
for you know very well you did all you could
to get him for yourself."

Oh, sisters, sisters," exclaimed the weeping
Dulsie, " remember dear father's words,
and let there be peace among us. You are

both too angry to know what you are saying ;
but I must say, Sybella, that Miss Prance is
very scandalous. It was she set the ironmonger
origin afloat. I don't believe it. You
yourself used to say how well-bred Major
Tyler looked."

"Nothing polishes like steel," was the
jibing answer. " When the honeymoon is
over madame will discover the fact that the
major has traded on, that ' there are no fools
like old ones,' " and Sybella swept from the
room.

A woman scorned," said Mabella, bursting
into tears.

Oh, dear Mabella," sobbed Dulsie, " go to
the Hall at once till she cools down. It
would grieve dear father so to hear quarrelling,
and she is so bitter. She will never be
able to keep quiet. You have been looking
ill, and no wonder, with all you have had on
your mind. The rest will set you up, and the
major will enjoy the conservatory, I am sure ;
it is in such beauty now. ITL make you
quantities of cuttings, and you can have a
farmhouse here ; so don't fret, Mabella, it will

all come right, and it will be so nice to have
a brother. But oh, I do trust"  and here
Dulsie's hopeful future was suddenly overcast
by a very pertinent fear, the outcome
of an inner conviction which had not before
risen to the surface  '' oh, I do hope he will
be kind to you," and at the bare possibility
of the contrary her tears again flowed.

M'

Of all the agonies of life, that which is most poignant
and harrowing, that which for the time annihilates reason and
leaves our whole organization one lacerated, mangled heart,
is the conviction that we have been deceived where we placed
all the trust of love*'

In accordance with lier father's arrangements
Mabella proceeded to Egbert Hah the following
morning there to await her bridegroom.
Tim with his house and her maid Tubbs comprised
her suite. But no impatient ardour
filled her breast, no thrill of loving excitement
passed through her heart. No vision
of her handsome, fascinating husband, telling
her the tale in the shady walks of the old
place he told her by the rippling tide, looking
down on her with his wonderful eyes so
full of love, rose to cheer her lonely journey,
and no reassuring hope of sheltering protection
came to console her as the train, rushing
on, bore her away for ever from the happy
home-life of years full of peace and honour.

A very T\'oeful bride was Mabella. The
ignominy of her position had begun to dawn
upon her ; the terrible folly of her act was
already casting portentous shadows on her
future.

She felt like an uncertain swimmer out
of his depth, distrustful of his skill, and
shuddering as the treacherous waters kissed
his lips.

The proud blood mounted to her brow as
Sybella's words smote on her ear, 'this father
was an ironmonger."

With all the force of her will she refused
them credence ; but there is a force stronger
than will in the human mind, and that is truth,
a force that actively and passively asserts its
presence, defying will with its armoury of
sophistry and skill of craft to dislodge it.

So the fact these few words, maliciously
circulated by Miss Prance, represented, went
home straight as an arrow to its aim, and
there, in the breast it was meant to wound, it
rankled.

In vain Mabella conjured up her whilom
lover's ingenious pageantry of De Tiller

chateaux and fair lands somewhere on the
free-flowing"' Loire, of alLmt chevaliers and
noble counts, of revolution, destruction, and
flight of the brave remnant to an alien shore ;
it was but phantasmagoria, without even the
shadow of earthly local habitation or name.
It had been a stirring, pleasant song in her
ear, but even its echo would not ring now,
for the quickened conviction of the truth
of her sister's words lay germinating in her
heart. That hour's journey was a terrible
experience to the deluded woman.

The personal influence that had led her to
her fatal act was not present to justify her
to herself, neither was its memory strong
enough to console her for the loss of her
father's respect, or to whisper compensation
in the future.

Silently and unchecked her tears flowed,
till the little station of Net tie thorp was
reached.

Then she hastily dried them and drew her
veil down.

Tim, who had been callously sleeping ofi
the effects of a parting feast of stewed kidneys

given him by Judy, stretched himself on her
lap and yawned, then sat up in his usual attitude
of general aggressiveness, and growled.

Tubbs came to the door with a conscious
simper on her face, and Mabella, gathering
her favourite to her ample bosom, stepped
on to the platform. She started back ; it was
lined with a little crowd, not of affectionate
well-wishers, but of prying idlers.

Her strange marriage and expected arrival
had got wind in the gossiping little country
town, by what means it would not have been
difficult to trace : the domestic telegraphy of
servants is ubiquitous.

]arabella understood it all. She became
deadly pale, then drew herself up, and swept
on as if in defiance.

The station-master took off his list with
what was meant to be a congratulatory bow,
and the porters doffed their caps, expectant
of bridal largess.

As she reached the barrier-gate a lad threw
up his cap with a shrill " hurrah," which the
mob, pressing forward, responded to with a
yell.

It required all her strength to keep in the
struggling Tim, whose rage was too fierce to
admit of more than a gasp for a bark.

Hurrah for the bride ! " they shouted.

Never too late to mend," cried a wag.

"The aftermath is the sweetest grass," roared
another, sending up this cap with a whirl.

A dozen caps followed suit, then a cheer as
from one voice, drowned by the steam whistle
of the starting train.

Mabella's strength failed her.

Tim leapt to the ground, and with the fury
of a baited bull charged the mob.

She turned, like a hunted rabbit, in fascinated
fear, and saw, as the train slowly passed
out of the station, the windows of the carriages
full of inquisitive faces, many of whom, with
burning cheeks of shame, she recognized.

In the meantime the versatile crowd had
turned their attention to the belligerent Tim,
who was not an adversary to be despised.
Caps and missiles were thrown at him ; some
hit, but receding and charging he kept the
enemy at bay. It was a free fight, with the
advantage on the aggressor's side.

Then Tubbs was seen elbowing her way
through the mass, holding aloft the assailant's
house. With it well in front she got between
the contending parties, and set it down, face
towards its owner. For a minute Tim hesitated,
but a bold youth putting his hand on
the roof, he dashed into it with a yell of rage,
and Tubbs, giving it a vicious shake, carried
it off in triumph, Tim growling and snarling
to admiration. It was noticeable that though
each time this ruse was successful, each time
Tim recognized that it was a ruse. This was
evidenced by the subdued quality of his
growls when fairly caged. He was ashamed
of being tricked.

How Mabella got to the carriage she hardly
knew. She had just enough presence of mind
preserved to her by her natural pride to
acknowledge the station-master's officious
assistance with a stiff bow and some words of
thanks, and to desire her maid to leave a
sovereign for the porters. Then she flung
herself back on the seat, first pulling down the
blinds, covered her face with her hands, and
wept.

But lier mortifications were not over. The
footman opened the door, and with a well-trained
look of impassibility, which seemed to
see nothing but the extreme tip of his mistress's
nose, he handed her a telegram. It was
addressed to " Mrs. Tyler, Egbert Hall."

The clerk says as it's just come, ma'am,
and is there any answer ? "

None, Home," was the reply.

The contents of the telegram were as
follows :

"Major Tyler, London, to Mrs. Tyler,
Egbert Hall, Nettlethorp. Hope to join you
in a day or two. Detained by business. Will
write tomorrow or next day."

For a moment Mabella was conscious of a
feeling of relief, the next the callousness of
the few careless words struck a chill to her
heart, and again she gave way to bitter
weeping.

The carriage had drawn up at the venerable
postern of the old Hall before Mabella
was aware that she had entered the precincts
of the place. The loud resonant ring of the
great bell sounded like an alarm in her ears.

Xever before had she felt shame on entering

o

her father's doors.

The old housekeeper, in the absence at
Sandycot of the butler and footman, opened
the door to Mabella, and gravely bade " Mrs.
Tyler " welcome home. Poor Mabella, already
the name sounded ominously in her ear. The
housekeeper, Mrs. Carter, was an old family
servant and privileged. She led the way to
the ante-room of the arose drawing-room.

No," said Mabella, " the boudoir," making
as if she would pass on.

I've put your things in here, ma'am," said
Mrs. Carter, " and there's a fine big chair
which will just suit the major."

There was a deprecatory tone in the good
woman's voice, almost a wheedling one.
Mabella looked round sharply, then walked
on till she reached the door ol the boudoir.
It was locked.

Don't be angry, ma'am," said the housekeeper,
" I couldn't help it, it was the squire's
orders."

Without a word Mabella retraced her steps
and entered the room prepared for her. Her
VOL. ir. 30

heart was bursting. She was " outside the
nest " now, but she made no sign ; only an
additional stateliness of carriage and a chill in
her manner as she took a small basket from
Mrs. Carter's hands told the worthy woman
how keenly she felt the incident.

A sudden fear crossed her. Was she to
have her old room? She hesitated. Her
pride forbade her asking the servant, whose
mistress she had been for thirty years. Was
she so no longer ?  only in the old Hall on
sufferance ? Lie threw up her veil and looked
Mrs. Carter in the face. The old woman's
eyes were full of tears. Then Mabella broke
down.

Oh, Mrs. Carter, Mrs. Carter," she cried,
throwing her arms round her neck, forgetting
pride, distinctions, all in her deep need of
human sympathy ; and this to the full she
received.

After a long confidential talk, which comforted
her not a little, she followed Mrs.
Carter to her room, which was the one she
had always occupied. It and the house were
at her disposal for the time; it was only

the boudoir, wliicli the squire regarded as
sacred to his wife's memory, against which his
interdict had been placed. For the time also
she was still to be mistress.

302

The caprices of womankind are not limited by any climate
or nations."

It was well at this juncture in the domestic
annals of the inmates of Egbert Lodge that
Sandycot had the distraction of the coming
ball. The marriage, with its accompanying
circumstances variously misrepresented  as
was natural when only the bare fact was communicated
to the public by the parties concerned
 was not even a nine days' wonder. A
simple announcement, with no mention of
date or place, was made in the Times, and as
the Egbertss, whatever their importance might
be in their own county and its borders, were
utterly unknown within the magic cordon of
London society, the event did not figure in
the so-called society papers, dressed in the
alluring tights of significant modesty and the
delicate tissue of innuendo.

A short paragraph appeared in due course

in the conservative weekly organ of shire

to the effect that "Major and Mrs. Tyler were
spending their honeymoon at Egbert Hall, the
ancestral home of the bride." That was all.
The proprietor of the paper was an old
business friend of the squire.

The marriage was a severe blow to Mrs.
Aylmere. Her acuteness seemed to herself at
fault. She had come to Sandycot at considerable
personal inconvenience, and with
not a little personal disinclination, for the
express purpose of preventing a catastrophe
which was silently consummated under her
very eyes, as it were.

If only Judy had half my sharpness," she
said to herself, " it never could have happened,"
and this, with much bewailing, she
told her daughter. But Judy had not thought
it necessary or wise to recapitulate to her
mother the many suspicious circumstances
she had noted at various times, or even to
mention the later incident of the rencontre at
Preene. Had she done so her mother's estimate
of her perspicuity might have risen.

Nor did she confide in her the strange

eventful history of the interpolating major.
Judy simply held her tongue. She might
have allayed lier anxious mother's fears with
regard to her future and the Egbert property;
a very few words would have sufficed, and it
would have gratified her affectionate heart to
have done so, but there was one thing that
would ever be an impossibility to Judy Ayl-
mere, and that was to betray a friend's confidence.
Not that her powers of resisting
temptation were above proof, but because the
idea of doing so would never occur to her.

With the recuperative power of a buoyant
intrigante, Mrs. Aylmere resolved to concentrate
her strategy for the present in the
direction of the member for Oxminster.

Amonof the intimates of the Robert circle
the marriage made, as was to be expected, a
very profound sensation. By all it was regarded
as a piece of egregious folly, and the
apparent countenance given by the squire was
received at its true value.

The family are wise," was the significant
dictum ; " tliev are making the best of a bad
job."

Very much real sympathy was felt and
expressed for the old squire, and pretty Judy
Aylmere's chances in the market matrimonial
of needy sons suffered depression.

Among the expected guests at the ball was
Miss Le Pole, the aunt of the present Earl of
Albany, an old and eccentric lady, the proprietor
of that portion of the Egbert estate
which had been eliminated from the ancient
boundary in the troublous times of the Commonwealth.


Miss Le Pole was singularly deficient in one
quality of her noble relative the present earl
family pride. She had been all her lifelong
a woman of fancies, never of affections,
but her astuteness had saved her from pitfalls
of the nature into which Mabella had fallen.
She had always drawn up in time, or the
fancy being, like fancies generally, ephemeral
in its nature had died the natural death of
ephemerae.

She always spoke of herself as a person
without ties, meanings claims, and though
she kept on fair terms with her nephew,
it could not be said that she evinced

either affection for this person or interest in
his children.

But the squire was right when he said that
she would not have been averse at one period
to have brought back to the Egbert family
their coveted acres.

He had been to her a little more perhaps
than a passing fancy, she to him nothing buta
pleasant friend, very original and amusing ;
and the friendship remained, though the fancy
died, not, however, the absolute death of its
many predecessors, for the scent of the roses
hung round it still.

Of late years she had almost given up
visiting, though it was understood that she
expected invitations on an' special occasion
to be sent to her. She might choose to drop
society, but she had no mind that society
should drop her.

Her manner of life was said to be eccentric.
She managed the home-farm herself, keeping
steward or responsible functionary of the
kind, and as her health was without a flaw
she was able to perform the onerous duties
with a very satisfactory result to her pocket.

No details were beneath lier personal supervision,
nor, it was whispered, her manipulation.


She would, with a gingham sun-bonnet and
short cotton gown, take a turn in the hatfield,
and never a rick was raised without her
putting the finishing stroke by combing its
fragrant sides with her huge wooden rake.

In her leisure hours she dabbled not a little
in science, in which her reading was vast.
The knowledge she gathered did not lie
fallow in her active brain, and if her experiments
were not always successful they were
yet in the right direction, and people came to
believe that there was something after all in
Miss Le Pole's " fads."

One year, when the potato disease was at
its height, and farmers planted the tuber with
sparing hand, she devoted every available acre
to its growth, turning a deaf ear to warning,
and, her folks said, a blind eye to facts.

The crop rose strong and healthy till the
blossoms began to show, then one night a
violent thunderstorm broke, and on the fresh
morning air the odour of the blight was borne

to the Manor House, Miss Le Pole's residence.
In a short space of time a band of labourers
were at work, Miss Le Pole at their head, and
before nightfall every hauhn lay prone. The
farmers far and near and each individual
labourer shook their heads and said, " Miss
Le Pole is mad," but she took no notice,
and when the first frost showed on the uplands,
she dug her crop and stored it under
cover, without, as she triumphantly said, one
black sleep among it.

Some, convinced against their will, sneered
at the imperfect development of the tuber,
but half a loaf was clearly better than no
bread, and the half-loaf brought its owner the
price of the whole.

Then it was insinuated, with many a nod
and wink, that the old maid was a witch.

The tale of the eggs from the large poultry-yard
was each day taken by herself, and the
butter, on churning days, weighed by her own
viands.

Lord Albany very seldom honoured the
Manor House with a visit.

On the occasion, however, of his son's

rejection by Oxminster, he rode over to inform
this relative of the humiliating fact.

It Alas early in the forenoon, and leaving
his horse with the crooni he walked down to
the farm, where the bucolic butler informed
him " un vor among the pigs."

And among the pigs she surely was. It
was mocking hour, and with a fork, brush
and bucket of water she was within one of
the styes hard at work. A man and a
lad similarly employed were in two others
adjoining.

Nothing abashed, she called to lier nephew
to " stand back, she would be done directly,"
and sluicincy the last bucket of water over the

o

flags she swept it out, filled the stye with
clean pease straw, and stepped out.

You've come to tell me of Le Pole's
licking," she cried, declining the earl's preferred
hand with a grim smile as she stopped
to rinse hers in a trough of water. " I read

o

it all. Some one sent me the Weekly San and
the People's Spokesman, and I take the Daily
Telegraph, 'i hat young Eawson's a fine young
fellow, a man every inch of him, I'm sure.

You'd better give Le Pole a Cook's ticket and
send him round the world to cool his heels.
I hate a man who begins life with a failure ; a
pretty penny this will cost you. I hear you
are sending some cattle to the show ; you'd
much better have got me to look over them
first. I don't believe you know a dun cow
from a Berkshire pig. But you wouldn't take
my advice about Le Pole, so of course you
won't about your other live-stock."

Lord Albany was used to rough usage at
his eccentric relation's hands ; to-day his
heart was heavy within him, and he winced.
But he could not afford an open rupture.

My dear aunt," he said quietly, " I shall
be only too grateful if you will come to the
Grange and take a look at the specimen,
Chaos," naming his steward, " has selected for
exhibition. I am no judge myself, as you
know. Louise  Lady Albany  is with me,
and the girls. We all feel Le Pole's defeat
very keenly ; it was so unexpected."

'which is just the thing that always
happens," she replied, a little mollified.
" Well, I'll come. I see Louise is patroness

of the Sandycot ball. Only imagine the
fools sending me a card ! ''

Then the earl told her of Miss Egbert's
extraordinary marriage, and spoke of the
squire as showing symptoms of breaking up.

Miss Le Pole said little, after expressing
her opinion that Mabella had always been a
fool where a man was in the way, and that
the major would very likely be easily bought
off  a cool alternative that made her companion
stare.

Are the rest at Sandycot still ? " she
asked.

Yes," he replied a little awkwardly. He
wished to bring in Judy's name naturally,
and he could not. " Yes, Miss Aylmere is
with them, a very pretty, intelligent girl."

Aylmere," she cried, looking sharply
round. "Ah, little Judy Aylmere, grownup,
I suppose. Some one said she is to have
the property some day."

Yes, I believe she will. It would be a
nice things for Le Pole."

He was not used to give a vital subject a
light turn, his voice sounded shaky.

What, the property or the girl ? "

Both," and he tried to laugh.

'Ah! When is this ball to be?" she
asked.

Next week."

' This young Eawson's to be there, is he
not ? "

Yes."

I'll go."

They had reached the front of the house,
and declining his relative's not very warm
invitation to stay to luncheon Lord Albany
mounted his horse and took his departure.
As he rode he cogitated :

She wants to see how the land lies. I do
believe she hates Le Pole. These low radical
papers make a demi-god of this young Eawson.
They say the girl likes him. Good heavens !
mocking pigs ! ' "

Quick and fine-witted."

The new member for Oxminster had written
to secure a room at the hotel for the ball, but
he was expected the day before the event.
There had been some talk about nommatinor

o

him one of the stewards, but political views
were divided in the club, and it was not considered
advisable to press the matter. To
Lord Le Pole, however, no objection was
raised. Whatever his politics might be, he
had been defeated, and difference of opinion
can be generous at times. He was, moreover,
desirable from a social side of the question,
so the request was made and graciously
granted. In anticipation of his new duties
he came to Sandycot two days before that of
the ball, and took up his abode at Seapinks as
Mrs. Horseman's guest.

At dinner the night of his arrival there

were no strangers save Mrs. Beaumorris.
The arrangements gave Elsie Eber on his left,
his seat being next that of his hostess. Opposite
to him was the far-famed beauty, whom
last lie had seen in the Eow, and against
whose charms he was well-seasoned. They
recognized each other with apparent pleasure,
and at once Creamy resolved to secure her
distinguished acquaintance for the first three
dances. There could be no conversation
beyond a remark or two carried on across
the table, but there was the time after, and
the twilight. She had soon though cause
for alarm. The " Jew girl," as she usually
called the spirituelle Elsie, had evidently
attractions for the fastidious young man, and
he seemed to have equal attractions for her.
Their conversation was animated, and it
was  she could catch some sentences 
what she termed blue. Xow and asrain she

o

caught the name of Aylmere, and she knew
that the little rustic Judy was under discussion.


He's used to me," she said to herself, " I'll
set La Belle Catty at him. She will be anew

sensation, a thing Le Pole is alway's alive to :
men, particularly blase men, are such fools
where bread-and-butter misses are concerned.
Catty will wake him up though."

Mrs. Horseman had a headache ; she was
glad to leave most of the talk to Elsie. Creamy,
who was naturally silent, depending on her
eyes and smiles for her part in dialogue, did
not care to be talked to save by men. Mr.
Horseman was distrait, now and then holding
desultory chat with his eyes.

When dinner was ended he said to Elsie as
she looked out on the sea from the balcony,
the animated colour still tinging the delicate
olive of her cheek, and in her brilliant eyes
thought too deep for tears :"

'' Elsie, friend, what animated you so at
dinner ? "

What Miss Sybella Egbert calls swearing
 meaning politics," she replied with a
smile.

Poor Creamy ! It was hard on her," he
said, "but she is making up her way. Ah,
the profession "  he looked at her liberal languishes
and prodigal glances  " is an arduous
VOL. u. 3]

one. Do you think, fair spirit, there is so
little of this mundane flesh about you ? Do you
think a woman of beauty can ever be a woman
of soul ? "

You ask that, owning the wife you do ?
Ingrate ! "

She spoke with a serio-comic air.

My wife," he said, looking with mingled
pride and love at the fair stately form bending
at the moment over a vase of flowers, " my
wife is not a woman of beauty ; she is simply
a beautiful woman. If nature had not
moulded her features in symmetry, the spirit
within would have made her face perfect in
loveliness. But I don't think she'd sell in the
windows. There, look at that ; that's the sort
of thing that goes."

Elsie looked in the direction indicated.
Lord Le Pole was standing? aside to let
Creamy pass out to the balcony. He held
back the lace curtain, but she had come to
an abrupt stand ; her lovely arms were raised
on high, her palms joined in adoration, her
head was thrown well back, but inclining to
one side, and her great lustrous ejes, full of

dreamy languor, were gazing outwards in
silent ecstasy.

What is it? " whispered Elsie. " What is
she doing ? "

Looking at the moon," said Mr. Horseman.


A servant brought Lord Le Pole a note.
It was from the squire. A shade of annoyance
passed over his face as he read it.

Mr. Egbert wishes to know," he said,
speaking to Mr. Horseman, " if it is true that
my aunt, Miss Le Pole, is coming to the ball,
as if so he should wish her to be his guest.
Whoever proposed to ask her ? I don't believe
she'll come ; it is preposterous."

At that instant Mrs. Trelawney and Mr.
Green were announced.

Such a kick-up, my dear," she said as,
shaking hands with Mr. Horseman, she sank
into an easy-chair, nodding to the rest of the
company. " Take a peach, Mr. Green," she
said, observing with a side glance that her
bashful convoy was hesitating whether to lean
against the corner of the pianoforte, or come
to anchor on the stool. "Such a kick-up,"

312

she repeated. " Mr. Barnes, the hotel-keeper,
you know, came into the room just as the
admiral was settling down to his afternoon
nap, and coolly asked him if he would give
up his dressing-room to Miss Le Pole ; every
room is full, it seems, and as the Albany
family are coming, he doesn't like to refuse
their aunt. Poor Mr. Barnes "  she stopped
to lauofh  " I heard him run downstairs as if
from a mad dog ; the admiral is always dangerous
when half asleep. ' A lady from the
North Pole in my room ! ' he shouted, catching
at a decanter."

All laughed, and Creamy, forgetting to pose,
joined in the chorus.

It was some time before I got him fairly
asleep, and then I went to see if there was a
vacant room to be had in Mr. Beaumorris's
lodgings, but there isn't. The town is full.
So as I met Miss Prance, who, I verily believe,
is in the air  she knows everything  and she
told me that Lord Le Pole had arrived and
was here, I came on to see if he could suggest
anything short of the dressing-room."

I haven't been at Egbert Lodge since the

marriage," said Creamy to !Mrs. Trelawney.
It is awkward, not knowing whether to congratulate
or condole''

Oh, I went next day," was the rattling
answer. " It's always the best way to appear
unconscious of any misadventure in a family.
I thought Sybella rather bristly, but I was
sorry, and poor Dulsie "  she laughed  '' she
looked like a large cabbage-rose that had been
cut the day before and forgotten to be put in
water  the least shake and I am sure she
would have fallen to pieces. The squire was
out, but the bright little Judy was in, and
talked and laughed to draw off my attention
from her cousin's forlorn aspect. She is a
pretty creature, don't you think so. Lord Le
Pole ? " she added, crossing behind Creamy
and bringing up beside that gentleman, who
was walking on the beauty's left.

"Well, she is what some people would call
pretty'' was the cautious reply. " She is not
very tall, I think."

Oh, inches have nothing to do with beauty.
There's Miss Eber, she does not come up to
my shoulder, and somehow I always feel small

beside lier. You're not to say so tall yourself.
What do you measure ? "

About five feet ten, I believe."
Ah, shouldn't have thought so," she said
carelessly ; ' but then you have a poke.
What a fine soldier-like looking young man
Mr. Eawson is, quite six feet, 1 should say  but
I forgot you were rivals ; are still, if rumour
is true."

Lord Le Pole flushed angrily, but a glance
at the lovely Catty's arch good-humoured face
dissipated his annoyance, and he gave himself
up to the personage of the moment Catty's
lively banter, silvery voice, mischievous eyes
and sparkling beauty were weapons to which
the male sex generally, witlioiit even a show
of fight, ground their arms at the moment.
There was no malice in her fun, no deeper
intent than the making of gay music to speed
the bright hours of an aimless existence.
Catty was too brilliant to be deep. Her infectious
gaiety, her daring challenges to open
flirtations, her venturous unconventionality,
yet withal her air of perfect good breeding,
which made acts that in some would have

been mere solecisms charming diveriissemejits,
all combined to form a very bewildering
whole, but, as the admiral knew to his cos
did not blend felicitously in a wife. Men at
large, she audaciously proclaimed, were her
compensation for the uncongenial one particular
and necessitous circumstances had
made her portion. She was withal gentle
and attentive to her disparate partner, whose
jealousy and querulousness increased with his
feebleness.

Rivalry," said Le Pole, connecting the
beauties with a meaning glance, " is the appetizing
sauce of society."

"A relish," said Creamy indifferently, " that
has only lately appealed to your lordship's
palate. Do you like it ? " And she gave
him a languishing look, as if in deprecation of
the keen darts levelled at him by the gay
Catty.

At the time I did. It is good for a ran
to be put on his mettle."

But not to be put in the shade," whispered
Catty.

Lights eclipse each other," he replied,

bowing to each. "I hope mine, tliougli, is
only a partial eclipse."

I fear for you, noble seigneur," said Catty
lightly, but significantly. " Politics and love
are alike in one things : a middle course in either

o

is fatal to success ; and remember, ' Everything
is fair in love and war,' as the gallant
major thought. A start is difficult to makeup
though, and inches are against you."

She gave a rippling laugh and fell behind.

"Mrs. Trelawney is fond of enigmas," observed
Le Pole, not a little ruffled.

And so you ought to be," said Creamy as
they crossed the soft lawn of Egbert Lodge,
for woman is an enigma."

*' Not all," he whispered with an admiring
glance, which Creamy returned in warmer
kind, light fencing on her part to keep her
tools in order, and on his pour passer le temps.

There was no Tim to give warning of
coming steps, so the party, with the privilege
of intimacy, coming round by the garden of
Egbert Lodge, crossed the soft lawn and stood
before the open drawing-room windows before
the inmates were aware of their approach.

There seemed a commotion within. The
squire was sitting in an easy chair, by his
side a reading-lamp, his country paper in his
hand. He was leaning back, his spectacles
pushed upon his brow, and watching with a
smile Judy's manoeuvres. These were lively.
Sybella was active and apparently amiable,
and Dulsie looked on with quiet enjoyment
; a maid, kneeling on the ground, was
finishing the unpacking of a large milliner's
box which had just arrived from London. A
portion of its contents were at different points
of vantage in the room.

It's the ball-dresses," whispered Creamy.
"They're so busy they don't see us."

Just look at Judy," said Mrs. Horseman.
"It is as good as a play."

'* Jog on, jog on the footpath's way
And merrily trent the style  a ;
A merry mart goes all the way,
Your sad tires in a will  a."

In many ways does the full heart reveal
The presence of the love it would conceal."

They looked at Judy. Lie had caught from
the reverent arms of the maid a recumbent
skirt of soft white gauze, and was arranging
it on a tall pole-screen. With light touches
she pulled out the sheeny drapery and sent
with an airy fling the long train on the crimson
carpet. It was covered with bouquets of
forget-me-nots and maidenhair ferns, connected
here and there by trailing grasses.
Not a word escaped her lips. Then she got
the bodice, a soft sunny white nest, with one
great bouquet in front and lighter ones on
the full flimsy sleeves. This she arranged
above the skirt, and then tripping a few steps
backwards made the dress a series of low

obeisance in exasperated homage. Next lie
flew to the squire and gave him a hug and
a kiss, and then she pounced on the solid
Dulsie, who Alas admiring a wonderful headgear
of feathers and golden-hued pansies,
holding it at arm's length, and embraced her
as she stood. Lastly she seized on Sybella,
who was pushing aside an unopened box on
which was a card directed to " ]\Iiss Osbert,"
and kissed her with such a will that softness
and smiles for the moment made her usually
acrid visage ver" pleasant to look upon.

Her pantomime over, Judy, her eyes sparkling
with moisture, cried :

Oh, thank you all a thousand times !
You are all so good  so good to me. But
111 never get a partner ; they'll all be afraid
to ask me. Oh, Dulsie dear, won't you
chaise with me P " and in a minute she had
placed the erection of mammoth pansies and
spiral plumes on her head, and had slipped
into, as if she were o-oino to hide, a voluminous
and wide-spreading skirt of cardinal
satin. It was as if a frolicsome fay had
suddenly sprung up in the bosom of a luscious

peony rose and was about to wing its flight
upwards.

"Here, Culton," cried Sybella, calling her
maid, " put mine back in the box, please.
Miss Judy's off her head," and Culton, with
careful hand, replaced the black net and
satin combination with which, relieved by
water lilies, Sybella had a mind to compete
with Sandycot fashion.

In the meantime Judy had advanced to the
window, followed by Dulsie, who, laughing,
caught her by the train and brought her to a
stand. Doing this her eyes fell on the window,
and she gave a little scream, then hurried
forward and opened the glass doors. At the
same moment the butler brought in the large
silver lamp, and setting it down proceeded to
liorht the wax candles in the sconces. The
room was a blaze of light as the formidable
party from Seapinks trooped in. Judy was
fairly caught ; there was no receding. She
stood covered with confusion and vexation,
almost inclined to cry. The merry laughter
which arose on all sides did not help to compose
her.

He'll think me such an idiot ; it's the
second time I've made a guy of myself for
his express benefit, and I aren't open my
mouth, I'd only be twice as absurd. I wish
some one would set me on fire, or that a
board would give way and I could disappear
into the cellar. What a tarnation donkey I
am ! "

Poor Judy's disjointed reflections did not
relieve her sensibly. She stood in her splendid
cage, with a very woe-begone visage, oscillating
between a smile and a cry.

Culton, at Dulsie's instance, came to her
relief, and proceeded to disrobe her. Elsie
lent a hand.

Perfect ! " said Creamy, posing in an
attitude of admiration. " A little powder
and an additional yard or so of girth and
voila la petite Judy twenty years hence a
charming dowager."

Take comfort. Miss Aylmere," cried Catty,
proceeding to inspect the skirt pendent on the
pole screen. "I've got la spirituelle Creamy's
secret for keeping under the flesh, and you
shall have it. She has tested it well for 

how many years, dear ?  twenty did you
say?"

Creamy passed for on the borders of thirty ;
she was thirty-five.

"No, ten, love," was the soft answer.
You are thinking of the one I promised to
get you for keeping down bone."

By this time the gay cardinal dress had
been carried off, and Culton had come for
Judy's white one. An animated discussion
on its merits was being: carried on, in which
its owner did not join. She had not recovered
her equanimity. She stood apart, slightly
pouting.

I am so olad it is your favourite flower,"
said a low rich voice in her ear.
She looked up almost appealingly.
And she had read all those dry books for
nothing. He'd think her a " bigger noodle "
than ever, and she wasn't fat, never would be
how spiteful women were ! Then her eyes
met his, and somehow she felt comforted.
They did not look as if they were quizzing
her. There was something deeper than amusement
in their meaning ; a questioning something.

oil, she did wish he'd ask her which
she was now, Liberal or conservative, and
she'd soon show him she wasn't the little
brainless goose he perhaps had been told she
was, and Ned thought she was ; but he'd find
out his mistake, too.

What flower ? " she asked, scarcely knowing
what she asked.

Forget-me-not," he whispered, and then
adroitly intervening his person between the
beauties and Judy he showed her the little
sprig he had picked up at her feet the night
of their last meeting. He had worn it, he
told her, as his colours during the turbulent
contest in which he had come off loser. It
was a tiny, shrivelled, colourless atom now,
but Judy recognized it.

It brought you ill-luck," she faltered. " I
was so"  and then she stopped, she could
not, in loyalty to her old friend Ned, say she
was sorry  " so interested in the contest," she
continued ; " but you'll easily get another seat,
won't you ? "

He shook his head.

Were you very much disappointed ? "

Yes ; I had been led to believe I was
certain to win."

Was it all fair ? " she asked.

No, that's the sting. I don't think it was.
I can't understand it, but I didn't like Mr.
Eout from the first."

Elsie was standing near. She started, and
her sad e3es lit up with a sudden intelligence
that seemed to add years to her face. It was
as if a dormant fear had wakened to dreaded
vitality.

Then the squire was told of Miss Le Pole's
difficulty about a room at the hotel, and declining
to depute another to offer her his hospitality
he retired to his study and indited hera
note of old-fashioned courtesy, inviting her
to the Lodge for the festive occasion, and
expressing a hope that they were not too
much out of date to tread a measure together ;
not an archaic minuet," he said, " but Sir
Eager de Coverley, which, in the country at
any rate, would keep the boards as long as
dancing did."

In the meantime the rest of the party, except
Dulsie, who feared the dew, adjourned

for a stroll on the beach. Notwithstanding
certain feminine manoeuvres, Le Pole fell to
Judy's lot, and the twain, unconscious of provoking
remark, soon left their more mature
companions far behind. Elsie had slipped
away homewards, unobserved.

A silvery night by the sea, a night by the
silvery sea. No fading gleams of golden sunlight
scattered pale rose-leaves on the sky,
clothed the sentinel coils in the distance with
their delicate livery, or flushed the still water
that, almost waveless, lapped the shore. Evening's
faint hands had folded aside the twilight's
purple-skirted robe," and now in dim vesture
of chilly gray was herself stealing silently
away before the majesty of chilly night.

Eor night  the great moon her regal herald
struck a glittering pathway on the sea, and
the myriad stars set her glory in the heavens.
The voice of silence filled the earthly firmament,
which never yet has caught an echo
from the music of the spheres. And the
ocean, coldly responsive, scintillated and shimmered
as it gave back the splendour and the
glitter.

VOL. n. 32

The tide was slowly ebbing. It lead not
long turned, and the light, springy feet that,
all unheeding, dipped in the shallow flow,
left their imprint deep in the soft sand, leaving
as they hastened onwards tiny pools as a
watery track behind.

Judy's face was to the sea, and yet her

bright, animated eyes never once cast a glance

on its gently heaving breast, tremulous as if

with its weight of diamonds. Her ears, too,

which loved to drink in its murmur and

plaint, heard not even the hushed rhythm of

the ripples ; a deeper music filled them, the

music of a voice which had found an echo in

her innermost heart. And to Le Pole's eyes

that night only one star shone  the fair, pure

maiden by his side ; and only one sound fled

the air  the ringino- melody of her voice.

What did they talk of? Not of men or of

women, but of things. The opening bud of

the girl's mind turned instinctively to his for

light and nourishment, and its rare beauty

expanded beneath his glad bounty.

Elsie had hinted to him something of the
studies in her little sanctum, but he was too

wise to scare what he felt to be the delicate
confidences of a soul hungering after knowledge,
by appearing conscious of the elementary
nature of its acquirements. Not the
crudest proposition she ventured drew from
him even a smile. Gravely and tenderly he
gave her his best, spreading at her eager feet
from his well-garnered stores of learning. Her
keen remarks and shrewd wisdom told him
it was the intelligence of no common order
that thus sought further enlightenment. They
talked of the contest that had ended so disappointingly
for him, but he uttered not one
disparaging word of his rival ; said indeed
that, man to man, the fight had been fair,
and that, if there had been underhand
work, it had not been at Mr. Eawson's
instance.

Of himself and his prospects he said very
little, only that he shoukl seek the first opportunity
to obtain a seat elsewhere. He had no
enthusiastic future to sketch to the ears that
would have been willing to listen. He was
no theoretical philanthropist, he said, had

never been bit by a mission, and was not

322

sure if he had a vocation ; but he thought he
should be ready to do any work laid out for
him of which his conscience approved. It
did not much matter if it were congenial or
not, so that it fitted his moral needs. As a
matter of fact, very little real, hard, human
work was of a congenial nature to any one,
but they could make it so. The same principle
attached to study. Much of the study
requisite for wide culture was sure to be uncongenial
to particular minds, but the habit of
concentration invested all subjects with a
certain interest. So, should he be fortunate
enough to be received by another constituency,
he should hold himself as bound as he was
ready to be something more than a mere
voting member of the House.

So talking, they had walked quite two
miles before they thought of looking back,
and then so far in the distance were the rest
they found they were virtually alone.

The last fraction of twilight had merged in
the full light of the summer night ; a great
loveliness brooded on the shore. Judy started
back, afraid of the shadow she cast on the

wet shining sands and almost ashamed before
her companion.

What will they think of me ? " she cried
artlessly. " I did not mean to run away, did
you ? " But he said he did, and Judy bit her
lip. " You'll come back quick, won't you ?
I don't like vexing Sybella. I do think
Elsie might have kept up with us, don't
you ? "

Le Pole said he was of a different opinion,
that he thought Miss Eber, as Judy had
assured him she was, one of the very wisest
women he had ever known.

So Judy considered the matter and held her
peace.

Now don't talk any more," she said in
real distress; "just peg away  oh, I mean
walk away."

No ; am I to go ? "

Please don't tease, you have been so nice,
and I don't like chaff. Yes, I said chaff,"
noting just a little twitch of Le Pole's mouth.
It's not a comme il faut word, I know, anymore
than ' peg ' is, but out-of-the-way expressions
have sometimes so much in them, correct

ones seem quite tame beside them. So I tell
you I don't like chaff. Jested  that is, Mr.
Eawson  chaffs."

Then I'll never be guilty of it again," he
said quietly.

She fired up ; her mood had changed. She
was angry at herself for giving occasion to the
remarks which she knew would be made, and
half inclined to be angry with her aider and
abettor, she was so femininely unreasonable.

Why shouldn't you, if you are able ? " she
said saucily. " It requires a very clever
person to chaff well, I can tell you. Ned
does."

"So does Mrs. Trelawney," he added. "Do
you think we might get up a match between
them ? "

She looked sharply up in his face, then
suddenly dropped her eyes and shot ahead.

We shall never overtake them," she cried ;
then she began to run. A few steps brought
him up to her.

I should take the thing quieter," he
managed to say as he doubled, in military
phrase. She flitted lightly and swiftly onwards.

'' If they see you put out, it will
make matters worse."

A thought struck her.

You think me undignified," she said,
coming so suddenly to a stop he was some
steps in advance before he could pull up.
But it is so provoking ; they might have
kept up with us. I am sure they are quite as
good walkers as we are."

She had reduced her pace to a smart walk.

There was silence for a few seconds. They
were nearing their party fast. Each person
was distinguishable now. Judy felt reassured,
she put on a nonchalant air.

Miss Aylmere," said Le Pole in a low rich
voice.

She turned to him smiling, her petulance
all gone. The dreamy stillness around, the
fervid languor of night, its tranquil splendour
and soft air, soothed her spirit. Her heartstrings
vibrated to his tones ; perhaps her
eyes betrayed her. The spell was on him, too.
Their paths drew closer together. Insensibly
her hand, which hung by her side, touched
his.

"Miss Aylmere," he said  he did not dare
to call her Judy  " you will give me the first
three dances, won't you ? "

She whispered assent, but the next moment,
breaking from the spell, she started asunder
from him, saying, almost in an accent of fear :

Oh, I forgot, I can't. I promised Need 
Mr. Eawson  the first dance of my first ball,
and this will be my first."

"Then the two next?" he said, and she
nodded.

From the distance came the ten o'clock bells.

Ah, how the time has gone," she cried.

"Has it gone?" he asked. "Does anything
ever really go that lives in memory ? "

With a sudden impulse, repented of the
next moment, she whispered :

"Nobody ever spoke to me as you have
done," then, rallying, added, " except Elsie ;
but then Elsie is an angel."

'imprimis'' he said mischievously, "I am
one, too."

Yes," she said simply, " if you are not
particular as to the colour of your plumage."

But Judy had vexed herself needlessly.

Sybella uttered no reproof, nor did any of
the party exercise their wit at her expense.
The situation had been wholly pleasing to the
former, and the latter were too well bred to
openly make her the subject of raillery. The
neglected beauties, however, would have been
more than human had they quite ignored the
defection of the sole attraction that had
drawn them on this late stroll to the deserted,
and therefore to them deadly uninteresting,
beach. So Catty, who had the
keener wit, sent a double-barbed arrow
straight home, smiling softly as she drew her
bow.

Good-night, Miss Aylmere," she said, " I
thought monopolies belonged only to Mr.
Eawson's programme."

Lord Le Pole, standing aside, was supposed
to be out of hearing.

Creamy came up with outstretched hand in
adieux. She caught her rival's drift, and with
Judy's hand in hers she said in a stage
whisper :

Very possibly, but, you know, a good
leader ' educates his party.' "

Judv, whose equanimity had been quite
restored, in a moment and with the most
impayahle air imaginable returned :

Oh dear no ; it was only a new departure."


Lord Le Pole convoyed the beauties home,
but they found the exclusive exquisite singularly
heavy in hand.

CHAPTER I.

You'll break my hearty thou bonnie bird
That sings upon the bough,
For sae I sat, and sae I sang,
And wist no' o' my fate."

The next day there was a dinner-party at
Seapinks, a few hours before which Judy sent
an excuse. Dulsie had caught a cold, and as
Sybella and the squire were going, she stayed
at home to keep her cousin company. Dulsie
had taken her elder sister's defection greatly
to heart, and Judy could not bear the thought
of her spending a long evening by herself,
nervous under the depression of what might
prove a rheumatic cold, and anxious as to
Mabella's future. She was perhaps not very
sorry for the pretext. She felt the necessity
of taking her feelings, under their present
VOL. m. 33

perturbation, strictly to task. Without one
atom of personal vanity, she was yet too
quick of apprehension not to perceive that
Lord Le Pole was, notwithstanding his insouciant
manner and light badinage when others
were present, thoroughly in earnest in his intentions
reo-ardin<ij her. She knew she would
ere lons have to face, what she too certainly
felt would be, the crisis of her life.

'' Did she love him ? "

Her heart gave but one answer.

But had she not loved Ned Eawson ? Unerringly
came the heart's reply, it incas not
love. Yet it might have been. Yes, she
was sure of that. Had fate not cast Le Pole
in her way perhaps, her mind might not have
suddenly been awakened to its latent powers,
nor she have discovered that her nature had
deeper needs than could be filled by the
merry companion of her quickly-vanishing
girlhood.

He had been at pains, too, she remembered,
to impress upon her the fact, according to
his taking, of the intellectual inferiority of
women. A man, to him, was the world to

himself; into his deeper monitions, his ambitions,
his struggles, his work among men, a
woman might never enter. A wife, however
loved, would be to him, when the first gloss
of possession had worn off, but as his luxurious
country residence is to the city toiler.
There he finds rest from the hurrying to and fro
of the busy mart, luxurious ease for his tired
energies, and beauty for his eyes, wearied of
the dead monotony of brick and stone.

It was necessary, it was natural for a man,
however occupied, however great, to have
lighter moods and to give expression to his
lighter nature. He could not have that utter
relaxation he needed and loved with the stern
mates of his working hours ; it would not be
seemly. Neither could he have that appreciation
his soul craved. !Men were never the
heroes to each other they were to women.

But she should have all within her range

that she could desire or his means bestow ;

all of dress, luxury, amusement. He would

honour hier, be true to her, keep even the

winds of heaven from blowing too roucrhlv on

her, give up to her the all of self outside, not

332

the greater self that was his soul  yet even
that in part should be hers, for she should be
his religion.

All this, Judy knew, Ned would give, all
this he would be to her, and but a few short
weeks ago she did not seem to have wished
for more, to have known that her heart
craved for more. She had dreamt she loved
him. Alas ! from dreams such as these how
many wake too late ! But not little Judy.
The pleasant spell was broken, and she knew
that her lover-friend had

'' Asked for the costliest thing

Ever made by the Hand above,
A woman's heart, a woman's life,
And a woman's wonderful love."

She knew that he had asked

'' For that precious thing

As a child might ask for a toy ;
Demanding what others had died to win,
With the reckless dash of a boy."

But in this hour of silent questioning she
summoned him to " the bar of her woman's
soul," and her heart gave the verdict. There
was no voice to plead for him there.

Then lie thought of that other, so lately
found, yet now so one with her life, it
seemed to her that he must always have been
a part of that life. His voice sounded in her
ear as no other voice had ever sounded, his
eyes haunted her with an all-pervading presence.
She thought of his words. They were
not many, they had not known each other
many days, yet how earnest they were  that
was when they were quite alone. With light
touches what garnered knowledge they told
of, and, too, what depths of human sympathy;
yet it was nothing outward that had made her
captive. Measuring man with man in outward
seeming, Xed had the advantage : and
even in natural graces  truth, honour and
kindliness  he could lose nothing by comparison
: but it was 

The secret svmpatbv,
The silver link, the silent tie,
Which heart to heart and mind to mind
In body and in soul can bind"'

She had placed him, too, at the bar of her
woman's soul, and her heart had driven the
verdict, for love had pleaded for him there.

Came there then the sweet words he had sung
the first day, counting such time by hours, of
their meeting :

Nothing in the world is single,
All things by a law divine
In one another's being mingle,
Why not I with thine ? "

And she knew theirs had mingled. Then
her e3es, soft and yearning, sought the sea
slumbering restlessly in the placid moonlight,
and she wondered with dreamy consciousness
what it was that so instantly had quickened
the unsuspected dormant principle of love
within her breast ; but all of answer the ever-sounding
and mysterious sea gave was "love's
best interpreter, a sigh."

Her gaze travelled back to earth. She felt
the influence of love everywhere, in the living
heavens, in the teeming earth, in the silence
and the shadow. Yet there was no answer to
her quest. Then insensibly to her memory
came the words of the passion-poet Byron :

Why did she love him ? Curious fool, be still ;
f s human love the growth of human will ? "

And Judy, closing her eyes, prayed that hers
might be the growth of the will divine.

She was all alone in the drawing-room.
Diilsie had gone to bed. She had, she said,
a rheumatic chill, and if she took it in time it
might be checked. She wished to be present
at Judy's first ball, so she would take care of
herself. Judy was glad to be alone. The
quick minutes flew, no loneliness had made
time laggard. Quick-coming fancies had
peopled the pleasant chamber. She was
sitting in Dulsie's pillowy chair in the deep
window, the doors of which were open wide.
On the table in the centre of the room was
the large lamp, its. light, at Judy's instance,
lowered. No other light was lit.

Her head leant back on the soft cushion.
Her hands were idly clasped before her. On
her bosom was a bunch of forget-me-nots.
Suddenly a shadow fell on the gravel path
beneath ; she had not heard the step on the
lawn. She started up, and with a face all
aglow with love and pride, with the assured
air of a joyous welcome, Ned Eawson appeared
before her.

Just for a second a guilty feeling of
treachery touched her sensitive consciousness,
but a glance at Xed's jubilant visage restored
her self-possession.

May I come in ? " he asked, laughing with
eyes and lips.

She held out her hand in iireetinii. He
tripped as he stepped on to the matting, and
she laughed. He held her hand in both of
his, and looking down on her with his eyes
full of happiness, said :

I got your message from your mother,
Judy, but you might have written it yourself."

What message ? " was on her tongue ;
she had sent none. But she checked herself
in time ; she did not care to convict her
mother of an untruth.

We are all very glad for your sake," she
said with more warmth than she was aware
of. Her heart smote her, for she did like him
very much  she did not wish to pain him.

Yes," he said, ' it was a great triumph,
and so unexpected, for I thought he would
have run me hard."

Have you taken your seat ? " she asked.

Oh, yes."

I needn't ask on which side," she said ;
I had no idea you were such an ultra-radical,"
and her sweet face, so child-like and
piquant, took a shade of grave concern, her
usual airy pose just a whit of dignity.

Xed started a moment, and then, as if overcome
by an absurdity, burst into a merry laugh.

Ultra-radical ! " he repeated ; " shy,
Judy, who taught you that ? "

The indignant blood mounted to her very
brow, bui that was all her protest. Her eyes
fell on the forget-me-nots in her breast, and
she forgave him. She even answered :

o

I wished to understand things, and so I
read the papers, and Elsie Eber explained
what was difficult. But I did not find the
subject so very difficult, Mr. Eawson, and
when I said you were 'ultra-radical' I
meant you had gone further than your constituency
required."

With an air of badinasfc, but withal tenderness,
Xed floundered on.

'Mr. Eawson !' Judy, you are in a pet. I
humbly beg your pardon ; I did not see your

stockings matched your flowers," and he looked
at the little blue forget-me-nots significantly.

She would not quarrel with him.

"The worse for you," she said lightly ; " I am
true blue. But I do think you might have
drawn the line at the Licensing Bill, Ned." She
looked up at him with frank eyes full of intelligence.
" Ned, you have a strand career
before 3'ou ; won't you make principle your
standard ? You don't approve of that Bill 
I have heard you say so to Mr. Horseman 
you are not opposed to the duke's foreign
policy, and yet you have pledged yourself
against your convictions. I thought better
things of you, Ned."

Could this be the little Judy of but a few
weeks since ? Judy with sharp repartee and
girlish raillery, the best lawn-tennis bat in
the county, the prettiest, longest, dearest,
sweetest little girl that ever fell to a fellow's lot?
for Judy was his lot, that he knew. Why,
it was only a few months since she asked him
what was the use of politics, when there were
so many laws ; and did lawyers make the politicians,
or the politicians the lawyers, and here

lie was arraigning him on " political convictions
" and questioning his "principles." It
was that prig Le Pole, he was sure. Then
he remembered, as in an inspired flash,
that the fellow had worn a sprig of forget-me-nots
the first day of nomination  it
was on his breast  and with a terrible
pang his jealousy took fire. He looked at
her. She was a little pale, and her sweet
eyes were grave ; yet he had never seen
her so lovely, so fresh, so pure. A great
longing swelled in his heart to clasp her in
his strong arms and lay her golden head
on his breast. A protecting, absorbing love
went out from him Only a second-thought
is electric. He stood almost in dumb amazement,
then he said very gently :

' Little Judy, what can women know of
politics ? It is a great and abstruse study, only
fit for a man's strong intellect. Women who
enter upon man's province unsex themselves.
They are queens of their own realms, and
these are  society for the bolder spirits, home
for gentler ones like you."

Alas lor Ned ! One peep into the little

heart swelling indignantly at his tirade, and
he would have turned from the triumph he
had so lately won as from a mocking crown
of tinsel splendour.

She was not pale now ; her eyes glowed
with fire, but they fell on the flowers in her
breast, and she smiled. Then she looked up
at him proudly, but oh, so gently ; he could
have fallen at her feet and worshipped her
where she stood.

I think," she said slowly and clearly, " I
think a woman who cannot enter with a full
apprehending mind into all lier husband does
and knows is not fit to be queen of his home.
A woman's intellect is as keen as a man's ; it
is only a little less in degree, and necessarily
so ; except out of the natural order of things
she is not called on to stand the wear and
tear of the great vocations of man  politics
and commerce and the learned professions 
but she is called on to understand all these
things that she may be his helpmeet, and so
be a part of his innermost life, not merely the
toy of his idle hours. A man who shuts a
woman out of his larger life is no helpmeet

for her. I doubt if he has a larger
life."

A great fear made Xed's heart standstill.


Judy, little Judy," he cried, " some one
has come between us."

He took her hand. She drew it quickly
away ; her face was averted. Again the
colour had left her cheeks, but she was very
erect and very still.

"Some one," he cried with a voice that
seemed to supplicate and demand in one,
some one has been trying to spoil my innocent
dove, my little womanly darling. Nay,
you must hear me. Girl as you are, Judy,
you are a woman, too, and you know  you
have always known 1 love you. You have
let me think you love me, too. I did think so,
and I valued my triumph at Oxminster most
for your sake ; it gave me a career and the
hope of winning you. Do 3'ou forget how
often you urged me to work P Was it only for
my own sake ? "

She shook her head as if in pain, and her
eyes fell on the ground.

I would not write, Judy, and fed on your
message  the message you sent me tlirouo-h
your mother ; for I said I would tell you my
story face to face, and get your answer from
your own sweet lips. I told my uncle about
it. He did not say much at first, or promise
anything, but when he sent me on the invitation
to the ball he wrote me this letter, and I
brought it here to lay it at your feet. It tells
me I am to be his heir, and he bids me bring
my pretty bride home to Janitor Hall. I got
it, Judy, the night I took my seat in the House,
and there was not in that great assembly a
prouder, a happier man. You will come, won't

you, Judy ? You will be my Oh, girl, do

not break my heart. What has turned you to
ice ? You are no coquette. You did not seek to
win my heart, only to throw it aside as you
would a coveted trinket when you were tired
of it. You did love me. Listen to me, Judy.
You shall learn all about politics if you will. I
will be your teacher, darling. Judy, speak tome.
Only lift your eyes ; do not be so still.
Oh, who has come between us ? " He spread
his hands before her in an attitude of appeal,

bending his face, as if by the very force of his
pain to draw hers upwards.

She did lift her eyes. The tears were
streaming from them She placed her palms
in his, and said, speaking as firmly as she could,
Ned, beloved friend, it was all a great
mistake. I do not love you  I never did love
you, and indeed  indeed, I did not know you
loved me as you do."

'' What did you mean then," he demanded
almost fiercely, holding her hands so tightly
the old ring; she wore cut into her finger, but
she did not wince, " what did you mean by
that message, by sending me your ' dear love ' 
these were your words  ' that you were proud
of me, and that the time would be long till

you saw me aoam

?"

''Ned," she whispered, " I did not send }'ou
any message poor mamma imagined I did, I
suppose. I did not even know she had written
to you."

A blank dismay spread over his agitated
face ; he let her hands go and staggered back.

But you knew I loved you," he cried in
mingled pain and anger. " Oh, girl, girl, you

have done an evil thing, you have blighted my
life."

He turned from her, and with a proud
gesture covered his anguished eyes with one
hand.

Poor Judy, it was a terrible ordeal. Her
self-accusation was bitter. She thought her
heart would burst ; she had been playing with
fire, and she had not known it.

"Oh, Ned," she said, vainly checking her
sobs, " I did not know what love was  was
then. If I married you, and did not give you
my whole heart, did not believe in you with
an unquestioning belief, did not feel in every
vein that we were one in one, that you were
my king, my all, then I should blight your life.
I cannot do this, Ned. You have a world in
which there is no place for a wife. I have
awakened, Ned, to my need of a fuller love
than your nature can ever give. All I want,
you have not to give ; what I have to give, you
do not want. Ned, dear Ned, we should but
blight each other's lives. Forgive me."

The tears came in streams, falling on the
pale forget-me-nots.

And be my friend still ; a friend is very
near one's heart, Xed, and I do love you very
dearly, but not with the love that alone makes
marriage holy. I did not think to wound you
so."

She took the hand that hung powerless by
his side. He gave a little shiver at her touch.
She raised it to her lips and kissed it, then she
turned silently away and made as if to leave
the room. But with an uncontrollable impulse
and a great sob of anguish he caught her to his
breast, pressed his lips fiercely on hers, whispering,
" Now I shall always know they were mine
first," and unloosed her, gently steadying her
against the open door at the window, then
plucked the flowers from her breast, and
dashed across the lawn out into the night. So
sudden, so blind his rush, he did not see a
figure standing in the very centre of the green,
under the cover of a bush ; neither did he look
back, or he would have seen it issue from the
gate with a quick defiant step and hasten outwards
to the shore. It was Lord Le Pole.

VOL. m. 34

With centric and eccentric scribbled o'er."

It was nearly twelve o'clock before Ned
returned to his hotel. As he came slowly
along the pavement an intimate acquaintance
could have noted a change in the entire man.
The youth seemed dashed from his face. There
were hard lines round his handsome mouth, a
knit in his smooth brow, and a cold, far-seeking
look in his eyes. He stooped, too, and his
hands were restless.

At the door of the hotel was a rather ancient
travelling-carriage, to which were attached
two rough and sturdy plough-horses. A
servant in loose-fitting country-made livery
and old-fashioned hat with tarnished gold
band was helping a porter in with an old
battered imperial. A venerable-looking, tall
and commanding woman stood in the hall ;
her attire was in keeping with the equipage ;

she lead just vacated a long cloak of brown
satin, with velvet cape, fastened in front by-great
gold clasps, and a bonnet with an elevated
crown and overshadowing leaf, surmounted by
a bird of paradise feather, thick low shoes with
broad ties, and tan-leather gloves. A long
veil of Chantilly lace hung wisely at the side
of her bonnet.

She was to all appearance an invader. The
waiters whispered in the background, and
maids peeped through the side doors affrighted.
Mr. Barnes, the landlord, was standing seemingly
bewildered before her.

As Ned entered he was followed by the
admiral and Mrs. Trelawney. They had been
dining at Leaping?, and had walked home The
tableau was sufro-estive of a breeze

Madam," repeated Mr. Barnes, ' I have
only one vacant room, and that will be
occupied at an early hour tomorrow. I
understood from Mrs. Trelawney," bowing to
that lady, " that you were to be accommodated
at Egbert Lodge."

Miss Le Pole ? " said Catty with a merry

twinkle in her eye, in anticipation of fun, as

342

she came gracefully forward and introduced
herself.

She was received with a court courtesy that
would have done honour to her Devonshire
Grace in the days of the Regency.

The temptation was irresistible ; Catty performed
its fellow with the gravest of faces and
stateliest of miens.

Mr. Egbert told me," she said, " that he
expected you at the Lodge tomorrow. He
will be greatly distressed when he hears you
are here."

Madam," replied Miss Le Pole, " I never
had the slightest intention of being any one's
guest but my own. I suppose, Mr. Barnes,
there is no objection to my using the room
you say is vacant for to-night. I intend to
drive straight home from the ball."

It is so small, madam," said the landlord
in real distress, "it could not possibly hold
your luggage."

He looked at the huge imperial and then
at the multifarious articles heaped on its top,
which were taken from the carriage.

Jonas," cried Catty, wheeling round, but

only in time to see that individual sneaking
off as quickly as his little legs could carry him.

Ned had watched the scene without a sign
that the humour of it touched him. There
was a present hardness on his face that bid
defiance to mirth. As I\Ir. Barnes ceased
speaking, he came forward and with a low
bow placed his room at Miss Le Pole's service.
It was a large airy one," he said, " any nook
did for a bachelor."

Miss Le Pole executed another reverence,
not the less stately for the gracious smile that
accompanied it.

May I ask your name, sir? " she said.

Eawson," he replied, adding as he turned
away ; " I will see my things are cleared out,
that you may get in at once."

Stop, Mr. Eawson," she cried ; "you are
the new member for Oxminster, I presume . "

Xed bowed.

I beg to thank you for your politeness.
I shall not forget it, and if you will honour
me with your company at the Manor House
in September I shall be pleased to turn you
loose among the partridges. Just drop me a

line to say you are coming, and I'll send to
Nettletliorp to meet you."

Ned thanked her indifferently and hastened
away.

Catty, with empressement and sly deference,
now asked if she could be of any use to Miss
Le Pole ; but the old lady, whom nothing ever
escaped, had understood the handsome Irishwoman's
derision. She knew that Catty was
turning her into ridicule, so she replied grimly,
and with old-fashioned pronunciation :

I'm much obliged to you, ma'am, but I
never found ornamental things of much use.
I'm not accustomed to gim-crackery. Pray
don't let my distresses keep you from your
grandfather."

She knew perfectly well the relation the ill-matched
pair bore to each other ; the ring of
the '' Jonas " uttered by Catty had made that
clear.

Catty laughed good-humouredly, heedless
of some ill-repressed tittering. She had a
flawless temper.

Oh, he's my husband," she cried ; " I picked
him up when I was bric-a-brac hunting ;

it's not every days one comes across an antediluvian
admiral. I dote on oddities, ta-ta ; "
and she kissed the tips of her fingers to Miss
Le Pole as she tripped oflT. But suddenly,
throwing her head back, she called out, "It's
not a fancy ball, remember."

Catty's skirt was long. With a saucy fling
she had thrown it full length on the round.
It caught in a basket standing beside the
imperial and upset it ; the contents were eggs,
and eggs are brittle. Full of penitence she
hastened back to the rescue, but to escape
the mess which spread as the eggs rolled over
and over and broke, she jumped upon a large
hamper at a little distance.

I hold you responsible," cried Miss Le
Pole to the distressed landlord. " There were
six dozen in the basket, and the market price
is ten to the shillings."

"Oh, I'll pay," called out Catty, adding ina
stage whisper, " never could resist the
antique."

Madam," said Miss Le Pole in a deep
voice, " don't measure other people's corn by
your bushel."

24 LOVE AND Liking.

At that instant, as if in recognition of a
familiar voice, a loud cackle came from the
hamper on which Catty had taken refuge,
and a goose's head was thrust through the
opening of the lid. She sprang airily to
the ground, gathered her train on her
arm, and hurried away, crying, as a parting-shot
:

Oh, two to one ; I'm off."

Bad tempers and dominant wills  master-minds,
with flattering unction, they are called
generally have the best of it in this world.
For after all peace-lovers are in the majority.
Miss Le Pole was a master-mind, and so far
she had had the best of it with all those with
whom she had come in contact.

She had brought with her, according to her
usual habit of combining business with pleasure,
a quantity of miscellaneous farm and
garden produce, and for fear of any further
mishap she determined, on the spot, to make
Mr. Barnes buy it as it stood. In vain he
protested that the hotel gardens kept the house
provided with vegetables and fruit, that he
bought his geese, when in season, ready for the

fire, and that for the matter of poultry the
yards were full to repletion.

Miss Le Pole let him protest, she meanwhile
making a calculation in a memorandum book,
which finished, she ruthlessly interrupted him.

Total value," she said, " sixty-three shillings
; allowed for broken efrs ; you can settle
with me in the morning. You'll find them all
riofht and a bargain, no wear and tear of
market, no carriage to pay, not a stale cabbage
leaf or burst gooseberry. I see to everything
myself."

It was getting late, the town clock chimed
half-past twelve. The carriage had rumbled
off to its lodgement, the maids, one bv one,
had disappeared, only one waiter and the
beleaguered landlord were left ; the latter was
simply helpless. Lord and Lady Albany were
his honoured guests ; this, their relative, was
not a person to offend. Then he took comfort
in the recollection of the good things he had
heard said of her vendible  they were always
of prime quality and never overpriced. Besides,
every porter had gone, something must be
done, the live stock could not stay in the hall

all night ; goodness knew how many cocks
there were, they'd be sure to crow, indeed it
was getting on to morning, lied better be
quick ; if he didn't close at once she, maybe,
wouldn't let the hampers be moved outside, and
if any of them were smothered she'd hold him
responsible. As it was, the eggs would be a
dead loss ; he was afraid they wouldn't do for
omelettes, so all things considered, he gave his
head one last vigorous shake, and closed.

Hang it," he said to himself, " I'll make a
dash at it. I'll pay on the nail and then it's
off my mind."

With that he counted out three sovereigns
and three shillings, which Miss Le Pole, who
had been returning her memorandum-book
to some mysterious receptacle within the
precincts of her outer garments, and gathering
up some small paper parcels, received
with a business nod, saying :

No need of a receipt for ready-money
transactions," and under the convoy of her
purchaser she went off to bed.

There are two classes of persons to whom
people are chary of owning kinship, poor

relations and relations who are eccentric.
On the whole, eccentricity is easier condoned
than poverty. It happens, too, that when the
eccentricity is associated with any rare gift ora
dash of the divine particular aurce or, better
still, accompanies money, it is awarded a consideration
seldom accorded to merit barren
of these adventitious accessories. To be a
character " is to be, within very wide limits,
irresponsible to society above or outside its
uses and habits.

From this standpoint the noble family of
Albany regarded their very unique relative,
Miss Sarah Le Pole  Sally she was called in
the primitive days of her youth. Ship, had
money and landed property, she was a person
of consideration  though it could hardly be
conceded that she was a considerate person 
she was an individual, in fact, at whose
approach people tucked their feet under
their chairs, metaphorically speaking, or met
her keen eyes with a fatuously deprecatory
look; they were never sure what she might
do or say  the possibilities of eccentricity are
undefined.

Since the appearance of little Judy Aylmere
on the scene, with the certainty, should she
survive the present family, of the Egbert
property, that portion of the old estate
owned by Miss Le Pole had acquired an
importance beyond its actual worth, which
was considerable. Drawn once more within
its ancient boundary it would make, with the
larger portion still retained by its original
owners, an estate of very considerable pretensions,
and, incorporated with the at present
heavily-burdened lands of Marlby Grange, a
property second to none in the county of

shire, the vast acveme of which boasted

of fewer owners in proportion than any
other county in England. It was a stake
worth social martyrdom to win. But, like all
fanciful people. Miss Le Pole was a very uncanny
person to circumvent. She was not
amenable to delicate attentions ; she was
inaccessible to affectionate solicitude ; nay, so
capricious was she by nature, it was impossible
to turn her weaknesses to account, and she did
not need, so was not open to, sympathy in her
pursuits. Her immediate relations said she

was void of family affection ; of her more
distant relations she knew nothing. Au reste
she was not ill-natured, she was not inhospitable,
but if her idiosyncrasies were pronounced
her virtues were negative. She seldom went
out of her way to do any one a good turn,
though she was capable of doing substantial
kindnesses on the impulse of the moment,
and she acknowledged no claim on her heart
or substance of living being. In a loose sort
of way she responded to the feeble efforts of
her nephew, Lord Albany, to keep up the
fiction of family sociability. She went now
and again, generally when she had business
in the neighbourhood, to call on " my niece
Albany," and at one time had honoured Le
Pole with no small degree of notice. Perhaps
if he had shown an agricultural bent, she
might have allowed her incipient liking to
grow, but when she saw that under him, asunder
his father, such matters would be
relegated to a steward, she dropped him out
of that loose receptacle she called her
affections, and on his declining to attend
an agricultural show at which she had a litter

of pigs, lie cancelled a considerable bequest
she had made in his favour.

But Miss Le Pole was a woman of many
wills, as her vainly remonstrant business agent
Avould some day testify. At the date of this
story, had she been gathered to her fathers,
she would have departed intestate, in which
case her nephew Albany would have inherited
as heir-at-law.

But, as is inherently the case in natures of
cold affections. Miss Le Pole was singularly
alive to sentiment. In her earlier years she
dignified it by the name of love. The scent
of the roses still hung round the name of
Egbert, and, unknown to herself, this was the
spring that had roused her to emerge from her
retreat.

In accordance with her fixed habit of seeing
to everything with her own eyes, aiding in
everything where practicable with her own
hands, Miss Le Pole had superintended the
refurbishing of a very magnificent court dress
and the adapting of it to a ball costume in the
fashion of the day. A country dressmaker
who went out by the day, and who was responsible

for Miss Le Pole's usual attire,
remodelled the rich velvet and lace with a
very satisfactory result ; the lace was exquisite
Venetian point, and in itself would have
condoned both poverty of stuff and rusticity
of make, but Miss Le Pole was a woman of
parts, and understood what was required of
her. The body fitted to admiration, was upto
date in cut, and the train of the orthodox
length, rich with a Venetian point, which
also draped the skirt, and a magnificent
shawl of priceless value enveloped her figure.
Diamonds of rare lustre studded the stomacher
and encircled her neck and head, which last
was dominated by a court plume springing
from a refulgent agrafe.

As Miss Le Pole entered the ball-room Lord
Albany experienced a lively sense of gratitude
to his venerable relative ; she had done justice
to her station and to him. Neither youth
nor beauty elicited deeper sentiments of admiration,
or rank, of which there was an
august sprinkling, of awe than the ancient
and eccentric aunt of the Earl of Albany.
The metamorphosis was startling. There

were those in that exclusive assembly who had
last seen the strong-minded spinster in a dun
coat and mushroom hat driving a tax-cart to
market. Others who had chaffered with her
over a doubted heifer at the fair at Nettlethorp,
and one, at any rate, who had been an eyewitness
of her adroitness in mocking styes.
A pair of gold eye-glasses, sparkling with
diamond dust, was suspended from her neck
by a slight Trichinopoly chain. The effect of
these when she levelled them at an object was
bewildering. Catty afterwards affirmed that
Mr. Green, under their operation, staggered
back, landing in Dulsie's arms, and that on
recovering his perpendicular he had made
hastily for the door, declaring that he had sunstroke.
Then she carried her height, five feet
ten, as Miss Prance said, " like a duchess,"
and moved, Miss Turner, the spiral young
lady, observed to Mr. Flaggg, like a
barbaric empress of Woman traditions," to
which informing illustration that gentleman
adapted a name, and that was Zenobia.

"Ah, yes, Zenobia," sighed Miss Turner;
'' how types recur, classic types especially.

A great psychological mystery, particularly
noses."

Mr. Flags cave an answering]: siiih and
said:

Yes, Woman noses."

VOL. in. 35

Oh-what damned minutes tells be o'er,
AVho dotes, yet doubts ; suspects, yet fondly loves."

Judy, pale as the palest blush-rose, sat out
the first dance, for the partner for whom she
had reserved her hand had left by an early
train that mornings for London. A sudden
summons, it was understood. There were
many who would gladly have taken the place
of the absentee, but Judy had a ready excuse
for all. She sat very still under a shading
myrtle at the very top of the room. Lord Le
Pole opened the ball with Mrs. Beaumorris.
He also, like his ancient relative, seemed
metamorphosed. The opening dance was a
quadrille, through which he glided with
dilatory step, as if motion were compulsory
and existence a something' in which he had
neither part nor interest. He posed as simply
a well-bred automaton, obedient to the
mechanism of society.

* Richard is himseK again," said Creamy
languidly as, the dance over, they walked
round the room. " It is positively refreshing
to see you refriorerated. You have found out,
as I did long: aofo, that emotion is a blunder."

' Nay, divine Creamy," he returned, meeting
her glance with one as warm, " you
confound the effect with the cause. It is a
woman dio is ' one of mature's agreeable
blunders.' "

And therefore the cause of blunders," she
whispered meaningly; "and a pr6>/;(96'"  she
looked round the room as if struck by a
sudden thought  "where is your rival? in
politics, I mean, of course." This with
another significant glance, which elicited only
an imperceptible curl of the lip. " He was to
have been here ; I know he arrived yesterday."


They had reached the seat occupied by
Judy, and after a formal greeting on Lord Le
Pole's part, wdiichjust for the moment brought
a scared look into the girl's eyes, Creamy continued
:

"Perhaps Miss Aylmere knows."

352

Lord Le Pole placed his partner in a vacant
chair and bowed.

Knows what ? " asked Judy.

"Where Neddy is," cried Catty, bringing
up a Colonel Bolton, who had asked to be
introduced to Judy. She had been close
behind Creamy, and had heard just enough
to make her jump to the conclusion that it
was Mr. Eawson whose whereabouts was in
question.

"I'm sure I don't know," said Judy with
spirit and not a little hauteur, resenting the
battery of eyes turned on her tell-tale face, but
her heart absolutely quivering with pain. " I
was engaged to him for the first dance, but he
lias not come to claim me, so I've been doing
wall-flower," and she tried to laugh. " He
cometh not," she added.

"I am aweary, aweary," lisped Creamy,
slowly fanning herself.

Judy's ees looked dangerous. Le Pole?
watching her covertly, stood apart. " Little
traitress," his heart was saying, throbbing
painfully the while.

lyell," exclaimed Catty in genuine surprise,

" you do astonish me ;" then lapsing into
a Milesianism by no means usual with her she
added, " Sure, he went off by the first train to
London this mornings. I wouldn't have been
a wall-flower for the Prime Minister himself,
let alone the 'junior member,' as Miss Prance
calls him."

She then introduced Judy, and floated away
on the arm of her partner for the next dance,
for which the orchestra was giving warning
notes.

For the next dance ? " asked the colonel.

Engaged' was the low answer, the colour
returning to her pale cheeks.

'' The next, then ? "

Engaged," was the answer again ; but
looking at her card she entered his name low
down in the list, and with evident chao-rhi the
gallant officer, who had a reputation as a
lady-killer, bowed himself ofl* in quest of a
substitute.

This is ours, I think," said Lord Le Pole,
coming forward just as Creamy had been
claimed by one of her "reserves," and holding
out Lis arm to Judv.

The music, a waltz, struck up ; there was
no time for a word, and the questioning timid
look she hazarded was to eyes gazing coldly
at the bright scene.

They were perfect dancers, but they might
have been marionettes as far as the sentient
quality of the motion was present to either.
Yet with her little hand clasped tightly in his,
her golden head against his shoulder, touching
it ever and again, and his arm encircling
her slight figure, Le Pole for a passionate
moment felt he would be content thus to die ;
and Judy, his breath fanning her cheek, the
touch of his hand, cold and careless though it
was, thrilling her troubled breast, Judy with
a great yearning wished they could thus float
out together on the stilly night, away to some

Isle unknown,
Where they might live, love, die alone."

But the music ceased, and they awoke to cold
life again.

They walked round the room, greeting acquaintances,
exchanging light nothings with
the gay and careless, making an idle remark

to each Other now and again, but not once
looking' each other in the face. Ao-ain the
band summoned the dancers, this time to a
lively polka, and when the gay strains ceased
Le Pole placed his partner beside her mother,
taking: leave of her with an indifferent bow.

Wherever is Mr. Eawson, Judy ? " said Mrs.
Aylmere, " every one is talking ; perhaps Sir
Janitor has had a fit. Miss Prance says he
vas seen walking on the beach last night ; he
wasn't at the Lodge, was he ? " and she looked
with sudden suspicion in her child's face.

Mother, you torture me," said Judy, her
heart bursting.

Mrs. Admire was for the moment appalled
at the agitation Judy displayed and which
she vainly strove to suppress, but she was wise,
and forbore further questioning for the present.
Silently she slipped a vinaigrette into her
child's hand, and began fanning herself so that
the air evoked should cool the heated cheeks.
Then Judy was claimed for the next dance.
As on her partner's arm she passed away, she
heard her name linked with that of the absent
member for Oxminster. Standing aside, after

the first two or three rounds of the dance, she
saw Creamy posing against a pillar ; her back
was towards her, and by her side, looking into
her great languishing eyes as if there were no
other object to him in that glittering throng,
was Lord Le Pole. She stood fascinated,
wondering if whether or no her heart would
break, if it were quite true what Sybella was
always saying, " That men, men of the world,
make amusement out of simple girls ; that once
they had won a heart they ceased to value it,
and that it was their pride to show their
power." She wondered all this and in pain.
Then she heard her own name whispered by
Creamy  a whisper in a crowd travels further
than words spoken loudly  accompanied
by a little jeering laugh, which  yes, she
was sure of it  Le Pole echoed. Her eyes
lit up, her bosom swelled. Le Pole looked
round, their glances met, hers hot and
defiant, too proud for reproach, his coldly
contemptuous, and yet his heart misgave him,
for her lips trembled, and he saw it, and again
her soft young cheek blanched.

Just for a second the thought flashed

through her brain, " Could it be, could anyone
have whispered to him untruths about her,
and  and Xed ? " And simultaneously, too,
the thought rushed on Le Pole, " Could it be
possible, could he have misjudged her ? She
looked so strange, and the triumphant lover
was not there." Only for a fleeting second the
yearning sympathy going insensibly out from
the hearts drifting asunder mingled with restraining
force, only a second, then

You are too slight and fickle," he said,
to trouble the heart of Edward Gray."

There are no tricks in plain and simple
faith," she said, pride swelling in her indignant
heart. But pretty Judy Aylmere was
the belle of the ball. Neither the magnificent
Catty nor the great London beauty could hold
their own against the freshness and the bloom,
the exquisite sweetness of the young girl unblemished
by the world. And in all that gay
assemblage there did not seem a lighter heart.
Poised on pleasure's wing, " a gay little rover,"
she flitted from partner to partner, from dance
to dance, her eyes sparkling and her lips
alive with smiles and wit.

The squire followed her airy movements
with loving eyes ; Dulsie and Sybella, too,
with mingled pride and affection. Only Elsie
of all her friends watched the winsome girl
with a doubting heart, only she discovered,
with the unerring instinct of a fateful experience,
that the brightness and joyousness
were but sparks from a smothered lire, which
too surely she guessed was consuming her
heart.

Almost from the first, by that fateful experience,
she had guessed her girl-friend's
secret  only guessed, delicate natures like
Judv's are not given to crushing: confidences 
and had seen with gladness the pure bud of
love opening to perfect bloom. She had
recognized, too, that Le Pole was worthy of
her in a way that Ned could never be, yet by
no unworthiness in himself ; and that night she
had seen, with quick intuition, the blight
descend on the bloom.

She saw her, as if for the moment dazed,
sitting the dance so many begged in vain.
Then the pale bewilderment with which she
rose when, coldly indifferent, Le Pole claimed

her hand ; the listlessness of her perfect
dancing, the hard precision of his ; the wondering,
innocent look of suffering, too deep
for tear or sigh ; then the sudden rally, the
proud flush, the slight toss of the drooping
head, and the defiant gaiety which only to
Elsie had no ring of heart-joy.

Le Pole saw nothing of this. Jealousy and
anger had blinded his eyes. But unknown to
himself, by no Voluntary action of his outer
self, his face was ever towards the part of the
room in which she was, and over the music,
above the hum of voices, and through the
rustle and clang of the passing to and fro, her
voice was ever in his. ear.

Not so with Judy. With that sharp rally
she had shut him down in her heart, and lived
but for the triumph of her hour.

An archaic quadrille now and again gave
rest to the waltzers, and in Fete the squire
and Miss Le Pole revived the dignified motion
of their terpsichorean days. A blue-ribbon
steward, inspired by the daring Catty, to
whose blandishments he had incontinently
succumbed, proposed a minuet to the pair.

He did not see fit to urge his proposal,
but with a deprecatory bow sidled into
the covert of the crowd. The diamond-spangled
eyeglasses elevated on the loftT-
arch of the lady's nose gave him an
unusual sensation of relative smallness, and
the squire's dignified reproof  that they were
there for their own amusement, not for that
of others  a sense of shame and irritation,
which made him for the rest of the evening
chary of the fascinating Irishwoman.

Ari ! now, you didn't think I was in
earnest ? " she exclaimed as if horrified at his
temerity. '' Well, well, you Englishmen are
ninnies now. Just imagine any one asking
you to dance a hornpipe," and with eyes full
of raking mischief she stepped a pace or
two backwards and surveyed the somewhat
starched official, who was young and consequential.


Catty was impayahle. It was diverting to
watch the deft cozenaoe with which she
managed her irascible husband. His wife's
triumphs had long ceased to appeal to his
pride. He had discovered that he was keeping

a brilliant and expensive toy for the idle
gratification of those who, not envying him ashe
had intended they should, despised him,
and for the utter annihilation of his domestic
life. From the senile admiration which he
had called love, and the vanity which had
glamoured him into the belief that the young
and beautiful woman returned his love, he was
roughly awakened ; but Catty had a fascination
all her own  she could witch him out of his
most savage moods, could make him for the
moment believe, against the evidence of his
own senses, that the handsome, gallant-looking
men with whom she flirted, and who hung
over her in a way she did not encourage him
to do, were no more to her than she was to
them  the idle pastime of the hour  that her
real love was his and his only. Then she
would wind her arms round his neck, and bend
down her head, which towered over his, to his
shoulder, call him an old goosey-gander, and
kiss him into penitence for his crossness.

"But, Catty," he said one day peevishly,
after such a scene, " it seems to me you
always choose good-looking fellows for

your pastime, and always young ones,
too."

Of course, Jonas clear ; it would never do
to play with fne. Young men don't understand
the real tiling."

And for the time Jonas was satisfied, laying
the flattering unction to his heart that she had
found the real thing in him. But she was
attentive to him in her own way, and, as if in
some sort of compensation, saw to his creature
comforts assiduously. What she might drift
into she was too thoughtless to fear ; her
safety for the present lay in the light gaiety
of a heart that as yet had not learnt to love.

The squire, at Miss Le Pole's request, presented
Judy to her. The radiant girl, through
whose brain a train of recent memories dashed
the turret of the Hall and the squire's confidences
 glanced timidly in her face as she
gave her hand to the keen-eyed old woman,
who looked her, as she afterwards told Dulsie,
through and through. The scrutiny seemed
satisfactory to the venerable lady ; she did not
level her eye-glasses at Judy. She spoke some
kindly words to her, made the squire promise

to bring her to the Manor House, complimented
lier on her dancing and then, action
some gossip which had reached her ear
that evening, asked her what had prevented
Mr. Eawson from being present.

"I expected him," Judy replied quietly.
I kept the first dance for him."

Miss Le Pole nodded as if pleased.

He'll be an honour to his country, I am
sure," she said, " a man of purpose, not a
mooning idler," and she raised her glasses and
turned them in the direction of Le Pole, who
was devoting himself, as be had done all the
time he could spare from his duties as steward,
to the lovely Creamy.

Do you like the country ? " she asked of
Judy.

With a bright responsive look Judy said :

Oh, yes, I'm a hedge, not a town, sparrow.
I love the country ; but then," she added artlessly,
" Pve never been much in towns, and
I've never seen London."

Good,' said Miss Le Pole, " keep her
away from brick and mortar, Mr. Egbert.
Cities are soul-destroying and body-defiling;

they make women of the men and men of the
women. ' God made the country, but man
the town.' "

Then the squire introduced Judy to Lady
Albany, who received her with more than
civility  with marked favour  giving her an
invitation to spend two days at Marlby Grange.
But Judy, shrinking back, refused; she was
going to the Hall soon, she said, and then she
hoped to call at the Grange with her cousins,
but she could not leave home just then.

Lord Albany was not pleased with what he
had been on the alert to notice at the ball.
He saw that his son avoided the pretty heiress,
and he noted  he was not a deep-seeing
observer  that she seemed indifferent. They
did not understand each other as, from very
palpable signs he noted on previous occasions,
he had hoped they did ; things were going
against him.

Later in the night Elsie danced with Le
Pole. She was, as always, in black. This
night she wore silver flowers in her breast
and on her dress. They danced their waltz,
then strolled into the balcony and stood talking

for nearly half-an-hour. Ylien they returned
to the ball-room Elsie was mistress
of some electioneering facts, which, before she
retired to rest, she noted in a book of memoranda.
Only incidentally she had named
Judy, and then with some apparently careless
words, which, however, made the mark they
were intended to make.

Something has gone wrong with my little
friend Judy," she said.

Yhy," laughed Le Pole with a harsh
laugh, " she is the gayest of the gay. She
has come out in quite a new light, an airy
coquette."

"Men never see below the surface," was the
reply.

Taking it all in all, it was a very successful
ball, the greatest social success Sandycot had
as yet achieved. No palpable contretemjys had
occurred, and every one had received consideration.
Lady Albany and her daughters
had been gracious, and Lord Le Pole an
attentive steward. The dresses had been
fresh and in the extreme of fashion, not the
cast-offs of a London campaign, with the
VOL. m, 36

marks of active service on their facings, and
bearing in their passe tout ensemble an air of
indifference to the company.

Miss Prance, refulgent in vivid gold satin
and crimson cacti, ambled and surveyed in a
waltz with Lord Le Pole, but after the second
round, slightly giddy from such eccentric
caprioles, the latter proposed a tete-tete in the
little impromptu conservatory leading out of
the verandah. Sleek Miss Prance, bridling
with exaltation, and installed amidst towering
pots of foliage, treated her partner to some particular
confidences. From her he learnt that,
suddenly reversing his previous intentions,
the millionaire city knight had given out that
his nephew was to be his sole heir, and that
his pride at Ned's defeating a " real nob " in
the political arena was so great, he had been
heard to say that he should cut him out with
the Egbert heiress, that '' money should not
stand in his way."

Then Miss Prance from behind her fan,
with a confidential croak in her voice, asked
was it really true that Lord Le Pole was Mr.
Eawson's rival in that issue also ; to which

Lord Le Pole replied by fearing his taste took
a more ambitious direction, that he admired
women of presence  Miss Prance arched her
glossy neck  and being of an erratic turn of
mind looked for some one to check his impulses.
Miss Prance smiled as if already she
had the reins in her hand.

"My impression," she said in a half whisper,
' my impression is that the young lady flies
too high. She went great lengths with Mr.
Eawson, that I know for a fact ; indeed, I
have heard her call him ' Xed ; ' but I rather
think she has thrown him over, and ' between
two stools,' you know. I saw him last night
pass my window about nine o'clock with a
step like a conqueror, and not an hour later
he dashed under it again on his way to the
beach like a man off his head. I really was
terrified, and I shall be very glad when I hear
he is safe at Janitor Hall. Don't you think a
flirt the most odious object in nature, my
lord ? " to which his lordship replied :

Xot quite."

The great carriage, with its rough farm-horses,
stood waiting at the door of the town

362

hall, where the ball had been held, for its
precious consignment of gems and lace, in the
person of Miss Le Pole. It was not far off
three o'clock, and it was a twenty miles' drive
to the Manor House. Miss Le Pole, wrapped
in her satin cloak and soft woollen shawl
thrown hoodwink over her ornamental head,
came on her grand nephew Le Pole's arm. The
succeeding carriage was the Egbert one, and
Judy and her cousins stood in the deep porch
waiting their turn.

The light had already begun to fade in the
fair girl's eyes, and her cheeks had only the
faintest tinge of colour to relieve them from
dead white. The air was, if not chilly, just a
little fresh, and not a gleam of dawn showed
in the eastern sky. There was no outer sound
save the distant splash of the incoming tide
and the far-away murmur of its waters. Inside,
the Sandycot contingent, relieved from the
restraining presence of what it termed the
swells," had mustered in Sir Power de
Coverley, and from the merry shouts of
laughter, not the muffled peals alone permissible
in " good " society, it was evident

they were going to finish up with a notification.


With cigar in hand, ready for lighting,
Colonel Bolton stood beside Judy. He was
evidently, as Miss Prance would have said,
very far gone," but it was very doubtful if
Judy was aware of his presence. In vain he
bent to her ear ; all his usually successful
blandishments and the battery of his eyes
were to Judy as pantomime to the blind ; her
heart was still and cold within her motionless
breast.

You are tired," he said at last, not a little
chagrined.

His voice was natural. She started.

I suppose I am"" and she smiled. " This
has been unwonted dissipation for Sandycot."

Next year," he said sentimentally " you
will not be tired, only endured ; I wish I could
be fresh again."

Next year," she repeated mechanically as
the Egbert carriage replaced the cumbersome
vehicle which had lumbered off with its
valuable freight, " next year ; it sounds such
a long time, but some hours are longer," and

she bade him good night, but did not take his
offered hand.

Le Pole heard the low, sad words, and his
heart smote him. He made a step as if to
take the squire's place and hand her into the
carriage. Their eyes met ; in a flash all softness
vanished, and drawing her snowy hood
close under her chin she looked him in the
face with cool contempt, and without flurry or
haste took her seat beside Sybella.

There was not a more miserable man in
Sandycot, or Sandycot's wide country round,
that night, than the unsuccessful candidate
for Oxminster.

An early train in the morning took Elsie to
London, and by the afternoon such visitors as
had come for the express purpose of the ball
had taken their departure also. Of these only
Le Pole lingered. He had accompanied his
mother and one of his sisters in a call at Gilbert
Lodge, but only Sybella appeared. Dulsie was
complaining of renewed chill, and Doctor
Prance had ordered her to bed. Judy was off
on a long ride alone. By the last train he returned
to Nettlethorp without again seeing her.

Married passed redemption."

Time squire occasionally, and Dulsie most
mornings, heard from Mabella. The letters
were generally short and for the most part
taken up with details relating to the home-farm
and the conservatory, with now and then
the mention of some visitors. She rarely
mentioned her husband. Latterly she had
said that he found the country dull.

The time was drawing near for the family
to return to the Hall ; the squire was uneasy
about the crops, which were all cut ; he was
counting the days for his release.

About three days before that fixed for the
giving up of the Lodge to Mabella for her
future home, as arranged, the squire received
from her a longer letter than usual. After
perusing it he put it in his pocket, and bringing
his breakfast to an abrupt conclusion crept

silently away to his little study. He had aged
much of late, had suddenly, as it were, grown
down, and his nerve seemed broken. Dulsie,
Sybella, and Judy, too, noted these changes
with anxious hearts. They, too, longed to
return to the Hall, hoping that his old pursuits
Avould rouse his interest in life and perhaps
restore his waning vigour.

This same morning Judy also received a
letter with the postmark of Nettlethorp on
the envelope.

Who is your correspondent, Judy ? " asked
Sybella, who always, when lie had the
opportunity, examined the outsides of the
letters that came by post.

It is from Peters," she said. " Gloriana
has taken the gold medal;" but she did not
offer to give Sybella the letter to read. This
would not have passed without remark, but
at this instant the page brought Judy a
summons from the squire.

The horse, I suppose," said Dulsie to
Sybella.

I suppose so. How ill papa looks," she
added. " Mabella's vile conduct has struck

his death-blow. I suspect matters are not as
smooth as honey at the Hall. I'm quite prepared
to hear lie is a swindler."

The squire was sitting in his easy-chair.
He held in his hand a business-looking letter.

Judy dear," he said as the girl with loving
solicitude came close to his side, " Judy, my
child, poor ]arabella is in great trouble. I
want you to go to her  Dulsie is not able  she
is in a critical state with her heart, and Isabella
is out of the question  I do not feel
equal to it, so I am going to ask you to be
my deputy."

Judy's ready kiss assured the old man she
would be a willing: messenger, but she did
not give him the letter she had received from
Peters to read ; she contented herself with
telling him the contents in part. These were
already known to him.

"Major Tyler is in immediate want of two
thousand pounds," said the squire. "If he
does not get it at once, he "will be served with
a writ at the Hall. Mabella does not in so
many words ask me to give the money ; indeed
I am just a Httle doubtful if she really

wishes him to have it. I fancy, dear, she
has had her eyes opened, and is bitterly repenting
her folly. But I shall give it. The
disgrace of a writ was never known inside
the old keep, Judy, and if I can prevent it,
it shall not be while I live. But I do not
care to trust such a sum through the post.
Mabella may not get the post-bag, and as in
any case I only recognize her claim on me,
I wish to send the money direct to her own
hand, and so, dear, I want you to take it, and
to-day."

Judy said she would soon be ready, but
would cousin Egbert make it right with
Sybella ? Which cousin Egbert said he would
do.

Grant, the old butler, will accompany
you, my dear. He does not talk. If you
stay over tomorrow, write to me and give
Grant the letter to post."

All this Judy promised to do.

And oh, Judy," said the old man as she
left the room to get ready for her journey, " I
have had a letter from Lord Albany. It seems
that there was bare-faced bribery on Mr.

Eawson's side at the Oxminster election, and
he wishes Le Pole to appeal. He has been
busy collecting evidence ever since the ball.
I fear his own agent, Eout, sold him. It will
be an ugly case. But Le Pole, it appears, is
not willing. He does not wish his name
mixed up with squabbles, he says. It would
be an expensive matter, and as he did not
stand on pure conservative principles he
could not expect any help from the Carlton
Club, though he is a member."

I am sure," returned Judy, " Xed  that
is, Mr. Eawson  did not countenance anything
dishonourable. He is such a thorough
Englishman, cousin Egbert."

Yes, he is' a fine young fellow, I think ;
but, Judy dear, all corporations have their
own code of morals, but with so many bye-laws,
I begin to think, as Addison says, ' The
post of honour is a private station.' Custom,
too, that specious word, justifies wide divergence
from the simple but hard and fast
writing of Mount Sinai'; and to the old saying,
'Everything is fair in love and war,' politics
should be added."

"I'll tell you what, cousin Egbert," Judy
spoke hotly  was there really a wider gap
between her soul and Ned's ?  " a man who
would cheat at politics, would cheat at cards.
They are both games of skill, and if honouris
a mere scutcheon, its motto is sans
tacher

Judy was on what the squire was wont to
call ' her high horse." At such times she
was given to some very sharp-shooting, and,
some said, was deaf to what they called reason ;
but Judy was always deaf to the reason her
clear insight recognized as sophistry.

The squire smiled as he looked lovingly at
the enthusiastic girl.

I was always of opinion," he said, " that
Le Pole would have won had the fight been
fair, or if he had used his opponent's weapons,
but that means money."

"And," fired off Judy, "dishonesty. No,
no ; with him, at any rate, it is noblesse
oblige''

She stayed a moment, half turned to leave
to get ready for her journey. Her young
face had a touch of age in the fret of the

mouth and the knit of the brow, her eyes
had a questioning surprise.

Cousin Egbert," she said in a strange
voice, half pain, half pride, " can birth have
anything to do with it all ? "

The " all " bracketed the two men she
did not specify ; she trusted to her cousin's
intuition, which did not fail him.

Don't you know what your favourite poet
Burns says ?

' The king may mak' a belted knight,
A marquis, duke, and a' that ' ''

Yes, yes," she interrupted him, just a little
impatiently, " I know no one can make a
man honest if he is not so in himself; but if
birth has given him a noble name, traditions,
and old family property, don't you think he
knows that more is required of him than of
the man who is what Sybella calls ' his own
architect ' ? "

It was the squire's turn to interrupt, and he
did so gently, but gravely.

By whom, Judy ? " he said.

She did not answer ; he did for her.

"It is a poor life's work when the world is
the only taskmaster, child."

Judy went impulsively up to the old man
and kissed him ; the fret and question gone
from her expressive face, which mirrored her
heart as a clear lake mirrors the sunlit sky.

Only one word," she said, " and then I'm
off."

She was trying to speak lightly, but the
squire saw she felt keenly.

You don't believe, do you, that Ned knew
of this jobbery ? "

No, I think he was so busy ' grating ' "
he smiled meaningly  " that he had no time
to look after his agent. He was fresh to the
thing, too, not up to the tricks of the trade ;
but, Judy "  and he was serious now  " his
election bills must have opened his eyes."

"And then?" she questioned what already
her heart had answered.

Again Bobbin Burns," he replied.

'' ' Where'er ye feel your honour grip,
Let that be aye your border.' "

Sadly Judy went to attire herself for the
journey.

The prize was great, it was won ; Lis
intentions had been honourable ; he could
justify himself to himself, but he was not
called on to suffer for the ill-doing: of others."
This, she instinctively felt, would be the
argument ; to which her heart gave answer,
Better to suffer than to gain by ill-doing."

Then she wondered, with a sorely wounded
spirit, what Le Pole would have done had he
been in Ked"s place. She knew people called
him a jurist, and then she thought a purist a
very noble thing.

Before leaving the room she re-read the
letter she had received from Peters that
morning;. It ran :  -

Honoured Miss, 

'' This is to tell you, in hopes I will bethe
first in the field, as Gloriana has doomed
in first at the Show, as was to be expected,
but all the same what we all bees proud
about. The gold medal's main handsome.

But, honoured Miss, I fear as poor little
Tim's having' a bad time of it. Giles doomed
to me, and ses as how he is no scholar, or

he'd have writ you himself, he would ; he ses,
as he alius does, as the little beast's only
garment, but he knows you're set on him
almost as Miss Egbert, her as is Mrs. Tyler
now, an' it's on his mind to tell you as there's
mischief meant him, meaning Tim ; so,
honoured Miss, if it could fit as you could
come an' see Gloriana after the Show,
which was yesterday, you might take Tim
along of you. He bees a rare one at
rats, an' he's never kantankerus to them as
is good to him, and for the matter of that
as is good in themselves, begging pardon,
honoured Miss, for any reflex shuns on the
family, leastways them as belongs to the
family now  more's the pity.

Your humble servant,

Ted Peters,
Stateroom to Squire Egbert."

If he does," said Judy as she thrust the
letter into a drawer and locked it, " if he
does" she doubled her little fist "I'll
yes, by Jove, I will  I'll tear his eyes
out."

Judy, considerably relieved, took lier way
downstairs.

By the squire's direction Grant telegraphed
to the housekeeper, Mrs. Carter, who informed
Mabella of Judy's approach.

Oh, then," said Mabella, " I'll wait till
after luncheon to go to Giles' cottage. Miss
Judy will be sure to want to see him. He's
much better, the major says."

She may not be here much before two,
ma'am. ]mr. Carter said it would be just a
chance their catching the first train."

Judy is coming, Geoffrey," said Mabella
to Major Tyler, who entered the room as Mrs.
Carter left it.

The handsome major was in desJiahille, and
it did not become him. He had, in fact,
not lout risen. This was the first time
Mabella had seen him that day. An old
velveteen shooting-coat, bracelets trousers,
and crumpled shirt composed his attire. His
feet were inclosed in tarnished Turkey
slippers, and on his head was an equally
tarnished gold-embroidered smoking-cap  he
had been smoking. A dilapidated air hung
VOL. m. 37

round the entire man ; an endured, discontented
roue look stamped his face, which, lacking the
auxiliary of make-up, showed tell-tale marks
of unsuspected years.

The deuce," he said, lounging over to his
wife's writing-table and examining some
envelopes lying on the latter. " What's up ?
You've heard from your father, then. Is he
ioinof to do it ? "

Geoffrey, I have already told you I will
not allow you to touch my letters."

Mabella rose and locked the drawer of the
table, snatching an envelope out of her
husband's hands.

It is only menials who pry into other
people's letters."

"Heyday, my line lady," returned the
major, coolly catching Mabella's wrist with
one hand, while with the other he forced the
letter from her grasp, " ' other people ' indeed !
lay down the law, will you ? " Throwing
the letter down he secured both hands.
Now, Mrs. Tyler, one word for all. I may
not be master here yet, but I am your
master. I have you hard and fast. Do you

understand?" lie gripped her closer. "The
law can't help you, all you have is mine, and
you are mine till death us do ijart.""

He released her. She was white with rage,
but with a strong effort she repressed her
anger. The very semblance of civility had
long ceased between the pair, but Mabella
had a powerful will  she could afford to
wait. Bitterly she had paid for the one
weakness of her nature, but she had vowed
that she only should be the sufferer, that
during her father's life she would not distress
him by vain repining, she would " dree her
weird." She turned to him now, not a tear
in her bitter eyes. Since her marriage she
had shed more than during her sixty years
of maidenhood.

' I am as well aware of the law's limits as
you can be," she said, " and I counsel you to
keep to them, that is all. If there is anything
to be done about this money it must be
through a solicitor. I will have nothing todo
with your money matters."

He rang the bell.

The footman answered it.

372

Brandy and soda-water, and get me a
devilled biscuit."

The servant looked at Mabella as if for
authority to execute the major's order.

If Major Tyler has breakfasted, take what
he wants to his own room ; if he has not,
serve breakfast in the dining-room for him."

"Be d d if you do," shouted the major ;

bring it here, or I'll teach you a lesson you
won't soon forget," and he made a menacing
step forward.

Major Tyler was six feet high, the footman
some five feet ten, athletic and broad. The
major's shoulders were narrow, so was his
chest. With a cool appraising stare, but
apparent respect, the man inclined his
powdered head and turned on his heel.

At that instant Grant appeared. The
grave old servitor, for one astounding
moment off his balance, caught at the
handle of the door, and by so doing knocked
against the major, who with belligerent intent
was hastening after the receding footman.

"Ah, Grant," cried Mabella, "I'm so glad
to see you."

She absolutely quivered in her endeavour
to speak calmly.

Has Miss Judy come ? "

At Judy's name the major cast a hasty
look at his attire and vanished by another
door.

After a hasty toilet, which advantageously
metamorphosed the outer man, he resumed
his cigar and struck across the fields to Giles'
cottage " to bring the little minx," he said to
himself, " the latest intelligence of the dog,
that she might be convinced of his solicitude."

Grant said Judy had come, but had stopped
at the low gate, where Peters had been watching
for her, and had gone with him to see
Tim. She would come across the fields after
her visit, which she desired Grant to say
should only detain her a few minutes.

Then Mabella asked how the squire was
looking.

Grant shook his head, and said he thought
the old man had aged greatly of late, adding
that Miss Dulsie, too, seemed poorly.

Mabella looked wretched.

My father has been such a hale man for

his years," she said, *' any little change shows
more. He will soon pick up when he gets
home ; " but her voice betrayed how little her
belief went with her words. Then, almost
apologetically, she continued :

The major has been so used to a barrack
life he has not fallen into quiet country ways
yet. He does not understand civilian servants,
they are so different to rough soldier
ones. It is dull, too, for him here."

It'll upset the squire terrible," Grant said
to Mrs. Carter after his interview with Mabella.
Why, she's lost a good stone, she has, and
she's that nervous I thought she'd have
plumped down in her chair, only she caught
at the table, when the major slammed the
door. He'll be her death."

"Not he," cried Mrs. Carter, "Miss Egbert"
among themselves the servants never gave
Mabella her dearly-bought " Mrs."" Miss
Egbert has a wonderful spirit. He'll find
himself in Queer Street some fine morning.
Dignity Mansion's no casual for tramps, Mr.
Grant."

Grant nodded grimly

He don't dare to treat her bad, does lie ? "
he asked, voluntarily doubling his list.

"They've had awful high words, they have,"
she answered, " and John "  the footman 
"he came running to me one day to say as he
heard a chair knocked over, so I went up and
listened at the door. It was the dining-room,
but all was quiet, only now and then a sob
like. I waited a bit and heard him go out
at the far door, then I made bold and went
in, and, poor thing, she was crying ; but the
chair had been picked up and all was orderly.
I asked her if she called me ; she looked
shamed at me seeing her in such a way, but
she saw I'd heard something, and she said,
not minding my question, ' as the major was
terrible peppery, like all military gentlemen
was, and she wasn't used, she wasn't, to rough
words, but it would blow over, she'd settle
down in time ; ' and then she said, poor soul,
as he had French blood in him, comet of old
French counts, and ' French blood,' says she,
'and English don't always mix well.' 'French
counts ! ' says I to myself, ' the poor thing ! ' "

"Mrs. Carter," said Grant with grave concern,

" it's a bad job, it is. You may well
say ' poor thing ! ' She wants to make us
believe as her 'electro-plate's Guildhall'"

Never mind," cried Mrs. Carter, " she's
lots of spirit left yet. She always was master-some,
in a kindly way though, and main
proud. If she finds out what he comes from,
ironmonger "  she lowered her voice 
"Tubbs says he'll get his marching orders."

And," said Grant, " I hope I may live to
hear 'em."

How many cowards bear upon their chins
The beards of Hercules and Mars''

Goes' cottage-was not far from what was
called the low crate of the Osbert demesne,
and Judy, her feet winged by solicitude for
the merry and loving little companion of many
a frolic and ramble, soon reached it.

Giles had just finished his dinner and was
smoking his post-prandial pipe, sitting within
his cottage porch. Peters had followed 1 Judy
at some distance.

Extinguishing his pipe with his thumb, the
old shepherd hastily went out to greet the
"little miss," his furrowed weather-beaten
visage grimly joyous.

Judy shook him by the hand.

Oh, Giles," she said in not an overspread
voice, " Pm so glad you let me know ; he
won't die, will he ? "

Giles shook his head.

Judy followed him into the cottage. Thereon
a soft pillow, lay the little dog. He was
stretched full length and his tongue hunof
out of his mouth. Every now and then a
quiver of pain passed over his loins. His
eyes were shut, but as Jud3's foot crossed the
threshold the little stump tail moved.

He knows me," she said, the tears rolling
down her cheeks.

At her voice, with an effort that seemed to
strain every fibre of his body, Tim tried to
struoforle to his feet, uttering: a feeble whine,
then sank down and lay motionless.

She bent down over him, calling him by
every pet term in her vocabulary. She passed
her hand with mesmeric touch over his sleek
sides ; he gave no sign of recognition.

"Oh, Giles," she said, "he is dead."

Noa, miss," said Giles, " but it'll be a
good job when un is, vor himself, poor cowl
ov hyn. Un took bad after un vitals
yesterday, an', miss, we sent for un, an' I seed
how it vor with a clap o' alia eye, an' fetched
hyn here. I made fitted it vor fits, an' huntley
calls the major, hern husband, un ses

as it vor noa wonder, as 'im vor vet like a ox.
But dante take on zo, little miss, un ain't
suffering now, un's just spent. 0, Miss Judy
dear, it bennet right," as the tender-hearted
girl's sobs came quick, " un's but a dog, an'
many a un I've seen rattled in my day.
There's a many thing's in the Almighty's
world az bees to be put out o' tha way at
times. Fern's not like uz."

"And well for them they're not like us,"
she cried. " I tell you what, Giles, I'd rather
be that little garment, as you used to call him,
agonizing out its life in cruel torture, than the
man that did it. Poor little, loving, faithful
Tim ; he'd have fought a lion for me, Giles,"
and she bent down and kissed the dog between
his ears, which moved in magnetic sympathy.
Peters stood behind Judy. More than once
he drew his cufF-sleeve across his eyes. The
shepherd's wife now brought a cup with some
brandy and milk, and Judy with a tea-spoon
poured a little into the animal's hot inflamed
mouth. It revived him. He opened his eyes
and whined in recognition of his loved
playmate.

Perhaps," she cried, '' he'd rally if he saw
his house."

At the word " house " Tim gave a feeble
growl.

Oh, Peters, would you get his house ? "

In a second Peters vanished. Judy sat
down on a low stool close beside the dog.
Giles returned to his seat in the porch, but
not to smoke, and Mrs. Giles to her chair by
the fire. Once or twice Judy renewed the
brandy and milk, continuing the gentle stroking,
which seemed to soothe the poor animal.
Suddenly he showed uneasiness and growled.
Not all Judy's coaxing and endearments could
quiet him, but he was too feeble to do more
than growl. Then Judy heard some one
talking to Giles ; her cheeks grew fiery red
she recognized Major Tyler's voice, and
listened.

Tin's almost gone, un want trouble narra
one no more," said Giles gruffly, evidently in
answer to an inquiry.

"Mrs. Tyler would not take my advice,"
said the major in a conciliatory tone, " she
would feed him on meat."

Un's bin used to it therein vive years
to my knowledge," was the surly reply.

I'm very sorry for the little brute," continued
the major, "and I'm obliged to you
for your kindness to it ; you've done all you
can, I know," and he slipped two sovereigns
into Giles' hand.

Giles looked at them, stretching out his
rough palm as if it held in it some obnoxious
insect. Then with an action of disgust he let
them drop at his visitor's feet. They rolled
into a corner and glistened there.

The old shepherd rose proudly, keeping his
hat on. " Thou bist a rare wosbird, th' bist,"
he said between his teeth ; and then in a raised
voice, " When a wants tha zy quire's guineas,
I'll get 'em from himself ; but man to man, sir,
trucks not tha way I'd settle scores with tha
likes o' you."

The major hearing a foot on the gravel
turned round and saw Peters, heated with
running, approaching with Tim's house in his
hand.

"The little fiend," he thought, "it's
better."

Tien lie entered the cottage. Immediately
after him came Peters.

Major Tyler ! " cried Judy, springing to
her feet.

The major turned white, but with what
bravado he could muster he staggered up
and held out his hand.

Judy looked at it, then with a face of
mingled scorn and loathing she deliberately
turned her back.

An exclamation from Peters recalled her
startled senses. She turned to the dog ; it
had struggled on to its legs, every hair on
its back bristling. Xo sound for the moment
came from him. His poor swollen tongue
hung from his inflamed jaws, and it was
evident he was nearly blind, but he sniffed
eagerly and staggered towards his cruel
enemy.

With an almost supernatural scare in his
face the major jumped on to an oak chest.

"Tim, Tim, mv little darlington cried
Judy.

The dog did not heed, he did not hear her.
He had reached the oak chest.

Give me this house, Peters," lie cried.

Timothy Timotheus ! "

He gave no sign that he heard her.

Tim, Tim," and in her excitement the old
tone of command rang out clear and sharp,
some one has taken your house'"

The last word struck the highest note,
and Tim's spirit came to him with a rush.
He turned, growled, and with a desperate
effort leaped into his castle.

Judy carried it tenderly to the table. The
brave little fellow had fallen over on his side,
but with the old action, his forelegs stiff and
straight before him, and faint growls, showed
he still lived.

Another minute and they ceased.

Tim, my little man," Judy cried, " you
know me ? "

She held her hand to his mouth ; he just
feebly raised his head, tried to hck the soft
little palm, and died.

And outside, lying on the gravel in the sun,
Beck and Sam lifted their voices in concert
and howled.

Only a little dog lay there dead. To some

it had been a very disagreeable dog, and when
the circumstances under which it died had
been partially forgotten, there were many
who would own to a feeling of relief. But to
close observers of canine nature, and to lovers
of the race like Judy, a dog like Tim possessed
a distinct individuality and qualities that
brought it within the range of human psychology.
Whence came its faith, its loyalty, its
devotion, its keen insight into character, its
abhorrence, as in the major's instance, of a
foul human soul? Whence, too, came the
wonderful intelligence?  how far removed
from reason who could divine ?

As Judy stood beside the " unconsidered
clay" of the being that, denied human obligation
of life, had yet paid the penalty of life 
death, her heart rose up in rebellion against
man's arrogant assumption that for such
existences there is no compensation. What,
how, when, where, not even imagination could
shadow forth. All she felt, all she stanch
maintained, was that nothing was ever formed
to be destroyed, and that He who gave even a
dog the instinct  to call it by no higher name

to discern, if but in part, between good and
evil, had an ulterior purpose beyond man's
finite ken.

Far beyond the doctrine of mere schism
her reverent soul soared. That she intuitively
discerned to be materialism, for if it were a
universal soul that animated all living: beings,
it was that, and that only, that regulated
their actions, and not the individual organization.
That would be to subjugate spirit to
matter. And so her first keen pang, as of
actual bereavement, had in it the unconscious
recognition of a higher claim on her affections
than that of a purposeless physical automaton.


Just for the first bitter moment Judy gave
way to a burst of weeping, then suddenly
turning round she walked up to the major,
and placing herself right in the doorway
intercepted him as he was slinking off, Giles
and Peters beside her. The light fell full on
his face, which was white with fear. Her
little hand was clenched, and her eyes,
through tears, danced in fire.

Beck and Sam had drawn up to heel beside
VOL. m. 38

Giles, and now stood growling and threatening.


"You dastardly coward," lie cried, "it
was your hand that did it. The little, trusting,
helpless dog  you were afraid of him
because he saw into your base soul. You
cruel fiend, I'll never touch your hand,
I'll never lay down my head under the
roof that covers yours, and when cousin
Egbert dies Til tell Glabella. The brave little
heart"  she dashed her tears aside; "but
you have gained a victory, a living cur is
better than a dead lion."

White with rage the major raised his
hand as if to strike. Giles and Peters
closed in.

It is a lie," he gasped.

Out with you ! " she cried, stepping aside

to let him pass, " and be quick or " She

stooped and caught the two collies each by
an ear. Giles gave an involuntary grunt of
assent, and the dogs with a deep bay sprang
forward, but her hold was firm, and at a
Down !" from Giles they dropped to the
floor.

Out ! " she cried again, and with a scream
of terror the major fled.

Judy did not undeceive Mabella regarding

the cause of the dog's death. She allowed

her to believe it had died of apoplexy. But

no inducement could make lier rest at the

Hall that night. She insisted on returning to

Sandycot by an evening train. For two hours

she and Mabella held confidential converse, in

which the latter told her relative all that was

in her soul, and was not a little comforted by

the brave girl's words of cheer and hope. It

was agreed between them that Mabella should

go to London next day, accompanied by Mrs.

Carter, but unknown to Major Tyler, and that

she should consult a solicitor about taking up

the bill. A slight difficulty as to what solicitor

arose. The one who had for years been

employed by her father, she said, was out of

the question. She could not so humiliate

herself, it must be a stranger.

Judy suggested Messrs. Eaymont, Eout

and Eally. Mr. Eajmont, she said, was much

esteemed by Lord Albany, and to him Mabella

.determined to go.

382

In a fortnight, perhaps less, the squire and
his daughters were to leave Sandy cot for the
Hall, when Mabella was to take their place at
the Lodge.

"And, Mabella dear," said Judy, "perhaps
when he finds that no advantage can come
to him except through you, things may go
smoother. He has paid some visits with you,
has he not? "

"Yes, and he made himself most agreeable.
There is one comfort to me through it all,
that he is a gentleman by birth. I suppose
Frenchmen make very indifferent husbands,
and he has a great deal of French blood in him."

Mabella spoke as if she were arguing herself
into belief against conviction.

Did you go to the Grange ? " Judy asked
hesitatingly.

Yes "  Mabella was too absorbed in her
own affairs to notice the flush on the girl's
cheek  " Lord Albany was civil to him, but no
more. He got on, however, with Lady Olivia
capitally, they seem to have a great many
mutual acquaintances ; he has been so much in
society, you see. But the country is quite

empty, it lias been very dull work. However,
Judy, I am not going to sit down and lament my
fate ; I mean to make the best of it while papa
lives, at any rate. If only I can keep things
quiet ! For his own sake one would think he
will keep up appearances before the world ;
that is all I ask of him, all I want of him, for
oh Judy, Judy, I have made a terrible mistake."

I think," said Judy, " you ought to have
some one to live with you ; it would be a protection
against his temper in every way indeed."

I daresay Dulsie will stay a good deal
with me, she is so gentle and good-humoured."

Dulsie has been very poorly of late, she
complains of her heart a good deal."

Ah, she has done that ever since that
rheumatic fever she had, you remember."

She has been worse lately, Mabella.
Cousin Egbert wants her to consult a London
doctor, and I think she will. She misses you
sadly."

The major did not appear. The footman,
on Mabella's questioning him, said he had
gone out riding and had left word he would
not be home until late, that Mrs. Tyler was

not to wait dinner for him. So Judy and
Mabella lead early dinner together in peace.
After dinner they proceeded to Giles' cottage,
laden with flowers from the conservatory and
garden.

By Judy's direction a deep hole had been
made under a venerable oak-tree, and there
poor little Tim was buried, house and all. He
had not been ejected even by death. Judy
covered him with flowers till the house could
hold no more, and then it was lowered down
on a bed of fragrant exotics, and covered in
by many a rare bud and bloom. Judy stood
till the turf had been replaced and all trace
of the burial had been removed. She then,
with many a pitiful tear, carved his name and
date of death on the trunk of the tree.

Mabella had watched the innocent loving
girl with sad eyes, but hardly for the dog s
death, for her own troubles seemed to have
blunted her feelings. Perhaps she insensibly
felt that one great and constant cause of
irritation to her husband was removed ; but
her heart was very sore in a dumb way, and
she wished she had left her faithful little friend

at Egbert Lodge. After a hasty visit to
Gloriana, Judy took her departure for Sandy-cot.
At Nettlethorp she telegraphed to the
squire to expect her home that night.

That which is won ill will never wear well,
For there is a curse attends it which will waste it."

Mr. Eout was a bachelor. It was popularly
supposed that he had never succumbed to the
tender passion, though on more than one
occasion he had shown symptoms of the
malady. His cure had always been effected
at the critical point when expectations of the
momentous question were indicated. But
Mr. Eout was no longer susceptible to feminine
allurements ; he had no time, he said.

Very much at his ease, his day's work over,
Mr. Eout lived in his freehold villa, the Pines,
at Clapham. It was a very comfortable villa,
inclosed in a high obscuring wall, with an
extensive garden, greenhouses, and good stabling.
A first-rate cook and housekeeper and
two servants, one a man, made up his establishment.
Mr. Eout very seldom saw company.
When he did, in the shape of a big dinner ora

recherche supper, business ends were to be
furthered. Hospitality pure and simple was
never exercised by Mr. Eaymont's partner.

But Mr. Eout had refined tastes. His collection
of old china was unique, also of rare
manuscripts and scarce editions of books.
He had, too, some valuable pictures. The
furniture of the Pines was not modern, it was
antique, and in the bric-a-brac market of
money value. Everything Mr. Eout had,
possessed a money value.

There was, however, one room in the Pines
that was up to date in the matter of furnishing,
and a very elegant, beautiful room it was.
So also was the bedroom which opened out
from it.

A great artist of the day had painted the
panels, and a high art decorator had finished
the ornamentations. Satin stuffs, velvet-pile
carpets, downy cushions, and pillowy lounges
told of unsparing lavishness. But nothing
smacked of the upholsterer. Exquisite taste
fitted things to each other, blending colour
and design.

These two rooms were not often occupied,

and then for limited periods at a time, and
by a lady. To-day preparations had been
made for the arrival of their tenant, Elsie
Eber.

Mr. Eout came home sooner than usual,
brinfino with him a basket of fruit from
Covent Garden.

He dressed carefully for dinner that day,
and the somewhat sombre sumptuous rooms
had over them all a festive air of expectation.
And yet the coming guest was but a sister 
Mr. Eout's step-sister. They had owned the
same mother ; but except in affection the
brother and sister had nothing in common.

Abram Eout was the elder by some fifteen
years. A clever business man, with keen
acumen, he yet was uncultured, understanding
only the money value of art and literature.
But he knew in both what made success. In
the conduct of his two flourishing papers it
was he who had chosen their editors, he alone
who had organized their economy, and he
who virtually held the tiller. He knew the
popular taste. It was characteristic of Mr.
Eout that he never asked advice of any one.

he was essentially self-reliant and very seldom
made mistakes, never glaring ones. If lie had
been connected with some doubtful transactions
his name had not transpired. Mr.
Eout, in action, was always cap-a-pie.

Only one person knew him thoroughly,
though more than one were doubtful, and
that was his half-sister Elsie.

All the affection of which his nature was
capable was centred in his beautiful and
gifted sister, and yet he was aware that she
read him closely.

The passionate temperament of the mother
she had inherited ; Abram, like his father, was
cool and calculating, with no passion save
that of money getting.

He had, however, a sybarite soul, and lived
luxuriously. Passion, genius, beauty, independence
 fateful possessions in woman,
perilous equipments for the battle of life,
where there were none to guide or restrain.
Elsie had chosen her own career, which being
utterly opposed to that her brother would
have had her follow, they drifted amicably
asunder, but meeting as occasion served, and

keeping up an affectionate, and, on Elsie's
part, confidential correspondence.

And as wealth increased with Abram he
made a " bower," as he expressed it, for his
only love, his sister. And there, whensoever
her spirit failed, or her heart grew weary,
Elsie found rest for the sole of her foot.

No one was ever allowed to occupy that
pretty bower, it was kept sacred for the one
pure, true affection of Abram Eout's sordid
soul.

There was one point of wide divergence
between the brother and sister  their faith.

Abram still followed, in considerably
modified fashion, that of his race.

Elsie, still jealously claiming for herself the
distinctive term of Jewess, had long since
worshipped at the Christian's shrine. This
had not in any way affected her brother. He
was simply indifferent.

Born a Jew, he remained a Jew, only easing
his obligations by joining the sect which, still
clinofino- to the traditions of their fathers,
allow themselves the broad margin expressed
by the title of Modern Jew. But in the whole

matter of the law's obligations, that lie was
of " Abraham's seed " was all-sufficient for
Abram Eout.

Elsie had an almost morbidly independent
spirit, and thonqli early in her career she had
lost, to within a mere trifle, her comfortable
fortune, she had not only never appealed to
her brother for aid, she had refused it when
with real and loving solicitude he had
pressed it.

She had talents, she said ; it had been
through her own fault her patrimony had
been wasted ; she would do what others less
gifted than she had done, " make her own
way," and she did.

After the interregnum of a year's unremitted
study Elsie Eber came before the public
as a dramatic reciter, and gained for herself
fame equal to that won by the most favoured
actress of her day, and fame of that quality
means wealth. But Elsie was not wealthy.

Her unsuspected charities, far stretching
and many, kept her reserve fund from
acquiring any but the proportions required
by common prudence.

Apart from lier vocation, Elsie led a life of
retirement, spending her leisure with the few
friends she had admitted to her intimacy, for
it was for Elsie to choose.

Friends in the heyday of her fame were
many.

In this way Mrs. Horseman and she had
come together, and the years as they swept by
but drew closer the bond of their friendship.
They understood and they trusted each other.

Many a coveted matrimonial prize of society
was laid at Elsie Eber's feet. Many a true
heart sought hers, but hers was dead, though
they knew it not ; love in that sense had set
for Elsie for ever.

Love on her horizon had had a sudden,
fierce, eastern dawn, then had come the glare,
the glitter, the scorch, and, with the fever-heat
still in her blood, the quick eyeless sunset and
night.

But the essential soul of her higher self had
risen triumphant on the ruins of her lower
self, and earth held no purer, nobler spirit
than that in the fragile lovely embodiment of
Elsie Eber.

At last the epicurean meal was ended, and
Elsie was alone with her brother. A great
lamp With mellow shade lighted softly the
luxurious room, glittering with plate and glass,
and rich with many a canvas from the master-hands
of art.

Wines sparkled on the table, and luscious
fruits clustered round an ice pyramid in the
centre.

A soft evening air came in from a far
window, and in the distance the ring of
evening chime and bells.

Abram's toilet was careful, his look placid
and satisfied. Prosperity, plenty, peace, alliterative
filled his senses.

"No, Abram dear, to-night," Elsie said;
we will begin and finish our business talk
to-night. After that is over we can enjoy
each other so much better."

He filled himself a glass of old Burgundy
and drained it. He was a temperate man, but
to-night what he had drunk would have tried
the head of a seasoned toper. If it tried his
he did not show it.

First and foremost, Abram, about this

bill," said Elsie ; " how has it ended ? I see
you paid the two thousand to my credit at
Soult's. I left Sandycot rather abruptly,
intending to come direct here, for I have
matters of moment to speak to you about, but
I had to meet urgent appeals from Glasgow,
some hospital they want to build, so I went
there and was detained beyond my calculations.
Mrs. Tiler died, you told me, but
your letter was hurried, so you gave no
particulars."

Abram briefly recapitulated the circumstances
of the bill as narrated to him by the
major's sister.

She made no remark, did not seem surprised
at the baseness and dishonesty, not to
say cruelty, of the transaction. She only
said :

Then he paid this man Davis to hold the
bill over. He spent the two thousand at
Monaco of course ? "

Abram nodded.

And latterly he has kept Davis quiet by
Miss Egbert."

Yes, but Davis will wait no longer ; by

this he has served a "writ. I suppose Mr.
Egbert will pay ? "

Yes, without doubt. The marriage is a
terrible blow to the family."

"I thought, Elsie, you would have interfered
in time. Do you not think you ought to have
done so ? He'll have it all his own way now,
the dastard."

I was too late, Abram. I had made up
my mind to expose him. He had some such
idea, I think, for his statements made Miss
Egbert positively rude to me, and I am sure
that it was that dread made him persuade her
to marry him in secret. Some wonderfully
ingenious fabrication ; poor woman, what a
waking ! "

Do you mean to let him alone
now?"

For the present, or until a necessity for
my interference arises. It would be a dreadful
ordeal, Abram."

I wouldn't," he said. " She has plenty of

friends to protect her. The squire is no fool.

I wonder he didn't try it on with pretty

Miss Aylmere. She is to have the property

VOL. ni. 39

eventually. But I suppose he could not
afford to wait."

'soh, dear little Judy?" said Elsie. "From
the first she recoiled from him, though she
was fascinated by his cleverness and apparent
force. She is very unsophisticated "

There was silence for some minutes. Elsie
looked careworn and sad. Abrani was not at
his ease.

' Abram," she said at last, " our paths
have lain apart, but you have been a true
and a loving brother to me. You have stood
by me unflinchingly in my hours of terrible
need, and you have never reproached me."

For what, Elsie ? "

Dear, you know. Had I listened to your
warning words, how different my life might
have been."

"That is all over and gone, Elsie, and you
are young still, and even more beautiful now
than then."

I never had a secret from you, Abram. I
have always trusted you, and looked up to
you. You value my good opinion, don't you,
dear ? "

She had slipped from her chair and now
knelt at his knee.

"Above everything," he answered in a
somewhat faint voice, as his arm involuntarily
encircled her waist.

It is not about him I have come to you,
Abram," she said, speaking soft and low, " it
is about yourself and the Oxminster election.
Dear, you must make restitution."

He started, drawing his arm away. She
clasped him round his knees.

Do you ask me how I know ? It is not in
my power to tell you, sufficient for us both
that / do know. Lord Le Pole lost his seat
through bribery; you were his trusted agent.
His election bills were moderate, one thousand
two hundred in all. Abram, if you do not
repay Lord Albany that sum, / shall. Money
has been your snare. The love of it grows
on you. It blinds your sense of honour. It
will lead you into some terrible pitfall some
day. Oh, brother darling, draw up in time.
Listen to my warning, though I would not to
yours ; oh, darling, let me save you from
yourself. Hush, Abram," she continued,

392

catching this hand and holding it tightly in
her clasp, 'you know my strength of will of
old. What I have said I will do. I have no
one in all the wide world but you. Friends,
loving friends, I have, but only one brother,
and you know too well I can never own a
nearer tie. I am cut off from any bond
closer than a brother's. If you fail me, I
shall be desolate indeed."

Again she wound her arms round his knees,
looking up into this face with mournful, pleading
eyes.

What would you have me do, Elsie ? "
he faltered, averting; his eves.

Abram, which do you love best, me or
your money ? "

He was not a demonstrative man, nor of
a loving nature, but he was a man of one
dominating affection, that for his sister. And
the very concentration of that affection, excluding
as it did every other object, gave ita
force unknown to love, however strong,
divided among many.

Elsie," he whispered, " you can do with
me as you will."

She rose and brought a blotter, with pen
and ink. Xo more words were spoken, but
Abram Eout signed a cheque for one thousand
two hundred pounds and placed it in his
sister's hands.

A few days later Lord Albany received
notice from his bankers that a sum of that
amount had been placed to his credit by some
person unknown. A letter inclosing the
money, in Bank of England notes, had been
given ill at the door of the bank. The letter
was in no name. And Elsie never told her
brother how much of the transactions relating
to the Oxminster election had come to her
knowledge. A very sensible portion of the
wrong done had now been repaired, and
though personally her magnanimity would
have carried her to the height of full and
perfect restoration, regardless of consequence
to herself,it stopped short at jeopardy to Abram.
Her brother was Elsie's vulnerable point.

Lord Le Pole is going to petition, Abram,"
she said, resuming her seat.

We have received no intimation of it," he
said sharply.

He told me a fortnight ao that his father
was bent on it. They have been collecting
evidence at Oxminster."

They have been collecting evidence," he
repeated in a husky voice. " Why, Elsie, we
were their agents ; they would naturally
employ us. You are misinformed."

Xo, dear, I am not. They do not mean
to employ you."

Has Eaymont heard this ? "

I do not know, Abram," she whispered ;
I would retire from the firm. You are rich
enough."

Money has nothing to do with it. You
would not have me plead guilty before I am
accused. I may have been half-hearted in
Le Pole's cause, for I am a liberal, out and
out, but  but "

Better you should retire," she said quietly
at your own instance than Mr. Eaymont'.s.
The terms of your partnership allow of your
doing so at any time, even without notice, do
they not ? "

Six months' notice," he answered faintly.

Or a forfeit ? " she added pointedly.

One thousand," he said.

Abram," she continued, " you must pay
the forfeit, and you must take your name off
the roll of attorneys."

A servant brought in coffee. She drank
hers gladly. It was cafe noir and it gave her
the stimulus she needed.

"Elsie, what have you heard?" he began,
trying hard to assume a look of astonishment ;
he only succeeded in looking bewildered and.
dismasted.

She bent towards him and kissed his brown.
leaving her hand in his.

My brother," she whispered, " my beloved-brother,
there can never be anvthinsf but love
between you and me. / can never see yoa
but with eyes of love. It is your head, not
your heart, that is at fault. We have been
too much apart of late years. My profession
is beginning to pull upon me, I seem to long
for rest ; for, dear, I am not so strong as I was.
You are rich. I am independent. I want
you to leave , England to come with me to
Italy. We can buy a beautiful home thereon
the Arno, or anywhere you may choose,

and I will be always with you. You said you
loved me better than your money. I will
never hear his name there, and you, dear,
you will be honoured and trusted, for you
will be good and true away from this soul-destroying
money-getting. You have been
too much alone, Abram."

She spoke with her eyes on the ice
pyramid, as if curiously watching its slow
decrease. Some warm drops fell on the hand
that lay in Abram's, and she remembered a
day, ten years ago, when such drops fell quick
and many on a pale face from which all the
freshness, the joy, the hope of youth had been
dashed at one blow  her face. But she did
not flinch now. Her love for her brother was
fixed in her resolution to save him from himself
; for this she would sacrifice the calling
so congenial to her nature, would expatriate
herself, and cut herself off from the friends
she loved. No half measures could save him,
and though she shared the pain she inflicted,
she did not spare it.

She waited motionless. She knew a violent
struggle was going on between mammon no

the one part, fear and love on the other. It
seemed to her as if she could follow the tortuous
reasoning, as if she were looking into
her brother's naked soul. Perhaps she was.
The spiritual part of a human soul has a
vision beyond mental ken.

But the victory was to be hers. She never
doubted it. Sitting calmly there she felt, ashe
recognized it in all its strength, her occult
force mastering the recalcitrant opposers.
Gradually his hand grasped hers firmer ; electric
sympathy and strength passed from her
soul to his. She returned the pressure oreutlv.

ST c ./

Had her fingers speech ? He grew calmer
and very still.

Elsie," he said at last, clearly and without
a quiver, " look at me, dear."

She did, with a smile of proud trust and
love.

I will do what you wish."

That was all he said. She had conquered.
As if by tacit agreement the subject was
dropped, and Abram never knew the extent of
his sister's information regarding the nefarious
transactions of the Oxminster election.

Next day he paid the forfeit in lieu of the
six months' notice to Mr. Eaymont. It was
received without one remonstrating word,
without one expression of regret. Whispers
soon to become compromising facts, had
reached the senior partner's ears, and Mr.
Rout's timely resignation fortified the position
of the firm, soon to be on its defence for wilful
and corrupt misdirection of its client's, Lord
Le Pole's, election contest. Simultaneously,
and at his own instance, Abram Eout's name
was removed from the roll of attorneys-at-law.
A few days later Messrs. Mitchell & Co.,
Tiger Court, Swift Street, London, advertised
for sale two valuable literary properties, one
a weekly organ of uncompromising liberal
principles, the other of moderate conservative
tenets. The first was the Oxminster
Weekly Sin, the second a bi-weekly county
paper representing the agricultural shire of

S . The properties were eminently

marketable and soon found purchasers, and
it may be mentioned here, though in
advance of our story, that on receiving from
Messrs. Critcheil & Co. the very handsome

cheque that represented the purchase-money
of the Oxminster Weekly Sun, Mr. Eout experienced
a strange and involuntary mental conflict,
which called to life the antagonism of that
hour with his sister, which had resulted in
reparation and renunciation. His legal mind
was used to weigh both sides of a knotty question.
To-day it was at fault. There seemed
plenty of argument for the one issue, nothing
but the iteration of a fact for the other. For
the one. Sir Janitor was as cute as he, Abram
Eout, was. The thousand pounds over and
above the value of the Weekly Sun represented
value on another count  that of
immediate influence over the Oxminster
electors. "Immediate," yes, that was the
count that had nothing to do with the actual
value of the paper itself. And Sir Janitor had
got the worth of his money. On the other,
what did that thousand pounds represent ?
His honour. That was the one fact no armament
could sophisticate away. Did Elsie
know? He thought not. The transaction
had been between man and man, and it was
not likely Sir Janitor would betray himself.

But a " scrutiny " such as was imminent in
the Oxminster case was sure to be crucial,
and there was no telling? how things miofht
turn ; and if it did leak out, how proudly he
could point to reparation if he repaid that thousand
??(? it'. Was he Quixotic ? Elsie was, just a
little. Again, how could he do it ? Sir Janitor
would not understand his real motive  he would
be suspicious of a trap, or think he was mad. He
had got the worth of his money, every penny
of it ; but for him, Abram Eout. Eawsoii
would not have won, or at least with a very
narrow majority. Sir Janitor had not been
defrauded, many an election had cost thousands
more, and there had been no picking-holes.
And after all what was a thousand
pounds to the millionaire knight?  he would
have made it two thousand if it had been
demanded.

There had been little money on Le Pole's
part, and his hands had been tied. He had
been put also to much personal expense not
entered in the bills. This thousand pounds
represented  loudly rose the inner voice (it
had Elsie's tone, it seemed to him)  it represented

his honour 1 He would make reparation,
would refund the same namelessly ; that
would do, and then he could meet Elsie's clear
searching eyes without quailing. His honour !
Abram Eout's chest swelled, he threw back
his shoulders. Virtue was a delightful sensation
; he would turn over a new leaf now,
with his good angel, his beautiful well-beloved
sister, at his side.

Then the eyes of his soul, waking from
their dimness, glanced back at the leaves he
had turned down in the record of his life, and
with an absolute shudder the man recognized
the bitter truth, that though money could stain
honour, it could never make it clear again.
Still at its behest Abram Eout paid back ia
Bank of England notes, without word or sign
to indicate the quarter from which they came,
the thousand pounds that had risen in judgment
against him. When he had done that
he shut down the window of his soul, and he
said to himself, as if afraid of himself, " I
shall not have a penny left."

No earthly clinging,

No lingering gaze,
No strife at parting.

No new amaze,
But sweetly, gently,

lie passed away
From the world's dim twilight

To endless day."

Mu. EouT had not been long in his office the
morning following his conversation with his
sister (he had come to town later than usual),
when he was summoned to the senior partner's
room. There he found an elderly lady, a
stranger ; it was Mabella

Mrs. Tyler has come about that bill, Mr.
Eout," said Mr. Eaymont. " I thought it had
been arranged. You had the conduct of the
matter."

Mr. Eout explained. Mabella listened, nota
little puzzled at first. Gradually she began
to see light, and as it came clearer she
showed an increasing agitation.

Mr. Eout," she said at last, " would sou
kindly tell me the whole story without
reserve ? You seem to know a good deal
about Major Tyler. In that you have the
advantage of his wife."

And with certain reserves Mr. Eout did so.
He took up his tale from the point of the bill's
history, and in substance told the major's wife
the whole transaction as narrated by that gentleman's
sister on the night of their mother's
death.

Mabella was a woman of determined will
and strength of mind, or she had not sat so
calmly through what was to her simply a
series of shocks.

Then she said, when Mr. Eout had ceased:
Miss Eber never held the bill, nor her
brother either ? "

Never."

"How did she come to know of
it?"

He told her. Then came the question he
had dreaded.

\Yhat was the connection between Major
Tyler and Miss Eber?"

A foolish engagement when Miss Eber
was only a little over eighteen."

One more question, sir. Did he marry
the woman, his colonel's wife, with whom he
ran away ? "

"Madam," said Mr. Eout, restraining himself
with an effort, *' she was not his colonel's
wife ; she was the young wife of one of the
junior officers, and he did not run away with
her. The intrigue was discovered. She was
not eighteen, I believe, and her husband
turned her out of doors. Major Tyler refused
to open his, it would compromise him, he said ;
but he offered to find her a protector. She
tried to commit suicide  threw herself into
a river, It she was saved. Her husband
divorced her, and the officers of the regiment
forced Major Tyler to marry her. He had to
exchange ; they went to India, where she
died. That is the story."

"Was it after this  this occurrence  or
before that he met with Miss Eber ? " Mabella
asked.

"After."

Was his wife alive ? "

She was."

Thank you, sir. ' She took from her
purse the cheque her father had sent for the
two thousand pounds and handed it to Mr.
Eaymont.

' You will arrange the matter, if you please''
she said, ' and let me know what I am in
your debt."

Are you quite determined to retrieve this
bill, madam ? " asked Mr. Eout in a tone of
remonstrance.

"Pardon me, Mrs. Tyler," said Mr. Payment,
interposing before she could reply,
but have you any means independent of
your father ? "

I had ; I have none now."

"Do you mean they are all spent and gone
since your marriage? "

' All, and since my marriage."

Then the law gives your husband no claim
on your father. You had better let it take
its course in this case."

Sir," she said, speaking with mingled
shame and pain, " the name of Egbert is
worth two thousand pounds. It would kill
VOL. in. 40

my father to see it connected Avitli such a
transaction. We have never before had
dealings but with honourable gentlemen."

There was nothing more to be said, and
Mabella, keeping up her dignity to the last,
departed.

When she was alone in her room at her
hotel  she was not to return to Nettlethorp
till the morning  she sat down to take
counsel with herself.

The time for tears and regrets had passed
with Mabella. After nearly an hour's silent
communion, an hour that added lines to her
mouth and furrows to her brow, she rose
briskly and ordered a brougham to be in readiness
in half-an-hour. She had shopping to do.
On the morrow she would return to the Hall
and bide her time. She would wear a mask,
but that would be easy now ; it was only the
heart that made the face a tell-tale, and hers
was dead  dead at least to the ironmonger's
son.

Dulsie did not get better. What the Sandy-cot
doctor thought to be a chill was more,
it was a sudden failure of the heart's action.

She made the short journey to Egbert Hall
sith difficulty, but the weather being warm
and genial she rallied among her flowers, and
Judy took heart of grace and spoke words of
cheer to the squire. The rally was only fora
few days. She was found one bright morning
sitting in the easy garden-chair which
Par ton had placed for her at the head of her
conservatory, a gorgeous cactus-bloom in her
hand, clematis and Cape jasmine drooping by
her head. IlerHps were parted as if in act of
speech, but her eyes were closed  closed on
the fragile splendours she deemed so fair, ta
open with a glad surprise on

The master-tints of heaven."

All these things were against the squire.
His strength was no longer that of hale old.
aL'e; he was sensibly feebler, and his spirit
within him was quenched. Xot even Judy
could win a smile from him. But it was on
her slight young arm he leant at the solemn
service for the dead, held in the dim religious
light of the old chapel. He was not with the
dear dead daughter. Back to his fancy had

40- 2

come that other face which thirty years ago
had lain so sweetly still in the shrouding
linen beneath the half-closed lid of the oak
coffin.

Only a few years," he had whispered
then; "only a few days," he whispered now.

And when the sad train of mourners issued
from the arched doorway, the " rolling organ
harmony " swelling up and blending with the
voices of little children in the Resurrection
Hymn, in spirit still he was following the one
love of his faithful life to her silent niche in
the dreary vault. It was not that he did not
grieve for his child, or that his fatherly love
had waxed cold, but the foot of death had
awakened to keen life a thousand sweet and
bitter memories, crowding out the sorrows of
to-day, of one memory that told of a bond
stronger than the dearest tie of blood, signed
and sealed in heaven, and so indissoluble intime
and impervious to the cancelling of death.

He is stunned," said Sybella ; and then
she took comfort again that it was on her
and Judy's arms he had leant as the coffin was
lowered to the vault, and that he had shrunk

away from the officious offer of support tendered
by Major Tyler.

But she was considerate to her sister in this
hour of mutual bereavement, and took inward
satisfaction in noticing that Mabella
kept close to her side, utterly ignoring the
presence of her husband.

Sybella was very quiet and gentle in these
early days of sorrow. Whether their influence
would have a permanent softening effect remained
to be seen. A nature such as Tiers, if
susceptible of strong impressions, seldom becomes
pliant of will or tender in deed, and its
hours of reoTet come generally too late, and
passing away leave only an increased hardness
behind. When death has laid loved ones low
it then

Takes every failing on our part
And brands it in upon the heart
With caustic power and cruel art.
It shows our faults like fires at night.
It sweeps their failings out of sight,
It clothes their good iu heavenly light."

And keenly Sybella felt this,

Recalling with resistless force,
And tracing to their hidden source.
Deeds scarcely noticed in their course.

Opening lier weeping eyes to trace
Simple unnoticed kindnesses,
Forgotten notes of tenderness''

Knowing now

How such a vexing deed
Was but generous nature's weed,
Or some choice virtue run to seed ;
How that small fretting fretfulness
Was but love's o'er-anxiousness,
Which had not been had love been less ;
That failing at which she repined,
But the dim shade of day declined,
Which should have made her doubly kind."

And oil, keener than all

The small neglect that may have pained,
A giant stature then had gained.
When it could never be explained."

It was due to himself, the major had argued,
to be present on this family occasion. It
stamped his position in the county, so he said
to his wife. She seldom answered him now,
and never on any pretence entered on an
argument. On this occasion, however, she
replied :

"Yes, it is only right that the county should
know your position''

But after the funeral the gallant major

took his departure for London. " Business,"
lie said, and Mabella did not question its
nature. At her suggestion the allowance her
father had settled on her was paid to lier
monthly, and she had notified to the major
her intention of allowing him half its amount.
lie was forced to be content with this arrangement
for the present. For a few days ]arabella
was to remain at the Hall ; Mrs. Aylmere,
too, remained.

Soon things resumed their routine. The
blank Dulsie made was very sensibly felt.
Sybella was softer, and to Mabella in particular,
if not actually sympathizing, comforting
in a thousand little attentions. But
Jud3 seemed to fade as she moved amonof
them as of old, still with the same cheer in
her words, ]put lacking the old ring in her
sweet voice. The country air did not give
her back the roses they had accused the sea
of stealing, nor did her now quiet rides on
Gloriana restore her failing appetite. But
she never complained. She was, as ever,
ready with heart and hand to help when
wanted, for comfort in various degrees was

much wanted among the sad denizens of the
old Hall.

In vain Mrs. A3'lmere suggested that Judy
should return with her to her own home.
She was in the receipt of frequent letters
from Oxminster, and she became more urgent
on the matter as the dreary autumn da3s
lengthened into winter. But Judy could not
tear herself from the squire. Every day lie
became more dependent on her. She had
come now to spend some hours each morning
in his study writings his letters for him and
reading the Times to him. Sybella had
business proclivities, and with occasional
directions from her father she gradually
assumed the management of the estate, under
the leadership of the steward. This occupied
her time so fully that she was seldom at
liberty for social purposes until the afternoon
tea-lour.

Leal heart  lied never''

After the Christmas holidays the Oxminster
election case was to come on, and it was confidently
whispered that the result would
reverse the present positions of the late candidates.
Mrs. Ayhnere's correspondent kept
that good lady well posted up in the doings
at Janitor HalL The old knight had become,
since the petition against his nephew's election
had been set on foot, unbearably irascible.
He was breaking up, the doctor said. His
wiry frame, that had for eighty-six years
withstood both bodily disease and mental
strain, showed unmistakable signs of collapse,
under nothing more nor less than
vexation of spirit.

Worldly matters had gone well with Janitor
Tomlinson. Only once during his prosperous
life had lie known a reverse, and that was in
the result of his sister's marriage. But it had

seemed to him, with his " inborn luck," as he
called it, that the one disappointment was to
turn up trumps and to crown his days with
honour and glory. Immediately on Ned's
success he made his mal will and testament,
revoking all other wills, by which a needy
public were prospectively the gainers. By
this document Ned was to take with all his
uncle's earthly possessions his patronymic in
addition to that of Eawson. The knight made
no secret of this disposition. He took a pride
in giving the importance of accruing wealth to
the success his nephew had achieved. After
the Sandycot ball he had been cruelly urgent
on Ned to bring home his " bride," as he insisted
on calling Judy, and with a latent
hope in the future Ned forbore to tell him
of his rejection. Lord Le Pole was travelling
on the continent. Gossip had informed him
on all the circumstances of the ball, and it had
ever since been a source of regret to him that
he had not been present.

But the knight grew impatient, and Ned
dreaded the effect the confession of his rejection
would have upon him. He could not

put that confession off much longer. He was
keen-eyed enough to perceive that his uncle
valued him only as a reflecting power, that
had he failed at the election he would never
have been more to his vain-glorious relative
than a poor relation, to be awarded only the
consideration demanded by the outside world.
Sir Janitor was morbidly sensitive to social
esteem. He had beaten a " real live nob,"
and Sir Janitor, in his exultation, said,
"You shall be a real live nob yourself, my
lad. Money's the motive power of success.
I've the grease and you've the wheels, so go
ahead, my boy, and the devil take the hindmost."
Alas for Ned, was he to be that " hindmost?
" It seemed like it.

The facts of his canvass had come to his
knowledge, and with good cause he dreaded
the result of the scrutiny. Fortunately for
him the sad event at the Hall afforded him a
present excuse for not following up his suit
with the squire's heiress, Sir Janitor's alternative
title for Judy.

Gossip had first informed the knight of the
young girl's preference for his nephew, and,

like all one-sided natures, lie held to his first
impressions, and treated as " trash " the after-whispers
that reached his ear of her growing
liking for the defeated candidate for Axminster.
But it whetted his desire to see the
marriage accomplished, for though he was
certain, he said, that the girl was " all for
Ned," he thought it was possible that gossip
spoke truth in saying that " the nob was going
in for the girl." It would be a double victory,
a "real right-down, slap-up, no mistake-of-it
licking."

The pending petition to come off after
Christmas against his nephew's election he
had at first treated with vituperative scorn.
He was, however, too sharp not to feel that
he stood on shaky ground. As facts were
pressed on him by his persistent and much-enduring
law adviser, he became more and
more irascible. His fair name, his reputation,
which had cost him in hard cash some
hundred thousand pounds, was at stake. He
stoop to bribery ! He condescend to sell a
valuable freehold like that on which stood the
Spotted Dog " for a few shillings ! He cozen

over his open enemy's confidential agent, and
pay great sums to secure the services of a
traitor ! He openly break the whole code of
honour, even among thieves ! Who would
believe all this of Sir Janitor Tomlinson, the
millionaire city knight, one of the foremost
philanthropists of the day? He was not
responsible for blundering agents and an
addle-pated nephew  Xed had come dov\'n
the scale with a run. He would repudiate
the whole affair and disinherit the " irresponsible
fool ; "' then people would know how he
had been tricked. But. facts are stubborn
think's, and there was one fact Sir Janitor
Tomlinson could not thrust aside. Whence
came the money 1 There was no escape. Eout
had returned that thousand, he knew it was
hout ; and then he laughed almost fiendishly,
Conscience money from Eout I"' There was a
trap behind, he was sure of that, but he was
up to trap." They thought he was in his
dotage ; liv. his head was as clear as a
whistle yet  he'd fight them all. And then
Sir Janitor, feeling just a little strange in that
region which had the peculiar clearness of a

whistle, sank into a chair. He was by himself;
and then somehow the furniture in the
room, the pictures on the wall, and the blazing
fire in the cerate all beoan to move with a
downward inclination, and he remembered
nothing more.

An hour after Ned found him, a dazed look
on his withered face, cowering over the fire.
It was broad daylight. The knight insisted
that it was " dark as pitch," and called for his
lamp. Ned, at once recognizing the signs of
sudden illness, sent for a doctor. Fortunately
that functionary happened to be in
present high favour with Sir Janitor, who with
a powerful effort of will retained in a great
degree his senses. These told him he was ill,
and he felt glad that aid was at hand. But he
would not " give in." A little rest would set
him all risfht, and in the mornings he would see
his lawyer and make another will.

The doctor got him persuaded to retire to
bed. Alien quiet on his pillow the old man,
forgetting the presence of Mrs. Peerie, his
lady housekeeper, said in a shrill querulous
voice :

Doctor, that beggarly Eawson pauper is
plotting to get me out of the way. I'm going
to cut him off with a brass farthing in the
morning. He'll be turned out of Oxminster,
he will. He's brinoino- as his father did, dishonour
on an honourable name. Patch me up
doctor ; there's lots of life in rae still. I bed
 d if I give in ; " and his eyes closed in
slumber, induced by a powerful anodyne.

There was no chance for the old man, the
doctor said, unless he was humoured in every
whim. The least contradiction would certainly
bring on the fit of which this attack was
a warning. His mind, he considered, was off
its balance. At present Xed must keep out
of his presence, and perhaps things would
quiet down, and then he might rally. It was
doubtless the worry of this election petition
business. The doctor liked Ned, and he determined
to delay that threatened interview
between kir Janitor and his lawyer.

And it seemed to Iced as if his sun had gone
down at noonday.

Lord Le Pole, with a heart as little at ease,
had been for weary weeks on that " bootless

bene," trying to escape from himself. At
first, in the company of the fair Creamy and
her husband, he had followed with slavish
exactitude the prescribed route of society
tourists.

At Homburg they had parted, he to diverge
in his flight to solitary and, as lie found,
intolerably dull retreats  mountain clifdets,
lake hamlets, and romantic but uninteresting
valleys ; the Beaumorrises to take up then*
yacht at Marseilles and go home by the
Mediterranean. In his wanderings Le Tole
brought up at Nice, where Lord and Lady
Albany with their daughters expected him.
The night of his arrival, sitting in the verandah
of his hotel sipping iced cohen, his eye was
attracted by a familiar figure. He had seen
so many familiar figures at the various spas at
which he had stayed that he felt no surprise,
scarcely the curiosity to individualize this
one in particular. It came nearer, and it was
evident to Le Pole that it had recognized him
and sought to avoid him.

Languidly interested, he put up his eyeglass,
and with a start exclaimed " Eout ! "

But he did not stir. He lead heard through,
his father that Mr. Eout had retired from his
profession, but that he lead been subpoenaed
to appear when the petition should come on.
There had been dirty work. Enough evidence
had been collected to prove that it
would not be difficult to bring it home to the
individual chiefly implicated. In a dim way
both Lord Albany and his son connected the
reimbursement of the 1,200 with Mr. Eout,
but Mr. Eaymont, to whom the former suggested
such a probability, ironically negatived
it as an impossibility. Eout, he said, was a
Jew without even a Levitical conscience.
There was a mystery, and such it still remained.
As Mr. Eout slowly disappeared in
the direction of the gardens, a lady who
occupied a table near Le Pole's, but not
within his line of vision, rose and was about
to pass him when she suddenly stopped. Her
abrupt motion attracted Le Pole's attention ;
he turned round and with a flush of delight
jumped from his seat, crying :

Miss Eber, I am fortunate."

Elsie seemed equally pleased at the rencontre.
VOL. m. 41

They strolled away together, talking of everything
and every place but those uppermost in
their thoughts  the events at Egbert Lodre
and Sandycot. Nearly an hour they thus
sauntered, feeling a placid restful pleasure in
each other's company. The night was ablaze
with stars, the air heavy with the perfume of
flowers. From the distance  they kept apart
from the gay crowd  came the sweet strains
of the perfect band ; a faint breeze fanned
their cheeks.

They sat down beside a drooping acacia.
Then she asked with delicate interest some
questions as to his hopes with regard to the
election petition, expressing regret for Ned's
probable disappointment.

Things have gone hardly with him," she
said softly, " and for no fault of his own. He
is a true-hearted man ; a ' bonnet blue,' as the
Scotch call it."

Le Pole made no answer. He was thinking
that things had gone very hard with
himself.

"If he is unseated," he said at last with
vainly repressed bitterness, " he will easily

find an accommodating borough ; he will bea
millionaire."

Sir Janitor Tomlinson is ill," returned
Elsie. " His housekeeper, Mrs. Peerie, is an
old acquaintance of mine, a reduced lady of
equally slender education and means. She
has been with Sir Janitor some years now,
and manages him wonderfully. I am told his
temper is very uncertain  a dreadful old man
altogether."

Le Pole listened apathetically ; the subject
did not interest him, but he was pleased to
hear Elsie's soft accents, and an apathetic
mood is just the mood for desultory chat.
He even wondered who this housekeeper had
been, but his curiosity did not prompt him to
inquire.

*' I had a letter from her the other day,"
Elsie continued.

Le Pole did not observe that Elsie hesitated,
as if from some cause uncertain of her subject.

She mentioned Sir Janitor's illness. It
seems he has taken the petition terribly to
heart ; it has hurt his pride, she says, and in
the most unreasoning manner he threatens to

412

disinherit his nephew. The doctor has got
him persuaded to await the result of the case,
but he is so uncertain and capricious he may-turn
round on the doctor himself and work
his wicked will if but to spite them all."

Le Pole shrugged his shoulders.

I am sorry for the young man," he said.
"I believe he knew nothing of what was
doing, but I don't place his political morality-above
suspicion. However, he will have his
consolation," and he smiled a bitter smile.

*' How ? in what ? " asked Elsie.

Miss Aylmere," he replied.

Lord Le Pole," she said after a minute's
deliberation, "I am going to do a thing which
some might deem a breach of confidence, but
there is a time to speak and a time to keep
silence, and this is a time to speak."

He looked into her clear, earnest eyes
questioningly, unknown to himself, with a
quickened pulse.

Miss Aylmere refused Mr. Eawson."

A cold conventional phrase  sudden hope-inspiring,
life-reviving words.

Pardon mee," she added  he could not for

the moment speak  "but I guessed your
secret long ago, and dear little Judy's, too.
Hush, let me say my says She told me
nothing, but, my lord, I am a woman who
has suffered, and she had no need to tell me.
She and Mr. Eawson had been boy and girl
together ; she fancied she liked him, perhaps
called her liking love, but he, poor fellow,
loved her as he never again will love in this
world. She had made a mistake, and it was
you who taught her she had done so. Now
I come to my breach of confidence "  she
smiled as one about to confer a priceless
boon ; her lovely face was radiant, and her
eyes clear as the stars above. " I was at
Oxminster after the Sandycot ball. I saw
Mr. Eawson there, and he told me that Judy
Aylmere had rejected hmi. He had gone to
her the night before the ball confident and
exultant, and  I tell you his very words :
She said it was all a great mistake, that
she did not love me, never had loved me, did
not know that I loved her so much, and she
kissed my hand in pity.' That was all."
She ceased and turned her head aside.

After a little Le Pole, with a choking
voice, whispered :

Miss Eber, do you think she will forgive
me ? "

Yes," she replied, " but her wound is
very deep. I have had one or two letters
from her, but they were very short, no spirit
in them, so unlike Judy, I heard, too,
through Mrs. Horseman, that they are anxious
about her, and that Mrs. Aylmere wished to
take her abroad, but she would not leave her
cousins. The squire is breaking fast, that
marriage was dreadful, then poor Miss
Dulsie's death."

She knew the pain her words were giving ;
she intended it.

I shall never forgive myself," he muttered ;
the sweet little, bright darling, how could I
doubt her?"

"How, indeed?" thought Elsie, but she
made no rejoinder. She rose to go.

Stay," he said, " but one word. There
are some resolutions that are made without
weighing consequences, one such I have come
to now. I shall this night telegraph to my

agent to stay all proceedings in this election
petition. I shall desire him to withdraw it."

Elsie's breath came quick. "Can you?"
she said. " Is it not too late ? "

No. The informations have not been
sworn yet. I am in time. It is a mere
matter of paying costs."

Lord Le Pole," she whispered, " I thank
you ; Abram Rout is my half-brother."

Le Pole had considerable difficulty in reconciling
his father to the course of action upon
which he had determined.

' Some absurd Quixotic notion," he said to
his wife, to which she replied :

"Notion or conviction, Albany, you had
better give way with a good grace, for Le
Pole always means what he says."

He tells me he must leave for home tomorrow,"
said Lord Albany in an aggrieved
tone. " I do wish he was in Parliament. He
has been more erratic than ever since his
defeat. It is very mortifying."

The evening post had come in. Lord

Albany held a package of letters in his
hand.

These are for you and the girls," he said,
giving his wife some five or six, and with a
sigh reading the addresses of those he had
retained. " Business, all business," he said
fretfully ; but coming on a square envelope,
"here's one from"  he scrutinized the postmark
 " from Nettlethorp  Egbert, I
think."

He opened it. It was from Mr. Egbert, and
contained only a few lines, traced in an uncertain
hand. Miss Le Pole was ill, a sharp
attack of bronchitis. The squire had seen
her ; she had sent for him, and he thought
Lord Albany had better return home at once.
She had refused to admit Lady Margaret
Dredger, who was at the Grange, but she had
seen his cousin, Judy Aylmere, several times.
Judy had failed in persuading her to allow the
doctor to send for a trained nurse ; indeed
the doctor's attendance was a mere farce, as
she said she could doctor herself better than
any one.

"We had better o-q with Le Pole," said

Lord Albany, handing the letter to his wife.
She read it, and then said :

I have one from Margaret ; she says the
attack is a very sharp one, and that the doctor
does not think she will get over it. Little
Ormsby is ill, too. Poor Mangy, she writes
in low spirits. He is a fragile little fellow ; I
shall be glad to be at home. Miss Aylmere,
she says, has been very kind in going to see
her. The child is very fond of her ; but, she
adds, she  Miss Aylmere  is so changed, and
looks as if she were fading away. Albany, do
you not think Le Pole may have had something
to do with it ? "

With what, Louise ? "

He had not followed his wife's train of
thought intelligently.

Margaret was positive that she liked him,"
continued Lady Albany, following out her
mental argument abstractedly.

Lord Albany understood.

And so was I," be said. " Some complication
with that young Parson probably. Le
Pole wants self-assertion. I am convinced he
had the cards in his hands. I should not

wonder if Mrs. Beaumorris laughed him out
of it; the 'little rustic she used to call her."

"Albany," said his lordship's wife, "you
will never understand your son."

But Le Pole did not accompany his family
on their homeward journey. He took flight
by himself, travelling without an hour's cessation
until he reached Nettlethorp. His lady-mother
took things more leisurely, though
still making, for her, unusual haste.

So cast and mingled with his very frame,
The mind's disease its ruling passion came."

Sir Janitor Tomlinson always spoke of his
doctor, whose somewhat eccentric patronymic
was Bibbleton, as his " medical attendant."
He said Bibbleton was the only doctor who
had ever understood his constitution, and he
had some sort of idea that that functionary
possessed in himself a charm against death.
He was in constant request at Janitor Hall,
not in his official capacity, but as a kind of
pervading influence, a mental anodyne, insuring
in imparted security a present oblivion of
certain fears induced solely by the excess of
years over the limit of man's allotment, for
Sir Janitor's bill of health was still, what it
had ever been, clean. In this way Doctor
Bibbleton had obtained over the old knight 
a very fiction of a patient so far as business
went, his visits for the most part being on a

friendly basis  an influence possessed by no
other being. Now that they were on a purely
professional footing the old man was as a child
in his hands. He knew as a shadowy fact
that some day he must pay that inevitable
debt to nature, but the bill was so long overdue
perhaps he had come to hope that not
being presented it had not been noted. Butin
practical rendering he regarded death in
some measure as a disease, to be, if not finally
conquered, kept at bay for an indefinite period
by Bibbletoii's skill and his own fence. He
knew he was  Bibbleton had said so  as
sound as a rock, not even a tooth gone ; he
misht live to be a hundred, not now an uncommon
age. But of course years did tell,
and he, perhaps, might be a little more susceptible
lately to mental worry. The excitement
of the election would have tried a
younger man ; it had tried him, he acknowledged
as much to Doctor Bibbleton. His
head had at times a strange feeling of emptiness.
But he was quieting down, returning to his
normal condition, when this most unlooked-for
petition had turned up. His nephew was

an ingrate, as well as a blundering fool. That
was not the man even to keep money together.
He had made a mistake, the one mistake of a
triumphant career, but he would rectify it.
The moment Bibbleton pronounced it safe for
him to sit up he would go into the matter with
Fisk, and send Eawson's pauper about his
business. But in consideration of what the
world might demand, he would settle on him
an annuity of two hundred a year. At
present he would follow Bibbleton's instructions,
lie perfectly still, keep up his tone with
old port, and allow his mind to dwell on
nothing but what was pleasant.

So the doctor visited him constantly in the
day ; read to him the money articles of the
Times, and gleanings from the Investor, and
salient bits from the Financier. His housekeeper,
too, kept him informed on what he
called the " public feeling " about his illness,
which was the flattering gossip of the town*
and the indignant on dits on the subject of
the petition. These last were for the most
part manufactured " as necessary tonics " for
the patient's recovery.

But somehow that strange sensation of
emptiness in the head did not yet get sensible
relief, and the interview with Fisk was postponed
from day to day. Doctor Bibbleton
on more than one occasion put in a good
word for Ned, which was received with ::rini
silence, for the knight was crafty and suspicious.
He saw that Bibbleton was sorry for
the " young fool," and he thought it was just
possible that he had been bribed to patch up
matters, but he would let him see what an
adamantine will he had to deal with. Still
he would make no bodily exertion without
his doctor's sanction : it was clearly the
latter's interest to keep him alive.

There was something of the fox in Sir
Janitor's nature. A great writer has said,
*' from the oyster to the eagle, from the hog
to the tiger, all animals are in man," and that
each of them is in a man, at times several
at once ;" and that " every individual of the
human species corresponds to some one of the
animal creation." Sir Janitor's correspondence
was found in the fox ; his face, indeed,
was of the vulpine cast. Keeping, according

to his regimen, perfectly still, he asked the
doctor one morning if he thought he might
with safety write a letter. Quite off his
guard the doctor said he might, that the pleasurable
excitement of a friendly letter might
even be of service. Only disagreeable things,
he added, had to be avoided.

Then anything that gives me pleasure is
safe?" asked the knight.

In moderation, yes," was the reply.

Then," said the old man, his little keen
red eyes looking sharply out from their bushy
furze at the doctor's bland visage, " 111
trouble you for my portfolio. I want to
write to Fisk. What I have to say to him
will give me the very greatest pleasure, so
you must consider the letter your prescription."


Dr. Bibbleton was a wise man. Without a
word he brought his patient the portfolio,
placed it before him, propped him up on skilfully
arranged pillows, gave him the particular
pen he required, arranged everything
to his liking, and withdrew, saying he was
going to visit a patient at a distance and

would not be back till quite late. Sir Janitor's
heart sank. Now that his head was on the
perpendicular that strange sensation of emptiness
had returned, he felt absolutely giddy.
The doctor put in his head at the door as at
the prompting of an after-thought.

If the uneasiness in the head returns, Sir
Janitor, Mrs. Peerie will know what to do,"
and he vanished.

It was a large sumptuously furnished room,
with velvet-pile carpet, great mirrors, satin
hangings and massive furniture. A blazing
fire diffused warmth and cheerfulness, and
from the lowered top of one of the three large
windows, from which the satin-draped luxurious
bed was jealously protected, the cold
air came gently in, keeping the atmosphere of
the room fresh and invigorating. A bank of
down pillows supported the shrunken frame
of the old knight. A huge eider-down quilt
of crimson satin obscured the attenuated
limbs ; not even their line was indicated. An
invalid-table with an ingenious contrivance
held the writing paraphernalia within reach of
his hand. An electric bell communicating

with the housekeeper's room was also within
his reach. Nothing was wanting to complete
the ease and comfort of the millionaire invalid,
nothing to make his sumptuous chamber complete.
Wealth has its obligations, and the
millionaire knight, in unwittingly preparing a
guest-chamber for the King of Terrors, had
acknowledged one.

As the door closed on the doctor, Sir
Janitor's heart sank within him. He left his
pen untouched, and placed his shrivelled
hand on the electric bell, calculating within
himself how long it would take for the doctor
to get clear of the house : he would then
summon Mrs. Peerie. She would read to him,
and he would put off writing to Fisk till tomorrow.
Suddenly the sound of bells, many
bells, struck on his ear, coming in with the
fresh November air through the open window.
He listened ; it was a peal, like the peal that
had rung out the day he opened the hospital,
and the day his nephew had "licked" that
"supercilious nob Le Pole." "A peal," he
grinned spitefully, "it ought to be a muffled
peal," and then the thoughts his own fancy
VOL. m. 42

had suggested made him groan as in utter
and helpless wretchedness. Still louder and
louder on the clear air came the jubilant
clang. He would ask what it was ; but just
as he touched the bell the door opened, and
to his unspeakable relief the doctor put in his
head as if to reconnoitre.

Come in, Bibbleton, come in," he cried
with feeble eagerness. The door opened wider ;
the doctor's head disappeared, only to reappear
the next instant over the shoulder of
sed. who, fear and iov struo'olinor on his care-stricken
face, and holding a telegram aloft,
came up to his uncle's side, and, not waiting
for the impending burst, cried :

My dear uncle, don't you hear the bells ?
Lord Le Pole has withdrawn the petition, and
the town is beside itself. The hospital has
your flag flying, the school has a holiday, and
the corporation are concocting an address to
present to you," and he laughed.

The news seemed to confuse the old man.
He took it in very slowly, but he did take it
in, for he smiled and held out his hand to Xed,
who, his heart " full of a great relief," and pain,

too, and the dread the bravest feel at the
signs of the last impending change, took it
within his own and kissed it.

Ah," said the knight in a voice scarcely
above a whisper, " ah, Sir Janitor was one too
many for them. They're all alike, them nobs,
not a brass farthing among 'em ; '' he was
relapsing into his boyhood's vernacular, and
his hands were picking at the blankets.

The doctor, with a hurried gesture to Ned
to ring the electric bell, administered some
brandy.

All right, Bibbleton," he said, revived by
the alcohol, " head's full enough now, right
as a trivet. I'll give 'em a banquet ; drink
Ned's health. Sir Janitor Tomlinson, the great
philanthropist's nephew  three times three
and one more."

His voice seemed to fade away, but his
little foxy eyes were as bright as ever.

Thomas," he cried in a thin treble,

naming an old clerk dead some thirty years,

bring me the day-book ; d  n it, looked

sharp, time's money, an' them as wastes

time wastes money. Eun up the last

422

column, there's sixpence out ; d  n it, sir,
hurry, or I'll do it myself an' dock your
wage."

Fainter and fainter the voice sank, and the
hands clutched the eider-down quilt.

Thomas, what is it I alius ses ? Dunno,
don't you ? No, you never knows nothing'. I
alius says a clean ledger and a correct tot,
an' a man may die 'happy."

The breeze with a sudden gyration filled
the still chamber with the clang and clash of
the jubilant bells ; it lifted a grizzly lock lying
on the clammy brow and waved it as in
triumph. Then the doctor bent forward and
closed the lids of the little sharp eyes that,
fixed and keen, seemed as if independent of
the soul gone to its account.

Ask me no more ; thy fate and mine are sealed.
I strove against the stream and all in vain,
Let the great river take me to the main.
No more, dear love, for at a touch I yield,
Ask me no more."

Only a few withered leaves clung to the more
sheltered branches of the trees, not with
tenacity of life, but as in lingering love. The
breezes had folded their wings in lull of sleep,
but now and again a wood-pigeon with a noisy
flapping darted from its bare covert, snapped
the brittle stalks, and helplessly and lifelessly
the sere and yellow relics of a verdant prime
fell to the earth. The gray vapours of
November hung low on the slope of the
downs, the brown meadows and dun waters
blending in a melancholy harmony.

It was early in the forenoon as Judy, with
a slow, princess step came across the humid
fields to Giles' cottage. Within the small inclosure
containing the shepherd's holding, and

frinorinc the outer line to the skirting the
wood, were thick bushes of evergreen, and
here and there a slim ash enwrapt in ivy.
On the far side of the pathway was the brook,
now full with the early winter rains. The
pool beneath had overrun its brim, and the
margin was soft and slimy. To-day its
surface was alive with coots and watermen.
They did not flit away scared at Judy's
approach. One or two dived, coming up
close to the shore as if to show their unconcern.
Very listlessly Judy walked. Her
sweet mouth had a pitiful line of secret care,
and her eyes a far-away mournful look. That
look had gone to the old shepherd's heart.
There was something the matter with the
little miss." The gossip of the servants' hall,
echoed in the stable-yard, had given him an
inkling of this " something," and many a time
he descried her slight figure ascending the
path to the sheltered walks where he fed his
sheep, and old Giles unbonneted, as with
lifted face, but closed eyes, he offered a
fervent petition that He who tempered the
wind to the shorn lamb would bring light

out of the darkness that had gathered round
the " little miss," and in His own good time
make the rough paths smooth to her tender
feet.

Often, seated on a mossy stone beside her
humble friend, Judy would while away an
hour in converse on deep, spiritual things,
and often her step as she hastened homewards
had in it the spring and lightness it
had lacked on its outward course. The girl
was bearing up bravely. Her heart and hand
she brought to every duty, and never a
captious word or murmur escaped her lips.
If she was stiller, graver even to sadness, she
was as gentle as ever, as loving and as self-forgetting.
But Judy's song was hushed, and
no one now heard the merry ringing laugh
that used to be brave cheer in the old squire's
ears, and, whatever her mood, could waken a
smile on Sybella's wintry visage.

The squire felt the change, and wondered
in a hazy, dumb fashion, but somehow he did
not seem to miss her cheer so much ; his own
spirit had failed him. Evening shadows had
long since rolled into night, and night was

now to him but the dawn of day. Judy's
mood harmonized with his fading away. She
missed Mabella, he thought, and Dulsie, too,
but spring would come and Judy would
bloom again.

She seemed to-day to the old shepherd's
eyes a woodland fay, such as the folk lore
of the district told of. Her hair was coiled
under a small fur hat, from which it sent
protesting emissaries in the shape of little
golden flakes and tiny feathery curls, that
rose and fell as she quickened her step on
sighting the shepherd's cot. A close jacket
of the same fur fitted unto her slight figure,
and her gown of fine black serge was short,
showing the dainty but stout little shoes.
She carried a basket containing some delicacy
for the shepherd's ailing wife. And always
as she crowned the ascent she turned aside
to stand a pitiful moment beside the venerable
oak beneath which lay her merry little
companion, Tim. To-day she only stood on
the path, looked across at the spot for a brief
minute, and then entered the cottage gate.

Giles was within.

I am in a hurry to-day, Giles," she said.
I am going to ride to the Grange immediately
after luncheon, and I have come for
the squirrels. Peters says he will carry them
for me in a basket, but they know me, and I
think I'll take them in my pockets. I am not
going to wear my best habit, and my everyday
one has two capital pouches "  and she
smiled. " The poor little fellow, he will be
so pleased."

Giles touched his hat in token of assent to
Judy's arrangements.

Have you heard how the little chap bees,
miss ? " he asked.

Yes, I heard to-day. He is very feeble.
Lady Margaret says. He is always asking when
Judy and the squirrels are coming. I wanted
the squire to drive with me in the brougham,
but he is very low to-day. I shan't be long
away ; Gloriana will take me there and back
before dinner."

Have you heard the news, miss, from the
Manor House ? " asked Giles as he put the
squirrels into the soft-lined basket and carefully
fastened it down.

No ; is Miss Le Pole worse ? "

She's gone whoame, miss," said the old
shepherd solemnly. "It vor thick morning
at daybreak  her sun set. A lad with a
note to tha squire come across the fields
thick vay an hour and more agone, un felled
me."

The squire seemed more than usually feeble
at luncheon, Judy thought. The death of
friends was no longer the pain to him it had
once been ; death was more natural now to
his seeming, but he always felt the severance
of old ties, even though he knew that his
' little while " could now be scarcely more
than the breath of an hour.

I wrote to Lord Albany some days ago,"
he said, " but I fear he was not in time ; in
fact he could not have been."

Lady Margaret said nothing about expecting
him," observed Judy, "and her letter
was written last night. I would not go today,
cousin Egbert," she added, " only the
Cricket is watching for me and the squirrels
I promised him ; and then, you see, if
they all come home, which they are sure

to do, I could not very well go for sometime."


"Judy dear," said the squire, "I shall be
very glad to be alone this afternoon. I shall
miss m} eccentric old friend very much. The
doctor says if she had listened to what he calls
reason  taken his medicine, I suppose he
means  she would have got over the attack,
but she would treat herself. She had done so
before, and with success, she said, but then
she was younger and stronger ; however, her
time had come. The east wind  it is northwest
to-day  tries us old bodies terribly.
Sybella says Sir Janitor Tomlinson is not expected
to live."

Did you hear from mamma to-day,
S'bella ? " asked Judy.

No. I had a line from Miss Prance and
from Mabella, too ; they both mentioned Sir
Janitor's critical state. Mr. Eawson is with
him, but Miss Prance says the old man won't
let him enter his room. It was the election
petition upset him first ; but he is quite old
enough to die of old age."

o

g(

ii

Only six years more than mine, Sybella,'

said the squire gently, and then he added, " I
hope the young fellow won't suffer. Sir
Janitor is very capricious, I believe."

This was to be a momentous day in the
story of the two beings fate had so nearly
made one, so cruelly severed in thought.
Lady Margaret was expecting Judy. She saw
her coming up the avenue at a sharp trot, and
was in the hall to greet her as she entered.
Her manner was a little flurried, but Judy did
not notice it. The squirrels had begun to
protest against further durance by sundry
scratches and little squeaks, and Judy's attention
was absorbed in keeping them within
bounds in their novel conveyance until the
Cricket should have them safe. She was, however,
obliged to release them and place them
in a basket, which, in anticipation of such an
emergency, Peters had carried with him.

The little fellow knew Judy had come. He
was sitting up in his cot, clad in a warm
flannel dressing-gown of blue, with a white
Shetland kerchief, Judy's work, crossed on
his breast and tied behind.

The doctor says he will do now," whispered

Lady margaret to her companion as
she ushered her into the pretty boudoir that
had been turned into a sick nursery for the
treasured child.

Judy has brought Cricket the squirrels,"
she whispered softly as she bent over the eager
child and kissed him lovingly, he clasping his
small shadow-like arms round her neck.

Then she took the little, soft, tame creatures
out of their warm cot, and first scattering a
handful of nuts and sweet biscuit on the
counterpane of the cot she put them in the
child's lap.

With infinite delight he clapped his hands
and tried to shout " Hooray ! " but only succeeded
in uttering a thin little cry. He
was a brave little fellow, weak and wasted
though he was, and showed no fear when the
squirrels in their gambols perched on his
shoulder.

Cricket mustn't tire himself," said Lady
Margaret anxiously. She noted the child's
cheek. " Let the pretty things go to sleep in
their nest. Cricket shall have them again in
the morning."

But, pleased with his toys, Ormsby refused
to part with them. " Dey can seep with
Cricket," he said.

Reluctant to excite the little patient, Lady
Margaret let him have this way.

You must give them pretty names," said
Judy, " and then we will tell them to be good
and go to sleep and let Cricket go to sleep,
too."

The Cricket looked up at her with wondering
eyes. He smiled  he always smiled when
he looked at Judy's face  and then, as at a
happy thought, again he clapped his hands.

I will tissen the big one Leppo," he cried,
and te little one Darlin' Doody ; uncle Leppo
ses 00 is a darling," and then the hectic spot
faded out of the white cheek, the eyes drooped,
and the Cricket said he was tired.

Lady Margaret forbore to look at Judy ;
had she done so she would have seen cheeks
rivalling in paleness those of the little
prattler. She busied herself about the cot,
smoothing the pillow and cooing soft words
of endearment.

But the child was restless.

I fear the excitement lias been too much
for him," said his mother ; " he would not goto
sleep till you came, and he was awake so
early. He has so little streno-th left."

Cricket go to seep in Doody's lap," the
child said, lifting his head from the pillow.
Leppo and Darlin' Doody, too," and he seized
the squirrels, which had curled themselves
close up beside him. They sprang away.

' Xever mind," said Judy gently; "111 put
them into such a funny nest," and she took the
little creatures up and placed them in the
pockets of her habit once more.

The Cricket was charmed, and with his old
action tried to express his glee with his hands,
but they failed him. Then his little lip quivered,
and though he strove manfully against
them, the tears, from sheer weakness, trickled
down this poor wasted cheeks.

Cricket seep in Doody's lap," he cried,
and with infinite tenderness Judy lifted the
light little burden out of its warm nest,
wrapped round it a soft Angora shawl, and
sat down by the fire. The child nestled close
up to her.

Ting," lie said ; " ting de pitty song about
Allan a-Dale. Cricket can ting it, but Leppo
won't let him." Again the little lip quivered
and the tears came.

He is terribly weak," whispered Lady
Margaret ; "we humour him in everything,
poor wee man ; he has a wonderful ear for
music."

"Ting," repeated the tiny voice imperatively,
" ting Allan-a-dale."

And with not the very firmest of voices
Judy sang, choosing the two last verses of the
ballad. To the first verse the child beat time
with his small clenched hand, then his eyes
closed and the slender fingers relaxed, and
when, soft and tender, Judy's clear notes died
on the words, " And the youth it was told
by was Allan-a-dale," the Cricket had fallen
into a sweet restful slumber. He lay like a
bit of sculptured marble in the arms of his
gentle nurse, the long dark lashes of the blue
veined lids resting on his white cheeks. Teardrops
glistened in Judy's eyes as she laid the
child back in his cot with a touch so skilfully
tender it could not have crumpled the most

fragile rose-leaf. She forbore from even a
kiss, only hovered over the delicate bud a
loving' moment and then stole away.

A screen was between the cot and the door,
which, as she approached, quietly opened.
Lady Margaret had slipped out a minute
before. This door led into a larger room,
which was used by the Ladies Le Pole as a
small morning library. There they wrote
their letters, and read. Judy, in obedience
to instructions Lady Margaret had whispered,
directed her steps to this room, entering it by
the now open door. As she did so she saw
a figure holding it back. In the uncertain light
she thought it was probably Mr. Dredger, and
she passed on. Then the door softly closed,
and she turned round. With a quick action
she placed her hand on her heart, and gave a
little gasp. Xot a trace of colour was left in
the white, startled face.

She was not so strong as she was but a
few months since, and, strive though she did,
she could not command composure. She
trembled and her eyelid quivered nervously.
But she found words which, if they were
VOL. III. 43

Uttered with a falteriiiix voice, were vet dignified
and cold.

Lord Le Pole," she said, " this is a very
unexpected pleasure. I understood you were
travelling."

She had heard he was in the company of the
fascinating Creamy, but she was too proud to
mention her name, or by sign or word let him
suppose she entertained any interest in his
doings.

For a moment Lord Le Pole's courage
failed him. Then he noted how slight the
lithe round figure had become, how the
bloom and freshness had faded from the
sweet young face, and how mournful the
brilliant eyes looked out from their heavy
fringe. But he noted, too, in that lightning
moment of conscience-stricken fear, that the
slight figure was very erect and icily still.

A rush of passionate dread swept over him.

Was he to lose her at the eleventh hour ?
Was his awakening too late ? Had her pure,
true nature revolted from his as shallow and
unworthy? Her cheeks were pale, her eyes
were faded, b::t too surely he read on the

calm open brow, in the firm curve of the soft
mouth, and the very chilly clearness of her
eyes, that hers was no weak spirit to cower
within itself at its first wound in the battle of
life. The shock, the first keen pang was over,
and instead of the simple trusting girl whose
days had been as a year of summer, there was
a brave woman to suffer and to do.

Nothing but the truth, the naked truth,
without a shadow of turning, Avill save me,'
he said, " if even then it may save me."

So he told her his story. He told it her in
that chill November eve, without passionate
declamation, without feverish pleading ;
calmly, almost coldly  he feared to breakdown
 he told her all.

She listened at first with a sad, scornful
smile, and once she stopped him with an
imperious gesture. It was when he told her
of Ned snatching the flowers from her breast
and she quiescent, so it had seemed to him.

Stop," she cried, " it was a poor trophy
from the wreck of a too faithful love, a few
faded flowers. Lord Le Pole, Edward Eawson
has a true heart. I did him grievous wrong."

432

He lead been on his defence until now.
He had told her all his error, his bitterly repented
jealousy. He must plead now as he had
never pleaded before, he must plead for dear
life, and love far beyond life ; for life without
Judy would be to him only as the enforced
existence of the wretched slave at the galley.

He was travel-stained and weary. His eyes
were hot in his head.

He came up to her, he seized her hand, she
could not free it.

You did me no dishonour in the world's
eyes," she said, " you had spoken no word tome.
If I thought you liked me, it may have
been because I liked you, my lord ; you were
not bound to me."

There was a noble pride in the girl's simple
words. She did not wish to shirk the truth
that she had yielded her heart.

"Spoken no word," he cried. " Ask your
heart, Judy, did it want words to tell you I
loved you ? "

Close beside her, her hand clasped to his
breast, her head averted, he demanded an
answer.

It is Yoiir Trait to withhold forgiveness if
you will, but its not your right to refuse
me an answer to my self-justifying question.
Judy, did you not know I loved you ? "

She could not help herself. She turned her
head slowly round, looked him with frank
eyes full in the face and said :

"Yes, I knew it.'"'

Closer he impelled her to him.

And you believe I am now speaking
truth, do you not ? " he asked, as if his very
life hung on his words.

Yes," she whispered falteringly.

"Then, Judy, you need no oath or protestation
to make you believe me when I say I did
not know, that is, I was not sure that you
loved me. Many a heart I had seen fooled
away  forgive me, my darling, oh, for dear
love's sake forgive me, but I did indeed think
you had fooled my heart away."

The man did not know it, he would never
know it, Judy hardly knew it herself, but the
words, " I was not sure that you loved me "
broke down a barrier of pride that, almost
against her will, withstood his pleading. If

he did not know lie lead won her, he could
never have thought she was too lightly
won. She could forgive the wrongs he had
done her in thinking she could be guilty of
fooling a heart away," but not that she was
too hasty of love.

The exquisite purity, the singleness of
purpose of Judy's nature, allowed of no
ungenerous reserve, no self-satisfying equivocation
; to forgive meant. To Judy, to
forget.

There is not much to forgive," she whispered,
drooping her head to hide the eloquent
blood that told its own tale ; " it was all a
mistake."

The evenings shadows leno-thinned unheeded
the fire died out in the grate ; dull, dreary,
misty, the chill November day shivered to its
rest, but to Judy and Le Pole it

Was the tim of roses ;
They plucked them as they passed."

A lio-ht hand turned the handle of the door
and Lady Margaret entered. Judy returned

to outer life. As on the sands that summer
m31it she turned accusmrrly to Lo Pole, and
with keen feminine inconsistency asked why
he had not told her how late it was fretting.

I did not know it," he answered significantly.


Judy bit her lip. Lady ]margaret smiled.
With a little provoking toss of her head Judy
put lier right hand into her pocket.

Oh, the squirrels," she cried, and before
she could prevent them the little animals
made their way out, and one on each shoulder,
they sat up and washed their faces.

Judy laughed till the happy tears came.
Lady Margaret had to explain, which she did,
as Judy made the pretty creatures prisoners
and replaced them in their basket.

"They shall have a proper house in the
morning," said Lady Margaret, " and Le Pole
will put them in all right, won't you ? "

Oh, I couldn't possibly," he answered ;
much better that Miss Aylmere should stay
over the night, she understands wild animals ;
I don't. Squirrels in especial are risky, and if
I hurt them the Cricket would never forgive

me. He has ' christened ' them after us, you
know," and he looked at Judy just a little
mischievously.

How do you know ? " she asked with her
old air of petty sauciness.

I was present at the ceremony," he said
ungenerously, " and I heard the lullaby, too,
but I didn't like it," and he hummed the concluding
line of Allan-a-dale.

Fortunately for Le Pole a servant at that
moment announced " Miss Aylmere's horse,"
and only staying to drink a hasty cup of tea,
Judy prepared to take the saddle.

I was to ask," she said to Lady Margaret,
if cousin Egbert could be of any service at
the Manor House, but as Lord Le Pole has
returned no one will be needed. We are all
very sorry to hear of Miss Le Pole's death."

Yes," said Lady Margaret, " we shall miss
her in a way, poor old lady, though she did
not spend much energy in gaining affections
from any one."

No, it all went on her farm," said Le Pole.
She will be missed there. She was a generous
hostess. We expect my father tomorrow."

Then asking leave of Judy Tvitli this eyes,
wliicli was granted by a blush and a faint
little nod, Ie Pole said to this sister :

'' ]\Iaggy dear, you have been in my secret
from the first. 'Darlin' Doody ' has promised
to be the Cricket's aunt."

Lady Margaret Event up to Judy, who
looked uncertain whether to laugh or cry 
she ended in doing both  and embraced her
warmly.

At last my heart's desire," she said. " Papa
will be so pleased."

And then Le Pole said very simply, " Judy,
I did not tell you that the election petition is
withdrawn. I hope the old knight will forgive
his nephew."

It seemed to Le Pole that even his
hereditary seat would have been worth
forfeiting for such another look from Judy's
eyes.

It was a late hour for such a long ride
home, but Judy insisted on taking it, and
.unattended by any escort but Peters, who was
not a little elated by the very marked turn of
events evidenced in Judy's every movement

and beaming face, and Lord Le Pole's " ownership
air," as lie told Giles in the morning.
He was like a man aside of himself," lie said
to the delighted shepherd.

Gloriana and the brown cob sent the turf
flying along the side of the road, but it was
considerably past the Hall dinner-hour when
Judy put in a penitential appearance.

When the dessert was on the table Sybella,
excusiijo' herself on the score of some urgent
business with the steward, who had sent in
word that he wished to see her, left her father
and Judy alone.

After just a little hesitation Judy rose and
knelt by the old man's side, and without
reserve told him all lier love-story, from, as
she said, the very beginning.

Judy, my loving little child," he said
when she had finished, "you have made me a
very happy old man, not because of the old
lands, dear  that seems to me now such a very
little thing  but because you are making what
I did, a true marriage in the sight of God.
Death cannot sever that union, dear, for though
there is neither marriage nor giving in marriage



in heaven, there are no broken ties
there."

Then he laid his hands on her head in old
patriarchal fashion and blessed her.

nmi

All was ended now, the hope, and the fear, and the sorrow,
All the aching of heart, the restless unsatisfied longing",
All the dull deep pain, and constant anguish of patience. '

The squire could not be dissuaded from
attending his old friend Miss Le Pole's
funeral, although the day set in with a bitter
east wind and indications of a snowfall.

I should not care so much," said Sybella,
if it were to be a quiet, private affair, but
the Albany are always so glad of an opportunity
to place themselves en evidence they
are sure to get up a grand ceremony. / calla
pretentious country funeral a festival, for
there is always a feast."

Oh, Sybella," exclaimed Judy, " a feast is
for rejoicing, not mourning."

For both, my dear," said the squire as if
casually, going out of the room to end the
argument, "festus, a holiday ; festus, solemn."

It was all very well in the old days,"

Sybella continued, " when there were no
trains, and people from far and near had to
come as best they could, then it was necessary
to provide food. Many a time the old 
here has been draped in black, the
floor strewed with rushes mixed with rosemary
and rue, the platters filled with funeral
bread, but that was long before a Le Pole was
even thought of. Custom has done away with
funeral feasts, and those who o-ive them ouoht
at an) rate to have the excuse of hereditary
observance. Why, Marlby Grange is only
two hundred years old."

'' And two hundred years ago," said Judy,
just a little hotly, "funeral feasts were in all
their glory. There is a very grand 
at the Grange."

ISTot ' grand,' child, gorgeous ; grand
belongs to the mediaeval times, gorgeous is an
upholsterer's term, and aptly suits the 
of the Grange."

'' Sybella," asked Judy, a little mischievously,
" how is it that the Roberts were never
ennobled ? "

You mean, I suppose, why they were not

given titles ? " Sybella spoke with scornful
assertion. " They were offered, reign after
reign, both titles and honours, but they were
always too high-minded and honest in those
venal times to accumulate wealth. They had
lands, and it took all their tact and determination
from father to son to keep those lands
together ; they never had the great means
required to keep up a patent of nobility, so
they contented themselves with the nobility
of old blood. The lands Miss Le Pole had
were lost by the squire of Cromwell's time.
He would always drink the king's health, and
Cromwell fined him in a quarter of the estate,
and gave it to a Roundhead officer, the son of
a yeoman-farmer, from whom Lord Albany's
grandmother, who was, you know. Miss Le
Pole's mother, descended. That was how she
came by the property If it ever comes back
to us "  Sybella spoke as if half to herself 
we will have nothing to do with the Le Pole
quarterings." Then she added aloud, " I hear
]wanting has the ordering of the funeral."

It was not either a gorgeous or a grand
funeral, only a very confine ilfaut and suitable

one. The deceased lady had not departed
in the odour of sanctity, nor on the breath
of popular esteem. She had not been unhonoured,
but it could not be said that she
had been honoured, and most certainly, except
in the case of her immediate employed, she was
not regretted. She had lived to herself, and
so she had died. Her impulsive acts of
charity, not a few, were remembered in some
such way as the wit and song of the gay butterflies
of society are remembered  they had
lightened a weary hour. As in nature, such
spontaneous ephemerae pass with the sun that
gives them birth. Many a generous deed, too,
had been afterwards obliterated by some
capricious act which, if it did not emanate
from actual spite and ill-nature, was certainly
the outcome of selfishness and temper. She
had, too, been more of a lavish than a
generous mistress, and conduct that has not
in it the regulating motive of justice, inspires
neither respect nor gratitude in the keenly
perceptive minds of those who serve us. Perhaps
the emotion nearest akin to regret evoked
by her death was that experienced by Squire

Egbert, and that was more of sentiment than
feeling. He knew she had liked him, had fora
wonder always remained constant to that
liking, and this loyal heart held for her a very
chivalrous friendship. He was

To her virtues very kind,
And to her faults a little blind."

And so with sincere regret, if not an absolute
feeling of a blank, the squire in a bitter
east wind bared his head as his old friend was
lowered into the Albany vault, and took his
death home. Its chill was on him as, at the
special desire of the deceased lady's lawyer, he
returned with the family to the Manor House,
to be present at the reading of her will.

It was a very business dike, matter-of-fact
document, but astounding to those interested.
It was of recent date. The whole of the testator's
personal effects, with certain exceptions,
and her money and investments were willed
to her nephew ; but her landed property, inherited
without entail from her mother, and
which comprised and particularized in the will
that " portion of the ancient estate of the
Esrberts forfeited during the time of the

CommoiiTvealtli," was devised to Judith Ayl-
mere on one condition  that within a twelvemonth
of the testator's death she married
Edward Eawson, Member of Parliament for
Oxminster, Should the legatee decline this
condition, the property was then to pass to
the said Edward Eawson, to him and his heirs
for ever. All her jewels and lace she left to
the same Judith Aylmere unconditionally.

As the squire drove home, chilled and
shivering, he said to himself with repining
submission, "Man proposes, but God disposes."
But he would have been more than.
human if he had not felt and owned to a
sense of keen disappointment. Only a few
days ago he had rejoiced in what he believed
to be the fulfilment of his long-cherished wish,
had taken a sort of self-gratulations pleasure
in the reflection that he had himself furthered
its accomplishment, and now he had the mortification
of knowing that the very means he
had relied upon to give him the desire of his
heart had shut it out from him for ever.

For a passing moment it seemed very
strange and just a little hard to bear, but not
VOL. iir. 44

for the shadow of a moment did lie wish that
Judy had chosen the man of her king, and
not the man of her love.

As he neared the old keep he looked up
through the now fast-falling snow at the proud
turret over which his banner lino' in listless

o

folds, and somehow there came back to him
with ringing clearness the words spoken thereon
that bright June morning by the young girl
Aho was fated twice to lay low his castle in
the air ; the gay pennant, he remembered?
was floating in the breeze :

I think if I played you false, it would curl
itself round the pole and never wave again."

And a great peace filled the old squire's
heart.

The next morning Peters was despatched
with an urgent summons to Mabella. In the
middle of the night the squire had been seized
with acute pain in the chest and breathlessness
congestion of the lungs, the doctor said.
From the first there was no hope. There was
no strength to combat disease, and at once the
heart's action beo-an to fail. Before the close
of the second night of his attack the good old

squire lead sunk to this rest. Just at the
closiiiix scene Isabella had to lead ]arabella out
of the room with gentle force, the aofony of
her grief and self-reproach was greater than
she could bear ; it seemed as if her mind
would give way. The strain of her most
wretched relations with her husband had
weakened her spirit for the time, and she
broke out in a perfect passion of despair.

The old servants had gathered in the death-chamber,
Giles at the door leaning on his
crook. There was not a dry eye among them.
The painful gasping had ceased ; all was stilL
The hand Judy held in hers was icy cold.
Then she bent her face down to his lips to see
if they still moved ; they parted with a smile
as of recognition. And then she felt passing
over her soft warm cheek a faint chill air. It
was cousin Egbert's last breath.

And in the narrow chancel of the venerable
chapel the last male Egbert lay in state, the
tall sentinel tapers keeping watch and ward.
The arch over the east window was filled in
with snowdrift, obscuring its exquisite tracery.
The tangled curtain of bondage that drooped

4i 2

from the transom without was heavy, too, with
soft changing snow, but the rays of the bright
winter sun streamed through the many-coloured
narrow lights and ht up the richly-decorated
piscina, the relic of an exploded
ritual, bringing into clear relief the arms of
the Egbertss, with the date 1388.

The fiYQ customary days had passed, and on
the morrow the squire was to be laid in the
niche that had so long been waiting for him
in the old vault beside the parish church.

Many a solitary hour during those sad days
of waiting Judy had passed in the still chapel,
kneeling by what had been her loving and
most-beloved friend and cousin. Sometimes
Mabella had come with her, Sybella too. It
had been a solemn time, and its softening
influence seemed to bind closer together the
two last direct descendants of the old stock.
Each day, too, Giles had come in through the
outside door, which during the day was left
open for those who would to enter, and had
stood beside his old master's bier with his
bare head bowed, thinking perhaps that his
own summons could not be very far off. He

came, though, as much to " see after," as he
said, " the little miss," as to do honour to the
kind hand that had fed him all the days of his
pilgrimage.

It seems terrible hard to bear," he said to
Judy, standing with the coffin between them,
as she laid her head down on the pall and
wept as if her heart would break. " There's
nought so unnatural like to young fowls as
death. But oh, little miss, if it could a bin
zo as you could get a look ov hyn now, it's
not vor hyn 'em tears would come, it ud be
vor herself. Ah, in nature', zoa many years
must run foot adore thee face'll shine like his.
He'd be mortal vexed if zo bees as un's let to
zee thee now."

The grave words went home to the young
girl's tender heart.

'' You see, Giles," she said, drying her eyes,
it's the last time. They take him away
tomorrow ; " and then the tears hushed forth
again. " Oh, cousin Egbert, cousin Egbert,"
she cried, " you did love and trust me so, and
I loved you far, far more than sou can ever
know now. What will the old place be without

you? It will never, never be the same again.
The cruel spring will come again with its
green leaves and merry birds, but it won't
waken you, cousin Egbert. It will be always
winter where you are. How can I ride
Gloriana and you not at my side ? And the
cob, he'll miss you, too ; he'll whinny when I
go to his stall, and look for you over my
shoulder. Everything will miss you ; there's
a sob in the air everywhere. Oh, I could lay
my head down beside yours to-night and
never, never lift it again."

But Giles took her by the hand and
led her out of the chapel up the spiral
stairs and back to the liofht and warmth
of the bright boudoir, which 3xt seemed
so desolate, where her cousins sat in silent
sorrow.

It ain't right, little miss, to feed thee's
troubles thick way; seems like as thee would
flitch anon God Almighty."

As he said this he took off his hat respectfully.


He did not think it needful to tell her that
there was no winter where cousin Egbert was.

or to set forth in preachments the correct
theology of matter and spirit ; this the first
hour of her first great sorrow, he knew, was
winter-time to Judy.

But as the old shepherd walked homewards,
leaning heavily on his staff, his heart
took comfort for the little miss, for he knew
that soon for her the winter would be past
and the rains over and gone, and that then the
flowers would appear on the earth and the
time of the singing of birds would come, for
the voice of the turtle would be heard in her
land.

And as he entered his humble cottage he
said to himself :

'' There bees times with the wisest of us
when we cannot' feel what we knows."

Mrs. Aylmere had arrived at the Hall. The
major was expected in the morning ; he had
exercised a wise discretion in not coming
sooner. The part he expected to fill at the
sad ceremony of the morrow was that of chief
mourner. That the squire's daughters would
be present never entered into his calculations.
Women of the higher classes very rarely went

to funerals in the metropolis, and Major Tyler
had had very little experience of such matters
in the provinces. So he went to town and
fitted himself out with handsome sables,
entertained some old acquaintances who had
lately seemed a little shy of him to recherches
champagne dinners at an exclusive hotel in
May fair  he had long ceased to be a member
of any military club  talked mysteriously of
the onerous duties of large landed proprietors,
spoke of improving the tumble-down old Hall,
and hinted at the probability of standing for
the county.

It was remarkable what a rehabilitating
power there seemed to be in these little entertainments.
At one great military club the
name of the segregated major was entered for
readmission to the flock, and the secretary of
a limited and extremely exclusive corporation
hoped that when Major Tyler came to town
for the season he would allow himself to be
put into nomination for membership.

Lucky fellow, that Tyler," said Colonel
Buff; " married an old woman and came in
for no end of a place ; the oldest family in

the county, he tells me. I always said Tyler
was a knowing shot."

Some queer story about him," said the
Honourable Yaldimir Pouncebody, of Her
Majesty's Own Hussars, " shy at cards, someone
said  had to leave the ' Scrap and
Scramble,' hadn't he ? "

Oh, they say it was all a mistake," put in
Captain Tout ; " luck went against him. Got
mixed up with some woman, too  hard lines
on a fellow. By Jove, what Aliquot he gave
us last night."

"Ah, ah," said the Honourable Yaldimir,
no use totting up old scores ; clean sweep
and begin again is fair play, I say. I daresay
it wasn't his fault. Cherchez la femme, you
know."

They nodded response to the honourable
gentleman and voted that bygones should be
bygones, and so Major Tyler received a preliminary
whitewashing.

Miss Le Pole's will had given complete
satisfaction to no one  there is something
at best peculiarly unsatisfactory in the
nature of wills in general  least of all

did it give satisfaction to her nephew, the
earl.

To Judy it was the cause of both deep and
keen pain. She had wished at once to resign
the bequest of the gems and lace to Lady
Albany, but Lord Le Pole would not hear of
her doing so, and she gave up the point.
Neither did the earl wish it. He had benefited
very substantially by his eccentric relative's
dispositions, and he did not grudge his
son's future wife a share of the spoil. But it
was upon the Manor House estate he had set
his heart, and that had passed almost out of
his grasp, as it were, in the most aggravating
way, for he heard from the solicitor by whom
the will had been drawn up that the condition
relating to young Eawson had been quite a
late thought, the caprice of an hour. Miss
Le Pole, he said, had been gratified at Mr.
Eawson giving her up his bedroom, and she
had heard from Mrs. Aylmere that the young
fellow was in love with Miss Aylmere, who
was very well inclined to him also, only she
had lately imbibed some high-flown political
notions and fancied Ned too extreme.

Poor Mrs. Aylmere I All her little Teak

(lodges had resulted, not only in defeat, butin
disaster.

To swallow gudgeons ere they're catched,
And count their chickens ere they're hatched."

Could he with reason murmur at his case,
Himself sole author of his own disgrace ? "

Major Tyler did not hold the chief place of
honour at the burial of the noble gentleman
into whose family he had stolen like the
dastardly coward he was, but he made one
of an outside group of mourners who were
supplied with the shrouding cloaks, the peculiar
privilege of near and regretful friendship.

Major Tyler did not know his way very
well about the old house, and little wonder ;
for, as Judy was used to say, it needed a
person to be born in it to know its ups and
downs and turns and twists. The major was
apt to lose himself in the labyrinth of communicating
corridors, stairs, and double doors.

His room, by a neat arrangement of Grant,

the old butler, was apart from that portion
devoted to the family apartments. It was a
long-disused chamber near the banqueting-hall,
where, as had been the immemorial
custom, the will was to be read immediately
on the return of the funeral party.

It was a very imposing chamber, half filled
by the great standing bedstead, of Austrian
ancestry, family tradition said. At its foot
stood the old locker which served as a
seat, but had once been a repository for the
wealth and apparel of the owner, who always
slept with his sword by his side, a needful
precaution in the days of romance. The
hangings were of tapestry, showy with scenes
of hunting and hawking. The posts had
nodding plumes of feathers set in silver rings.
There were curious old painted chairs, and
for a table a trestle and board covered with a
faded velvet cloth, on which was embroidered
the Egbert arms. On the toilet-board was a
steel mirror. Tapestry of the same design as
that of the bed hung on the walls, and from
the one deep oriel window hanging sconces
from the was held wax candles.

It was, all in all, fit lodgment for a king, at
least so thought the proud, confident major,
as he attired himself in the handsome sables
the morning of the funeral.

Very grand and sumptuous, and all that
sort of thing," he said to himself as, his toilet
completed, he gave his moustache the last

warlike twirl, "but be if it is to be my

habitation. I'd die of the family blues or get
mediaeval jaundice."

He proceeded to find his way to the chapel,
where the company were to assemble, but it
was early, so he loitered, stopping at the
banqueting-room to examine the preparations
for the momentous gathering later on. It
was a dull, dark day, the snow deep on the
ground and banked up on the windows. There
did not seem any special arrangements. He
had still twenty minutes to spare, so he
lounged round the room, throwing back his
shoulders every now and then with an air of
approving proprietorship. He counted the
portraits along one side of the wall, each seton
an oak panel. Of these there were twenty
in all, the respective owners of the place.

The last was the squire just dead. It was
with a feeling of considerable complacency
that he pictured to himself his own image
in continuation, arrayed in the uniform of his
late regiment, the 6th Dragoons  a startling
contrast, he flattered himself, to the sombre
vesture of the last generation of squires ;
"guys," he irreverently called them. Then
he drew up in the middle of the old chamber
and took a bird's-eye view of the gallant men
and noble women, ao'e and youth and middle
age, as they had come and gone. He had
heard some of the stories attached to some of
them. The young bride in her flimsy gown
of gauze, " a slight she-slip of royal blood ; "
the same face thirty years on proud and
untimely, a stiff" kirtle and high ruff instead
of the shadowy raiment. Of all periods, by
master hands and less considered limners,
some strange to the Egbert blood, others
showing the distinctive features of the race,
a goodly group, take them all in all. Fierce
men in mailed armour, brave cavaliers in
sweeping plumes, laced coats and ruffles,
dignitaries of the Church and the law, diplomatic

personages, and sportsmen in hunting
paraphernalia.

Major Tyler surveyed them all, feeling an
accession of aggrandizement, and this whole
person inflated with the noble traditions of
the race whose male sequence he had been
called upon " to take up. He should hyphen
his and the Egbert patronymic, slightly altering
the former to Tellers-Egbert, or Egbert-tellers
 yes, that sounded better. His
'' French " origin  and he smiled with cunning
satisfaction  would come in handy ; and
then he thought with equal complacency of
how well his early antecedents had been concealed,
that not even prying Mrs. Aylmere had
ferreted them out, although she had actually
lived in his native place. At the name of
Aylmere he experienced a slight reaction.
Would Judy put her threat into execution
and inform Mabella of his part in the dog's
death ? If she did he would brazen it out.
The possibility, however, was depressing in
his exalted frame of mind, stirring up disagreeable
reminiscences. Elsie, how would
she act? And then somehow he took comfort

to his prophetic soul, for was she not
magnanimous almost to idiocy? And besides,
she had now a public name and would not risk
exposure, for, however innocent, '* a story "
never improved a woman's reputation. And
if some compromising items did leak out, why,
these " old cats "  his recently-wedded wife
and her maiden sister  were as proud as
Lucifer, and would be only too thankful to
hush things up at amj price, and he knew
what his price was.

The fire crackled and flared in the vaulted
grate. He spread his hands to its reassuring
warmth, contemplating with an eye of appurtenance,
if only of partial comprehension, the
hieroglyphic heraldry of his adoptive ancestry
carved on the great panel over the oak mantelpiece.
There was a tiny space still available,
and heraldry was ingenious !

He sauntered to the dais and noticed that
chairs, high-backed oak seats, had been
placed beside the massive table, round which
centuries ago the lords of the Egbert manor
entertained their guests of high degree. Involuntarily
he counted them, eight in all.
VOL. m. 45

Then he was sensible of a strange qualm, akin
to apprehension, some such sensation as might
be experienced when, a crisis past, threatening
symptoms recur. But the major did not
attempt to trace his symptoms to their source.
He hastened away from the portentous preparations
with the faint-heartiness of an
apprehensive conscience.

No sun shone through the narrow windows,
gay with many-coloured devices. He mounted
a long trestle and looked out on the park
through a lattice pane which had been opened
for the purpose of ventilation. "The old
hereditary trees," thickly covered with the
snowy vesture and motionless in funereal
gloom, seemed mourning with something
deeper than " a vapid vegetable love " the
last male of the Egbert race. The major felt
the gloom, but not the sentiment. With the
keen comprehensive eye of an appraiser he
marked a goodly few of the venerable growths,
and rattled the loose cash in his trousers
pockets as he thought of the satisfactory
results of the woodman's axe.

Through the dull leaden air came the dismal

tolling of the bell. He looked at his watch
and made for the arched doorway, before
which was the great oak screen, richly-covered
with what was a replication of the
armorial designs over the fireplace. Just ashe
gained its cover Sybella and Judy entered
from a side door. He could catch some
words, putting them together in a disjointed
fashion. " Yes, she is calmer to-day," Sybella
said. He did not hear Judy's reply, her
head was turned from him. He strained his
ear. "Yes," answered the former to some
question, " he told her he had not disinherited
her . . . forgave her." That was all the eavesdropper
could gather. Silently he let himself
out, and with a spring in his foot and a swing
in his gait went triumphantly to the burial of
the "just and good squire," as his attributive
soul termed his testamentary father-in-law.

His sudden accession of jubilant confidence
distracted his attention from the funeral
arrangements, and it was not until the procession
was fairly under weigh that he perceived,
although he had been shrouded by an
attendant with a mourner's cloak, he had not

452

been awarded a place among the relatives of
the deceased, nor even among the intimate
friends of the family  he was seated in the
coach containing the family doctor and lawyer,
each of whom was attired in a vestment
similar to his own ; and again that unaccountable
qualm passed over his apprehensive conscience.


They laid him beside the dear dead wife
from whom his loyalty had never swerved, and
for whom his love to the very last had been
as warm as in their bridal days.

Side by side here, one in one there''
thought Judy as, holding her mother's hand,
she followed Mabella and Sybella up the
narrow pathway of the peaceful kirkland to
the door of the open vault. The principal
service had been held in the chapel of the
Hall, but the vicar read the concluding
prayers as the bearers rested the coffin before
lowering it into its last abiding-place. In
vain the major had endeavoured to assert his
position as " chief mourner "  women, in his

estimation, had no right to count in public 
but he had been met by a combined and
silent resistance, against which he was powerless,
and so, perforce, was content to take place
as an inconsiderable outsider, where he nursed
his wrath to keep it warm.

Judy looked round and marked, as a
strange circumstance, that the major stood
apart in sulks under the interlacing branches
of the two yew-trees which arched over the
unhonoured remains of the woman the story
of whose crime her cousin had told her that
bright day of June, so full to her of sweet
and sad memories. She was glad it was not
summer now. She thought she could not
have borne to see the sun shining: on the
quaint old vicarage, gay with its fragrant
yellow rose, or gleaming on the many-coloured
east window of the old church. There were
no swallows beneath its eaves now to twit her
of the summer gone  she almost thought, forever
out of her life ; no daisies or coltswort
at her feet or green grass on the quiet mounds,
levelled for the time by the deep-lying snow ;
there was no sign of life outside the solemn

figures moving with a shadow' stillness that
seemed quite apart from being.

It had been autumn-time when Dulsie died.
Then, too, the fading verdure and chilly
vapours had seemed to harmonize with the
paraphernalia of death. She was glad that
the spring-time and the summer would come
again with only living memories of the beloved
dead. It was one o'clock when, the sad
rites over, the funeral party dispersed, leaving
only those who were guests in the house to
return to the Hall with the mourners. Among
these were Lord Albany and his son.

At two o'clock Grant, with much solemnity
and dignity, heralded into the hall Mabella
and her sister, with Judy and Mrs. Aylmere,
Lord Albany and his son, a cousin of the late
Mrs. Egbert, and the major. There, standing
up at the table on the dais, Mr. Fisk, the
family lawyer, awaited their coming. Grant
seated each individual in an allotted chair,
placing Major Tyler the very last. Mr. Fisk
then, without preamble, proceeded to read
the will.

Apart from its descriptive technicalities it

was short and concise, its provisions few, and
those clear and comprehensible. The entire
estate was devised to isabella for her Hfe 
charged with a certain annuity to Sybella and
one of smaller amount to Judy  on one condition,
that she parted from her husband for
the term of her natural life. Should she
elect to abide by the man she had been led
into marrying without her father's sanction,
the property then at once was to pass to
Sybella, charged with the same annuity to
Judy, and in addition a yearly sum of two
hundred a year to arabella, to be increased to
six hundred should her husband die or she
separate from him. On the death of Mabella
and Sybella, in the event of the former accepting
the property with the conditions, Judy
was to be the sole inheritor, taking the old
name in addition to any she might by right of
ultimate marriage bear at the time. The same
provision was made should Sybella, in consequence
of Glabella's refusing her father's
conditions, become possessor of the property.
There were some minor bequests, which none
seemed to heed or hear. Every eve was

turned upon Mabella and lier husband. She
did not keep suspense long on the tension.

With calm, simple dignity, blended with a
sorrowful humility, she rose from her place
at the head of the table and said :

"I acknowledge the justice of my beloved
father's will, and I accept the property with
ail its conditions."

That was all she said.

Judy was pale as death. Le Pole, whose
seat was next to hers, took her hand as if to
impart courage.

Sybella then rose and with equal dignity said :

I rejoice at my sister's decision. The
inheritance would have been very bitter tome
had she determined otherwise. We can
still point without a blush to our motto, sans
cachet Then she sat down.

And all this time, but a few minutes by
the dial, Geoffrey Tyler sat immovable, his
tongue for the moment paralyzed and his lips
dry and parched. Now and again, as he
attempted to utter speech, they parted with
an audible sound as of fever agony.

The business was over. All rose to depart.

Then the tension gave way and he sprang to
his feet. He clenched his hand and brought
it down on the table with a blow that echoed
through the hall. Mabella stood calmly
defiant, with just the faintest trace of a smile
on her lips. As a precautionary measure
Mrs. Aylmere slipped unobserved from the
room, and summoned Grant and a footman
in readiness for an emergency.

The blow unloosed his tongue. It heralded
its freedom with a blasphemous oath, the like
of which, even in the lawless days of old, had
surely never resounded within those venerated
walls. It seemed to relieve him, for though
his voice shook with suppressed rage he
spoke quietly and without bluster. He said,
looking full at his wife, who neither flinched
nor turned pale :

The law shall decide between us, and if
this "  another oath  "instrument holds good,
I shall claim you, even without the only thing
that ever made me touch the border of your
garment'' he made a gesture of loathing.
No doting clodhopper can touch a husband's
rights, and senile and uxorious

spinsters, if they will jump into the matrimonial
trap, will find it sure and fast.
Listen to me, madam, while I tell you the
effect of the dainty noose sou were always
trying on your portly neck ; it makes you my
bond-slave, my wageless servant, my die
damme, my goods and chattels, my household
commodity, anything and everything that constitutes
a thing to possess  absolutely possess,
mind you, for in such a bond there is no
quittance."

He ceased. Judy trembled and even Sybella
winced. Mabella only smiled, and at a sign
from her Mr. Fisk produced a document, not
very important-looking or lengthy. He opened
it. " Major Tyler," he said, " you have overshot
your mark. If after you have refreshed
your memory by glancing your eye over this
true copy, properly attested, of original deeds
in safe keeping, you should still wish to
enforce your matrimonial rights, you will
have the goodness to instruct your solicitor.
I will act for my late client's daughter, in
whose name I utterly repudiate you and
your claims."

He handed the document in question to the
major. Obeying the fascination of fear, the
latter took it. The same instant it fell from
his hands, and just casting a glance to see if
the way out was clear, he made a step
towards Mabella, lifting his hand in a
menacing gesture. In nautical phrase the
major had been taken in very bad weather.
He had been heavily struck on his weather
bow, and now, and with fatal effect, amidships,
and was breaking up.

Quick as lightning Le Pole intervened, so
suddenly the major was taken aback and
thrown against the table.

Mabella did not stir an inch, or even change
countenance. Then at a sign from Mrs.
Aylmere, who had hastened back to the
scene, her reserve force, Grant and the
footman, hurried from behind the screen
and placed themselves beside their mistress.


Show Major Tyler out," said Mabella with
quiet dignity.

"This way, sir," and Grant respectfully
but significantly pointed to the door.

But the major, like a spent fox, showed
feeble front, be stood still and glared.

Remove him," cried Mabella.

Which with heart and hand Grant and his
auxiliary did. At the door of exit he struggled
free, and uttering an oath of wild blasphemy
rushed out.

There's a carriage with your traps waiting
for you at the back door," screamed Grant
after him, making a speaking-trumpet of his
hands.

Instinct guided the wretch, and in the
servants' omnibus  a parting indignity devised
by Grant  he was slowly conveyed over
the noiseless snow, past his prospective victims
of the woodland, and out for ever from the
honoured and peaceful home on which his
baleful presence had cast the first shade of
dishonour.

It was late in the night when he reached
London. The only train he could get was a
parliamentary one, and the line was at one
part blocked by snow. He had ample leisure
to reflect on his six months' campaign and its
disastrous finish, and to consider his plans

for the future. These were simple. A nomad
life on the continent, with future possibilities
of confiding prey.

Mabella's lawyer notified him that he
was instructed to pay to Ifim the yearly sum
of two hundred pounds, so long as he remained
across the Channel. Should he set foot on
British soil the payment was to cease. And
the craven appeals which from time to time
he made to his " still beloved though harsh-judging
wife " drew from her nothing more.
In a short time, according to the provisions of
her father's will, she resumed her patronymic
of Egbert, dropping that of Tyler. " Mrs.
Mabella Egbert " she called herself.

This was acceptable to her social quorum,
to whom the name of Tyler represented only
mendacity and presumption. There were
times, however, after an ecclesiastical diatribe
on woman's whole duty, summed up in one
word, " man," or fresh from a watered-out
three-volume story of some weak soul's faithful
but unrequited devotion to a roving lord
and master, her old susceptibility, galvanized
for a moment to seeming life, Mabella would

ask herself if she had quite lived up to all the
requirements of marital duty. In this way
Nemesis gave the blankly married wife an
occasional mauvais quart cohere. But Sybella,
who instinctively knew the signs of such
tricks of conscience," as she called her
sister's admonitory qualms, was ever ready
with a telling resume of the absentee's career
and natal antecedents. This she found a
never-failing restorative. Mabella was like
a recently caught bird, which, regaining its
freedom, but uncertain of its wings, hovers fora
time over its gilded cage as if with intent to
re-enter.

No possible advantage to herself would have
compensated Sybella for what she would have
considered the indelible disgrace of Mabella
choosing to follow the fortunes of a man who,
not only vicious in himself, had sprung from
to her the ignoble class of traders ; and
that was in the eyes of the two sisters, the last
of the Egbertss, the one irremissible crime
of the many brought home to Geoffrey Tyler.

Mrs. Aylmere's curiosity was much exercised
with regard to the. mysterious document

that had so effectually routed the formidable
major, but it was not fated to be gratified ;
not for the present, at any rate. Her cousins
had not seen fit to enlighten Judy, and Judy
had not seen fit to question her cousins. But
she had a keen suspicion that in some way her
friend Elsie Eber had been the main agent of
the discomfiture of " Tim's murderer," as she
always to herself called her cousin's husband.
For a little she thought it just possible that
Elsie might be the real wife, but reflection
showed her she could not be. The man had
had too much at stake to play with loaded
dice with the certainty of discovery. He was
too surely Mabella's husband.

In a little time, however, there came a letter
from Elsie. In it she spoke with a full cognizance
of the late events at the Hal, and
then she added : " It has been agreed that it
would serve no end or purpose to make Major
Tyler's story public property, and as he seems
sensible of the mercy of silence your cousins
have determined to let the matter stand as it is,
and to five down the scandal which is sure to
be set afloat. Mrs. Tyler has chosen the alternative

she fully believes her father both wished
and expected her to choose. Major Tyler is a
known gambler, if not something more, and a
roue. That is sufficient for outsiders to know.
But, Judy dear, I feel I owe some little explanation
of the half-confidence I gave you at
Sandycot, and so, in as few words as I possibly
can, I will explain the relations Geoffrey
Tyler and I once held towards each other. I
was married to him ten years ago. We lived
together for six months. At the end of that
time he deserted me, coolly writing to say that
he had just discovered his first wife was still
alive. I did not know he had been married
before. He said he had believed her dead,
and he sent me a newspaper of a year old, in
which her death was recorded. He added that
she was ill, supposed to be dying, and that if
she did die he would repair the wrong he had
done me. I believed him, and in all my agony
and shame never doubted him. A few weeks
after that letter my brother wrote to me that
she was dead. I waited and waited, Judy, but
he did not come. He never came again, and
I never saw him again until that day at Sea-pinks.

I nearly died, too, but it was only my
love that died, died as if it had never been. I
lived. sly brother obtained proof that Captain
he was not Major then  Tyler was aware of
his wife's existence when he went through
the ceremony of marriage with me. He obtained
two letters he had written her just at
the time he married me, refusing her the remittances
she begged of him, for she was starving,
she said. It was a clear case of bigamy.
Poor woman ! she was bitterly punished ;
divorced by one husband, deserted by the other.
Well for her to die, young as she was, barely
twenty. My wrong was beyond the power of
man to remedy, and at my urgent request my
brother forbore to punish him. I shrank from
the exposure. Geoffrey Tyler was subtle
though, and he calculated well. Once safely
married to Miss Egbert, he knew that for the
sake of the family I would be silent. I would
have been silent still but for ' the sake of the
family.'

*' And so, dear Judy, Geoffrey Tyler passes
out of our lives, like an uqIy storm on a
summer's day, only remembered by the devas-vol.
III. 46

nation it lias caused. For myself, my home for
the future is here, on the banks of the Arno.
I live with my brother. I do not say I shall
never more appear on the boards. Unrest
may again seize me, and my spirit may crave
for something out of still life. Then, dear,
you will read that Elsie Eber is back among
her old haunts, and wanderings again from
city to city, and perhaps to distant lands. But
for the present I am content, and even my
heart is at rest. About yourself, dear, I can
only repeat what I said to you some weeks
since  you have chosen well. I never knew
a man with a more delicate sense of honour
than Lord Le Pole, nor one with such a tender
nature. He will have no secrets from you,
and you will lean on each oilier. It does not
do when all the leaning is on one side. You
must not fret about your old friend Ned. He
is essentially a man of action, and his wealth
and Parliament will give him plenty to do.
And some day, but not yet and not soon, he
will marry ; he will not choose unworthily,
and he will be very happy, for the woman he
makes his wife will be content with the measure

lie has to mete, and only ask for her own
again, which will be something less than what
would have been yours, dear."

The night before Judy's wedding a little
packet was laid on the table. It contained a
deed of gift, legally executed, by which the
Manor House and the lands pertaining thereto
became Judy Aylmere's and her heirs forever.
It was Xed Eawson's marriage gift to
the girl he loved. There was a short letter
inside, which filled Judy's heart with a pity
almost akin to love. She showed it to no
one, just dropped it into the fire with many
regretful tears.

That night she said to her lover :

Would you have resigned your seat for
Oxminster if you had found that you had
obtained it through the bribery of your
agents ? "

Yes, most certainly," he replied.

She looked relieved and grieved in one.

"But, Judy darling," he added, divining
something of what was passing in her mind, " I
hold what most people would call eccentric
notions. Mr. Eawson is quite justified in the

eyes of the world. I withdrew the petition. He
is the duly-elected member, and a very useful
one he will be, I fancy. He will make himself
a name, and then he is a millionaire."

Judy said nothing more, but in the quiet of
her own room she sat silently thinking, and
this is what she thought :

"He knew that he got the seat by the bribery
of his own agents and the treachery of his
opponent's  and he has kept it."

She was pained and relieved in one. Pained
that her old friend Ned should not have felt
his honour " grip," and yet relieved that it
was so, for had he taken a loftier stand she
might not have experienced so strongly that
they two never could have become one, that
Ned could not see things as she saw them.

She was justified to herself.

Giles was satisfied, too, as he looked in
the little miss's " face as she drove away with
her bridegroom.

They bees two as God Almighty has made
one," he said to himself as he turned homewards
to his cottage.

And Mrs. Aylmere was satisfied also.

though in an unreasoning sort of V3.J she
regretted the millionaire. And the squire's
dream had become a reality.

Did he know that it was so, in that dreamless
land, to his full satisfaction ? Who can
tell? If he did know, what a very little thing
it must have seemed to him !

THE END

vuL in. 47
